FR941004-2-00025 FR941004-2-00009 Regarding (A)(ii) above, we normally consider margins of 15 percent or more for exporter's sales price sales, and margins of 25 percent or more for purchase price sales sufficient to input knowledge of dumping. If the U.S. price is based on both PP and ESP, we normally weight-average the 25 percent and 15 percent benchmarks by the volume of PP and ESP sales to arrive at a weighted-average benchmark percentage for imputing the knowledge of dumping ( see, e.g., Notice of Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Certain Cold-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products From Argentina (58 FR 37078, July 9, 1993)). The calculated preliminary margin in this investigation indicates that importers of pipe fittings should have known that the merchandise was being sold at less than fair value. Pursuant to 19 CFR 353.16 (f), we generally consider the following factors in determining whether imports have been massive over a short period of time: (1) The volume and value of the imports; (2) seasonal trends (if applicable); and (3) the share of domestic consumption accounted for by imports. If imports during the period immediately following the filing of the petition increase by at least 15 percent over imports during a comparable period immediately proceeding the filing of a petition, we normally consider them massive pursuant to section 353.16(f)(2) of the Department's regulations. In order to determine whether imports have been massive over a relatively short period of time, we compared BKL's reported shipments of butt-weld pipe fittings to the United States in the seven months after the petition was filed to the seven months immediately before this period. Our analysis showed that the volume of imports of subject merchandise to the United States by BKL had increased by more than 15 percent. ( See 19 CFR 353.16(f)(2).) Based on this analysis, we determine that imports of butt-weld pipe fittings from the U.K. were massive over a relatively short period of time. Accordingly, as the criteria enumerated in section 733(e)(1) of the Act are met, we preliminarily determine that critical circumstances exist for imports of butt-weld pipe fittings from the U.K. Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we will verify information used in making our final determination. Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 733(d)(1) of the Act, we are directing the Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of butt-weld pipe fittings from the U.K., as defined in the ``Scope of Investigation'' section of this notice, that are entered or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption on or after the date 90 days prior to publication of this notice in the Federal Register . The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or posting of a bond equal to the estimated dumping margins shown below. This suspension of liquidation will remain in effect until further notice. The estimated preliminary weighted-average dumping margins are as follows:
