FR940429-0-00078 FR940429-0-00010 With regard to the provision that agencies should be required to take action if it appears that an institution or program will be unlikely to continue to meet an agency standard, the Secretary understands the concerns of commenters who opposed the requirement. However, because there is potential for serious harm to students enrolled in an institution or program the quality of whose education or training appears to be declining, the Secretary remains concerned about a marginal institution or program that might be accredited by an agency despite the agency's very serious concerns about its enrollment or financial trends. While the Secretary has not added to these regulations the specific requirement under consideration in the NPRM, the Secretary wishes to impress upon agencies the importance of the requirement, contained in §602.24(b)(4) of these regulations, that they monitor institutions and programs throughout any accreditation or preaccreditation period to ensure that they give prompt and serious attention to any degradation in an institution's or program's ability to provide a quality education. Changes : Different time frames for corrective action have been incorporated for different lengths of programs. Section 602.27␣Required Operating Procedures Comments : The Secretary received many comments about the special actions accrediting agencies are required to take whenever institutions establish new branch campuses. Of particular concern to most commenters was the apparent inconsistency between the definition of ``branch campus'' in §602.2 and the use of that term in this section. Also of concern to many commenters was the added requirement that accrediting agencies must visit ``additional locations,'' which many felt went beyond the statute. One commenter felt that the required submission of a business plan for a new branch campus was unwarranted, burdensome and costly and had no intrinsic value. The Secretary also received a number of comments about the requirement that accrediting agencies provide an opportunity for public comment about an institution's or program's qualifications for accreditation. Many felt this would subvert the accreditation process by evoking unjustified complaints. Others felt it required the agency to hold a public hearing every time an institution or program was evaluated for accreditation or reaccreditation. One commenter held an opposing view, however, preferring that agencies be required to hold public hearings for all accrediting decisions. Finally, the Secretary received a number of suggestions for strengthening the various public disclosure requirements contained in this section, although a few commenters questioned the statutory authority for these requirements. Discussion : The branch campus-additional location issue has already been discussed under the definition of ``branch campus.'' The Secretary notes that the additional information collection requirement related to the establishment of branch campuses_the submission of a business plan_is a statutory requirement and cannot be eliminated.
