FR940711-0-00038 FR940711-0-00007 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;ANE&hyph;27; Amendment 39&hyph;8964; AD 94&hyph;14&hyph;16] Airworthiness Directives; Pratt & Whitney JT8D Series Turbofan Engines AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule; request for comments. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain Pratt & Whitney (PW) JT8D series engines. This action requires initial and repetitive inspections of the Number 7 fuel nozzle and support assembly, replacement of the Number 7 fuel nozzle and support assembly with a more leak-resistant configuration, and replacement of aluminum oil pressure and scavenge tube fittings with steel fittings. This amendment is prompted by reports of two engine fires initiated by fuel leakage from the Number 7 fuel nozzle and support assembly, ignition of that fuel, melting of aluminum oil pressure and scavenge tube fittings that are in the proximity of the Number 7 nozzle, and augmentation of that fire with the liberated oil. The actions specified in this AD are intended to prevent fuel leakage from the Number 7 fuel nozzle and support assembly, ignition of that leaking fuel, and liberation of oil from melted oil line fittings, which can result in an uncontained engine fire and damage to the aircraft. DATES: Effective July 26, 1994. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in the regulations is approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of July 26, 1994. Comments for inclusion in the Rules Docket must be received on or before September 9, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), New England Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket Number 94&hyph;ANE&hyph;27, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, MA 01803&hyph;5299. The service information referenced in this AD may be obtained from Pratt & Whitney, Technical Publications Department, M/S 132&hyph;30, 400 Main Street, East Hartford, CT 06108. This information may be examined at the FAA, New England Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, MA; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mark A. Rumizen, Aerospace Engineer, Engine Certification Office, FAA, Engine and Propeller Directorate, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, MA 01803&hyph;5299; telephone (617) 238&hyph;7137, fax (617) 238&hyph;7199. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has received two reports of uncontained engine fires on Pratt & Whitney (PW) JT8D series engines due to fuel leakage from the Number 7 fuel nozzle and support assembly, ignition of that fuel, melting of aluminum oil pressure and scavenge tube fittings that are in the proximity of the Number 7 nozzle, and augmentation of that fire with the liberated oil. The resulting fire burned through the engine diffuser case and fan ducts, causing an aircraft engine cowl fire. The FAA has determined that the fuel nozzle and support assembly is susceptible to incomplete or improper refurbishment or repair that could result in fuel leaks across the fuel nozzle seals, and that the aluminum oil pressure and scavenge tube fittings have inadequate fire resistance capability. These oil line fittings are in the path of the fuel leaking and associated fire from the Number 7 fuel nozzle and support assembly. Impingement of the fire on these oil fittings causes them to melt, thus causing the oil contained in the oil tubes to escape and to augment the fire. Therefore, this amendment will require the inspection of the Number 7 fuel nozzle and support assembly for evidence of fuel leakage and burning until replacement of the Number 7 fuel nozzle and support assembly with a more leak-resistant configuration. It also requires replacement of the aluminum oil tube fittings with steel fittings. This condition, if not corrected, could result in fuel leakage from the Number 7 fuel nozzle and support assembly, ignition of that leaking fuel, and liberation of oil from melted oil line fittings, which can result in an uncontained engine fire and damage to the aircraft. The FAA has reviewed and approved the technical contents of PW Alert Service Bulletin (ASB) No. A6153, Revision 1, dated June 8, 1994, that describes procedures for initial and repetitive borescope inspections of the Number 7 fuel nozzle and support assembly; and ASB No. A6169, Revision 1, dated June 15, 1994, and A6170, dated May 13, 1994, that describe procedures for replacement of the Number 7 fuel nozzle and support assembly with a more leak-resistant configuration and replacement of the aluminum oil tube fittings with steel fittings, respectively. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other PW JT8D series engines of the same type design, this AD is being issued to prevent uncontained engine fire and damage to the aircraft. This AD requires inspection of the Number 7 fuel nozzle and support assembly for evidence of fuel leakage and burning until replacement of the Number 7 fuel nozzle and support assembly with an improved sealing configuration. This AD also requires replacement of the aluminum oil tube fittings with steel fittings. The actions are required to be accomplished in accordance with the alert service bulletins described previously. Since a situation exists that requires the immediate adoption of this regulation, it is found that notice and opportunity for prior public comment hereon are impracticable, and that good cause exists for making this amendment effective in less than 30 days. Comments Invited Although this action is in the form of a final rule that involves requirements affecting flight safety and, thus, was not preceded by notice and an opportunity for public comment, comments are invited on this rule. Interested persons are invited to comment on this rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications should identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified under the caption ADDRESSES . All communications received on or before the closing date for comments will be considered, and this rule may be amended in light of the comments received. Factual information that supports the commenter's ideas and suggestions is extremely helpful in evaluating the effectiveness of the AD action and determining whether additional rulemaking action would be needed.
