FR940328-2-00096 FR940328-2-00053 15. If a Fund adopts and implements any amendment to its rule 12b&hyph;1 plan (or, if presented to shareholders, adopts or implements any amendment of a shareholder services plan) that would increase materially the amount that may be borne by the class of shares (``Target Class'') into which the class of shares with a conversion feature (``Purchase Class'') will convert under the plan, existing Purchase Class shares will stop converting into Target Class shares unless the Purchase Class shareholders, voting separately as a class, approve the proposal. The directors shall take such action as is necessary to ensure that existing Purchase Class shares are exchanged or converted into a new class of shares (``New Target Class''), identical in all material respects to the Target Class as it existed prior to implementation of the proposal, no later than the date such shares previously were scheduled to convert into Target Class shares. If deemed advisable by the directors to implement the foregoing, such action may include the exchange of all existing Purchase Class shares for a new class (``New Purchase Class''), identical to existing Purchase Class shares in all material respects except that New Purchase Class shares will convert into New Target Class shares. A New Target Class or New Purchase Class may be formed without further exemptive relief. Exchanges or conversions described in this condition shall be effected in a manner that the directors reasonably believe will not be subject to federal taxation. In accordance with condition 4 above, any additional cost associated with the creation, exchange, or conversion of New Target Class shares or New Purchase Class shares will be borne solely by the Adviser and the Distributor. Purchase Class shares sold after the implementation of the proposal may convert into Target Class shares subject to the higher maximum payment, provided that the material features of the Target Class plan and the relationship of such plan to the Purchase Class shares are disclosed in an effective registration statement. 16. Applicants will comply with proposed rule 6c&hyph;10 under the Act, Investment Company Act Release No. 16619 (Nov. 2, 1989), as such rule is currently proposed and as it may be reproposed, adopted, or amended. 17. Applicants acknowledge that the grant of the exemptive order requested by this application will not imply SEC approval, authorization, or acquiescence in any particular level of payments that the Funds may make pursuant to rule 12b&hyph;1 plans or shareholder services plans in reliance on the exemptive order. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7165 Filed 3&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
