FR940627-0-00230 FR940627-0-00019 (x) All test systems shall be acclimatized to the environmental conditions of the test, prior to their use in a study. (f) T est fuels, additive/base fuel mixtures, and reference substances _(1) Test fuel, fuel/additive mixture, and reference substance identity (i) The product brand name/service mark, strength, purity, content, or other characteristics which appropriately define the test fuel, fuel/additive mixture, or reference substance shall be reported for each batch and shall be documented before its use in a study. Methods of synthesis, fabrication, or derivation, as appropriate, of the test fuel, fuel/additive mixture, or reference substance shall be documented by the sponsor or the testing facility, and such location of documentation shall be specified. (ii) The stability of test fuel, fuel/additive mixture, and reference substances under storage conditions at the test site shall be known for all studies. (2) Test fuel, additive/base fuel mixture, and reference substance handling. Procedures shall be established for a system for the handling of the test fuel, fuel/additive mixture, and reference substance(s) to ensure that: (i) There is proper storage. (ii) Distribution is made in a manner designed to preclude the possibility of contamination, deterioration, or damage. (iii) Proper identification is maintained throughout the distribution process. (iv) The receipt and distribution of each batch is documented. Such documentation shall include the date and quantity of each batch distributed or returned. (3) Mixtures of test emissions or reference solutions with carriers. (i) For test emissions or each reference substance mixed with a carrier, tests by appropriate analytical methods shall be conducted: (A) To determine the uniformity of the test substance and to determine, periodically, the concentration of the test emissions or reference substance in the mixture; (B) When relevant to the conduct of the experiment, to determine the solubility of each reference substance in the carrier mixture before the experimental start date; and (C) To determine the stability of test emissions or a reference solution in the test substance before the experimental start date or concomitantly according to written standard operating procedures, which provide for periodic analysis of each batch. (ii) Where any of the components of the reference substance/carrier mixture has an expiration date, that date shall be clearly shown on the container. If more than one component has an expiration date, the earliest date shall be shown. (iii) If a chemical or physical agent is used to facilitate the mixing of a test substance with a carrier, assurance shall be provided that the agent does not interfere with the integrity of the test. (g) Protocol for and conduct of a study _(1) Protocol. (i) Each study shall have a written protocol that clearly indicates the objectives and all methods for the conduct of the study. The protocol shall contain but shall not be limited to the following information: (A) A descriptive title and statement of the purpose of the study.
