FR941110-0-00041 FR941110-0-00016 Section 488.206 also proposed other remedies for non-State-operated Medicaid-only and dually participating facilities. They were: •Closure of the facility and transfer of residents; and •Additional or alternative State remedies. Finally, we proposed at §488.153 that, if a State wishes to use additional or alternative remedies, it must specify those remedies in the State plan, and demonstrate to HCFA's satisfaction that those remedies are as effective as those set forth in the Act. At §488.208, we set forth proposed rules governing the choice of remedies. We said that the survey agency or HCFA would assess individual deficiencies or clusters of deficiencies first according to the presence or absence of immediate and serious threat to resident health and safety, the severity of the deficiency, and the scope of the deficiency. We proposed that, following the initial assessment, HCFA and the survey agency may consider the following secondary factors: •The relationship of one deficiency or group (cluster) of deficiencies to other deficiencies; and •The facility's prior compliance history in general and specifically with reference to the cited deficiencies. We said that the selection of a remedy would be based on the nature of the deficiencies or cluster of deficiencies. Proposed §§488.210 and 488.212 set forth the rules for imposition of particular remedies in specified circumstances. We said that, regardless of which remedy or remedies are imposed, each facility that is out of compliance with a program requirement would be required to submit a plan of correction for approval by HCFA or the survey agency, except in the case of deficiencies that HCFA or the State determines to be at a scope and severity level of 1. The choice of remedy, by either HCFA or the State, including the manner in which HCFA or the State uses the scope and severity scales specified in §488.204 would not be subject to review as part of the appeals process set forth in part 431 or part 498. 4. Temporary Management as a Remedy When alternative remedies are imposed instead of termination to bring a facility into compliance with program requirements in an immediate and serious threat situation, temporary management would always be imposed immediately to remove the threat to residents in accordance with sections 1819(h)(2)(A)(i), 1919(h)(1)(A), and 1919(h)(3)(B)(i) of the Act. We proposed that temporary management also be available in addition to termination in an immediate and serious threat situation while there is an orderly termination or closure of the facility. In situations where deficiencies do not constitute an immediate and serious threat, HCFA or the State also may appoint a temporary manager to substitute as a manager or administrator. (Other remedies in addition to temporary management may also be imposed in the case of immediate and serious threat situations.) The temporary manager would have the authority to hire, terminate and reassign staff, obligate facility funds, alter facility procedures as appropriate, or otherwise manage the facility as necessary to correct deficiencies identified in the facility's operation. The temporary manager would be required to be a licensed nursing home administrator within the State or have a reciprocal agreement with the State in which he or she is to serve, demonstrate prior competence as a nursing home administrator, and have had no disciplinary action taken against him or her by any licensing board of any State or by any professional society in the past 5 years. We proposed as well that neither the temporary manager nor his or her immediate family could have a financial or ownership interest in the facility. The temporary manager's salary would be paid by the facility. We proposed that the salary for the temporary manager may not exceed an amount equivalent to the prevailing salary paid by providers in the geographic area for positions of this type, additional costs that would have reasonably been incurred by the provider if such person had been in an employment relationship, and any other costs incurred by such a person in furnishing services under such an arrangement (for example, travel allowance) or as otherwise set by the State. We proposed that termination would be imposed if the facility does not agree to this remedy or refuses to relinquish authority to the temporary manager. In addition, if, despite the appointment of a temporary manager, the immediate and serious threat is not removed within 23 days of the appointment of the temporary manager or if non-immediate and serious threat deficiencies are not corrected within 6 months from the last day of survey, the facility's participation would be terminated.
