FR940406-2-00054 FR940406-2-00032 [OPP&hyph;180928; FRL 4771&hyph;1] Receipt of Application for Emergency Exemption To Use Imidacloprid; Solicitation of Public Comment AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: EPA has received a specific exemption request from the Arizona Department of Agriculture (hereafter referred to as the ``Applicant'') to use the pesticide imidacloprid (CAS 105827&hyph;78&hyph;9) to treat up to 25,000 acres of melons to control the sweet potato whitefly ( Bemesia tabaci ). The Applicant proposes the use of a new chemical; therefore, in accordance with 40 CFR 166.24, EPA is soliciting public comment before making the decision whether or not to grant the exemption. DATES: Comments must be received on or before April 21, 1994. ADDRESSES: Three copies of written comments, bearing the identification notation ``OPP&hyph;180928,'' should be submitted by mail to: Public Response and Program Resource Branch, Field Operations Division (7506C), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. In person, bring comments to: Rm. 1132, Crystal Mall #2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA. Information submitted in any comment concerning this notice may be claimed confidential by marking any part or all of that information as ``Confidential Business Information.'' Information so marked will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. A copy of the comment that does not contain Confidential Business Information must be provided by the submitter for inclusion in the public record. Information not marked confidential may be disclosed publicly by EPA without prior notice. All written comments filed pursuant to this notice will be available for public inspection in Rm. 1132, Crystal Mall No. 2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA, from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except legal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: By mail: Andrea Beard, Registration Division (7505W), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW, Washington, DC 20460. Office location and telephone number: Floor 6, Crystal Station #1, 2800 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA, (703) 308&hyph;8791. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to section 18 of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) (7 U.S.C. 136p), the Administrator may, at her discretion, exempt a state agency from any registration provision of FIFRA if she determines that emergency conditions exist which require such exemption. The Applicant has requested the Administrator to issue a specific exemption for the use of imidacloprid on melons to control the sweet potato whitefly (SPWF). Information in accordance with 40 CFR part 166 was submitted as part of this request. The SPWF is common on many wild and cultivated crops such as tomatoes, cotton, cucurbits and solanaceae. The sweet potato whitefly (SPWF) is a relatively new pest on melons. The SPWF has caused severe economic damage to several other commodities nationwide including cotton, lettuce, squash, beans, peanuts, and ornamentals. According to the Applicant, SPWF populations for this season are expected to be widespread, and heavy enough to cause serious economic loss to the melon crop. SPWF causes damage through feeding activities, and also indirectly through the production of a honeydew, which encourages growth of sooty mold and other fungi. The Applicant claims that adequate control of the SPWF is not being achieved with the currently registered compounds and that without imidacloprid, melon growers will incur a significant economic loss. Along with this request, the Applicant has also requested a specific exemption for use of a different chemical (bifenthrin) on melons for control of the SPWF. The Applicant justifies requests for two chemicals, by stating that the imidacloprid would be applied at or near planting/transplanting, as a soil incorporated treatment; since imidacloprid is a systemic, it would be taken up by the small seedlings, and protect them from SPWF feeding during this early stage of development. The Applicant states that bifenthrin, being non-systemic, is only of use as a foliar spray, which is of little value during the early phase of development, when there is limited leaf area. Thus the Applicant proposes that use of bifenthrin be allowed later in the crop season, as a foliar treatment, to maintain season-long control. The Applicant indicates that imidacloprid would not be of use as both a soil treatment and a foliar spray, because its mode of action is such that resistance development is a concern. The Registrant of imidacloprid will not support the use of this chemical further into the growing season for this reason. The Applicant proposes to apply imidacloprid at a maximum rate of 0.25 lb. (dry) active ingredient (16 fluid oz. of product) per acre with a maximum of one application per crop season on a total of 25,000 acres of melons. Use under this exemption could potentially amount to a maximum total of 6,250 lbs. of active ingredient, or 3,125 gal. of product. This is the first time that the Applicant has applied for the use of imidacloprid on melons. However, the Applicant requested, and was granted, specific exemptions for the use of bifenthrin for SPWF control in melons for the past two years (this is the third consecutive year for the request for bifenthrin). This notice does not constitute a decision by EPA on the application itself. The regulations governing section 18 require publication of a notice of receipt of an application for a specific exemption proposing use of a new chemical (i.e., an active ingredient not contained in any currently registered pesticide). Such notice provides for opportunity for public comment on the application. Accordingly, interested persons may submit written views on this subject to the Field Operations Division at the address above. The Agency, accordingly, will review and consider all comments received during the comment period in determining whether to issue the emergency exemption requested by the Arizona Department of Agriculture. List of Subjects Environmental protection, Pesticide and pests, Crisis exemptions. Dated: March 25, 1994. Stephen L. Johnson, Acting Director, Registration Division, Office of Pesticide Programs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8103 Filed 4&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
