FR941116-1-00035 FR941116-1-00009 Subpart D_The Lender and Holder Section 60.31␣The Application To Be a HEAL Lender or Holder A new paragraph (e) would be added to this section to state that any lender or holder which is in the medium- or high-risk categories, as described in §60.14, must submit a default management plan with its HEAL application. The default management plan must specify the detailed short-term and long-term procedures that the lender or holder will have in place to minimize defaults on loans to HEAL borrowers. Under the plan the lender or holder must, among other measures, assure that borrowers receive information concerning repayment options, deferments, forbearance, and the consequences of default. This requirement is consistent with a statutory provision which requires default management plans from schools in the medium- or high-risk categories. A new paragraph (f) would be added to this section to state that a lender or holder with a HEAL default rate, as calculated in accordance with §60.2, that exceeds 20 percent (except for lenders or holders with a total loan volume, for purposes of the default rate calculation, of 50 loans or less) would be ineligible to make or purchase HEAL loans. Section 60.33␣Making a HEAL Loan Existing paragraphs (g) and (h) would be redesignated as paragraphs (h) and (i), respectively, and a new paragraph (g) would be added to this section to set forth requirements for cosigners. This paragraph would provide clarification of procedures for implementing the statutory provision which allows a borrower to reduce the insurance premium by 50 percent by obtaining a credit worthy cosigner. Under this provision, a lender would be required to follow procedures similar to those used in making commercial or private loans without a Federal guarantee to determine whether a cosigner is credit worthy. Section 60.35␣HEAL Loan Collection This section would be amended to clarify that, in collecting a HEAL loan with a cosigner, the lender or holder must apply to the cosigner, collection procedures that are at least as stringent as those it would follow in attempting to collect a commercial or private loan with a cosigner. In addition, this section would be amended to more clearly delineate that the lender or holder must apply to the cosigner due diligence procedures similar to those that are applied to the borrower. Subpart E_The School Section 60.50␣Which Schools Are Eligible To Be HEAL Schools? A new paragraph (a)(3) would be added to this section to require that any school in the medium- or high-risk categories, as set forth in §60.14, must submit a default management plan annually in accordance with timeframes established by the Secretary. The default management plan must specify the detailed short-term and long-term procedures that the school will have in place to minimize defaults on loans to HEAL borrowers. Under the plan the school must, among other measures, assure that borrowers receive information concerning repayment options, deferments, forbearance, and the consequences of default. This provision is consistent with section 708(b) of the Act. A new paragraph (a)(4) would be added to this section to state that a school must have a HEAL default rate that does not exceed 20 percent in order to be eligible to make HEAL loans, except as follows: (1) A default rate in excess of 20 percent does not affect the eligibility of a Historically Black College or University until after October 13, 1995; and (2) a default rate in excess of 20 percent does not affect the eligibility of any school that has 50 or less loans in repayment, for purposes of the HEAL default rate calculation described in §60.2. This provision is consistent with section 708(d) of the Act and with the low volume threshold proposed in §60.14(b). Economic Impact Executive Order 12866 requires that all regulations reflect consideration of alternatives, of costs, of benefits, of incentives, of equity, and of available information. Regulations must meet certain standards, such as avoiding unnecessary burden. Regulations which are ``significant'' because of cost, adverse effects on the economy, inconsistency with other agency actions, effects on the budget, or novel legal or policy issues, require special analysis. The Regulatory Flexibility Act requires that we analyze regulatory proposals to determine whether they create a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. The Department believes that the resources required to implement the proposed requirements in these regulations are minimal. The proposed rule would establish performance standards against which lender and holder default rates would be measured, and would establish fees which would be paid by lenders and holders with default rates over 5 percent as a condition for continued program participation. Since most active HEAL lenders and holders do not have default rates over 5 percent, these provisions should not require significant additional resources for the majority of lenders and holders. Therefore, in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, the Secretary certifies that these regulations will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. OMB has reviewed this proposed rule under Executive Order 12866. The Department requests comments on whether there are any aspects of this proposed rule which can be improved to make the HEAL program more effective, more equitable, or less costly. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 This proposed rule contains information collections which are subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. The title, description, and respondent description of the information collections are shown below with an estimate of the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information.
