FR941006-0-00053 FR941006-0-00012 (f) AFLSA/JACL sends the appeal of the Office of the General Counsel, who makes a final determination. The law requires a final decision within 20 workdays after receipt of the appeal letter. The 20 days begins when the denial authority's FOIA office receives the appeal. The time limit includes processing actions by all levels. If a final determination cannot be made within 20 days, AFLSA/JACL writes to the requester to acknowledge the appeals' receipt and to explain the delay. If SAF/GC upholds the denial, in whole or in part, SAF/GC tells the requester, explains reasons for the denial, and tells the requester about judicial review rights. If SAF/GC grants the appeal, that office tells the requester in writing and releases, or directs the release of, the record. (g) For ``no records'' determinations, search again, if warranted, or verify the first search. Include in the package you send to AFLSAS/JACL any letters that show you systematically tried to find records. Tell, for example, what areas or offices you search for how you conducted the search_manually, by computer, by telephone, etc. (h) For appeals to denials of fee waiver requests, fully account for actual and estimated costs with a copy of the DD 2086 or DD Form 2086&hyph;1. ยง806.26 For Official Use Only (FOUO). FOUO is not a classification. Information marked FOUO must meet the criteria for exemptions 2 through 9, or you cannot withhold it. Do not consider or mark any other records FOUO. (a) Originators mark records when they create them to call attention to FOUO content. An FOUO marking does not mean you must withhold a record under the FOIA. You still need to review a requested record. Examine records with and without markings to identify information that needs protection and is exempt from public release or to decide whether discretionary release is appropriate. (1) Information in a technical document that requires a distribution statement per AFI 61&hyph;204, Controlling the Distribution of Classified and Unclassified Scientific and Technical Information (formerly AFR 80&hyph;30), must show that statement. The originator may also mark the information FOUO, if appropriate. (2) Mark an unclassified document containing FOUO information ``For Official Use Only'' at the bottom, on the outside of the front cover (if any), on each page containing FOUO information, on the back page, and on the outside of the back cover (if any). (3) In unclassified documents, the originator may also mark individual paragraphs that contain FOUO information to alert users and assist in review. (4) In a classified document, mark: (i) An individual paragraph that contains FOUO, but not classified information, by placing ``(FOUO)'' at the beginning of the paragraph. (ii) The top and bottom of each page that has both FOUO and classified information, with the highest security classification of information on that page. (iii) ``FOUO'' at the bottom of each page that has FOUO but not classified information. (5) If a classified document also contains FOUO information or if the classified material becomes FOUO when declassified, place the following statement on the bottom of the cover or the first page, under the classification marking: If declassified, review the document to make sure material is not FOUO and not exempt under this part before public release. (6) Mark other records, such as computer printouts, photographs, films, tapes, or slides,``For Official Use Only'' or ``FOUO'' so the receiver or viewer knows the record contains FOUO information.
