FR940404-0-00042 FR940404-0-00018 FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION 46 CFR Part 503 [Docket No. 94&hyph;02] Access to any Record of Identifiable Personal Information AGENCY: Federal Maritime Commission. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Federal Maritime Commission is amending its Privacy Act (``Act'') regulations to adopt additional exemptions from requirements of the Act in regard to information about individuals which is included in certain investigatory material systems of records. The amendments are required to avoid compromise of ongoing investigations, disclosure of confidential sources and unwarranted invasion of privacy of third parties. EFFECTIVE DATE: May 4, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Joseph C. Polking, Secretary, Federal Maritime Commission, 800 North Capital Street, NW., Washington, DC 20573&hyph;0001, (202) 523&hyph;5725. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Federal Maritime Commission, by Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (``NPR'') published February 11, 1994; 59 FR 6610, proposed amendments to its regulations implementing the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a. The Commission previously had exempted certain systems of records containing investigatory materials from the provisions of subsections (c)(3) and (d) of the Act which require an accounting of disclosures and permit access to records in the systems. The NPR proposed additional exemptions under subsections (k)(2) and (5) of the Act for various systems of records within the agency. These exemptions would apply to those systems of records which include investigatory material compiled either for law enforcment purposes or, to the extent disclosure would reveal the identity of a confidential source, for the purpose of determining suitability for Federal civilian employment or for access to classified information. An additional exemption under subsection (j)(2) of the Act was proposed for the ``Inspector General File'' system of records in regards to activity pertaining to the enforcement of criminal laws. The thrust of the NPR was to invoke the full reach of permitted exemptions so that the provisions of certain subsections of the Act would not routinely limit the sources from which information is obtained and the types of information permitted to be collected, or require procedures for notification of the existence of and access to these classes of records. No comments were filed in response to the NPR and the Commission has determined to adopt the amendments proposed therein as final. The new exemptions pertaining to law enforcement records are appropriate to avoid compromise of ongoing investigations, disclosure of the identity of confidential sources, and invasion of personal privacy of third parties. The exemptions pertaining to personnel-related investigatory records will protect confidential sources.
