FR940414-2-00112 FR940414-2-00076 21. The Partnership will not invest more than 15% of its assets in securities issued by registered investment companies (with the exception of temporary investments in money market funds), and the Partnership will not acquire any security issued by a registered investment company if immediately after such acquisition the Partnership will own more than 3% of the outstanding voting stock of the registered investment company. 22. An ``MS Related Person,'' as defined below, will not, until the MS Venture Capital Funds and the Partnership are fully invested, be permitted to make certain types of equity investments in private emerging growth companies without first having offered the opportunity to make the investment to the MS Venture Capital Funds and the Partnership. An ``MS Related Person'' means the General Partner, Morgan Stanley Group Inc., any other person at least 80% of which is beneficially owned directly or indirectly by Morgan Stanley Group Inc., and any investment fund managed by any of the foregoing. Certain investments, however, are not subject to the ``obligation to offer'' described above. These investments include (a) an investment made by an MS Related Person pursuant to an offer available only to Morgan Stanley Group Inc. or one of its affiliates; (b) an investment that constitutes compensation for providing investment banking or other services to any person or entity; (c) an investment relating to an acquisition of a business or assets to be operated or used in connection with the existing, or a new line of, business of Morgan Stanley Group Inc. or one of its affiliates (other than the General Partner); (d) an investment made by any MS Related Person in its underwriting capacity or in connection with broker-dealer activities; (e) an investment made with an aggregate purchase price of less than $1 million; (f) an investment made by or in connection with an existing investment fund as a follow-on investment in one of its portfolio companies; and (g) an investment made in connection with the purchase of a portfolio of securities from another person or entity, subject to certain limitations. 23. No individual general or limited partner of the General Partner, and no employee on the General Partner's staff, will be permitted to co-invest with the Partnership in any investment opportunity, except: (a) Through an MS Venture Capital Fund as a partner of the General Partner; (b) As a Limited Partner; or (c) Through the exercise of stock options or warrants granted, on the same terms and amount, to all outside directors of the entities in which the Partnership invests. 24. Except for the prohibitions described in paragraph 23 above, any member of the Morgan Stanley Group or any client of such member may co-invest with the MS Venture Capital Funds and the Partnership in connection with any investment opportunity in which the MS Venture Capital Funds and the Partnership participate. Such co-investments will be made on terms no more favorable than the terms applicable to the investments by the MS Venture Capital Funds and the Partnership; however, members will be permitted to invest on more favorable terms if and to the extent such terms are: (a) In full or partial satisfaction of a fee that such members would otherwise be entitled to receive for providing financial advisory or other services in connection with such co-investment (other than services provided by the General Partner); (b) The product of agreements or arrangements entered into by such members (other than the General Partner) with portfolio companies before the formation of the MS Venture Capital Funds and the Partnership; or (c) Obtained through the exercise of officer's, director's, or similar options or warrants. 25. If, in connection with any investment opportunity, there are securities available for investment (determined after taking into account the proposed investments by the Partnership, the MS Venture Capital Funds and certain other persons, including other members of the Morgan Stanley Group), such remaining securities will be offered to limited partners of the MS Venture Capital Funds for co-investment outside the MS Venture Capital Funds. 26. The Partnership and the MS Venture Capital Funds will not be permitted, except with the consent of the Fund Advisory Committee, to invest for the first time in portfolio companies in which a member of the Morgan Stanley Group has previously made an investment, or in which a member is a director or officer. The Partnership and the MS Venture Capital Funds also will not be permitted, except with the consent of the Fund Advisory Committee, to make a follow-on investment in a portfolio company previously participated in by a member of the Morgan Stanley Group if, in such round, the member is acquiring more or less than its pro rata position from the previous round.
