FR940722-2-00017 FR940722-2-00011 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Office of the Secretary Notice of the Availability of the Environmental Assessment and Negative Declaration Regarding the Consolidation of the Defense Mapping Agency (DMA) Printing and Distribution Functions to St. Louis, MO AGENCY: Defense Mapping Agency. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In July 1993, in response to a tasking by Major General Raymund E. O'Mara, U.S. Air Force, the Director, DEFENSE MAPPING AGENCY (DMA), 8613 Lee Highway, Fairfax, VA 22031&hyph;2137, and following the disruption to DMA's operations in the St. Louis, MO area as a result of the floods, a Study Team was established to consider the future of DMA's printing and distribution operations. On 4 January 1994, the Study Team reported to the Director, DMA, and made certain recommendations calling for the streamlining of those operations to the end of improving customer service, making better use of resources, and realizing recurring cost savings. Among other things, the Study Team recommended that a plan to consolidate the management of the DMA printing and distribution operations and a detailed action plan for the collocation of DMA's printing and distribution operations in a new facility to be built in the St. Louis, MO area by 1998 be developed. In an announcement made 7 January 1994, the Director approved the Study Team's recommendations, including the recommendations to develop a plan to consolidate the DMA printing and distribution operations and to develop an action plan for the collocation of those operations in St. Louis, MO. As part of that action plan, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Kansas City District, acting on behalf of the DMA, contracted for an Environmental Assessment of the DMA proposal to consolidate and collocate printing and distribution. The Environmental Assessment was prepared to evaluate the relocation of a new site in the St. Louis metropolitan area of certain elements of the DMA Aerospace Center's printing operations conducted at 8900 South Broadway, St. Louis, MO prior to the flooding and the consolidation to this proposed new St. Louis location of current DMA printing and distribution activities located at Philadelphia, PA, Bethesda, MD, and Riverdale, MD. Notice is hereby given, pursuant to section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, the Council on Environmental Quality Guidelines (40 Code of Federal Regulations (C.F.R.) Part 1500) and Department of Defense Regulation ``Environmental Effects in the United States of DoD Actions'' (32 C.F.R. Part 188) that an Environmental Impact Statement is not being prepared for the proposed consolidation of the DMA printing and distribution operations and their collocation in the St. Louis, MO area at the Richardson Road site located near I&hyph;55 in northeast Jefferson County, MO. The Environmental Assessment of this proposed action indicates that the proposed action will not create any significant adverse impact on the physical environment and that no significant controversy related to the natural environment is associated therewith. As a result of these findings, the Chief, Safety and Health Division, Human Resources Directorate, DMA, has determined that the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement is not required in this case. It is anticipated that approximately 250 positions Agency-wide will be reduced as a result of this proposed action. Retraining, relocation and retirement incentives will be used to minimize the impact of this consolidation; however, pending a final agency decision, the specifics of any such incentives have yet to be developed. The Environmental Assessment and the Finding of No Significant Impact are on file and may be reviewed by interested parties. DATE: Administrative action on implementation of the decision will be deferred for thirty (30) days from the date of publication, at which time implementation will begin unless comments are received which result in a contrary determination. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Barbara B. Engel, DMA HQ, Office of Human Resources, Safety & Health Division, 8613 Lee Highway, Fairfax, VA 22031&hyph;2137, phone number (703) 285&hyph;9161. Dated: July 18, 1994. Patricia L. Toppings, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17884 Filed 7&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;M
