FR940805-0-00003 FR940805-0-00002 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 7 CFR Part 301 [Docket No. 92&hyph;139&hyph;6] Pine Shoot Beetle AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Interim rule and request for comments. SUMMARY: We are amending the pine shoot beetle regulations by adding Lake and McHenry Counties, IL; Blackford, Cass, and Wabash Counties, IN; Huron, Kent, Lapeer, Sanilac, and St. Clair Counties, MI; Oswego County, NY; and Allegheny, Beaver, Butler, Clarion, Mercer, Venango, and Warren Counties, PA, to the list of quarantined areas. This action is necessary on an emergency basis to prevent the spread of the pine shoot beetle, a highly destructive pest of pine trees, into noninfested areas of the United States. DATES: Interim rule effective August 1, 1994. Consideration will be given only to comments received on or before October 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: Please send an original and three copies of your comments to Chief, Regulatory Analysis and Development, PPD, APHIS, USDA, room 804, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782. Please state that your comments refer to Docket No. 92&hyph;139&hyph;6. Comments received may be inspected at USDA, room 1141, South Building, 14th Street and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC, between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. Persons wishing to inspect comments are requested to call ahead on (202) 690&hyph;2817 to facilitate entry into the comment reading room. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Milton C. Holmes, Senior Operations Officer, Plant Protection and Quarantine, APHIS, USDA, room 642, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;8247. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The pine shoot beetle is a highly destructive pest of pine trees. The pine shoot beetle can cause damage in weak and dying trees, where reproduction and immature stages of pine shoot beetle occur, and in the new growth of healthy trees. The ``maturation feeding'' of young beetles takes the form of boring up the center of pine shoots (usually of the current year's growth), causing stunted and distorted growth in the host trees. The pine shoot beetle is also a vector of several diseases of pine trees. Adults can fly at least 1 kilometer, and the wood, nursery stock, and Christmas trees they infest are often transported long distances. This pest damages urban trees, and can cause economic losses to the timber, Christmas tree, and nursery industries. The regulations in 7 CFR 301.50 (referred to below as the regulations) impose restrictions on the interstate movement of regulated articles from quarantined areas in order to prevent the spread of the pine shoot beetle into noninfested areas of the United States. Surveys recently conducted by State and Federal inspectors revealed that Lake and McHenry Counties, IL; Blackford, Cass, and Wabash Counties, IN; Huron, Kent, Lapeer, Sanilac, and St. Clair Counties, MI; Oswego County, NY; and Allegheny, Beaver, Butler, Clarion, Mercer, Venango, and Warren Counties, PA, are infested with the pine shoot beetle. The regulations in ยง301.50&hyph;3 provide that the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) will list as a quarantined area each State, or each portion of a State, in which the pine shoot beetle has been found by an inspector, in which the Administrator has reason to believe the pine shoot beetle is present, or that the Administrator considers necessary to regulate because of its inseparability for quarantine enforcement purposes from localities in which the pine shoot beetle has been found. In accordance with these criteria, we are designating Lake and McHenry Counties, IL; Blackford, Cass, and Wabash Counties, IN; Huron, Kent, Lapeer, Sanilac, and St. Clair Counties, MI; Oswego County, NY; and Allegheny, Beaver, Butler, Clarion, Mercer, Venango, and Warren Counties, PA, as quarantined areas, and adding them to the list of quarantined areas in ยง301.50&hyph;3(c). Emergency Action The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that an emergency situation exists that warrants publication of this interim rule without prior opportunity for public comment. Immediate action is necessary to prevent the pine shoot beetle from spreading to noninfested areas of the United States. Because prior notice and other public procedures with respect to this action are impracticable and contrary to the public interest under these conditions, we find good cause under 5 U.S.C. 553 to make it effective upon signature. We will consider comments that are received within 60 days of publication of this rule in the Federal Register . After the comment period closes, we will publish another document in the Federal Register . It will include a discussion of any comments we receive and any amendments we are making to the rule as a result of the comments.
