FR941003-2-00060 FR941003-2-00034 C. Socially and Economically Disadvantaged Individual A ``socially and economically disadvantaged individual'' is defined as a member of any of the following groups: •Asian-Pacific Americans. •Black Americans. •Hispanic Americans. •Native Americans. •Subcontinent Asian Americans. D. Socially and Economically Disadvantaged Small Business Concern A ``socially and economically disadvantaged'' small business concern is one_ •In which at least 51 percent is owned by one or more socially and economically disadvantaged individuals or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the voting stock is owned by one or more socially and economically disadvantaged individuals; and •Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more of the individuals. E. Research and Development ``Research and Development'' or R&D is defined as any activity that is_ •A systematic, intensive study directed toward greater knowledge or understanding of the subject studies; •A systematic study directed specifically toward applying new knowledge to meet a recognized need; or •A systematic application of knowledge toward the production of useful materials, devices, and systems or methods, including design, development, and improvement of prototypes and new processes to meet specific requirements. F. Small Business Concern At the time of award of Phase I and of Phase II, a ``small business concern'' is one that_ •Is organized for profit, independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is proposing, and has its principal place of business located in the U.S.; •Is at least 51 percent owned or, in the case of a publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its voting stock is owned by U.S. citizens or lawfully admitted permanent resident aliens; and •Has, including its affiliates (``affiliation'' is defined in 13 CFR 121.401), a number of employees (as defined in 13 CFR 121.407) not exceeding 500, and meets the other small business concern size regulation requirements found in 13 CFR 121. Business concerns, other than investment companies licensed, or State development companies qualifying, under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 661 et seq.), are affiliates of one another when either directly or indirectly (1) one concern controls or has the power to control the other, (2) a third party or parties controls or has the power to control both, or (3) an identity of interest between or among parties exists so that affiliation may be found. Control can be exercised through common ownership, common management, and contractual relationships. Business concerns include, but are not limited to, any individual, partnership, corporation, joint venture, association, or cooperative. G. Subcontract A ``subcontract'' is any agreement, other than one involving an employer-employee relationship, entered into by a Federal government funding agreement awardee calling for supplies or services required solely for the performance of the original funding agreement. H. Women-Owned Small Business Concern A ``women-owned small business concern'' is a business that is at least 51 percent owned, controlled, and operated by a woman or women. ``Control'' is defined as exercising the power to make policy decisions; ``operate'' is defined as being actively involved in the day-to-day management. III. Preparation of Grant Applications The forms and instructions will be supplied to the applicant by the HCFA Grants Officer (see the ADDRESSES section of this notice) and are designed for use in applying for SBIR Phase I or Phase II research grants. The instructions contain the SBA policy directive's guidelines on proposal content and limitations. Potential applicants are encouraged to contact the SBIR Coordinator (see the FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT section of this notice) for preapplication technical assistance and for more specific information on the research topics described in section VII. of this notice. Health science research literature is available at academic and health science libraries and Regional Medical Libraries through a network supported by the National Library of Medicine. A list of Regional Medical Libraries and information about network services may be requested from the Public Information Office, National Library of Medicine, Bethesda, Maryland 20894, telephone (301) 496&hyph;6308. Other sources that provide technology search and document services include the organizations listed below. They should be contacted directly for service and cost information. National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, Virginia 22161, (703) 487&hyph;4600
