FR940810-0-00256 FR940810-0-00021 B. Taste Threshold Screening. 1. An enclosure about head and shoulders shall be used for threshold screening (to determine if the individual can taste saccharin) and for fit testing. The enclosure shall be approximately 12 inches in diameter by 14 inches tall with at least the front clear to allow free movement of the head when a respirator is worn. 2. The test enclosure shall have a three-quarter inch hole in front of the test subject's nose and mouth area to accommodate the nebulizer nozzle. 3. The entire screening and testing procedure shall be explained to the test subject prior to conducting the screening test. 4. During the threshold screening test, the test subject shall don the test enclosure and breathe with open mouth with tongue extended. 5. Using a DeVilbiss Model 40 Inhalation Medication Nebulizer or equivalent, the test conductor shall spray the threshold check solution into the enclosure. This nebulizer shall be clearly marked to distinguish it from the fit test solution nebulizer. 6. The threshold check solution consists of 0.83 grams of sodium saccharin, USP in water. It can be prepared by putting 1 cc of the test solution (see C 7 below) in 100 cc of water. 7. To produce the aerosol, the nebulizer bulb is firmly squeezed so that it collapses completely, then is released and allowed to fully expand. 8. Ten squeezes of the nebulizer bulb are repeated rapidly and then the test subject is asked whether the saccharin can be tasted. 9. If the first response is negative, ten more squeezes of the nebulizer bulb are repeated rapidly and the test subject is again asked whether the saccharin can be tasted. 10. If the second response is negative ten more squeezes are repeated rapidly and the test subject is again asked whether the saccharin can be tasted. 11. The test conductor will take note of the number of squeezes required to elicit a taste response. 12. If the saccharin is not tasted after 30 squeezes (Step 10), the saccharin fit test cannot be performed on the test subject. 13. If a taste response is elicited, the test subject shall be asked to take note of the taste for reference in the fit test. 14. Correct use of the nebulizer means that approximately 1 cc of liquid is used at a time in the nebulizer body. 15. The nebulizer shall be thoroughly rinsed in water, shaken dry, and refilled at least every four hours. C. Fit test. 1. The test subject shall don and adjust the respirator without the assistance from any person. 2. The fit test uses the same enclosure described in IIB above. 3. Each test subject shall wear the respirator for a least 10 minutes before starting the fit test. 4. The test subject shall don the enclosure while wearing the respirator selected in section IB above. This respirator shall be properly adjusted and equipped with a particulate filter. 5. The test subject may not eat, drink (except plain water), or chew gum for 15 minutes before the test. 6. A second DeVilbiss Model 40 Inhalation Medication Nebulizer is used to spray the fit test solution into the enclosure. This nebulizer shall be clearly marked to distinguish it from the screening test solution nebulizer. 7. The fit test solution is prepared by adding 83 grams of sodium saccharin to 100 cc of warm water. 8. As before, the test subject shall breathe with mouth open and tongue extended. 9. The nebulizer is inserted into the hole in the front of the enclosure and the fit test solution is sprayed into the enclosure using the same technique as for the taste threshold screening and the same number of squeezes required to elicit a taste response in the screening. (See B8 through B10 above). 10. After generation of the aerosol read the following instructions to the test subject. The test subject shall perform the exercises for one minute each. i. Breathe normally. ii. Breathe deeply. Be certain breaths are deep and regular. iii. Turn head all the way from one side to the other. Be certain movement is complete. Inhale on each side. Do not bump the respirator against the shoulders. iv. Nod head up-and-down. Be certain motions are complete. Inhale when head is in the full up position (when looking toward the ceiling). Do not to bump the respirator on the chest. v. Talking. Talk aloud and slowly for several minutes. The following paragraph is called the Rainbow Passage. Reading it will result in a wide range of facial movements, and thus be useful to satisfy this requirement. Alternative passages which serve the same purpose may also be used. vi. Jogging in place. vii. Breathe normally. Rainbow Passage When the sunlight strikes raindrops in the air, they act like a prism and form a rainbow. The rainbow is a division of white light into many beautiful colors. These take the shape of a long round arch, with its path high above, and its two ends apparently beyond the horizon. There is, according to legend, a boiling pot of gold at one end. People look, but no one ever finds it. When a man looks for something beyond his reach, his friends say he is looking for the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow.
