FR940825-1-00139 FR940825-1-00009 (iv) A description of the existing, or proposed, agency of the Indian Tribe which will assume primary responsibility for administering a Clean Air Act program (including a description of the relationship between the existing or proposed agency and its regulated entities); (v) A description of the technical and administrative capabilities of the staff to administer and manage an effective air quality program or a plan which proposes how the Tribe will acquire administrative and technical expertise. The plan should address how the Tribe will obtain the funds to acquire the administrative and technical expertise. (5) A Tribe that is a member of a Tribal consortium may rely on the expertise and resources of the consortium in demonstrating under paragraph (a)(4) of this section that the Tribe is reasonably expected to be capable of carrying out the functions to be exercised consistent with §49.6(a)(4). A Tribe relying on a consortium in this manner must provide reasonable assurances that the Tribe has responsibility for carrying out necessary functions in the event the consortium fails to. (6) Where applicable Clean Air Act or implementing regulatory requirements mandate criminal enforcement authority, an application submitted by an Indian Tribe may be approved if it meets the requirements of §49.8. (7) Additional information required by the EPA Regional Administrator which, in the judgment of the EPA Regional Administrator, is necessary to support an application. (8) Where the applicant has previously received authorization for a Clean Air Act program or for any other EPA-administered program, the applicant need only identify the prior authorization and provide the required information which has not been submitted in the previous application. (b) A Tribe may simultaneously submit a request for an eligibility determination and a request for approval of a Clean Air Act program. (c) A request for Clean Air Act program approval must meet any applicable Clean Air Act statutory and regulatory requirements and may contain any reasonable portion of a Clean Air Act program to the extent not inconsistent with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. §49.8 Provisions for Tribal criminal enforcement authority. To the extent that an Indian Tribe is precluded from asserting criminal enforcement authority, the Federal government will exercise primary criminal enforcement responsibility. The Tribe, with the EPA Region, shall develop a procedure by which the Tribal agency will refer potential criminal violations to the EPA Regional Administrator, as agreed to by the parties, in an appropriate and timely manner. This procedure shall encompass all circumstances in which the Tribe is incapable of exercising applicable enforcement requirements as provided in §49.7(a)(6). This agreement shall be incorporated into a Memorandum of Agreement with the EPA Region. §49.9 EPA review of Tribal Clean Air Act applications. (a) The EPA Regional Administrator shall process a request of an Indian Tribe submitted under §49.7 in a timely manner. The EPA Regional Administrator shall promptly notify the Indian Tribe of receipt of the application. (b) Within 30 days of receipt of an Indian Tribe's initial, complete application, the EPA Regional Administrator shall notify all appropriate governmental entities. (1) For Tribal applications addressing air resources within the exterior boundaries of the Reservation, EPA's notification of other governmental entities shall specify the geographic boundaries of the Reservation. (2) For Tribal applications addressing off-reservation areas, EPA's notification of other governmental entities shall include the substance and bases of the Tribe's assertions that it meets the requirements of §49.6(a)(3). (c) The governmental entities shall have 15 days to provide written comments to EPA's Regional Administrator regarding any dispute concerning the boundary of the Reservation. Where a Tribe has asserted jurisdiction over off-reservation lands, appropriate governmental entities may request a single 15-day extension to the general 15-day comment period. (d) In all cases, comments must be timely, limited to the scope of the Tribe's jurisdictional assertion, and clearly explain the substance, bases and extent of any objections. If a Tribe's assertion is subject to a conflicting claim, the EPA Regional Administrator may request additional information and may consult with the Department of the Interior. (e) The EPA Regional Administrator shall decide the scope of the Tribe's jurisdiction. If a conflicting claim cannot be promptly resolved, the EPA Regional Administrator may approve that portion of an application addressing all undisputed areas.
