FR940513-2-00100 FR940513-2-00041 [CDC&hyph;481] Cooperative Agreement With the Republic of the Marshall Islands Summary The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announces the availability of fiscal year (FY) 1994 funds for a cooperative agreement with the Republic of the Marshall Islands (RMI) to conduct an epidemiologic evaluation of thyroid disease and exposure to radioactive fallout from United States atomic weapons testing conducted in the South Pacific. Approximately $350,000 is available in FY 1994 to support this cooperative agreement. It is expected that the award will begin on or about July 1, 1994, and will be awarded for a 12-month budget period within a 3-year project period. Funding estimates may vary and are subject to change. Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress and the availability of funds. The purpose of this cooperative agreement is to support an epidemiologic study. This study will be designed to investigate the possible relationships involving thyroid diseases in Marshall Islands residents and past environmental exposures to radioactive fallout from the United States Atomic Weapons Testing Program conducted in the Marshall Islands between 1946 and 1958. CDC will provide guidance on program management and administrative matters; assist in developing and final approval of the study protocol; assist in assessing historical records for morbidity and mortality; provide on-site assistance in both planning and implementation phases; provide on-site consultation and assistance in monitoring the collection and handling of information; assist in the statistical and epidemiologic analysis of the data; assist in interpreting the study findings; and assemble a peer review committee to review the project protocol. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of ``Healthy People 2000,'' a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to the priority area of Environmental Health. (For ordering a copy of ``Healthy People 2000,'' see the section WHERE TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL INFORMATION .) Authority This program is authorized under the Public Health Service Act, section 301(a) [42 U.S.C. 241(a)], as amended. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Eligible Applicant Assistance will be provided only to the RMI for conducting this study. No other applications are solicited. The Program Announcement and application kit have been sent to RMI. RMI is the most appropriate organization to conduct the work under this cooperative agreement because: 1. The RMI, under previous funding from the United States Government through the Compact of Free Association, is conducting a Nationwide Radiological Study to determine the extent of residual contamination from atomic weapons tests on individual islands in the Republic. These data will be essential for determining historical radiation exposures in Marshall Islands residents participating in this study of thyroid morbidity. The data from this study are the property of the Government of the Marshall Islands and are not available for public use. 2. The RMI has already assembled a consortium of the best qualified health physicists, thyroid disease specialists, and administrators from various institutions to conduct this study. These experts not only represent a high degree of experience in health physics and thyroid disease studies, but they represent the principal participants in past research of the residents of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. 3. The Ministry of the Interior and Outer Island Affairs, RMI, will be able to provide inter-island radio communications, translations to Marshallese language, and logistical support for this study. 4. The RMI has the legal responsibility for disease control in the Marshall Islands under the laws of the Republic. Executive Order 12372 Review This application is not subject to review by Executive Order 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs. Public Health System Reporting Requirements This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number (CFDA) for this project is 93.283.
