FR940617-2-00152 FR940617-2-00090 [Docket No. 50&hyph;440] Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company, et al.; Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an amendment to Facility Operating License No. NPF&hyph;58 issued to the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company, Centerior Service Company, Duquesne Light Company, Ohio Edison Company, Pennsylvania Power Company, and Toledo Edison Company (the licensees) for operation of the Perry Nuclear Power Plant, Unit No. 1, located in Lake County, Ohio. Environmental Assessment Identification of Proposed Action The Proposed action would revise the provisions in the Technical Specifications (TS) to delete the area critically monitors for the fuel preparation pool, spent fuel storage pool and the upper containment pools. The proposed action is in accordance with the licensee's application for amendment dated February 28, 1992. The Need for the Proposed Action The proposed amendment is needed to reflect that area criticality monitors for the fuel preparation pool, spent fuel storage pool and the upper containment pools are monitors only and do not prevent inadvertent criticality and are not considered in any design basis accident or transient. Therefore, these monitors can be adequately controlled by plant documents and procedures similar to other area radiation monitors. Environmental Impact of the Proposed Action The NRC staff has completed its evaluation of the proposed revision to the TS and concludes that removing the area criticality monitors from TS and placing operability and surveillance requirements in plant documents and procedures will not increase offsite releases. These monitors are not relied upon to successfully mitigate a fuel handling accident outside of containment. Therefore, the proposed changes do not increase the probability or consequences of accidents, no changes are being made in the types of any effluents that may be released offsite, and there is no significant increase in the allowable individual or cumulative occupational radiation exposure. Accordingly, the NRC staff concludes that this proposed action would result in no significant radiological environmental impact. With regard to potential nonradiological impacts, the proposed changes to the TS involve systems located within the restricted area as defined in 10 CFR part 20. It does not affect nonradiological plant effluents and has no other environmental impact. Therefore, the NRC staff concludes that there are no significant nonradiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed amendment. Alternative to the Proposed Action Because the Commission's staff has concluded that there are no significant environmental impacts associated with the proposed action, any alternatives would have either no significantly different environmental impact or greater environmental impact. The principal alternative would be to deny the requested amendment. This would not reduce environmental impacts as a result of plant operations. Alternative Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of resources not previously considered in the Final Environmental Statement related to operation of the Perry Nuclear Power Plant, Units 1 and 2, dated August 1982. Agencies and Persons Consulted The NRC staff reviewed the licensee's request and consulted with the State of Ohio. Finding of No Significant Impact The Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed license amendment. Based upon the foregoing environmental assessment, we conclude that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. For further details with respect to this action, see the licensee's application for amendment dated February 28, 1992, which is available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555 and at the local public document room at the Perry Public Library, 3753 Main Street, Perry, Ohio 44081. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 13th day of June 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John N. Hannon, Director, Project Directorate III&hyph;3, Division of Reactor Project_III/IV, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14766 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
