FR940727-2-00124 FR940727-2-00070 system manager(s) and address: Executive Director, Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, SA&hyph;1, Room 1251, Department of State, 2401 E Street NW., Washington, DC 20522. At specific overseas locations, the on-site system manager may be the Refugee Coordinator, the Consular Officer responsible for refugee processing or the voluntary agency representative. notification procedure: Individuals who have reason to believe the Department of State might have Refugee Case Records pertaining to themselves should write to the Director, Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy and Classification Review, Room 1239, Department of State, 2201 C Street, NW., Washington, DC 20520&hyph;1239. The individual must specify that he/she wishes the Refugee Case Records of a specific processing post to be checked. At a minimum, the individual must include: Name, date and place of birth, the approximate date of arrival in the U.S., his/her INS ``A'' number; current mailing address and zip code, and signature. record access and amendment procedures: Individuals who wish to gain access to or amend records pertaining to themselves should write to the Director, Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy and Classification Review (address above). record source categories: These records contain information obtained directly from the individual who is the subject of these records and relatives, sponsors, members of Congress, U.S. Government agencies, voluntary agencies, international organizations, and local sources at overseas posts. systems exempted from certain provisions of the act: None. STATE_60 System name: Refugee Data Center Processing Records. Security classification: Unclassified. system location: Refugee Data Center, 200 Park Avenue South, Room 801, New York, NY 10003. (The Refugee Data Center is a project of the International Catholic Migration Commission (ICMC) authorized under a cooperative agreement with the Department of State.) categories of individuals covered by the system: Individuals who have been approved for admission to the United States under the U.S. refugee program. Also included may be certain individuals who sought and were denied admission as refugees but were ultimately approved for admission as non-refugees (e.g., immigrants or parolees). authority for maintenance of the system: 8 U.S.C. 1522(b) (Authorization for Programs for Initial Domestic Resettlement of and Assistance to Refugees); 22 U.S.C. 1157 (Annual Admission of Refugees and Admission of Emergency Situation Refugees); Letter of President Carter of January 13, 1981, 17 Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents, Pg. 2880 (Refugee Resettlement Grants Program). categories of records in the system: Refugee biographic registration forms; interest cards; sponsorship assurance forms; change of status forms; International Organization for Migration (IOM) arrival information; and communications from U.S. embassies, U.S. consulates general consulates; voluntary agencies, U.S. Government agencies, international organizations, foreign missions, members of Congress, relatives and other interested parties. routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and purposes of such uses: The Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration; Refugee Data Center employees and contractors; participating voluntary agencies and international organizations that assist applicants; consumer reporting agencies (31 U.S.C. 7311(f)) and debt collection contractors (31 U.S.C. 3718); members of Congress; private individuals or companies requesting general statistical data on applicants; relatives seeking information about a particular applicant; and other federal, state, and local government agencies having statutory or other lawful authority will use or maintain such information to: (1) Locate relatives or friends of applicants as potential backup sponsors;
