FR941130-2-00091 FR941130-2-00058 [Docket No. 50&hyph;213] Connecticut Yankee Atomic Power Co.; Haddam Neck Plant Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an amendment to Facility Operating License No. DPR&hyph;61, issued to Connecticut Yankee Atomic Power Company (CYAPCO, the licensee), for operation of the Haddam Neck Plant, located in Middlesex County, Connecticut. Environmental Assessment Identification of the Proposed Action The proposed amendment would revise the Haddam Neck Technical Specification (TS) Table 3.3&hyph;2, ``Engineered Safety Features Actuation System Instrumentation,'' Table 3.3&hyph;3, ``Engineered Safety Features Actuation System Instrumentation Trip Setpoints,'' and Table 4.3&hyph;2, ``Engineered Safety Features Actuation System Instrumentation Surveillance Requirements,'' and their associated Bases sections, to reflect the addition of permissive interlocks on the core deluge system motor-operated valves. The proposed action is in accordance with the licensee's amendment request dated August 4, 1994. The Need for the Proposed Action CYAPCO is planning to install permissive interlocks on the core deluge valves SI&hyph;MOV&hyph;871A and B. The permissive interlocks will serve to block the opening of these valves until the reactor coolant pressure (RCS) has decreased below a specified setpoint. This modification is necessary to ensure that should an inadvertent safety injection actuation signal (SIAS) occur, the low pressure safety injection (LPSI) isolation valves would not open and expose the LPSI system piping, which has a design rating of 600 psi, to the normal operating pressure of the RCS, which is approximately 2000 psi. To assure the operability of the new permissive interlocks the licensee has proposed adding various components of the interlock system to the TS. In addition, the Bases section will be modified to include a discussion on the functioning of the core deluge motor-operated valves and their control circuitry. Environmental Impacts of the Proposed Action In the present design a large break LOCA will generate a safety injection signal which will open the core deluge valves SI&hyph;MOV&hyph;871A and B to provide borated water to the reactor vessel. The new design will install redundant open permissive interlocks in the core deluge valve control circuitry to prevent opening of these valves on a SIAS until the RCS pressure falls below 1135 psig. This permissive interlock system has been included in the TS to assure its operability. The Commission has completed its evaluation of the proposed modifications and the associated TS changes and concludes that the modifications and TS changes will decrease the possibility of an intersystem loss-of-coolant-accident (LOCA) without compromising the previously performed LOCA analysis. The RPS control cabinets were previously evaluated and approved by the NRC. The proposed changes to the RPS TS as result of the new interlocks are similar to previous RPS TS analog-to-digital changes. The proposed TS change will not increase the probability or consequences of accidents, no changes are being made in the types of any effluents that may be released offsite, and there is no significant increase in the allowable individual or cumulative occupational radiation exposure. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that there are no significant radiological environmental impacts associated with this proposed TS amendment. With regard to potential nonradiological impacts, the proposed amendment does involve features located entirely within the restricted area as defined in 10 CFR part 20. It does not affect nonradiological plant effluents and has no other environmental impact. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that there are no significant nonradiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed amendment. Alternatives to the Proposed Action Since the Commission has concluded there is no measurable environmental impact associated with the proposed amendment, any alternatives with equal or greater environmental impact need not be evaluated. The principal alternative to the amendment would be to deny the amendment request. Such action would not enhance the protection of the environment and would result in unjustified cost to the licensee. Alternative Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of resources not considered previously in the Final Environmental Statement for the Haddam Neck Plant. Agencies and Persons Consulted The NRC staff consulted with the Connecticut State official regarding the environmental impact of the proposed action. The State official had no comments. Finding of No Significant Impact Based upon the environmental assessment, the Commission concludes that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. Accordingly, the Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed amendment. For further details with respect to this proposed action, see the licensee's letter dated August 4, 1994, which is available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, the Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC, and at the local public document room located at the Russell Library, 123 Broad Street, Middletown CT 06547. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 21st day of November 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Phillip F. McKee, Director, Project Directorate I&hyph;4, Division of Reactor Projects_I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29484 Filed 11&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
