FR940919-2-00106 FR940919-2-00046 In the new process, SSA will continue to have a responsibility for monitoring representational activity and for safeguarding the interests of claimants. The new process will establish rules of representation and standards of conduct to ensure that representatives fulfill their responsibilities and serve the needs of the claimants they represent. These new rules will, among other things, ensure that claimants receive competent representation; establish a code of professional conduct for representatives in all matters before SSA; and provide sanctions against representatives, including suspension and disqualification from appearing before the Agency in a representative capacity, for violating the rules of representation and standards of conduct. Without disturbing the statutory intent of facilitating claimant access to representatives, the simplified and user-friendly new process may well result in more claimants pursuing their claims without representation. However, the issue of representation will remain a matter of a claimant's personal choice. The new rules and standards of conduct provide the framework for assuring that representatives claimants retain will be qualified, will have the obligation to fully develop the record on their behalf, will adequately represent their interests, and will be accountable for misconduct or dereliction of duty. SSA will also conduct outreach efforts with the legal community, to ensure that information about the disability programs is widely available to the organized bar and the Federal judiciary. Policy documents, regularly updated electronically, and rules of representation will be available at forums sponsored by the organized bar and in initial orientation and continuing legal education programs designed for Federal judges. Information Technology Information technology will be a vital element in the new disability claim process. To the fullest extent possible, SSA will take advantage of the ``Information Highway'' and those technological advances that can improve the disability process and help provide world-class service. The new process will rely on seamless, electronic processing of disability claims from the first contact with the claimant to the final decision, including all levels of administrative appeal. Existing Agency design plans for Intelligent Workstation/Local Area Network (IWS/LAN) and a Modernized Disability System will provide an integrated system and the electronic connectivity necessary to support the new disability process. In a seamless electronic environment, all employees will use the same hardware, the same claim assignment and scheduling software, the same decision support software, the same case control system, the same fiscal and accounting software, the same integrated quality assurance functionality, and the same management information system throughout all stages of the process. In this environment, data will need to be input and validated once and multiple employees may access a single claim record simultaneously. Information technology will be applied to enhance access to services by claimants, their representatives, and other third parties. Claimants will be able to conduct business with SSA via telephone, self-help workstations, kiosks, videoconferencing, and electronic data transfer at SSA facilities and other satellite locations. SSA will conduct forums and produce video and computer-based training materials for third parties who wish to participate in assisting claimants to file applications and gather medical evidence. Wherever possible, physicians and health care organizations, advocates, community counseling services, and other professionals who regularly provide assistance to SSA claimants will be supplied with SSA software to electronically complete Agency forms. Data will be transferred to SSA using agreed upon methods. SSA will allow authorized representatives appropriate access to electronic claim folders. Paper versions of treating source forms will be designed so that the data can be read by scanning equipment into SSA claim processing systems. A single vendor payment system will be used to pay certain evidence providers for information which they provide SSA. To further paperless processing, SSA will adopt a ``signature on file'' policy for the claimant's evidence release authorization to eliminate routing of paper medical release forms.
