FR940525-2-00154 FR940525-2-00078 With respect to the BSE proposal's effect on internalization of order flow, and the potential for market fragmentation as a result, the Commission's Division of Market Regulation (``Division'') recently examined the extent of market fragmentation in its Market 2000 Study. The Division found that multiple, varied market centers and competitors for listed stocks has provided many benefits to the users of the markets without impairing market quality or price discovery. The Division concluded that concerns about fragmentation have been overstated. However, the Commission is concerned that the implementation of a preferencing system at one or more exchanges may alter the analysis. The potential effects of internalization by BSE specialists, however, are difficult to analyze without some experience about the effects of the pilot. The Commission does note that if the program of competing specialists is used merely to expand the number of specialists internalizing order flow rather than as a means of improving the quality of BSE markets, then the proposal would raise additional questions as to whether the competing specialists are acting as active market makers and deserve specialist designation and the benefits accruing thereto. Accordingly, although the BSE proposal may result in more internalization of order flow, the Commission is not willing at this time to conclude that it will be detrimental to the quality of the equity markets, but instead intends to revisit this issue at the expiration of the pilot. In reaching this conclusion, the Commission emphasizes that the BSE proposal is limited in scope, and best execution of customer orders in the context of fair competition is still a primary objective. Under the proposal, customer orders will continue to be able to interact, and the opportunity for price improvement exists. The preferencing feature of the competing specialist program also raises questions about the use of payment for order flow by BSE specialists. As discussed previously, during the pilot program a CS will be prohibited from making cash payments for order flow in those stocks in which it is registered as a CS. Such a prohibition is important to assess the effects of the proposal and incentives for market participants to take part in it and to benefit therefrom. The Commission is still considering the concerns regarding the issue of payment for order flow on the national level. On October 7, 1993, the Commission published for comment Rule 11Ac1&hyph;3 and amendments to Rule 10b&hyph;10 under the Act relating to enhanced disclosure of payment for order flow practices. The Commission also sought comments on various alternative approaches to payment for order flow, such as banning the practice outright, pass-through the payment to customers, and decimalization. 54 Accordingly, any final outcome in that rule making procedure may ultimately effect the payment for order flow issue in the BSE's pilot. 54 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33026 (October 6, 1993). The comment period on the proposal ended December 3, 1993, and the Commission is still reviewing the comments and issues presented.
