FR940204-0-00058 FR940204-0-00021 Issue 7: Several commenters charged that the proposed rule for Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii was promulgated merely to fulfill requirements of a settlement resulting from the lawsuit filed against the Service by the California Native Plant Society. They further contended that this deprived Glenwood Development Company of its rights and is contrary to the intent and language of the Endangered Species Act. Service Response: The California Native Plant Society lawsuit settlement requires the Service to propose for listing those plant taxa that were identified as category 1 candidates for listing in the February 21, 1990, notice of review (56 FR 58804). Of the five taxa included in the proposed rule, only Erysimum teretifolium was a category 1 candidate in the February 21, 1991, notice of review, and is the only one of the four taxa subject to the requirements of the lawsuit settlement. However, Federal action on all five taxa began prior to the settlement of the California Native Plant Society lawsuit (see section on ``Previous Federal Action''). As stated under the Service Response to Issue 5 above, the Endangered Species Act directs the Service to list species on the basis of biological vulnerability. Issue 8: One commenter stated that the Service failed to publish the proposed rule within 1 year of having received the petition, which therefore failed to meet statutory time requirements, and requested that the proposed rule be withdrawn. Service Response: The Service endeavors to meet statutory timeframes; however, nothing in the statute suggests that the Service is required to withdraw proposals because deadlines are missed. Issue 9: One commenter stated that the Service failed to prepare environmental assessments as required by the National Environmental Policy Act. Service Response: The Service is exempt from preparing environmental assessments regarding the listing of species pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act for reasons outlined in the Federal Register on October 25, 1983 (48 FR 49244). This is stated in the proposed rule and this final rule under the section titled ``National Environmental Policy Act.'' Issue 10: One commenter stated that Erysimum teretifolium is a weed and that he had ``seen it in many places in the county'' and on ``all kinds of roadbanks,'' presumably meaning that the species is more widespread than is indicated in the proposed rule. He also felt that the public should be encouraged to grow it as a garden plant, presumably to assist in perpetuating the species. Service Response: No information was submitted to the Service to substantiate the locations of additional populations of Erysimum teretifolium . Since the time the proposal was published, no documentation has been made of additional populations of the plant found by any botanists that contribute to CNDDB (CNDDB 1993). The Service, therefore, maintains that this decision is based on the best and most current information available and that it is sufficient to warrant making a determination on its status. With regard to the suggestion to cultivate E. teretifolium as a garden plant, the Service recognizes the value of maintaining cultivated collections of rare species. Such collections, however, do not replace protection for native ecosystems, which is the intent of the Endangered Species Act. Issue 11: Two agencies (CDFG and California Department of Parks and Recreation) recommended that the Service list Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens as threatened rather than endangered. Service Response: Since publication of the proposal, the Service has reviewed additional biological information, including surveys for Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens recently conducted on Fort Ord by an environmental consulting firm, Jones and Stokes Associates (Army Corps of Engineers 1992). Substantial new populations were located on Fort Ord, but the pending disposal of Fort Ord still places these populations at risk. The Service therefore determined that threatened status for this plant is appropriate. Issue 12: Several commenters requested that the Service designate critical habitat for Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii.
