FR940419-1-00058 FR940419-1-00009 j. Section 964.340 Resident compensation for FIC would provide guidelines governing employment compensation under this program. k. Section 964.45 Treatment of income would provide provisions for income exclusions for any resident participating in the FIC program. l. Section 964.350 Administrative Requirements for FIC would provide administrative and reporting requirements governing the FIC program. B. Indian Housing Changes_Part 905 The proposed rule also revises 24 CFR part 905, subpart O, ``Resident Participation and Opportunities''. The Indian housing section is similar to its public housing counterpart, but does not contain some of the provisions in 24 CFR part 964 in an effort to streamline the regulations and tailor them specifically to the generally smaller size of most Indian Housing Authorities (IHA). However, all activities, functions and benefits permitted under any public housing resident programs will remain eligible activities, functions and benefits for Indian housing resident programs. The major changes in the proposed rule will allow for broader, more flexible programs aimed at increasing the capacity of Indian housing resident organizations and resident management corporations to carry out their organizational functions in a more structured manner while simultaneously permitting further economic uplift opportunities. Within the subpart there is a general section; a Tenant Opportunities Program (TOP) section; and a Family Investment Centers Program section. The current Indian Housing Resident Management Program under existing regulations is viable and remains an option under TOP. None of the requirements for the resident management program will be changed; however, some sections are being moved to other sections of the 905 regulations or HUD handbooks. C. Miscellaneous Conforming Changes Changes that have been made to other parts are the exclusion from income of stipends to RC officers and of training grants under the FIC program that would be added to 905 and 913; the provision for payments to duly elected resident council officers, and the inclusion of requirements governing the RMC Operating subsidy, budget, operating reserves, etc., that would be made to 990; and changes for the resident participation subpart that would be made in part 905 to parallel changes in part 964.
