FR940505-1-00124 FR940505-1-00012 (5) California's Nonroad Program/Preemption. Section 209(e)(1) prohibits California, and all other states, from adopting standards for new locomotives and for new engines and vehicles used in farm and construction equipment under 175 hp. CAA section 209(e)(2) authorizes California to adopt and enforce emission standards for all other nonroad engines if it is California's determination that such standards will be, in the aggregate, at least as protective of public health and welfare as applicable Federal Standards and if EPA finds that: (1) California's determination is not arbitrary and capricious; (2) California needs such standards to meet compelling or extraordinary conditions; or (3) California's standards and accompanying enforcement procedures are consistent with that section. CAA section 209(e)(2) also authorizes other states to opt into California standards. The California Air Resources Board (CARB) has chosen to create categories for regulation of nonroad sources based on application or end use of the engines. The Federal program for control of emissions from nonroad sources creates categories for regulation based on engine parameters and characteristics such as size and fuel system, rather than application. The Agency believes that this regulatory scheme provides criteria that make it easier to clearly determine which engines are covered by which set of standards. The Agency does consider application or operating environment in its regulatory scheme for some engines. In general, the Federal categories are broader than those chosen by California and encompass a wider range of engines and applications. CARB has approved standards for nonroad lawn and garden and utility SI and CI engines from 0&hyph;25 horsepower. EPA is currently reviewing CARB's section 209(e) waiver request for its lawn and garden and utility rule. A decision will be issued once EPA's section 209(e) procedural rule is finalized. There is potential for other states to adopt the California standards, which are scheduled to become effective in 1995. CARB also has proposed standards for other classes of nonroad vehicles. Federal Standards will be more comprehensive than California's proposed standards for lawn and garden equipment or heavy-duty farm and construction equipment because the Federal programs will cover engines used in new farm and construction equipment under 175 hp which California is preempted from regulating. About 1 in 5 engines that would otherwise be covered by California's proposed lawn and garden standards are preempted because they are classified as farm or construction engines. The Federal program for control of SI marine engines, which will be proposed by September 1994, will also be applied in the FIP areas. California has no proposed standards for marine pleasure craft, however, CARB has conducted a public meeting to consider a plan to control emissions from ``large'' marine vessels. b. Federal Nonroad Requirements _(1) Federal Requirements for CI Engines at or above 37 kW. This section provides a general overview of the major elements of the Federal program to control emissions from new nonroad CI engines at or greater than 37 kW. (a) Applicability. The regulations are expected to apply to all new nonroad CI engines at or above 37 kW with certain exemptions and exclusions. Engines included in this rule will be referred to as ``large nonroad CI engines.'' The vast majority of large nonroad CI engines currently being used and manufactured are diesel-fueled engines. The use of alternative fuels will not be necessary to meet the emission standards. However, these regulations would apply to large nonroad CI engines regardless of the fuel that is used (for example, diesel, compressed natural gas (CNG), rapeseed, methanol, ethanol, and blends). Provisions are expected to be included which will allow manufacturers to apply for Administrator approval of alternative test procedures if fuel other than diesel is to be used. (b) Standards. EPA expects to adopt NO X emission and smoke standards for all large nonroad CI engines at or above 37 kW as proposed May 17, 1993 (58 FR 28809). Furthermore, EPA expects to adopt standards for HC, CO, and PM emissions for engines at or above 130 kW, consistent with those standards adopted by California in section 2420&hyph;2427, Chapter 11, Title 13 of the California Code of Regulations, ``California Regulation for New 1996 and Later Heavy-duty Off-road Diesel Cycle Engines.'' ␣ 1Net Power (kW) 1HC g/kWh 1CO g/kWh 1NO X g/kWh 1PM g/kWh 1Smoke A/L/P percent a ≥130 1.3 11.4 9.2 0.54 20/15/50 ≥75 to <130 N/A N/A 9.2 N/A 20/15/50 ≥37 to <75 N/A N/A 9.2 N/A 20/15/50 a Smoke Opacity Standards are reported in terms of percent opacity during an acceleration mode, a lug mode, and the peak opacity on either the acceleration or lug modes.
