FR940119-0-00053 FR940119-0-00014 (iii) A replacement of a vessel that does not result in increasing horsepower, length, gross registered tonnage or net tonnage is not considered an upgrade for purposes of this section. (6) Notification of eligibility for 1994. (i) NMFS will attempt to notify all owners of vessels for which NMFS has credible evidence that they meet the criteria described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, that they qualify for a limited access scallop permit if they meet the requirements contained in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section. (ii) If a vessel owner has not been notified that the vessel is eligible to be issued a limited access scallop permit, and the vessel owner believes that there is credible evidence that the vessel does qualify under the pertinent criteria, the vessel owner may apply for a limited access scallop permit by meeting the requirements described under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section and by submitting the information described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section. In the event the application is denied, the applicant may appeal as specified in paragraph (a)(9) of this section. If, through either of these procedures, the Regional Director determines that the vessel meets the eligibility criteria, a limited access scallop permit will be issued to the vessel. (7) Percentage ownership restrictions. (i) Any vessel owner is eligible to apply for and be issued a 1994 limited access scallop permit for any vessel owned as of March 1, 1994, provided that the vessel meets all pertinent criteria in this part regardless of the owner's ownership in other scallop vessels on March 1, 1994. (ii) For any vessel acquired after March 1, 1994, except as provided in paragraph (a)(7)(iii) of this section, a vessel owner is not eligible to be issued a limited access scallop permit for the vessel if the issuance of the permit will result in the vessel owner, or any person who is a shareholder or partner of the vessel owner, having an ownership interest in limited access scallop vessels in excess of 5 percent of the number of all limited access scallop vessels at the time of permit application. (iii) Vessel owners who were initially issued a 1994 limited access scallop permit, or were issued or renewed a limited access scallop permit for a vessel in 1995 and thereafter in compliance with the ownership restrictions in paragraph (a)(7)(ii) of this section, are eligible to renew such permit(s), regardless of whether the renewal of the permits will exceed the 5 percent ownership restrictions. (iv) Having an ownership interest includes, but is not limited to, persons who are shareholders in a vessel owned by a corporation, who are partners (general or limited) to a vessel owner, or who, in any way, partly own a vessel. (8) Consolidation restriction. Limited access scallop permits and DAS allocations may not be combined or consolidated. (9) Appeal of denial of limited access scallop permit. (i) Any applicant denied a limited access scallop permit, may appeal the denial to the Regional Director within 30 days of the notice of denial. Any such appeal must be based on one or more of the following grounds, must be in writing, and must state the grounds for the appeal: (A) The information used by the Regional Director was based on mistaken or incorrect data; (B) The applicant was prevented by circumstances beyond his/her control from meeting relevant criteria; or (C) The applicant has new or additional information. (ii) The Regional Director will appoint a designee who will make the initial decision on the appeal. (iii) The appellant may request a review of the initial decision by the Regional Director by so requesting in writing within 30 days of the notice of initial decision. If the appellant does not request a review of the initial decision within 30 days, the initial decision shall become the final administrative action of the Department of Commerce. The appellant's request for review must elect either to have the review conducted by a hearing officer appointed by the Regional Director or by an Advisory Appeals Board if established pursuant to paragraph (a)(9)(iv)(B) of this section. (iv) Recommendations to the Regional Director. (A) Hearing Officer. If the initial decision is reviewed by a hearing officer, the hearing officer shall make findings and a recommendation to the Regional Director which shall be advisory only. (B) Advisory Appeals Board. The Regional Director may establish, or request the Council to establish, an Advisory Appeal Board. If such a board is established and approved by the Regional Director, an appellant may request that the initial decision of his/her appeal be reviewed by the Appeals Board. If such a request is made, the Regional Director shall forward the request to the Appeals Board within 15 days after receipt. Any initial decision reviewed by an Appeals Board made up of other than Federal employees shall be open to the public, including all documentation presented to support the appeal. The Appeals Board shall make findings and a recommendation to the Council, which shall be advisory only. The Council in turn shall make findings and an advisory-only recommendation to the Regional Director. (v) Upon receiving the findings and a recommendation, the Regional Director will issue a final decision on the appeal. The Regional Director's decision is the final administrative action of the Department of Commerce. (vi) Status of vessels pending appeal of a limited access scallop permit denial. A vessel for which an application has been completed and an appeal has been initiated may fish under one of the following DAS allocation categories based on which criteria is applicable, pending a final decision on the appeal, if the vessel has on board a letter of authorization from the Regional Director. (A) A vessel owner appealing under this part who can establish credible evidence, or NMFS records, that his/her vessel completed at least 10 trips, each landing more than 400 pounds (181.44 kg) of shucked scallops or 50 U.S. bushels (17.62 hl) of in-shell scallops, in any consecutive 12-month period during 1991&hyph;1992, may fish under the Full-time DAS allocation, pending a final decision on the appeal.
