FR941212-0-00080 FR941212-0-00019 (18) Serve as proponent for Claims Legal Automated Information Management System (CLAIMS) and provide standard automated claims data management programs for use worldwide. (19) Ensure proper training of claims personnel. (20) Coordinate claims activities with the Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps, and other DOD agencies to ensure a consistent DOD claims program. (21) Supervise the investigation and processing of medical malpractice claims arising in Army medical centers within the United States. Provide medical claims JAs, medical claims attorneys and medical claims investigators assigned to such medical centers with technical guidance and direction on such claims. (22) Coordinate support with the Office of The Surgeon General on matters relating to medical malpractice claims. (23) Issue an accounting classification to all properly designated claims settlement and approval authorities. (24) Perform the investigation, processing, and settlement of claims arising in areas not within the areas of operation of command claims services unless specifically delegated to a SJA of a command or designee. (c) Chiefs of command claims services. Chiefs of command claims services will_ (1) Exercise claims settlement authority as specified in this part, to include appellate authority where so delegated. (2) Designate area claims offices and grant claims settlement authority thereto. A grant of such authority will not be effective until coordinated with the Commander, USARCS and an office code assigned. However, the chief of a command claims service may redesignate a claims processing office already having an assigned office code as an area claims office without coordination with the Commander, USARCS. The Commander, USARCS will be informed of such a designation. (3) Designate claims processing offices and grant claims approval authority thereto. Only claims processing offices staffed with a JA or claims attorney may be granted approval authority. A grant of such authority will not be effective until coordinated with the Commander, USARCS and an office code assigned. (4) Train claims personnel and monitor their activities. (5) Implement pertinent claims policies. (6) Prepare and publish command claims directives. (7) Administer the command claims expenditure allowance, providing necessary data, estimates, and reports to USARCS. (8) Perform the responsibilities of an area claims office (see paragraph (d) of this section), as applicable. (9) Serve as the U.S. sending State office, if so designated, when operating in an area covered by a status of forces agreement. (d) Heads of area claims offices. Heads of area claims offices will_ (1) Ensure that claims in their area of responsibility are promptly investigated according to this part. (2) Ensure that each organization or activity (for example, U.S. Army Reserve (USAR) or Army National Guard (ARNG) unit, Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) detachment, recruiting company or station, and DOD agency) within the area appoints a claims officer to investigate claims incidents not requiring investigation by a JA (ยง536.16(c)(2)) and ensure that this officer is adequately trained. (3) Act as a claims settlement authority on claims within the monetary jurisdictions set forth in this regulation and forward claims beyond such jurisdictions to the Commander, USARCS or to the chief of a command claims service, as appropriate, for action. (4) Designate claims processing offices and request the Commander, USARCS or the chief of a command claims service, as appropriate, to grant claims approval authority to a claims processing office with respect to claims within that office's jurisdiction, as specified under paragraphs (b)(4) and (c)(2), of this section. (5) Prepare and publish a claims directive concerning the investigation and processing of claims matters for the guidance of all claims processing offices within their area. (6) Implement claims policies and guidance furnished by TAJAG or Commander, USARCS through policy directives or the Claims Manual and establish and implement necessary claims policies and procedures not contrary to the foregoing. (7) Ensure that there are an adequate number of qualified JAs or claims attorneys, claims examiners, claims adjudicators and claims clerks in all claims offices within their area to take prompt action on claims and that they are adequately trained. (8) Budget and fund for claims investigations and activities to include per diem and transportation of claims personnel, claimants and witnesses, independent medical examinations, appraisals, independent expert opinions, long distance phone calls, recording and photographic equipment, use of express mail or couriers, and other necessary expenses. (9) Within continental United States (CONUS), procure and disseminate adequate legal publications on local law and verdicts relating to tort claims within the area of jurisdiction. (10) Notify Commander, USARCS of all claims and claims incidents as required by ยง536.17 and ยง536.21(b)(2).
