FR940224-2-00139 FR940224-2-00088 Federal Railroad Administration Petition for Waivers of Compliance In accordance with 49 CFR 211.9, 211.41 and 211.45, notice is hereby given that the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) has received a request for a waiver of compliance with certain requirements of the Federal safety laws and regulations. The individual petition is described below, including the party seeking relief, the regulatory provisions involved, the nature of the relief being requested and the petitioner's arguments in favor of relief. Renfe Talgo of America, Incorporated Docket Numbers RSGM&hyph;94&hyph;2 and SA&hyph;94&hyph;1 Renfe Talgo of America, Incorporated (RTAX) requests waivers of compliance with certain provisions of the Railroad Safety Glazing Standards (49 CFR part 223) under Docket Number RSGM&hyph;94&hyph;2 and Railroad Safety Appliance Standards (49 CFR part 231), under Docket Number SA&hyph;94&hyph;1. RTAX seeks these waivers in order to permit operation of the TALGO Pendular Train (TALGO) under two conditions. It is intended that the train will be operated (1) in non-revenue demonstration runs and (2) in revenue service as part of a regularly scheduled service operated by National Railroad Passenger Corporation (Amtrak) in the Pacific Northwest High Speed Rail Corridor. The non-revenue demonstration runs of the TALGO train will involve a cross-country movement from its assembly point in Washington, DC to Seattle, Washington, in March 1994. It is anticipated that the train will be on public display in Cleveland, Detroit, Chicago, St. Louis, and Seattle. The revenue operations in passenger service are to be conducted as part of Amtrak's regularly scheduled service between Seattle, Washington, and Portland, Oregon, which are scheduled to begin in April 1994. The trainset would be comprised of 12 TALGO Pendular cars. The 12 cars will include 1 head-end power car which will not carry passengers, 8 passenger coach cars, 1 cafeteria car, 1 dining car, and 1 rear-end service car which will not carry passengers. The TALGO equipment has a total weight of approximately 400,000 pounds. With the Amtrak locomotive, the total length of the train will be approximately 575 feet. RTAX petition seeks a waiver from compliance with the Railroad Glazing Standards, (49 CFR 223.15(b)), which requires that all side facing glazing on passenger cars must meet the FRA Type II testing criteria. RTAX states that the side facing glazing of the TALGO train may in fact meet the FRA requirements for FRA Type II, but it has not been subjected to the test specified in the regulation. The windows in the sides of the cars are double glazed with tempered safety glass. Each layer is 6 mm. (.24 inches) thick with an air space in between the two layers. RTAX says that there is not sufficient time to retrofit windows in the TALGO train prior to shipment from Spain. RTAX petition seeks a waiver from compliance of the Railroad Safety Appliance Standards, (49 CFR 231.14) and sections 2 and 4 of the Safety Appliance Act (45 U.S.C. 2 and 4), which requires that each passenger car must be equipped with side handholds, end handholds, and uncoupling levers. The passenger cars have side handholds at the doors for the assistance of passengers, but there are no side handholds or end handholds which the rules contemplate for use in switching operations or coupling and uncoupling. RTAX states that the 12 cars in the TALGO train constitute a single unit, in that the cars will not be uncoupled from one another, except at specified maintenance facilities. The individual cars are joined by swivel type traction couplers which will not uncouple in normal operations and because of this configuration there is no need for uncoupling levers. Standard AAR Type E couplers will be installed at the ends of the front and rear service cars. Interested parties are invited to participate in this proceeding by submitting written views, data, or comments. FRA does not anticipate scheduling a public hearing in connection with this proceeding since the facts do not appear to warrant a hearing. If any interested party desires an opportunity for oral comment, they should notify FRA, in writing, before the end of the comment period and specify the basis for their request. All communications concerning these proceedings should identify the appropriate docket number (e.g., Waiver Petition Docket Number SA&hyph;94&hyph;1) and must be submitted in triplicate to the Docket Clerk, Office of Chief Counsel, Federal Railroad Administration, Nassif Building, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. Communications received before March 17, 1994 will be considered by FRA before final action is taken. Comments received after that date will be considered as far as practicable. All written communications concerning these proceedings are available for examination during regular business hours (9 a.m.&hyph;5 p.m.) in room 8201, Nassif Building, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. Issued in Washington, DC on February 15, 1994. Grady C. Cothen, Jr., Associate Administrator for Safety. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4076 Filed 2&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;06&hyph;P
