FR940106-2-00076 FR940106-2-00037 2. The potential effectiveness and impact of the proposed project including its potential contribution to nursing; 3. The administrative and managerial capability of the applicant to carry out the proposed project; 4. The appropriateness of the plan, including the timetable for carrying out the activities of the proposed project and achieving and measuring the project's stated objectives; 5. The capability of the applicant to carry out the proposed project; 6. The reasonableness of the budget for the proposed project, including the justification of the grant funds requested; and 7. The potential of the nurse anesthetist program to continue on a self-sustaining basis after the period of grant support. Other Considerations In addition, the following funding factors may be applied in determining funding of approved applications. A funding preference is defined as the funding of a specific category or group of approved applications ahead of other categories or groups of approved applications. A funding priority is defined as the favorable adjustment of aggregate review scores of individual approved applications when applications meet specified criteria. It is not required that applicants request consideration for a funding factor. Applications which do not request consideration for funding factors will be reviewed and given full consideration for funding. Statutory Funding Preference In making awards of grants under this section, preference will be given to any qualified applicant that_(A) has a high rate for placing graduates in practice settings having the principal focus of serving residents of medically underserved communities; or (B) during the 2-year period preceding the fiscal year for which such an award is sought, has achieved a significant increase in the rate of placing graduates in such settings. Preference will be given only for applications ranked above the 20th percentile of applications that have been recommended for approval by the appropriate peer review group. Proposed Minimum Percentages for ``High Rate'' and ``Significant Increase in the Rate'' ``High rate'' is defined as a minimum of 20 percent of graduates in academic years 1990&hyph;91, 1991&hyph;92 or 1992&hyph;93 who spend at least 50 percent of their worktime in clinical practice in the specified settings. Graduates who are providing care in a medically underserved community as a part of a fellowship or other educational experience can be counted. ``Significant increase in the rate'' means that, between academic years 1991&hyph;92 and 1992&hyph;93, the rate of placing graduates in the specified settings has increased by a minimum of 50 percent and that not less than 15 percent of graduates from the most recent year are working in these settings. Additional information concerning the implementation of this preference has been published in the Federal Register at 58 FR 40659, July 29, 1993. Established Funding Priority The following funding priority was established in FY 1993 following public comment (58 FR 40657, July 29, 1993) and the Administration is extending this funding priority in FY 1994. A funding priority will be given to programs which demonstrate either substantial progress over the last 3 years or a significant experience of 10 or more years in enrolling and graduating students from those minority populations identified as at-risk of poor health outcomes.
