FR941104-2-00115 FR941104-2-00066 Each Subordinated Debenture will be issued under an indenture to be entered with United States Trust Company of New York, as trustee, and will have an initial term of up to 50 years. Prior to maturity, JCP&L will pay only interest on the Subordinated Debentures at a rate equal to the distribution rate on the related series of Preferred Securities. Such interest payments will constitute JCP&L Capital's only income and will be used by it to pay monthly distributions on the Preferred Securities and distributions on the general partner interests of JCP&L Capital held by Investment Sub. Distributions on the Preferred Securities will be made monthly, will be cumulative and must be made to the extent that JCP&L Capital has legally available funds and cash sufficient for such purposes. However, JCP&L will have the right to defer payment of interest on the Subordinated Debentures for up to five years, in which event JCP&L Capital may similarly defer payment of distributions on the Preferred Securities. If distributions on the Preferred Securities are not paid for eighteen consecutive months, then the holders of the Preferred Securities will have the right to appoint a special representative to enforce JCP&L Capital's rights under the Subordinated Debentures and the rights of the holders of the Preferred Securities under the Guarantees. JCP&L and JCP&L Capital, as the case may be, may be required to pay interest on any deferred interest or distributions, to the extent permitted by applicable law. The interest rates, payment dates, redemption and other similar provisions of each series of Subordinated Debentures will be identical to the distribution rates, payment dates, redemption and other similar provisions of the related series of Preferred Securities. Each Subordinated Debenture and related Guarantee will be subordinate to all other existing and future indebtedness of JCP&L and will have no cross-default provisions with respect to other JCP&L indebtedness. However, JCP&L may not declare or pay dividends on its outstanding Cumulative Preferred Stock or Common Stock unless all payments then due under the Subordinated Debentures and the Guarantees have been made. It is expected that JCP&L interest payments on the Subordinated Debentures will be deductible for income tax purposes and that JCP&L Capital will be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Consequently, it is represented that the holders of the Preferred Securities and Investment Sub will receive partnership distributions in respect of their distributions from JCP&L Capital and will not be entitled to any ``dividend received deduction'' under the Internal Revenue Code. The Preferred Securities may be redeemable at the option of JCP&L Capital at a price equal to their stated value plus any accrued and unpaid distributions: (1) at any time after five years from their date of issuance; or (2) in the following events: (a) JCP&L Capital is required by applicable tax laws to withhold or deduct certain amounts in connection with distributions or other payments, (b) JCP&L Capital is subject to federal income tax with respect to interest received on the Subordinated Debentures or is otherwise not treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, (c) it is determined that the interest payments by JCP&L on the Subordinated Debentures are not deductible for federal income tax purposes, (d) JCP&L Capital is subject to more than a de minimis amount of other taxes, duties or other governmental charges, or (e) JCP&L Capital becomes subject to regulation as an ``investment company'' under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. Upon occurrence of any of the events set forth in clause (2), above, JCP&L Capital may also have the right to dissolve and distribute the Subordinated Debentures to the holders of the Preferred Securities in liquidation of their interests in JCP&L Capital.
