FR941207-0-00144 FR941207-0-00022 (1) For an eligible licensee with gross revenues exceeding $75 million (calculated in accordance with §24.709(a)(2) and (b)) in each of the two preceding years, interest shall be imposed based on the rate for ten-year U.S. Treasury obligations applicable on the date the license is granted, plus 3.5 percent; payments shall include both principal and interest amortized over the term of the license, beginning one year after the date of the initial license grant. (2) For an eligible licensee with gross revenues not exceeding $75 million (calculated in accordance with §24.709(a)(2) and (b)) in each of the two preceding years or an eligible licensee in a BTA market other than the fifty largest markets, interest shall be imposed based on the rate for ten-year U.S. Treasury obligations applicable on the date the license is granted, plus 2.5 percent; payments shall include interest only for the first year and payments of interest and principal amortized over the remaining nine years of the license term. (3) For an eligible licensee that qualifies as a Small business or as a consortium of small businesses , interest shall be imposed based on the rate for ten-year U.S. Treasury obligations applicable on the date the license is granted, plus 2.5 percent; payments shall include interest only for the first two years and payments of interest and principal amortized over the remaining eight years of the license term. (4) For an eligible licensee that qualifies as a business owned by members of minority groups and/or women , interest shall be imposed based on the rate for ten-year U.S. Treasury obligations applicable on the date the license is granted; payments shall include interest only for the first three years and payments of interest and principal amortized over the remaining seven years of the license term. (5) For an eligible licensee that qualifies as a small business owned by members of minority groups and/or women or as a consortium of small business owned by members of minority groups and/or women , interest shall be imposed based on the rate for ten-year U.S. Treasury obligations applicable on the date the license is granted; payments shall include interest only for the first six years and payments of interest and principal amortized over the remaining four years of the license term. (c) Unjust Enrichment . (1) If a licensee that utilizes installment financing under this section seeks to assign or transfer control of its license to an entity not meeting the eligibility standards for installment payments, the licensee must make full payment of the remaining unpaid principal and any unpaid interest accrued through the date of assignment or transfer as a condition of approval. (2) If a licensee that utilizes installment financing under this section seeks to make any change in ownership structure that would result in the licensee losing eligibility for installment payments, the licensee shall first seek Commission approval and must make full payment of the remaining unpaid principal and any unpaid interest accrued through the date of such change as a condition of approval. A licensee's (or other attributable entity's) increased gross revenues or increased total assets due to nonattributable equity investments ( i.e., from sources whose gross revenues and total assets are not considered under §24.709(b)), debt financing, revenue from operations or other investments, business development or expanded service shall not be considered to result in the licensee losing eligibility for installment payments. (3) If a licensee seeks to make any change in ownership that would result in the licensee qualifying for a less favorable installment plan under this section, the licensee shall seek Commission approval and must adjust its payment plan to reflect its new eligibility status. A licensee may not switch its payment plan to a more favorable plan. 1. Section 24.712 is amended by revising paragraph (d) to read as follows: §24.712 Bidding credits for licenses for frequency Blocks C and F. * * * * * (d) Unjust Enrichment. (1) If, before termination of the five-year period following the date of the initial license grant, a licensee that utilizes a bidding credit under this section seeks to assign or transfer control of its license to an entity not meeting the eligibility standards for bidding credits or seeks to make any other change in ownership that would result in the licensee no longer qualifying for bidding credits under this section, the licensee must seek Commission approval and reimburse the government for the amount of the bidding credit as a condition of the approval of such assignment, transfer or other ownership change. (2) If, before termination of the five-year period following the date of the initial license grant, a licensee that utilizes a bidding credit under this section seeks to assign or transfer control of its license to an entity meeting the eligibility standards for lower bidding credits or seeks to make any other change in ownership that would result in the licensee qualifying for a lower bidding credit under this section, the licensee must seek Commission approval and reimburse the government for the difference between the amount of the bidding credit obtained by the licensee and the bidding credit for which the assignee, transferee or licensee is eligible under this section as a condition of the approval of such assignment, transfer or other ownership change. 2. Section 24.720 is revised to read as follows: §24.720 Definitions. (a) Scope . The definitions in this section apply to §§24.709 through 24.714, unless otherwise specified in those sections. (b) Small Business: Consortium of Small Businesses. (1) A small business is an entity that, together with its affiliates and persons or entities that hold interest in such entity and their affiliates, has average annual gross revenues that are not more than $40 million for the preceding three years. (2) For purposes of determining whether an entity meets the $40 million average annual gross revenues size standard set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the gross revenues of the entity, its affiliates , persons or entities holding interests in the entity and their affiliates shall be considered on a cumulative basis and aggregated, subject to the exceptions set forth §24.709(b). (3) A small business consortium is conglomerate organization formed as a joint venture between or among mutually-independent business firms, each of which individually satisfies the definition of a small business in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section. (c) Business Owned by Members of Minority Groups and/or Women . A business owned by members of minority groups and/or women is an entity: (1) In which the qualifying investor members of an applicant's control group are members of minority groups and/or women who are United States citizens; and (2) That complies with the requirements of §24.709 (b)(3) and (b)(5) or §24.709 (b)(4) and (b)(6).
