FR940513-0-00182 FR940513-0-00036 14 CFR Part 91 [Docket No. 27745; Special Federal Aviation Regulation (SFAR) No. 68] RIN 2120&hyph;AF39 Prohibition Against Certain Flights Within the Territory and Airspace of Yemen AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Department of Transportation (DOT). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This action prohibits flight operations within the territory and airspace of Yemen by any United States air carrier and commercial operator, by any person exercising the privileges of an airman certificate issued by the FAA, or by an operator using an aircraft registered in the United States unless the operator of such aircraft is a foreign air carrier. This action is taken to prevent an undue hazard to persons and aircraft engaged in such flight operations as a result of the ongoing civil war in Yemen. DATES: Effective Date: May 10, 1994. Expiration date: May 10, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patricia Lane, Airspace and Air Traffic Law Branch, AGC&hyph;230, or Mark W. Bury, International Affairs and Legal Policy Staff, AGC&hyph;7, Office of the Chief Counsel, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, D.C. 20591. Telephone: (202) 267&hyph;3491. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Availability of Document Any person may obtain a copy of this document by submitting a request to the Federal Aviation Administration, Office of Public Affairs, Attention: Public Inquiry Center, APA&hyph;230, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, D.C. 20591, or by calling (202) 267&hyph;3484. Communications must identify the number of this SFAR. Persons interested in being placed on a mailing list for future rules should also request a copy of Advisory Circular No. 11&hyph;2A, which describes the application procedure. Background The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is responsible for the safety of flight in the United States and for the safety of U.S.-registered aircraft and U.S. operators throughout the world. Section 103(1) of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (Act) declares, as a matter of policy, that the regulation of air commerce to promote safety is in the public interest. Section 601(a) of the Act provides the FAA with broad authority to carry out this policy by prescribing regulations governing the practices, methods, and procedures necessary to ensure safety in air commerce. In the exercise of these statutory responsibilities, the FAA has determined that the current civil war in Yemen justifies the imposition of certain measures to ensure the safety of U.S.-registered aircraft and operators that are conducting flight operations in the vicinity of Yemen's territory and airspace. Political violence and power struggles have plagued Yemen since North and South Yemen were unified in 1990. Civil hostilities have expanded over the past four months, culminating in the recent outbreak of widespread fighting throughout the country. President Ali Abdallah Salih of Yemen has declared a state of emergency, and a radio station in the capital of Sanaa announced the beginning of an all-out war. Both sides in the conflict possess military aircraft and anti-aircraft weapons. The current situation in Yemen is volatile and fluid, making it potentially dangerous for civil aircraft to fly into or over Yemen. The ability of either side in the conflict to distinguish between hostile, friendly, and neutral aircraft is questionable. Military aircraft have been shot down, and airports throughout Yemen have reportedly been bombed. Complicating the civil aviation situation is the lack of air traffic control services and facilities in Yemen. The government of the United Kingdom (U.K.) has issued a flight advisory referencing the civil war in Yemen. On May 5, 1994, the British Civil Aviation Authority, in cooperation with the U.K. Department of Transport's International Aviation Directorate, issued a statement advising airlines to avoid Yemen's airspace because of the serious outbreak of fighting in the country. Prohibition Against Certain Flights Within the Territory and Airspace of Yemen On the basis of the above information, and in furtherance of my responsibilities to promote the safety of flight of civil aircraft in air commerce, I have determined that immediate action by the FAA is required to prevent the injury to or loss of certain U.S.-registered aircraft and U.S. operators conducting flights in the vicinity of Yemen. I find that the current civil war in Yemen presents an immediate hazard to the operation of civil aircraft in the territory and airspace of Yemen. Accordingly, I am ordering a prohibition of most flight operations (excluding operations conducted with the specific approval of the United States Government or emergency operations) within the territory and airspace of Yemen by any United States air carrier and commercial operator, by any person exercising the privileges of an airman certificate issued by the FAA, or by an operator using an aircraft registered in the United States unless the operator of such aircraft is a foreign air carrier. This action is necessary to prevent an undue hazard to aircraft and to protect persons on board those aircraft. Because the circumstances described in this notice warrant immediate action by the FAA to maintain the safety of flight, I also find that notice and public comment under 5 U.S.C. 553(b) are impracticable and contrary to the public interest. Further, I find that good cause exists for making this rule effective immediately upon issuance. I also find that this action is fully consistent with my obligations under section 1102(a) of the Federal Aviation Act to ensure that I exercise my duties consistently with the obligations of the United States under international agreements. The Department of State has been advised of, and has no objection to, the action taken herein. The rule contains an expiration date of May 10, 1995, but may be terminated sooner or extended through the publication of a corresponding notice if circumstances so warrant.
