FR940906-0-00068 FR940906-0-00019 (F) Other species fishery. Fishing that results in a retained catch of groundfish, during any fishing trip, that does not qualify as a pollock, Pacific cod, sablefish, rockfish, or flatfish fishery as defined under paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section. (iii) Assignment of vessels to fisheries. At the end of any fishing trip, a vessel's retained catch composition of groundfish species or species groups for which a TAC has been specified under §672.20 or §675.20 of this chapter, in round weight or round-weight equivalents, will determine to which of the fishery categories listed under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section the vessel is assigned. (A) A catcher/processor will be assigned to a fishery category at the end of a fishing trip based on the round weight or round-weight equivalent of the retained groundfish catch composition reported on the vessel's weekly production report submitted to the Regional Director under §672.5(c)(2) or §675.5(c)(2) of this chapter. (B) A catcher vessel that delivers to mothership processor vessels in Federal waters will be assigned to a fishery category at the end of a fishing trip based on the round weight or round-weight equivalent of the retained groundfish catch composition reported on the weekly production report submitted to the Regional Director for that week by the mothership processor vessel under §672.5(c)(2) or §675.5(c)(2) of this chapter. (C) A catcher vessel that delivers groundfish to a shoreside processor or to a mothership processor vessel in Alaska State waters at the end of a fishing trip will be assigned to a fishery category based on the round weight or round-weight equivalent of the retained groundfish catch composition delivered to a processor(s) at the end of that fishing trip and reported on one or more ADF&G fish tickets as required under Alaska Statutes at A.S. 16.05.690. (2) Requirements for managers of Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands management area and Gulf of Alaska groundfish shoreside processing facilities. Observer coverage is required as follows: (i) A shoreside processing facility that processes 1,000 mt or more in round weight or round-weight equivalents of groundfish during a calendar month is required to have a NMFS-certified observer present at the facility each day it receives or processes groundfish during that month. (ii) A shoreside processing facility that processes 500 mt to 1,000 mt in round weight or round-weight equivalents of groundfish during a calendar month is required to have a NMFS-certified observer present at the facility at least 30 percent of the days it receives or processes groundfish during that month. (3) Requirements for vessel operators of Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands area king and Tanner crab. An operator of a vessel that processes king or Tanner crab or that harvests C. tanneri Tanner crab, C. angulatus Tanner crab, or L. cousei king crab, must have one or more State of Alaska-certified observers on board the vessel whenever king or Tanner crab are received, processed, or onboard the vessel in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands area if the operator is required to do so by Alaska State regulations at 5 AAC 34.035, 34.082, 35.082, or 39.645. (b) Observer requirements applicable after December 31, 1995 _(1) General requirements for Research Plan fisheries _(i) Requirements for operators of Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands management area and Gulf of Alaska groundfish vessels and halibut from convention waters off Alaska. An operator of a vessel that catches and retains groundfish or halibut, or a vessel that processes groundfish or halibut, must carry one or more NMFS-certified observers onboard the vessel whenever fishing operations are conducted, if the operator is required to do so by the Regional Director under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. (ii) Requirements for managers of shoreside processing facilities of Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands management area and Gulf of Alaska groundfish and halibut from convention waters off Alaska. A manager of a shoreside processing facility that processes groundfish or halibut received from vessels regulated under this part must have one or more NMFS-certified observers present at the facility whenever groundfish or halibut are received or processed, if the manager is required to do so by the Regional Director under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. (iii) Requirements for vessel operators of Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands area king and Tanner crab. An operator of a vessel subject to this part must carry one or more NMFS-certified observers or ADF&G employees onboard the vessel whenever fishing or processing operations are conducted, if the operator is required to do so by the Regional Director under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. (iv) Requirements for managers of shoreside processing facilities of Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands area king and Tanner crab. A manager of a shoreside processing facility that processes king or Tanner crab received from vessels regulated under this part must have one or more NMFS-certified observers, or ADF&G employees, present at the facility whenever king or Tanner crab is received or processed, if the manager is required to do so by the Regional Director under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. (2) Observer coverage for Research Plan fisheries _(i) Annual determination of coverage level. The appropriate level of observer coverage necessary to achieve the objectives of the Research Plan, given the funds available from the North Pacific Fishery Observer Fund, will be established annually under procedures in §677.11. (ii) Inseason changes in coverage level. (A) The Regional Director may increase or decrease the observer coverage requirements for the Research Plan fisheries at any time to improve the accuracy, reliability, and availability of observer data, and to ensure solvency of the observer program, so long as the standards of section 313 of the Magnuson Act and other applicable Federal regulations are met, and the changes are based on one or more of the following: ( 1 ) A finding that there has been, or is likely to be, a significant change in fishing methods, times, or areas, or catch or bycatch composition for a specific fishery or fleet component. ( 2 ) A finding that such modifications are necessary to improve data availability or quality in order to meet specific fishery management objectives. ( 3 ) A finding that any decrease in observer coverage resulting from unanticipated funding shortfalls is consistent with the following priorities: ( i ) Status of stock assessments; ( ii ) Inseason management; ( iii ) Bycatch monitoring; and ( iv ) Vessel incentive programs and regulatory compliance. ( 4 ) A determination that any increased costs are commensurate with the quality and usefulness of the data to be derived from any revised program, and are necessary to meet fishery management needs. (B) [Reserved] (iii) The Regional Director will consult with the Commissioner of ADF&G prior to making inseason changes in observer coverage level for the crab observer program. (iv) NMFS will publish changes in observer coverage requirements made under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section in the Federal Register , with the reasons for the changes and any special instructions to vessels required to carry observers, at least 10 calendar days prior to their implementation.
