FR941104-2-00125 FR941104-2-00075 1. Licenses for the sale of intoxicating beverages and beer may be issued by the Tribal Council of the Coushatta Tribe of Louisiana to subordinate organizations of the Tribe if the Tribal Council finds, in its sound discretion, on the basis of the facts disclosed by the application and by such additional information as the Tribal Council may deem relevant, that such issuance is in the interest of the Tribe. 2. Licenses for the sale of intoxicating beverages and beer issued by the Tribal Council of the Coushatta Tribe of Louisiana shall contain the following requirements: (a) Each license shall require its holder to conform its operations to the laws of the State of Louisiana that relate to the sale or possession of intoxicating beverages or beer. (b) No license shall be effective for a term more than one year from the date of its issuance, and each renewal thereof shall be subject to the same procedures that apply to the initial issuance of a license. (c) Each license shall explicitly state that its continued validity is dependent upon the compliance of its holder with all provisions of this Ordinance and of the laws of the State of Louisiana that relate to the sale or possession of intoxicating beverages or beer. 3. The Tribal Council of the Coushatta Tribe of Louisiana shall have the authority to revoke any license issued under this Ordinance, under the following procedures: (a) Upon receiving information suggesting that the holder of a license under this Ordinance may have violated the terms of the license or applicable law, the Tribal Council shall give the license holder written notice that the Tribal Council intends to suspend or revoke the holder's license. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the license holder, and shall specify the grounds for the proposed suspension or revocation. (b) Any license holder who receives notice of a proposed suspension or revocation may request a hearing by the Tribal Council, by sending a written request therefore, by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the Chairman of the Coushatta Tribe of Louisiana at the Tribal Office, within seven (7) days of the license holder's receipt of the notice. (c) Upon receipt of a request for hearing under this Ordinance, the Tribal Council of the Coushatta Tribe of Louisiana shall set a date for a hearing, which shall be not later than thirty days from the date of the receipt of the hearing request. (d) At a hearing held under this Ordinance, the holder of a license under this Ordinance shall be permitted to present evidence with respect to its compliance with the terms of its license and applicable law. In reaching its decision, the Tribal Council of the Coushatta Tribe of Louisiana may consider such evidence, together with all other evidence it deems relevant. Following a hearing, if in the judgment of the Tribal Council the license holder has not complied with the terms of its license and applicable law, the Tribal Council shall suspend or revoke its license; and if in the judgment of the Tribal Council the terms of the license and applicable law have been complied with, the proceedings shall be dismissed. In either case, the decision of the Tribal Council shall be final. 4. The Tribal Council of the Coushatta Tribe of Louisiana may reject any application for a license, or for a renewal of a license, under this Ordinance, if the applicant previously has committed acts which have resulted in the suspension or revocation of a license under this Ordinance. Dated: October 21, 1994. Hilda A. Manuel, Acting Assistant Secretary_Indian Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27318; Filed 11&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;02&hyph;P
