FR940204-2-00128 FR940204-2-00092 [Release No. 34&hyph;33541; File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;93&hyph;74] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Proposed Rule Change by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., Relating to the Use of Geographic Indicators Appended to Market Maker Identifiers Disseminated Over the NASD's OTC Bulletin Board Service January 28, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on December 10, 1993, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the NASD. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The NASD is proposing to require market makers participating in the NASD's OTC Bulletin Board Service ® (``OTCBB'') to append a fifth-character, geographic indicator to their market maker identifier (``MMID'') on the OTCBB screen when the firm's trading desk for a particular security quoted on the OTCBB is located away from the firm's primary trading office. 1 The following is new language to be added to the recently codified OTCBB rules. Language to be added is italicized. 1 On January 5, 1994, the Commission approved an NASD proposal to codify the existing requirements respecting access to and the use of the OTCBB. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33433 (January 5, 1994), 59 FR 1772 (January 12, 1994) (File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;93&hyph;56). Accordingly, the proposed OTCBB rule language contained in this filing would amend that recent codification. OTC Bulletin Board ® Service Rules Section 4 (c) In cases where a market maker has more than one trading location, a fifth-character, geographic indicator shall be appended to the market maker's identifier for that security to identify the branch location where the security is traded. The fifth-character branch indicators are established by the Association and published from time to time in the Nasdaq/COS symbol directory. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the NASD included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The NASD has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The NASD is proposing to amend section 4 of its OTCBB rules to require market makers participating in the OTCBB to append a fifth-character, geographic indicator to their MMIDs when the firm's trading desk for a security quoted on the OTCBB is located away from the firm's primary trading office. The NASD believes that the use of fifth-character, geographic indicators is necessary to avoid confusion and delay by market participants in contacting market makers in securities quoted on the OTCBB. Specifically, the NASD believes that the use of geographic indicators will ensure that traders will direct their calls to the appropriate location where the market maker for the stock is located and avoid instances where multiple phone calls are needed to access a market maker's quote. In addition, the NASD believes mandatory use of the fifth-character, geographic indicator is necessary in light of developments associated with the NASD's Nasdaq Workstation II SM service. Specifically, with Nasdaq Workstation II, market makers' telephone numbers will not be displayed on the OTCBB screen, but may be recalled separately. Accordingly, once Nasdaq Workstation II is in operation, unless fifth-character, geographic indicators are used, there may be confusion among market participants concerning the trading location of securities quoted on the OTCBB. The NASD also notes that the use of fifth-character, geographic indicators already has been mandated for market makers in securities traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market ® . 2 2 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 31933 (February 26, 1993), 58 FR 12608 (March 5, 1993) (File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;92&hyph;55).
