FR940114-2-00180 FR940114-2-00102 a. One hundred micrograms per liter (100 μg/l); b. Two hundred micrograms per liter (200 μg/l) for acrolein and acrylonitrile; five hundred micrograms per liter (500 μg/l) for 2,4-dinitrophenol and for 2-methyl-4, 6-dinitrophenol; and one milligram per liter (1 mg/l) for antimony; c. Five (5) times the maximum concentration value reported for that pollutant in the permit application in accordance with 40 CFR 122.21(g)(7); or d. The level established by the Director in accordance with 40 CFR 122.44(f). 2. That any activity has occurred or will occur which would result in any discharge, on a non-routine or infrequent basis, of a toxic pollutant which is not limited in the permit, if that discharge will exceed the highest of the following ``notification levels'': a. Five hundred micrograms per liter (500 μg/l); b. One milligram per liter (1 mg/l) for antimony; c. Ten (10) times the maximum concentration value reported for that pollutant in the permit application in accordance with 40 CFR 122.21(g)(7); or d. The level established by the Director in accordance with 40 CFR 122.44(f). B. Planned Changes The permittee shall give notice to the Director and ADEC as soon as possible of any planned physical alterations or additions to the permitted facility. Notice is required only when: 1. The alteration or addition to a permitted facility may meet one of the criteria for determining whether a facility is a new source as determined in 40 CFR 122.29(b); or 2. The alteration or addition could significantly change the nature or increase the quantity of pollutants discharged. This notification applies to pollutants which are subject neither to effluent limitations in the permit, nor to notification requirements under part VI.A.1. C. Anticipated Noncompliance The permittee shall also give advance notice to the Director and ADEC of any planned changes in the permitted facility or activity which may result in noncompliance with permit requirements. D. Permit Actions This permit may be modified, revoked and reissued, or terminated for cause. The filing of a request by the permittee for a permit modification, revocation and reissuance, or termination, or a notification of planned changes or anticipated noncompliance, does not stay any permit condition. E. Duty to Reapply If the permittee wishes to continue an activity regulated by this permit after the expiration date of this permit, the permittee must apply for and obtain a new permit. The application should be submitted at least 180 days before the expiration date of this permit. F. Duty to Provide Information The permittee shall furnish to the Director and ADEC, within a reasonable time, any information which the Director or ADEC may request to determine whether cause exists for modifying, revoking and reissuing, or terminating this permit, or to determine compliance with this permit. The permittee shall also furnish to the Director or ADEC, upon request, copies of records required to be kept by this permit. G. Other Information When the permittee becomes aware that it failed to submit any relevant facts in a permit application, or submitted incorrect information in a permit application or any report to the Director or ADEC, it shall promptly submit such facts or information. H. Signatory Requirements All applications, reports or information submitted to the Director and ADEC shall be signed and certified. 1. All permit applications shall be signed as follows: a. For a corporation: by a responsible corporate officer. b. For a partnership or sole proprietorship: by a general partner or the proprietor, respectively. c. For a municipality, state, federal, or other public agency: by either a principal executive officer or ranking elected official. 2. All reports required by the permit and other information requested by the Director or ADEC shall be signed by a person described above or by a duly authorized representative of that person. A person is a duly authorized representative only if: a. The authorization is made in writing by a person described above and submitted to the Director and ADEC, and b. The authorization specified either an individual or a position having responsibility for the overall operation of the regulated facility or activity, such as the position of plant manager, operator of a well or a well field, superintendent, position of equivalent responsibility, or an individual or position having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company. (A duly authorized representative may thus be either a named individual or any individual occupying a named position.) 3. Changes to authorization. If an authorization under paragraph IV.H.2. is no longer accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the overall operation of the facility, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of paragraph VI.H.2. must be submitted to the Director and ADEC prior to or together with any reports, information, or applications to be signed by an authorized representative. 4. Certification. Any person signing a document under this section shall make the following certification:
