FR940721-2-00066 FR940721-2-00035 (24) To servicing Fiscal Intermediary/Carrier banks, Automated Clearing Houses, VANs and provider banks to the extent necessary to transfer to providers electronic remittance advice of Medicare payments, and with respect to provider banks, to the extent necessary to provide account management services to providers using this information. See SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Records maintained on paper forms and/or electronic media. Retrievability: The system is indexed by health insurance claim number. The record is prepared by the hospital or other provider with identifying information received from the beneficiary to establish eligibility for Medicare and document and support payments to providers by the intermediaries. The bill data are forwarded to the Health Care Financing Administration, Bureau of Data Management and Strategy, Baltimore, MD, where they are used to update the central office records. Safeguards: Disclosure of records is limited. Physical safeguards are established in accordance with Department standards and National Institute of Standards and Technology guidelines (e.g., security codes) will be used, limiting access to authorized personnel. System securities are established in accordance with HHS Information Resource Management (IRM) Circular # 10, Automated information Systems Security Program, and HCFA Automated Information Systems (AIS) Guide, System Security Policies. Retention and disposal: Records are closed out at the end of the calendar year in which paid, held 2 more years, transferred to the Federal Records Center and destroyed after another 6 years. System manager(s) and address: Health Care Financing Administration, Director, Bureau of Program Operations, 6325 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21207. Notification procedure: Inquiries and requests for system records should be addressed to the social security office nearest the requester's residence, the appropriate intermediary, the HCFA Regional Office, or to the system manager named above. The individual should furnish his or her health insurance number and name as shown on social security records. An individual who requests notification of or access to a medical record shall, at the time the request is made, designate in writing a responsible representative who will be willing to review the record and inform the subject individual of its contents at the representative's discretion. Record access procedures: Same as notification procedures. Requesters should also reasonably specify the records contents being sought. These procedures are in accordance with Department Regulations, 45 CFR 5b.5(a)(2). Contesting record procedures: Contact the official at the address specified under notification procedure above, and reasonably identify the record and specify the information to be contested. State the corrective action sought and the reasons for the correction with supporting justification. These procedures are in accordance with Department Regulations, 45 CFR 5b.7. Record source categories: The identifying information contained in these records is obtained by the provider from the individual or, in the case of some Medicare secondary payer situations, through third party contacts. The medical information is entered by the provider of medical services. Systems exempted from certain provisions of the act: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17621 Filed 7&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4120&hyph;03&hyph;M
