FR940722-2-00023 FR940722-2-00015 Golden Field Office; Notice of Financial Assistance Award to Geothermal Resources Council AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of financial assistance award in response to a non-competitive financial assistance application. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) pursuant to the DOE Financial Assistance Rules, 10 CFR 600.7(b)(2) is announcing its intention make a financial assistance award to the Geothermal Resources Council to distribute educational material and to provide a service to the geothermal community. ADDRESSES: Questions regarding this announcement may be addressed to the U.S. Department of Energy, Golden Field Office, 1617 Cole Blvd., Golden, CO 80401, Attention: Ruth E. Adams, Contract Specialist or at (303) 275&hyph;4722. The Contracting Officer for this action is John W. Meeker, and the Project Officer is Jeffrey L. Hahn. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This proposal was a solicited application. The Geothermal Resource Council, with headquarters in Davis, California, is a non-profit organization incorporated in the state of California, has been funded in the past by the DOE-Geothermal Program Office through a contract with Sandia National Laboratory. However, the Department believes that since this effort is intended to benefit the United States public, that a grant mechanism is a more appropriate method of providing funding. Competition for this effort would have an adverse effect on continuity and completion of the activities. The programmatic evaluation [see 10 CFC 600.7(b)(2)(ii)(D)] completed for this proposal resulted in a recommendation to fund this application for the following reasons: The proposed project will contribute to the DOE mission of ``*␣*␣* providing the scientific and educational foundation and technology *␣*␣* necessary to achieve efficiency in energy use, diversity in energy sources, and access to technical information *␣*␣*'' (quotation from the Energy Mission Statement). The Geothermal Resources Council (GRC) will do this by providing services to support the geothermal industry through various activities and projects that are described below. Through this financial assistance the GRC (a non-profit organization) will be able to continue to act as a focal point for the geothermal industry. The objectives for this grant are as follows: (1) Develop Geothermal Poster_The poster will show the major components of geothermal resource development: history occurrence, exploration, production, utilization, potential and its environmental advantageous. The poster will be distributed to Junior and Senior high school and college students. (2) GRC Annual Meeting_The DOE would be a sponsor for the annual GRC meeting where papers are presented and discussed. At the 1993 annual GRC meeting, there were approximately 600 registered attendees and 60 vendors. (3) Drilling School_Well Control Course_This course will certify regulators in well control, thereby helping to ensure geothermal drilling operations are conducted in an environmentally sound manner. (4) Expansion of the GRC On-line Library_The current database will be enlarged by adding new citations and increasing the keywords that can be searched for. The library will be a valuable tool for the geothermal community. (5) Geothermal Heat Pump Training Center_Provide the seed money to design and construct a heat pump training center. The training center would be used to train dealers, architects, engineers, students, etc. on topics such as Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) basics of heat pumps, HVAC heat pump installation and service and ground loop installation. The Geothermal Heat Pump Training Center would only be used for training purposes, no research will be conducted at this site. The majority of the funding will be provided by utilities and heat pump manufacturers.
