FR940119-0-00055 FR940119-0-00014 (iv) If applying for the small dredge program set forth under §650.21(e), an annual declaration into the program. (f) Fees. The Regional Director may charge a fee to recover the administrative expense of issuing a permit required under this section. The amount of the fee shall be calculated in accordance with the procedures of the NOAA Finance Handbook for determining administrative costs of each special product or service. The fee may not exceed such costs and is specified with each application form. The appropriate fee must accompany each application; if it does not, the application will be considered incomplete for purposes of paragraph (g) of this section. (g) Issuance. (1) Except as provided in subpart D of 15 CFR part 904 and under §650.4(a)(9), the Regional Director shall issue a Federal scallop vessel permit within 30 days of receipt of the application unless: (i) The applicant has failed to submit a completed application. An application is complete when all requested forms, information, documentation, and fees, if applicable, have been received and the applicant has submitted all applicable reports specified at §650.7; or, (ii) The application was not received by the Regional Director by the deadlines set forth in paragraphs (a)(1)(iii) and (p) of this section; or, (iii) The applicant and applicant's vessel failed to meet all eligibility requirements described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section; or, (iv) For applicants applying for a Full-time or Part-time limited access scallop permit, the applicant has failed to meet all of the VTS requirements as described in §650.25; or, (v) The applicant has failed to meet any other application requirements stated in 50 CFR part 650. (2) Upon receipt of an incomplete or improperly executed application, the Regional Director shall notify the applicant of the deficiency in the application. If the applicant fails to correct the deficiency within 30 days following the date of notification, the application will be considered abandoned. (h) Expiration. A permit will expire upon the renewal date specified in the permit. (i) Duration. A permit is valid until it is revoked, suspended, or modified under 15 CFR part 904, or until it otherwise expires, or ownership changes, or the applicant has failed to report any change in the information on the permit application to the Regional Director as specified in paragraph (l) of this section. Federal fishing vessel permits must be renewed annually and unless renewed will expire upon the renewal date specified in the permit. (j) Replacement. Replacement permits, for an otherwise valid permit, may be issued by the Regional Director when requested in writing by the owner or authorized representative, stating the need for replacement, the name of the vessel, and the Federal Fisheries Permit number assigned. An application for a replacement permit will not be considered a new application. An appropriate fee may be charged for issuance of the replacement permit. (k) Transfer. Permits issued under this part are not transferable or assignable. A permit is valid only for the vessel and owner to whom it is issued. (l) Change in application information. Within 15 days after a change in the information contained in an application submitted under this section, a written notice of the change must be submitted to the Regional Director. If the written notice of the change in information is not received by the Regional Director within 15 days, the permit is void. (m) Alteration. Any permit that has been altered, erased, or mutilated is invalid. (n) Display. Any permit issued under this part must be maintained in legible condition and displayed for inspection upon request by any authorized officer. (o) Sanctions. Procedures governing enforcement-related permit sanctions and denials are found at subpart D of 15 CFR part 904. (p) Limited access scallop permit renewal. To renew or apply for a limited access scallop permit in 1995 and thereafter, a completed application must be received by the Regional Director by December 31 of the year before the permit is needed. For example, to receive a limited access scallop permit for 1996, vessel owners must apply by December 31, 1995. Failure to renew a limited access scallop permit in any year bars the renewal of the permit in subsequent years. (q) Abandonment or voluntary relinquishment of limited access scallop permits. If a vessel's limited access scallop permit is voluntarily relinquished to the Regional Director, or abandoned through failure to renew or otherwise, no limited access scallop permit may be re-issued or renewed based on that vessel's history or to any vessel relying on that vessel's history. §650.5 Operator permits. (a) General. Any operator of a vessel issued a Federal limited access scallop permit under §650.4, or any operator of a vessel fishing for scallops in the EEZ or in possession of more than 40 pounds (18.14 kg) of shucked scallops, or 5 U.S. bushels (176.2 l) of in-shell scallops, in or harvested from the EEZ, must carry on board a valid operator's permit issued under this part. (b) Operator application. Applicants for a permit under this section must submit a completed permit application on an appropriate form obtained from the Regional Director. The application must be signed by the applicant and submitted to the Regional Director at least 30 days prior to the date on which the applicant desires to have the permit made effective. The Regional Director will notify the applicant of any deficiency in the application pursuant to this section. (c) Condition. Vessel operators who apply for an operator's permit under this section must agree as a condition of this permit that the operator and vessel's fishing, catch, crew size, and pertinent gear (without regard to whether such fishing occurs in the EEZ or landward of the EEZ, and without regard to where such fish or gear are possessed, taken, or landed), are subject to all requirements of this part while fishing in the EEZ or on board a vessel permitted under §650.4, unless exempted from such requirements under §650.27. The vessel and all such fishing, catch, crew size, and gear will remain subject to all applicable state or local requirements. Further, such operators must agree as a condition of this permit that if the permit is suspended or revoked pursuant to 15 CFR part 904, the operator cannot be on board any fishing vessel issued a Federal Fisheries Permit or any vessel subject to Federal fishing regulations while the vessel is at sea or engaged in offloading. If a requirement of this part and a management measure required by state or local law differ, any operator issued a permit under this part must comply with the more restrictive requirement.
