FR940304-0-00091 FR940304-0-00019 Section 4(a)(3) of the Act, as amended, requires that, to the maximum extent prudent and determinable, the Secretary designate critical habitat at the time the species is determined to be endangered. The Service finds that designation of critical habitat is not presently prudent for these taxa. As discussed under Factor B in the ``Summary of Factors Affecting the Species,'' the taxa face numerous anthropogenic threats. The publication of precise maps and descriptions of critical habitat in the Federal Register , as required in a designation of critical habitat, would increase the degree of threat to these plants from take or vandalism and, therefore, could contribute to their decline. The listing of these taxa as endangered publicizes the rarity of the plants and, thus, can make these plants attractive to researchers, curiosity seekers, or collectors of rare plants. All involved parties and the major landowners have been notified of the general location and importance of protecting the habitat of these taxa. Protection of the habitat of the taxa will be addressed through the recovery process and through the section 7 consultation process. Designation of critical habitat for these taxa is not prudent at this time because such a designation would increase the potential for vandalism, collecting, or other human activities and is unlikely to aid in the conservation of these taxa. Available Conservation Measures Conservation measures provided to species listed as endangered or threatened under the Endangered Species Act include recognition, recovery actions, requirements for Federal recognition, and prohibitions against certain activities. Recognition through listing encourages and results in conservation actions by Federal, State, and private agencies, groups, and individuals. The Endangered Species Act provides for possible land acquisition and cooperation with the States and requires that recovery actions be carried out for all listed species. The protection required of Federal agencies and the prohibitions against certain activities involving listed plants are discussed, in part, below. Section 7(a) of the Act, as amended, requires Federal agencies to evaluate their actions with respect to any species that is proposed or listed as endangered or threatened and with respect to its critical habitat, if any is being designated. Regulations implementing this interagency cooperation provision of the Act are codified at 50 CFR part 402. Section 7(a)(2) of the Act requires Federal agencies to insure that activities they authorize, fund, or carry out are not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of such a species or to destroy or adversely modify its critical habitat. If a Federal action may affect a listed species or its critical habitat, the responsible Federal agency must enter into formal consultation with the Service. One or more populations of 10 of the taxa are located on federally owned and/or managed land: Four taxa are located in Hawaii Volcanoes National Park on the island of Hawaii and one taxon in Kalaupapa NHP on Molokai; six taxa are located on military lands, including one species on Makua Military Reservation on Oahu and five taxa on PTA on the island of Hawaii; two taxa are found in Hakalau Forest National Wildlife Refuge on the island of Hawaii; and a population of one taxon occurs at a U.S. Coast Guard lighthouse on Maui. Federal agencies that would become involved if any of their activities may affect these 21 taxa include the National Park Service, Department of Defense, Environmental Protection Agency, Fish and Wildlife Service, and the U.S. Coast Guard. The Act and its implementing regulations found at 50 CFR 17.61, 17.62, 17.63, 17.71 and 17.72 for endangered and threatened plants set forth a series of general prohibitions and exceptions that apply to all endangered or threatened plant species. With respect to the 20 plant taxa in this rule listed as endangered, all of the prohibitions of section 9(a)(2) of the Act, implemented by 50 CFR 17.61, apply. With respect to the taxon listed as threatened, the provisions of 50 CFR 17.71, apply. These prohibitions, in part, make it illegal with respect to any endangered or theatened plant for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to import or export; transport in interstate or foreign commerce in the course of a commercial activity; sell or offer for sale in interstate or foreign commerce; remove and reduce to possession any such species from areas under Federal jurisdiction. For plants listed as endangered, the Act prohibits the malicious damage or destruction of any such species on any area under Federal jurisdiction; or to remove, cut, dig up, damage, or destroy any such species on any other area in knowing violation of any State law or regulation or in the course of any violation of a State criminal trespass law. Section 4(d) of the Act allows for the provision of such protection to threatened species through regulation. This protection may apply to this species in the future if regulations are promulgated. Certain exceptions apply to agents of the Service and State conservation agencies. Seeds from cultivated specimens of threatened plant species are exempt from these prohibitions provided that a statement ``of cultivated origin'' appears on their containers.
