FR940630-2-00152 FR940630-2-00118 Federal Aviation Administration James M. Cox-Dayton International Airport Dayton, OH; Noise Exposure Map Notice AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) announces its determination that the revised noise exposure maps submitted by the city of Dayton, Ohio, for James M. Cox-Dayton International Airport under the provisions of Title I of the Aviation Safety and Noise Abatement Act of 1979 (Public Law 96&hyph;193) and 14 CFR part 150 are in compliance with applicable requirements. EFFECTIVE DATE: The effective date of the FAA's determination on the noise exposure maps is June 6, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lawrence C. King, Federal Aviation Administration, Great Lakes Region, Detroit Airports District Office, DET ADO&hyph;670.2, Willow Run Airport, East, 8820 Beck Road, Belleville, Michigan 48111, (313) 487&hyph;7293. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This notice announces that the FAA finds that the noise exposure maps submitted for the James M. Cox-Dayton International Airport are in compliance with applicable requirements of Part 150, effective June 6,1994. These maps replace the previously accepted NEM's of September 23, 1988. Under section 103 of the Aviation Safety and Noise Abatement Act of 1979 (hereinafter referred to as ``the Act''), an airport operator may submit to the FAA noise exposure maps which meet applicable regulations and which depict non-compatible land uses as of the date of submission of such maps, a description of projected aircraft operations, and the ways in which such operations will affect such maps. The Act requires such maps to be developed in consultation with interested and affected parties in the local community, government agencies, and persons using the airport. An airport operator who has submitted noise exposure maps that are found by the FAA to be in compliance with the requirements of Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) part 150, promulgated pursuant to title I of the Act, may submit a noise compatibility program for FAA approval which sets forth the measures the operator has taken or proposes for the reduction of existing non-compatible uses and for the prevention of the introduction of additional non-compatible uses. The FAA has completed its review of the noise exposure maps and related description submitted by the city of Dayton, Ohio for James M. Cox-Dayton International Airport. The specific maps under consideration are the ``1992 Noise Exposure Map'', page I&hyph;8 and ``1997 Noise Exposure Map'', page I&hyph;9, in the submission. The FAA has determined that these maps for James M. Cox-Dayton International Airport are in compliance with applicable requirements. This determination is effective on June 6, 1994. The FAA's determination on an airport operator's noise exposure maps is limited to a finding that the maps were developed in accordance with the procedures contained in appendix A of FAR part 150. Such determination does not constitute approval of the applicant's data, information or plans, or a commitment to approve a noise compatibility program or to fund the implementation of that program. If questions arise concerning the precise relationship of specific properties to noise exposure contours depicted on a noise exposure map submitted under section 103 of the Act, it should be noted that the FAA is not involved in any way in determining the relative locations of specific properties with regard to the depicted noise contours, or in interpreting the noise exposure maps to resolve questions concerning, for example, which properties should be covered by the provisions of Section 107 of the Act. These functions are inseparable from the ultimate land use control and planning responsibilities of local government. These local responsibilities are not changed in any way under part 150 or through the FAA's review of noise exposure maps. Therefore, the responsibility for the detailed overlaying of noise exposure contours onto the map depicting properties on the surface rests exclusively with the airport operator which submitted those maps, or with those public agencies and planning agencies with which consultation is required under section 103 of the Act. The FAA has relied on the certification by the airport operator, under ยง150.21 of FAR part 150, that the statutorily required consultation has been accomplished. Copies of the noise exposure maps and of the FAA's evaluation of the maps are available for examination at the following locations: Federal Aviation Administration, Detroit Airports District Office, Willow Run Airport, East, 8820 Beck Road, Belleville, Michigan 48111 Mr. Roy Williams, Director of Aviation, James M. Cox-Dayton International Airport, Terminal Building, Vandalia, OH 45377 Questions may be directed to the individual named above under the heading, FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT . Issued in Belleville, Michigan, on June 6, 1994. James M. Opatrny, Acting Manager, Detroit Airports District Office, Great Lakes Region. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15969 Filed 6&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
