FR940906-0-00066 FR940906-0-00019 (A) These observer coverage costs previously have not been subtracted from the processor's billed fee assessment; (B) Payment for observer coverage required under §677.10(a) have been received by observer contractors prior to April 1, 1996; (C) The processor has not applied for a semiannual processor permit under §677.4 prior to April 1, 1996; and (D) The bimonthly fee assessments billed to the processor under §677.6(b)(1) have been paid. (4) Recordkeeping and reporting, for purposes of this paragraph (d) _(i) Processor requirements. (A) All processors that subtract costs for observer coverage from their bimonthly fee assessment under this paragraph (d) must submit to the Regional Director a copy of each paid invoice for observer coverage and a copy of the check, money order, or other form of payment sent to the observer contractor in payment for observer coverage listed on the invoice. (B) The information required under paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) of this section must be sent to the following address at the time the processor submits the payment of the bimonthly fee assessment to the Department of Commerce/NOAA under paragraph (c) of this section: NMFS, Alaska Fisheries Science Center, Observer Program, 7600 Sand Point Way NE., Building 4, Bin C 15700, Seattle, WA 98115&hyph;0070, Attn: Research Plan Coordinator. (ii) Observer contractor requirements. (A) Observer contractors must submit to the Regional Director a completed Observer Coverage Payment Receipt Form (Form FPP&hyph;2; see figure 2 to part 677) for each payment received from a processor for compliance with observer coverage requirements at §677.10(a) and a copy of the check, money order, or other form of payment. Each completed form and the attached copy of the record of payment must be submitted to the following address within 7 days after payment is received: NMFS, Alaska Fisheries Science Center, Observer Program, 7600 Sand Point Way NE., Building 4, Bin C 15700, Seattle, WA 98115&hyph;0070, Attn: Research Plan Coordinator. (B) Observer Coverage Payment Receipt Form. Observer contractors may obtain Observer Coverage Payment Receipt Forms from the Regional Director. The form requests the following information: ( 1 ) Observer contractor name and signature of a person serving as a representative for the observer contractor; ( 2 ) Identification of the processor vessel or shoreside processing facility that received observer coverage; ( 3 ) Name of the observer(s) and date(s) of deployment for observer coverage; ( 4 ) The name and mailing address of the person who paid for observer coverage; and ( 5 ) The total amount paid for observer coverage and the date payment for observer coverage was received; and ( 6 ) Copies of the check, money order, or other form of payment. (e) Disputed fee assessments. A processor must notify the Regional Director, in writing, within 30 days of issuance of a bimonthly fee assessment bill, if any portion of the bimonthly fee assessment bill is disputed. The processor must pay the undisputed amount of the bimonthly fee assessment bill within 30 days of its issuance, and provide documentation supporting the disputed portion claimed to be under- or over-billed. The Regional Director will review the bimonthly fee assessment bill and the documentation provided by the processor, and will notify the processor of his determination within 60 days of the date of issuance of the bimonthly fee assessment bill. If the Regional Director determines a billing error has occurred, the processor's account will be rectified by credit or issuance of a corrected fee assessment bill. If the Regional Director determines that a billing error has not occurred, the outstanding payment on the bimonthly fee assessment bill will be considered past-due from the date 30 days from the date of issuance of the bill and late charges will be assessed under paragraph (f) of this section. If the processor does not dispute the amount of the fee assessment bill within 30 days of its issuance, the fee assessment will be final, and will be due to the United States. (f) Late charges. The NOAA Office of the Comptroller shall assess late charges in the form of interest and administrative charges for late payment of fee assessments. Interest will accrue on the unpaid amount at a percentage rate established by the Federal Reserve Board and applied to funds held by the U.S. Treasury for each 30-day period, or portion thereof, that the payment is overdue. Payment received after 90 days from the due date will be charged an additional late payment penalty charge of 6 percent of the balance due. §677.7 General prohibitions. In addition to the general prohibitions specified in §620.7 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to do any of the following: (a) Forcibly assault, resist, oppose, impede, intimidate, or interfere with an observer. (b) Interfere with or bias the sampling procedure employed by an observer, including sorting or discarding any catch before sampling; or tamper with, destroy, or discard an observer's collected samples, equipment, records, photographic film, papers, or personal effects without the express consent of the observer. (c) Prohibit or bar by command, impediment, threat, coercion, or by refusal of reasonable assistance, an observer from collecting samples, conducting product recovery rate determinations, making observations, or otherwise performing the observer's duties. (d) Harass an observer by conduct that has sexual connotations, has the purpose or effect of interfering with the observer's work performance, or otherwise creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive environment. In determining whether conduct constitutes harassment, the totality of the circumstances, including the nature of the conduct and the context in which it occurred, will be considered. The determination of the legality of a particular action will be made from the facts on a case-by-case basis. (e) Process fish from a Research Plan fishery without a valid permit issued pursuant to this part. (f) Deliver fish from a Research Plan fishery to a processor not possessing a valid permit issued pursuant to this part. (g) Subtract from a billed fee assessment costs paid for observer coverage under provisions of §677.6(d) that are based on false or inaccurate information. (h) Fish for or process fish without observer coverage required under §677.10. (i) Require an observer to perform duties normally performed by crew members, including, but not limited to, cooking, washing dishes, standing watch, vessel maintenance, assisting with the setting or retrieval of gear, or any duties associated with the processing of fish, from sorting the catch to the storage of the finished product. §677.8 Facilitation of enforcement. See §620.8 of this chapter. §677.9 Penalties. See §620.9 of this chapter. §677.10 General requirements.
