FR940412-2-00038 FR940412-2-00024 Department of the Navy Notice of Intent To Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement for Disposal and Reuse of the Naval Base Charleston, SC Pursuant to section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as implemented by the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations (40 CFR parts 1500&hyph;1508), the Department of the Navy announces its intent to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) to evaluate the environmental effects of disposal and reuse of the Naval Base Charleston, South Carolina. This action is being conducted in accordance with the Defense Base Realignment and Closure Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101&hyph;510). Closure of Naval Base Charleston was recommended by the 1993 Defense Base Realignment and Closure Commission to eliminate excess naval base berthing capacity while maintaining the overall military value of the remaining bases. The proposed action to be evaluated in the EIS involves the disposal of land, buildings, and infrastructure of Naval Base Charleston for subsequent reuse. The Navy intends to analyze the environmental effects of the disposal of Naval Base Charleston based on the reasonably foreseeable reuse of the property, taking into account uses to be identified by the reuse committee_Building Economic Solutions Together (BEST). In coordination with the BEST Committee's reuse plan, other federal agencies may offer uses for the property. The EIS will evaluate alternative reuse concepts of the property, including the ``no action'' alternative, which would be retention of the property by the Navy in caretaker status. However, due to provisions found in the Base Realignment and Closure Act, selection of the ``no action'' alternative would be considered impractical for the Navy to implement. The EIS will evaluate the impacts of reuse of Naval Base Charleston on the natural environment such as wetlands and wildlife habitat and on the socioeconomic environment which includes potential impacts to the regional economy, housing market, public schools, and tax base. The Navy will conduct a cultural resource survey to determine whether any sensitive archaeological resources exist within the property. Additionally, the Navy is conducting an Environmental Baseline Survey to determine if any areas of environmental contamination exist. The Navy will initiate a scoping process for the purpose of determining the scope of issues to be addressed and for identifying the significant issues related to this action. The Navy will hold public scoping meetings at four different locations as follows: Wednesday, April 27, 1994, beginning at 7 p.m. at the Chicora Neighborhood Center at 2012 Success Street, North Charleston, South Carolina; Wednesday, April 27, 1994, beginning at 7 p.m. at the North Charleston City Hall, 4900 LaCross Road, North Charleston, South Carolina; Thursday, April 28, 1994, beginning at 7 p.m. at the Berkeley County Office Building, 223 North Live Oak Drive, Moncks Corner, South Carolina; and Thursday, April 28, 1994, beginning at 7 p.m. at the District 2 Administrative Office Building at 102 Greenwave Boulevard, Summerville, South Carolina. These meetings will also be advertised in local and regional newspapers. A brief presentation will precede requests for public comment and identification of additional scoping items. Navy representatives will be available at this meeting to receive comments from the public regarding issues of concern. It is important that federal, state, and local agencies and interested persons take this opportunity to identify environmental concerns that should be addressed during preparation of the EIS. In the interest of maximizing the use of available time, each speaker will be asked to limit his/her oral comments to five minutes. Agencies and the public are also invited and encouraged to provide written comments in addition to, or in lieu of, oral comments at the meeting. To be most helpful, scoping comments should clearly describe specific issues or topics which the commentor believes the EIS should address. Written statements and/or questions regarding the scoping process should be mailed no later than May 27, 1994, to: Commander, Southern Division, Naval Facilities Engineering Command, 2155 Eagle Drive, North Charleston, SC 29419&hyph;9010, Attn: William Sloger, (803) 743&hyph;0797. Dated: April 7, 1994. Michael P. Rummel, LCDR, JAGC, USN, Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8741 Filed 4&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3810&hyph;AE&hyph;M
