FR940318-0-00124 FR940318-0-00023 e. Test marketing. Use of alternatives for the sole purpose of test marketing is exempt from any reporting requirements under section 612. Persons taking advantage of this exemption, are, however, required to notify the Agency in writing that they are conducting test marketing prior to the commencement of sale into interstate commerce. Notification must be sent 30 days prior to the test marketing period, and must include the name of the substitute used, the volume used in the test marketing, and the expected duration of the test marketing. Once a company decides to sell an alternative as a class I or II substitute, it must provide the Agency with formal notification at least 90 days prior to the introduction of the substitute into interstate commerce for significant new use as a substitute for a class I or II chemical. For new substitute chemicals that are being test marketed, the producer must abide by the provisions of section 5(h)(1) of TSCA, which authorizes the EPA, upon application, to grant exemptions from TSCA-reporting requirements, provided that test marketing will not present an unreasonable risk to human health or the environment. f. Formulation changes. In general, the Agency believes that changes in formulation needed to accommodate replacement of class I and II compounds should not be subject to the provisions of section 612. Such changes may be necessary, for example, when a new blowing agent in foam manufacture necessitates the replacement of the catalyst formerly used with the class I blowing agent. The Agency believes that other regulatory mechanisms (e.g., TSCA) are available for examining and controlling, as needed, any adverse environmental and human health effects associated with subsequent formulation modifications. However, the manufacturer overseeing the formulation change is required to notify the Agency if these modifications may significantly influence the environmental and human health risk characteristics associated with the class I or II substitute. Also, the Agency reserves the right to exercise its discretion to examine formulation changes if a problem appears to exist. g. Substitutes used as feedstock. Commenters to the NPRM supported the Agency's proposal to exempt substitutes that could replace class I chemicals used solely as intermediates in the production of other chemicals. To the extent that any feedstock substitutions occur, the Agency believes that they will not contribute substantially to any incremental risk to human health and the environment. This is because intermediates are used as inputs in production of other compounds, and as a result are largely consumed in the chemical manufacturing process. V. Information Submission A. Overview To develop the list of unacceptable and acceptable substitutes for various end-uses as required by section 612(c), the Agency must assess and compare the ``overall risks to human health and the environment'' posed by use of substitutes, and this assessment must be performed in the context of particular applications. To conduct this overall examination, the Agency must consider a wide range of health and environmental factors. In order to reduce the burden on the regulated community, the Agency will defer to data collection requirements under other regulatory authorities to the maximum extent practicable. In the section that follows, the Agency presents information required by the SNAP program to evaluate class I and II substitutes. A copy of the SNAP Information Notice can be obtained from the SNAP program at the address listed in the beginning of this final rule. B. Information Required 1. Name and Description of the Substitute A chemical substitute should be identified by its chemical name, trade name(s), identification numbers (e.g. Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) registry), chemical formula and chemical structure. If a substitute is a blend, the percentage of each component must also be provided. Alternative technologies or manufacturing processes should be described in sufficient detail as to uniquely identify its use as a class I and II substitute. 2. Physical and Chemical Information Key properties needed to characterize chemical substitutes include: molecular weight; physical state; melting point; boiling point; density; odor threshold; solubility; partition coefficients (Log K ow , Log K oc ); and vapor pressure. For alternative technologies or manufacturing processes, technical details on health, environmental or safety issues associated with use should be provided. 3. Substitute Applications Identification of the end-use in which the substitute is likely to be used is required. It is essential to provide a complete list of potential end-uses and of applications within those end-uses because section 612(c) requires the Agency to list substitutes by specific uses. 4. Process Description For each identified end-use application, the Agency requires descriptive data on processing, including in-place pollution controls. Such information will be used to characterize workplace and environmental releases and exposures. 5. Ozone Depletion Potential The predicted 100-year ozone depletion potential (ODP) of substitute chemicals relative to CFC&hyph;11 is required. The submitter should also provide sufficient supporting documentation_either a citation or the background information used to develop the ODP. For purposes of calculating ODP, the Agency recommends the methodology used in the most recent Scientific Assessment of Ozone Depletion: 1991, which was prepared for the United Nations Environment Programme. (1)
