FR940512-0-00040 FR940512-0-00018 Comment: One commenter applauded the Department's efforts to date, and another commenter noted the many good aspects of the proposed regulations, including their overall clarity and sensitivity to State issues. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters and thanks them for their support. Changes: None. Section 693.10␣What must a State do to obtain a grant under this program? Comment: One commenter recommended §693.10(b)(1) be modified to have the State agency that administers the State Student Incentive Grant (SSIG) Program be the only designated agency for administering the NEISP Program. The commenter believed that, since the SSIG agency was already involved with the administration of grant and loan programs as well as early intervention programs, the agency would be able to ensure that the Statewide efforts would be well-coordinated. Discussion: While the circumstances described by the commenter may be true in some States, the States vary with respect to how they distribute various responsibilities among State agencies. The Secretary, therefore, continues to believe that requiring the Governor of a State to designate the agency responsible for the NEISP Program provides necessary flexibility for the States. In addition, it ensures that program funds are allocated to an appropriate and responsible State agency and is consistent with other Federal and State-administered student financial aid programs, such as the SSIG Program. Changes: None. Section 693.10␣What must a State do to obtain a grant under this program? And Section 693.13␣What information must a State provide in its annual application to receive a grant under the NEISP Program? Comment: One commenter believed that a State would have to identify private funds expended within the State under §693.10(b)(5)(i) and §693.13(a)(4) to ensure that the funds provided under the NEISP Program will supplement and not supplant funds expended for State and local early intervention programs and State need- and non-need-based student financial grant assistance programs. The commenter believed that it would be sufficient to document the amount of State funds expended on need-based student financial aid alone or the amount expended for State-matching funds for the NEISP Program. One commenter was also concerned that, in the Supplementary Information section of the preamble to the NPRM (59 FR 10927), the discussion of this requirement can be interpreted to mean that a State's matching expenditures under the NEISP Program should be an amount that exceeds, as opposed to being an amount that is in addition to, the amount of funds the State previously expended. Another commenter questioned whether State funds appropriated to postsecondary institutions and used for student assistance in the State could be used as matching funds under §693.10(b)(5). Discussion: The Secretary notes that the texts of §693.10(b)(5)(i) and §693.13(a)(4) refer only to ``State and local,'' i.e., public, expenditures as does the applicable statutory provision (section 404B(b)(3) of the HEA). Under §693.10(b)(5)(i) and §693.13(a)(4), a State's matching funds under the NEISP Program represent expenditures that are in addition to the level of funds previously expended instead of a matching amount that exceeds the previous level of expenditures, and these funds may include State funds appropriated to postsecondary educational institutions and used for student grant aid including tuition waivers at public institutions. Changes: None. Section 693.11␣What requirements must be met by the State under the program's early intervention component? Comment: Two commenters requested clarification concerning whether under §693.11(a) the States were required to provide all of the early intervention services listed or whether the activities cited are examples that States may choose to incorporate into their NEISP Program. Discussion: Under section 404C(b)(3) of the NEISP Program statute, the early intervention activities listed are given as examples of permissible activities. Section 693.11(a) therefore provides States with examples of acceptable early intervention activities. Changes: The Secretary is amending §693.11(a) to clarify that the activities listed in §693.11(a) are examples of appropriate activities. Section 693.12␣What requirements must be met by the State under the program's scholarship component? Comment: One commenter recommended modifying §693.12(c) (1) and (2) to include an option for a State to award scholarships based on the State's definition and prioritization of low-income students as an alternative to the expected family contribution (EFC) as calculated under part F of title IV of the HEA. Another commenter recommended the Secretary adopt as a standard for defining low-income students the standard used for the Federal TRIO programs. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenter that there are additional standards for identifying low-income students and agrees that a State should be able to use the State's criteria for identifying low-income students in prioritizing eligible students as an alternative to using the EFC. However, the Secretary believes that using the EFC represents a proven methodology for identifying low-income students and that it is in the Federal interest for any departures from using the EFC to be subject to approval by the Secretary. Changes: The Secretary is amending §693.12(c) (1) and (2) to provide a State the option of developing and using its own criteria for identifying a low-income student if approved by the Secretary. Comment: One commenter recommended changing the wording under §693.12(f) to clarify that the assumption should not be made that NEISP recipients must receive other student financial assistance in order to be eligible to receive an NEISP Program scholarship. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that an NEISP recipient need not be receiving other student financial assistance in order to be eligible to receive an NEISP Program scholarship.
