FR940805-2-00116 FR940805-2-00058 Furthermore, the Commission is satisfied that the Amex proposal contains adequate safeguards to protect investors in the securities markets. In this respect, the Commission notes that a comprehensive regulatory framework has been developed for the trading of listed securities, including listed options. 12 For example, in 1983, an Intermarket Surveillance Group (``ISG'') was formed to coordinate more effectively surveillance and information sharing arrangements between the stock and options markets. 13 Using procedures developed in that forum, among other things, the national securities exchanges identify and investigate stock and/or options transactions that, based on certain parameters, raise manipulative concerns. The Commission believes that this regulatory scheme, including Amex monitoring and surveillance of amended Rule 103, should be sufficient to detect and deter intermarket manipulation and other fraudulent or abusive practices. 12 Listed options are standardized contracts traded in an open auction market environment. Exchange-traded options are subject, among other things, to real-time quotation and last-sale reporting; anti-fraud provisions; and minimum criteria for initial and continued listing. Transactions in listed options become part of the integrated audit trail. In contrast, over-the-counter options are individualized contracts that are negotiated between the counterparties. There is minimal, if any, public disclosure and a relatively illiquid secondary trading market. 13 The full members of the ISG are the Amex; the Boston Stock Exchange; the Chicago Board Options Exchange; the Chicago Stock Exchange; the National Association of Securities Dealers; the NYSE; the Pacific Stock Exchange; and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange. Specifically, the Amex has informed the Commission that the Exchange will increase the frequency and scope of its examination of the trading activity of Registered Equity Traders and REMMs. The Commission expects that Amex staff will utilize such information as part of its on-going efforts to ensure compliance with the Act, the rules and regulations thereunder and Exchange rules. In this respect, the Exchange has assured the Commission that, if a transaction raises concerns about intermarket manipulation, Amex staff, with the cooperation of the options exchanges where appropriate, will conduct a thorough examination of all the relevant facts. Accordingly, the Commission believes that the Amex's monitoring and surveillance of Rule 103, as amended, will aid the Exchange in detecting any trading abuses. More generally, the Commission believes that, independent of Rule 103, other Amex rules, which the Amex will continue to monitor for compliance, should help to keep floor professionals from being in a position where they can engage in trading abuses. These include, among other things, the yielding requirement imposed on certain on-floor orders for a member's account, 14 and the conditions placed on when a Registered Equity Trader or REMM can initiate a proprietary floor trade. 15 Further, Registered Equity Traders and REMM, like other Amex members, are subject to the prohibition on frontrunning of block transactions. 16 14 See, e.g., Rule 111(d). 15 See supra, notes 4&hyph;5. 16 See, e.g., Information Circular Nos. 90&hyph;147 (September 14, 1990); 82&hyph;37 (July 6, 1982); and 79&hyph;12 (February 27, 1979). See also Article V, Section 4(h) of the Amex Constitution. Finally, the Commission notes that, Registered Equity Traders and REMMs currently are not prohibited from trading in stocks in which they have an existing option position. Such transactions, however, must be initiated off-floor. To the extent that the amended rule will permit such transactions to be initiated on-floor, Amex surveillance should detect and deter any trading abuses derived from informational advantages. In sum, the Commission believes that the proposed rule change should not materially affect the Amex's ability to address the regulatory concerns raised by floor professionals' intermarket trading activity. The Commission finds good cause for approving the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of filing thereof. This will permit the benefits of the proposed rule change to be realized as soon as possible. In addition, the Exchange's proposal is identical to an NYSE proposal that was published in the Federal Register for the full comment period and was approved by the Commission. 17 17 No comments were received in connection with the proposed rule change that amended the comparable NYSE rule. See NYSE approval order, supra, note 6. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 18 that the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;22), including Amendment No. 1, is approved. 18 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 19 19 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1991). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19106 Filed 8&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
