FR941122-1-00072 FR941122-1-00016 The Mexicali lubber grasshopper is known from eastern Riverside and Imperial counties in California, and Baja California Norte in Mexico. According to Stohecker et al. (1968) and Helfer (1963), this animal is an inhabitant of low, silt or dry, sandy desert areas that are subject to extremely high temperatures. The petitioner did not cite any threats to this species, however, three populations have been eliminated by development in 1961 and 1972 (Tinkham 1975). Rehn and Grant (1961) and Tinkham (1975) provided information on the ecology and some populations of this animal. No current information is available on the status of the Mexicali lubber grasshopper. Beyond the information described above, the petitioner presented few data on the status of the animal. Therefore, the Service determines that the petitioner did not present substantial information that the requested action may be warranted. Petition Findings After careful assessment of the scientific and commercial information contained in the petitions, referenced in the petitions, and otherwise available to the Service at this time, the Service finds that 7 of the 11 petitions for 16 taxa do not present substantial information that listing the Marin blind harvestman ( Calicina diminua ), Anza Borrego blind harvestman ( Sitalcina borregoensis ), Silver Creek blind harvestman ( Calicina jungi ), Ross micro-blind harvestman ( Microcina sp.), Ubick's gnaphosid spider ( Talanites ubicki ), unsilvered fritillary butterfly ( Speyeria adiaste adiaste ), Jacalitos jerusalem cricket ( Stenopelmatus nigrocapitatus ), Berkeley ground cricket ( Neonemobius eurynotus ), Jacalitos shield-backed katydid ( Ateloplus joaquin ), splendid shield-backed katydid ( Ateloplus splendidus ), Antioch shield-backed katydid ( Neduba extincta ), San Bernardino Mountains grasshopper ( Trimerotropis bernardi ), Lompoc grasshopper ( Trimerotropis occulens ), Santa Monica Mountains grasshopper ( Trimerotropis occidentaloides ), Central Valley grasshopper ( Conozoa hyalina ), and Mexicali lubber grasshopper ( Spaniacris destricola ) may be warranted. In addition, the Service determines that the petitioned action is not warranted at this time for 4 of the 11 petitions for four taxa involving the Fairmont micro-blind harvestman ( Microcina lumi ), Edgewood Park micro-blind harvestman ( Microcina edgewoodensis ), Yontocket ringlet butterfly ( Coenonympha tullia yontocket ), and Opler's longhorn moth ( Adela oplerella ). These four taxa will be retained in category 2. The Service will continue to accept information on the status of these 20 species until further notice. If information becomes available indicating that listing as endangered or threatened is appropriate, the Service would propose to list any such species. References Cited A complete list of all references cited herein, as well as others, is available upon request from the office listed in the ADDRESSES section above. Author The primary author of this notice is Chris Nagano and Karen Miller (Sacramento Field Office), Art Davenport (Carlsbad Field Office), and Judy Hohman (Ventura Field Office) (see ADDRESSES ). Authority The authority for this action is the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531&hyph;1544). List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and threatened species, Exports, Imports, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, and Transportation. Dated: November 3, 1994. Mollie H. Beattie, Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28741 Filed 11&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;P
