FR941003-1-00083 FR941003-1-00006 (b) Initiate negotiation. The Agency Official shall use the selected method to develop and evaluate acceptable alternatives or modifications to the undertaking, including avoiding and minimizing adverse effects on historic properties. In consultation with the State Historic Preservation Officer, the Agency Official shall initiate negotiation by involving interested parties, providing documentation, and involving the public. (1) Involve interested parties. The Agency Official shall notify interested parties and invite them to participate in the negotiation as follows: (i) An Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization that attaches religious and cultural significance to historic properties within the area of potential effects must be invited to participate in any negotiation. (ii) An Indian tribe with jurisdiction over tribal lands affected by the undertaking must be invited to participate in any negotiation. (iii) The Agency Official shall notify the following interested parties who may participate in the negotiation by notifying the Agency Official: (A) The head of a local government when the undertaking may affect historic properties within the local government's jurisdiction; (B) Units of local government with an interest in the undertaking and its effects on historic properties; (C) Applicants for, or holders of, grants, permits, or licenses; (D) Owners of affected properties, provided that participation may be limited to organizations representing the interests of affected property owners if the Council determines it is necessary; (E) Traditional cultural authorities and traditional communities with an interest in the undertaking and its effects on historic properties of traditional cultural and religious importance; and (F) Other interested parties as jointly determined appropriate by the Agency Official, the State Historic Preservation Officer, and the Council, if participating. (2) Provide documentation. The Agency Official shall provide each of the parties to the negotiation with the documentation set forth in §800.14(c) and such other documentation as may be developed in the course of negotiation to resolve adverse effects. (3) Involve the public. The Agency Official shall provide information to the public and an adequate opportunity for members of the public to express their views on resolving adverse effects of the undertaking. The Agency Official shall use appropriate mechanisms to ensure that the full range of the public's views is represented in the negotiation. The Agency Official, the State Historic Preservation Officer, or the Council may meet with members of the public or conduct a public information meeting for this purpose. (c) Resolve adverse effects ._(1) Resolution with the State Historic Preservation Officer. (i) When the Agency Official determines that the nature of the undertaking and its effects do not warrant Council participation in the consultation in accordance with §800.10(a)(2), the Agency Official shall notify the Council by providing the documentation set forth in §800.14(c). (ii) The Council shall notify the Agency Official of its intention to participate in the negotiation within 30 days of receiving the notice. If the Council elects to participate, the Agency Official shall proceed in accordance with §800.10(c)(2). Failure of the Council to notify the Agency Official within the 30 day time period shall not preclude the Council joining the negotiation process at any later point. (iii) If the Council does not elect to participate, the Agency Official shall negotiate with the State Historic Preservation Officer and interested parties to seek ways to avoid or reduce the adverse effects by negotiating acceptable alternatives or modifications to the undertaking as proposed. (iv) If the Agency Official and the State Historic Preservation Officer agree on how the adverse effects will be resolved, they shall execute a Memorandum of Agreement. The Agency Official shall submit the Memorandum of Agreement to the Council with the documentation set forth in § 800.14(d) for review. (v) The Council shall have 30 days from the receipt of an adequately documented Memorandum of Agreement to review it. Unless the Council objects to the Memorandum of Agreement before this review period ends, the Memorandum of Agreement shall become final. The Council may object when it determines that further negotiation is necessary in accordance with §800.10(c)(2) because the Agency Official failed to notify the Council pursuant to §800.10(c)(1)(i); interested parties were not adequately involved; the Memorandum of Agreement contains serious technical or substantive flaws; or public controversy exists. (vi) If the Agency Official and the State Historic Preservation Officer are unable to agree on the terms of a Memorandum of Agreement, the Agency Official or the State Historic Preservation Officer shall request the Council to join the consultation. Consultation shall proceed in accordance with §800.10(c)(2).
