FR941103-0-00050 FR941103-0-00007 Advanced Pricing Concepts/Implementation Issues 1. Alternative Pricing Concepts Numerous commenters proposed alternative pricing methods, other than those pricing methods normally permitted by this Commission. The methodologies advanced by these commenters varied from conceptual ideas to detailed formulas. Certain concepts and methods were advocated by more than one and in some cases several commenters, including: •Combinations of, or hybrids between, the ``or'' and the ``and'' policies, many of which advocated recovery of all incremental costs and some contribution (but not necessarily 100%) to average embedded system costs. •Variations of recovering strictly incremental or marginal cost pricing; i.e. , rates based on long-run incremental cost pricing for long-term firm transmission service and short-run marginal costs for other transactions. Another commenter proposed short-run marginal costs for transactions not requiring upgrades. •Numerous proposals for a single transmission owner and for regional pricing, planning and operating approaches; for example: (1) The forced divestiture of all utilities' transmission assets and formation of a single transmission owning national grid company or ``gridco''; (2) joint ownership, operation and pricing of all transmission within an established region with all transmission users obtaining load ratio shares of the regional grid and paying on an average embedded load ratio basis; (3) a proposal simply to price transmission in a region as if there were a single transmission owner; and (4) many suggestions for the Commission to further examine the companies formed in Norway, Sweden, New Zealand, Victoria (Australia), India, Argentina, England and Wales. •Establishing a secondary market in transmission rights_transmission purchasers having the capacity to contractually broker, resell, trade, partially assign, or assign firm purchase entitlements as they choose. Capacity trading will provide for the repackaging of capacity rights to fit market needs, thereby creating a market mechanism to ``price'' and ``clear'' transmission services as a commodity. •Numerous proposals advocating that the Commission require the unbundling of rates for transmission and sales services. Unbundling would require transmission owners to include a separate (transparent) transmission charge in any use of the utility's transmission system for the delivery of power in the wholesale market, including that utility's own wholesale sales. Transmission terms and conditions should be the same for all wholesale transactions, regardless of whether the seller is the owner of the transmission facilities used for the transaction. 2. Distance/Flow-Based Rates Alternatives to postage stamp rates would make rates sensitive to the transmission distance involved in providing the service. Alternatives suggested include various ``MW-mile'' approaches and other methods based on load flows (such load flow methods can also treat issues involving multiple parallel paths and transmission losses associated with particular transmission transactions). Commenters' support is split between distance-based pricing and postage stamp rates. Regulatory/Government commenters express a clear preference for distance-sensitive rates (over postage stamp rates). Most Regulatory/Government entities, some IOUs, some NUGs/IPPs, and some Others argue that distance-based rates would compensate the transmitter for increased transmission costs as more of its system is used. This encourages more efficient use of the transmission system. Where more miles of the transmission system are utilized, distance-sensitive rates reflect the proper cost causation. Several commenters believe that simplified distance-sensitive pricing methods, such as some MW-mile methods, used in conjunction with approaches such as zonal pricing that reflects system constraints, would be appropriate. Numerous commenters advocating distance-based rates recommend zonal pricing as a compromise between the administrative simplicity of postage stamp rates and more appropriate price signals of certain distance-based rate methods.
