FR940304-1-00082 FR940304-1-00014 In this rulemaking, the rebound effects assumed were: 30 percent for direct heating equipment and mobile home furnaces, 20 percent for room air conditioners, and 10 percent for ranges and ovens. These percentages represent the amounts by which the potential energy savings from standards are reduced. There is, however, an argument that the usage elasticities/rebound effects for at least some household uses of energy may be substantial. Within a household, the price elasticity of demand will be an average of the elasticities of demand for each end use, e.g. appliance. For example, suppose the price elasticity of demand at the household level is .3. If some levels of appliance usage (say refrigerators) are insensitive to price changes, i.e., zero elasticity, then at least one other use must have an elasticity in excess of .3. If the usage elasticity for a product is identical to the price elasticity of demand for the energy the product uses, then it follows that the weighted average of the usage elasticities of all household uses must equal the household price elasticity of demand. Since the appliances subject to energy efficiency standards account for more than 80 percent of household consumption, it would be unlikely that all appliances would have usage elasticities less that the overall household price elasticity of demand. According to the Energy Information Administration, the household price elasticity of demand for electricity is about .15 in the short run and upward of .7 in the long run. Thus usage elasticities, should, on average approximate these estimates. The Department seeks comments on this argument. Marginal Electricity Rates American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, Natural Resources Defense Council, and Washington Gas Light all urged the Department to use marginal electricity rates rather than average ones. (American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, No. 6 at 6; Natural Resources Defense Council, No. 13 at 18; and Washington Gas Light, No. 37 at 3). American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy and Natural Resources Defense Council both stated that since room air conditioners are run disproportionately during periods of peak utility load (when rates are the highest), the use of average electricity rates will undervalue the electricity savings from improved efficiency. The Department agrees that use of average electricity prices can produce inaccuracies and does attempt to use energy prices specific to each end use. In the past, electricity rates have been assumed higher for air conditioning than for other end uses, based on survey data of consumer expenditures, disaggregated according to equipment ownership. The consumer analysis for this proposed rule continues to distinguish energy prices by end use, based on such survey results. Washington Gas Light added that in addition to using marginal electricity prices, the Department should use the All-Ratepayers Test when measuring the cost effectiveness of a standard level. This test was developed by the California Public Utilities Commission, and it measures the impact of an action on all ratepayers, including non-participants in the conservation activity. (Washington Gas Light, No. 37 at 13). In this program the Department examines the effect of energy conserved by each purchaser of a more efficient appliance, but does not examine the effects that the aggregate conservation effects would impose on the rates charged within a given utility. The impacts on any system's rates from increased energy standards would depend on the participation rates of its customers in the conservation activity and the particular financial position of the utility. Several comments discussed the impact of energy conservation standards on low-income people. (Rocky Mountain Institute, No. 15 at 2; Southern Union Gas Company, No. 46 at 1; Laclede, No. 55 at 5; Oklahoma Natural Gas Company, No. 57 at 5; and Public Service Company of North Carolina, Inc., No. 74 at 5). While the Rocky Mountain Institute stated that with improved energy efficiency, the prices of used appliances could be expected to decline in the short run, the other comments all stated that the higher prices that would be caused by improved efficiency standards on new units would have price-increasing effects on used appliances and, therefore, be harmful for lower-income and elderly consumers on fixed incomes.
