FR940325-2-00073 FR940325-2-00039 (6) Organizational Capabilities/Qualifications and Budget (15 Points) (a) The management and administrative structure of the applicant is explained. Evidence of the applicant's ability to manage a project of the proposed scope is well defined. The application clearly demonstrates the successful management of prior or current projects of similar scope by the organization and/or by the individuals designated to manage the project. (b) Position descriptions or resumes of key personnel, including those of consultants, are presented. The position descriptions and resumes relate specifically to the staff proposed in the Approach Page and in the proposed Budget of the application. Position descriptions clearly describe the position and its duties and clearly relate to the personnel staffing required for implementation of the project activities. Either the position descriptions or the resumes present the qualifications that the applicant believes are necessary for overall quality management of the project. (c) There is a detailed budget provided for each budget period requested which is fully explained. It justifies each line item in the budget categories in Section B of the Budget Information of the application, including the applicant's non-Federal share and its source. Sufficient cost and other detail is included and explained to facilitate the determination of cost allowability and the relevance of these costs to the proposed project. The funds requested are appropriate and necessary for the scope of the project. J. Guidance to Applicants The following is provided to assist applicants to develop a competitive application. 1. Program Guidance •The Administration for Native Americans will fund projects that present the strongest prospects for meeting the stated purposes of this program announcement. Projects will not be funded on the basis of need alone. •In discussing the problems being addressed in the application, relevant historical data should be included so that the appropriateness and potential benefits of the proposed project will be better understood by the reviewers and decision-maker. •Supporting documentation, if available, should be included to provide the reviewers and decision-maker with other relevant data to better understand the scope and magnitude of the project. •The applicant should provide documentation showing support for the proposed project from authorized officials, board of directors and/or officers through a letter of support or resolution. It would be helpful, particularly for organizations, to delineate the membership, make-up of the board of directors, and its elective procedures to assist reviewers in determining authorized support. •Language preservation is defined as the maintenance of a language so that it will not decline to non-use. •Language vitality is defined as the active use of a language in a wide range of domains of human life. •Language replication is defined as the application of a language program model developed in one community to other linguistically similar communities. •Language survival is defined as the maintenance and continuation of language from one generation to another in a wide range of aspects of community life. 2. Technical Guidance •Applicants are strongly encouraged to have someone other than the author apply the evaluation criteria in the program announcement and to score the application prior to its submission, in order to gain a better sense of its quality and potential competitiveness in the review process. •ANA will accept only one application under this program announcement from any one applicant. If an eligible applicant sends two applications, the one with the earlier postmark will be accepted for review unless the applicant withdraws the earlier application. •An application from an Indian tribe, Alaska Native Village or other eligible organization must be submitted by the governing body of the applicant. •The application's Form 424 must be signed by the applicant's representative (tribal official or designate) who can act with full authority on behalf of the applicant.
