FR940606-1-00059 FR940606-1-00008 d. Chemical milling maskant operation. For the organic HAP and VOC content levels, the EPA is proposing different levels of recordkeeping requirements depending on how the organic HAP and VOC content levels are being met. The selection of and rationale for these recordkeeping requirements are identical to those presented above for primers and topcoats. In addition, where carbon adsorbers are used to control organic HAP and VOC emissions from chemical milling maskants, the same recordkeeping requirements as discussed for primer and topcoat application operations are being proposed, and the rationale is the same. e. Handling and storage of waste. Since the proposed standards would exempt RCRA wastes, it is necessary to identify which wastes are subject to RCRA and which are subject to the proposed rule. Therefore, the EPA is proposing that each owner or operator keep an up-to-date list of which wastes are subject to RCRA requirements and which are subject to the proposed rule, and to keep on file the documentation supporting these determinations. The EPA received a comment requesting that records be maintained of the quantity and type of solvents stored and disposed, as well as the disposal facility (if applicable). The purpose of these records would be to ensure that the wastes are not improperly disposed since the wastes may not be RCRA listed wastes (and, thus, not subject to applicable RCRA recordkeeping requirements). The EPA is requesting additional comments concerning the addition of these recordkeeping requirements. The comments should address whether there are any wastes that contain HAP that are not subject to RCRA and, if so, whether the recordkeeping requirements under these standards should apply to all affected waste streams or only non-RCRA listed waste streams. In addition, the comments should address what burden these requirements would impose. 2. Reporting Requirements In addition to the specific reporting requirements described below for each affected source, the proposed rule adopts the provisions specified in §63.9(a) through §63.9(e) and §63.9(h) through §63.9(j) and §63.10 (a), (b), (d), and (f) of the General Provisions, 40 CFR part 63, subpart A. 12 However, certain time periods specified in these sections were changed as detailed in Section II.F of this preamble. These time periods were changed in order to provide additional time for the EPA to review requests for changes to time periods for submittal of reports and for owners or operators to respond to EPA requests. These were the only paragraphs from these sections (i.e., §63.9 and §63.10) that were considered to be applicable to the proposed rule. 12 Ibid. The proposed rule would require an owner or operator to submit the following four types of reports: (1) Initial notification, (2) Notification of compliance status, (3) Periodic reports, and (4) Other reports. The purpose and contents of each of these reports are described in this section. The wording of the proposed rule requires all reports to be submitted to the ``Administrator.'' The term Administrator refers either to the Administrator of the EPA, an EPA regional office, a state agency, or another authority that has been delegated the authority to implement this rule. In most cases, reports will be sent to state agencies. Addresses are provided in the General Provisions of 40 CFR part 63, subpart A. 13 13 Ibid. Records of reported information and other information necessary to document compliance with the regulation are required to be kept for 5 years. Per the General Provisions, the 2 most recent years must be kept on-site; the other 3 years may be kept off-site. Records pertaining to the design and operation of the control and monitoring equipment must be kept for the life of the equipment.
