FR940317-2-00079 FR940317-2-00054 Fellowship AGENCY: James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation. ACTION: Request for information. SUMMARY: The information sought on these proposed forms will help implement the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Act of 1986. The information gathered will enable the Foundation to select James Madison Fellows from among applicants in an annual national competition for fellowships. The information provided by applicants on application forms, by those whom they ask to evaluate their candidacies on evaluation forms, and by educational institutions on transcript request forms will be used by an independent review committee to select those candidates whom the committee will recommend for fellowships to the Foundation. The forms (except the voluntary survey form) will be used for no other purposes; the voluntary survey form will be used for statistical analysis only and will not be seen by the independent review committee nor used for selecting fellows. DATES: Comments must be submitted in writing on or before March 31, 1994 in the Federal Register . ADDRESS: Send written comments to: James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation, 2000 K Street, NW., suite 303, Washington, DC 20006. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James M. Banner, Jr., (202) 653&hyph;8700. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: As required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation has submitted a copy of the proposed forms to the Office of Management and Budget for its review (40 U.S.C. 3540(h)). Organizations and individuals desiring to submit comments on these information collection requirements should direct them to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, room 3002, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503; Attention: Daniel J. Chenok. The annual public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 6 hours per response for an anticipated 1,000 applicants. For the reasons set forth in the preamble and under authority of 20 U.S.C. 4501 et seq., the following information will be solicited annually on application and related forms from fellowship applicants to the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Program. Applicants will be both experienced high school teachers of American history, American government, and social studies (senior fellow applicants) and graduating college seniors and recent college graduates who wish to become secondary school teachers of the same subjects (junior fellow applicants). To avoid duplication in the text below, unless otherwise indicated, the information is solicited from both senior and junior fellows. That information solicited only from applicants for senior fellowships is preceded by ``SR:'' (SR: thus); that information solicited only from applicants for junior fellowships is preceded by ``JR:'' (JR: thus). Application Forms: Questions Requiring Factual Information Only Affirmation of wish to be considered for a James Madison Fellowship and agreement to abide by Foundation regulations governing a fellowship: signature and date; Type of fellowship for which you are applying;
