FR940513-2-00155 FR940513-2-00079 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34018; File No. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;94&hyph;04] Self-Regulatory Organizations; The Depository Trust Company; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change Relating to the Implementation of the Interactive Capabilities and of the Electronic Mail Features of the Enhanced Institutional Delivery System May 5, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 1 notice is hereby given that on April 13, 1994, The Depository Trust Company (``DTC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared primarily by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change consists of procedures for electronic mail features and for the interactive use of DTC's enhanced Institutional Delivery (``ID'') system. 2 2 The enhanced ID system concept was approved in an earlier Commission order. The order specified that each individual feature of the enhanced ID system would be the subject of a separate filing under section 19(b)(1) of the Act. Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33466 (January 12, 1994), 59 FR 3139 [File No. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;93&hyph;07] (order approving concept of enhanced ID system). II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, DTC included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. DTC has prepared summaries set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change will enable ID system users to use the ID system interactively with the capability of accomplishing all ID system processing within a single business day. ID system users will have the option to continue to use the ID system in a batch mode. The proposal also seeks to implement two electronic mail features. These features will enable ID system users to send and receive ``notification of order execution'' and ``institution instruction'' messages. A notification of order execution can be sent by a broker-dealer to communicate the details of an order execution to an institution. If the institution accepts the notification of order execution, the institution can send the broker-dealer an institution instruction containing information, such as the allocation of block trades, which is needed by the broker-dealer to enter trade data into the ID system for the preparation of confirmations. Currently, broker-dealers and institutions make telephone calls or send facsimile transmissions to communicate this information. The proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of section 17A of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder because the proposed rule change will further automate the process by which securities transactions are cleared and settle and thereby will facilitate the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions. The proposal also is consistent with section 17A in that because the proposed rule change enhances DTC's existing ID system it will be implemented consistently with the safeguarding of securities and funds in DTC's custody or control or for which DTC is responsible. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition DTC perceives no impact on competition by reason of the proposed rule change. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others The interactive capability and electronic mail features have been developed through widespread consultations with securities industry members. Written comments from DTC participants or others have not been solicited on the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within thirty-five days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to ninety days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (a) By order approve such proposed rule change or
