FR940413-2-00154 FR940413-2-00070 The Commission believes that the proposal will not have a disproportionate effect on minority or women-owned firms or on small and regional firms. The proposal clearly does not prevent local and state officials from selecting minority or women-owned municipal securities dealers for participation in municipal securities issuances. 72 Moreover, the proposal will apply equally to all municipal securities dealers seeking to obtain municipal securities underwriting business. The Commission is not aware of any evidence indicating that the proposed rule change will disproportionately affect minority or women-owned firms, or smaller and regional firms vis-a-vis large dealers. The Commission rejects the notion that campaign contributions are a unique and essential business development mechanism for small, regional, or minority and women-owned firms. As a practical matter, the proposal leaves open all legitimate marketing practices which firms, both large and small, may use to gain underwriting business such as sales presentations, seminars, and marketing documents. Moreover, the Commission believes that the costs of incidental, unintended effects, if any, are far outweighed by the benefits of restricting ``pay to play'' practices. 72 The Commission believes that promoting minority and women-owned firms is a valid goal. Other means exist to promote this goal. For example, the Commission understands that some issuers require the underwriting syndicate to include one or more minority or women-owned firms. D. Effect on Women and Minority Candidates Some commentators suggest that the proposal will adversely affect women and minority candidates for state and local office, or will inhibit the ability of municipal securities professionals to volunteer for public service. 73 The basis for this contention is uncertain, but the proposal is clearly not intended to affect any particular candidate or identifiable group of candidates in an adverse manner. As noted before, the restrictions relate only to those situations where contributions are directed to an official of a municipal issuer with which a dealer might do business. It does not prevent other forms of indirect financial support for a candidate, such as contributions to political action committees that are not controlled by the dealer or its municipal finance professionals, or independent expenditures. 74 73 ``Many such candidates either lack substantial personal resources and/or live in districts with limited resources. It is essential, therefor, that such candidates be able to solicit broad support from outside sources.'' Letter from Marshall Bennett, President, and Bob Holden, Ethics Task Force, National Association of State Treasurers, to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (March 11, 1994). 74 The proposal will not prevent contributions to ``special-interest'' PACs that are not controlled by the dealer or municipal finance professional unless the special interest PAC solicits contributions for the purpose of supporting an identifiable candidate. Thus, the proposal will have no effect on the ability of market participants to support candidates who represent their ideological, political, or social interests, or on the ability to volunteer for public service, notwithstanding concerns expressed by some commentators to the contrary. Letter from Robin L. Wiessmann, Principal, Artemis Capital Group, Inc., to Arthur Levitt, Chairman, Commission (December 21, 1993). E. Candidates for Federal Office Several commentators also suggest that the proposal should apply to contributions made to officials of or candidates for federal office. 75 Several commentators raise concerns that the proposal will restrict contributions to state and local officials running for federal office, without a similar limitation on contributions to the incumbent federal office holder. 76 75 E.g. letter from Jeffrey L. Esser, Executive Director, Government Finance Officers Association, to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (March 10, 1994). One commentator objected to the proposal on the grounds that, with respect to municipal officials who are candidates for federal office, the MSRB's authority to adopt rules, subject to Commission approval, regulating campaign contributions of dealers and their employees conflicts with the jurisdiction of the Federal Election Commission (``FEC'') under the regulatory scheme established in the Federal Election Campaign Act (``FECA''). Letter from David Norcross, General Counsel, Republican National Committee, to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (March 11, 1994). Although FECA confers exclusive jurisdiction for enforcing the provisions of FECA, the MSRB rules would not affect, directly or indirectly, the provisions of FECA or their enforcement. Rather, as discussed above, the MSRB's proposal is specifically tailored to eliminate conflicts of interest arising from political contributions and similar activities in selecting underwriters in connection with negotiated offerings of municipal securities. 76 One comment letter, representing state and local officials, states: ``While our organizations recognize the importance of maintaining the integrity of the municipal bond market, we are greatly concerned that the proposed rule is inherently unfair in its limited application to only state and local officials. We fail to understand why this proposed action by the Securities and Exchange Commission is not coupled with a comprehensive limitation on contributions to the federal branch of government, which has perhaps the greatest influence over the strength of the municipal bond market and investor confidence in that market.'' Letter from Jerry Abramson, President, The United States Conference of Mayors, Sharpe James, President, The National League of Cities, Barbara Sheen Todd, President, The National Association of Counties, and Bonnie R. Kraft, President-Elect, the Government Finance Officers Association, to Arthur Levitt, Chairman Commission (February 18, 1994).
