FR940919-2-00007 FR940919-2-00006 National Institute of Standards and Technology Inventions, Government-Owned; Availability for Licensing AGENCY: National Institute of Standards and Technology, Commerce. ACTION: Notice of Government-owned inventions available for licensing. SUMMARY: The inventions listed below are owned by the U.S. Government, as represented by the Department of Commerce, and are available for licensing in accordance with 35 U.S.C. 207 and 37 CFR Part 404 to achieve expeditious commercialization of results of federally funded research and development. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Technical and licensing information on these inventions may be obtained by writing to: Marcia Salkeld, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Office of Technology Commercialization, Physics Building, Room B&hyph;256, Gaithersburg, MD 20899; Fax 301&hyph;869&hyph;2751. Any request for information should include the NIST Docket No. and Title for the relevant invention as indicated below. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The inventions available for licensing are: NIST Docket No. 90&hyph;030 Title: Improved Monomers for Double Ring-Opening Polymerization with Expansion Description: NIST researchers have created a new class of monomers that undergo double ring-opening polymerization with an expansion in volume. When used in resinous compositions the result is a volume neutral curing process at ambient temperature, and a final product that exhibits high adhesive strength. NIST Docket No. 91&hyph;008D Title: Planar Epitaxial Films of Sn02 Description: This invention provides smooth, high quality planar epitaxial films of tin oxide. The films are valuable for use in chemical sensors, optics and electronics; and the low cost fabrication method is well suited to large scale production. NIST Docket No. 92&hyph;016 Title: A Chemically Assisted Process for the Machining of Ceramics Description: A new NIST process makes the matching of ceramic materials more practical and cost-effective. The process uses halogenated hydrocarbons to machine ceramic materials. This increases the rate of material removal by 40&hyph;100 percent and reduces the surface roughness by 40&hyph;60 percent. NIST Docket No. 92&hyph;056 Title: Serial/Parallel Correlator for Words and Phrases Description: A novel computer method allows for more efficient identification of misspelled words contained in large databases. The method is readily applicable for improving the reliability of ``mechanical eyes'' used, for example, for sorting mail or reading Census Bureau forms. NIST Docket No. 93&hyph;001 Title: Intermetallic Titanium-Aluminum-Niobium-Chromium Alloys Description: NIST researchers have developed new alloys that possess superior combinations of room and high temperature mechanical properties. These low density titanium-aluminum-niobium-chromium alloys could find use in a new generation of jet turbines, in aircraft bodies, or as metal-matrix composites. NIST Docket No. 93&hyph;004D Title: Method for the Production of Predetermined Concentration Graded Alloys Description: NIST researchers have designed a new process for tailoring extremely thin metal layers within an alloy. The process allows strength, conductivity, thermal expansion and other properties to be optimized at various levels below a material surface. NIST Docket No. 93&hyph;026 Title: Method of Obtaining High Green Density Ceramics From Powders Description: This invention is a novel method of preparing slurries of fine ceramic powders in which the ceramic particles are dispersed more effectively. The resulting ceramic products have higher green densities which makes them useful in many applications, including high temperature components. Dated: September 12, 1994. Samuel Kramer, Associate Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23039 Filed 9&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;13&hyph;M
