FR940317-1-00035 FR940317-1-00011 b. Installment Payments for Large Fees 20. Section 9(f) states that the Commission's regulations shall permit payment by installments for regulatory fees in ``large amounts.'' However, nowhere in the statute or the legislative history did Congress define the term ``large.'' For purposes of establishing eligibility criteria for FY 1994 for regulatory fee installment payments, we propose generally to classify a fee amount as ``large'' if it greatly exceeds the average annual fee for regulatees in a particular category. Specifically, for some regulatory fee categories, we propose to establish a fixed annual amount which is based on the relative payment obligations of regulatees within that regulatory fee category. Those fees which are significantly higher than all others would be deemed large and entities who are required to pay significantly more than most other regulatees may elect to make two payments in FY 1994 instead of paying the entire amount all at once. For future years, we seek comment on whether large fee payors should be permitted to pay their annual regulatory fee in four or more installments. 21. We propose that an entity's installment payment eligibility should not be based on its total regulatory fee payments because it happens to hold multiple licenses or authorizations or serve multiple areas. Instead, a regulatory fee would be deemed large based on the fee for each individual license, authorization or authorized service area. If, for example, the regulatory fee is large (as defined herein) for one or more of a regulatee's licenses and not for other licenses, the regulatee will be eligible for installment payments only for those large fee licenses and must pay the entire regulatory fee for all of the other licenses. We invite specific comment on whether, for purposes of determining whether fees are large, telephone local exchange carriers should be assessed fees on an operating company or holding company level. 22. In applying the method described above, we propose several ``large'' fee amounts that would be eligible for installment payments. In sum, for the 1994 fiscal year we have identified the following fee amounts as large: ␣ 1Regulatory fee category 1Large fee VHF and UHF commercial television station Above $12,000. Cable television system Above $18,500. Inter-exchange carrier Above $500,000. Local exchange carrier holding co Above $700,000. When compared with the amounts to be paid by the average regulatee in these categories, these regulatory fee amounts appear significantly higher. 23. If a regulatee finds it necessary to pay its large regulatory fee by installments, we propose to establish fixed dates on which installment payments will be due. For the 1994 fiscal year, any eligible regulatee that elects to pay a large fee in installments shall make half of its payment on a date to be specified. We also shall specify the date for the second and final installment. Payments in their entirety will be due prior to the end of this fiscal year. As with standard fees, the payment due dates for each large fee category for the 1994 fiscal year will be announced in the Report and Order in this proceeding or in a Public Notice published in the Federal Register to be released well before the first installment payment due date. 24. To recover the additional costs of maintaining installment payment plans, we propose that each installment payment would be subject to an additional processing charge to cover administrative costs. We tentatively propose that these fees will be $50.00 per payment. Installment payments received after the due date for standard regulatory fees would be subject to interest payments. 10 Further, as discussed below, late installment payments would be subject to a 25 percent late fee and applications filed by delinquent payers would be subject to dismissal. We would also reserve the right to require a regulatee to pay its regulatory fees in a single, full payment if one or more installment payments has not been received in a timely manner. 10 See 4 CFR part 102; 47 CFR 1.1940(c).
