FR940805-1-00103 FR940805-1-00013 (4) Release of information and consent. Juvenile residents shall sign a Release of Information Consent Form in compliance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) (the Privacy Act of 1974) as amended prior to the release of privileged information. The administrator or designee shall keep a copy of the signed release in the resident's record. (5) Separation of record contents. The administrator or designee shall identify and separate contents of resident records according to an established format which, at a minimum, shall separate privileged from public information, and shall separate juvenile resident records from those of adult residents managed by the same program. (6) Access to information. The administrator shall define clearly personnel who have access to resident records. (7) Daily report. The administrator or designee shall maintain a daily report which shall identify: (i) The names of residents in custody, including residents on temporary release or in other locations; (ii) Names of residents admitted and released; and (iii) The number of days each juvenile has been in custody. (8) Identification and location record. The facility shall maintain a system that identifies all residents in custody and their actual physical location. (9) Custody record. The facility shall maintain custody records of all residents held at the facility. The record shall include only relevant and necessary information and shall be limited to: (i) Initial intake form; (ii) A copy of the initial detention booking record which resulted in this placement; (iii) Case information from referral source, if available; (iv) Case history or social history; (v) Medical record; (vi) Individual plan or program; (vii) Signed release of information forms; (viii) Current employment or education data; (ix) Signed acknowledgment of receipt of program rules and disciplinary policy; (x) Documented legal authority to accept resident; (xi) Grievance and disciplinary record; (xii) Referrals to other agencies; and (xiii) Final release or transfer report. (10) Admission information. The administrator or designee shall record admission information for each resident admitted to the facility. The record shall include the following data, unless prohibited by statute: (i) Admission number; (ii) Name and address; (iii) Name of parent, guardian or legal custodian; (iv) Date and place of birth; (v) Gender; (vi) Ethnic origin or tribal affiliation; (vii) Emergency contact name, relationship, address and phone number; (viii) Date and time of admission; (ix) Name of referring agency or committing authority; (x) Reason for referral; (xi) Social history if available; (xii) Special medical problems or needs; (xiii) Legal status, including jurisdiction, length and conditions of sentence; and (xiv) Signature of both resident and employee taking the information. (11) Conducting research. All research conducted shall comply with federal and tribal regulations pertaining to conducting and disseminating research findings as well as professional and scientific ethics. The administrator, the Agency Superintendent and the Area Director shall approve all research prior to implementation. The administrator shall regulate voluntary resident participation in research. (f) Citizen involvement and volunteers _(1) Volunteer coordinator. The administrator shall encourage citizen participation in volunteer programs by designating a staff member as volunteer coordinator. (2) Volunteer plan. The volunteer coordinator shall develop and implement a written plan for volunteer services. The volunteer coordinator and administrator shall update the plan as necessary and review it at least annually. The plan shall include: (i) Lines of authority; (ii) Responsibility and accountability for volunteer services; (iii) Procedures for the screening and selection of volunteers; (iv) A volunteer orientation or training program, which is appropriate to the nature of the assignments; (v) A requirement that volunteers shall agree in writing to abide by all facility rules, policies, procedures and practices, particularly those related to security and confidentiality of information; and (vi) A statement that the administrator may discontinue a volunteer activity at any time by written notice. ยง10.42 Physical plant. (a) Code compliance _(1) Building and safety code compliance. If owned by the Bureau, the facility shall comply with 29 CFR Part 1910, Subparts D, E, G and L. If owned by a tribe, the facility shall comply with the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Life Safety Code 101 Chapters 2, 4 through 7, and 16 (if new community residential occupancy) or 17 (if existing community residential occupancy), or comparable tribal regulations. (2) Zoning. The facility shall comply with applicable zoning and land use requirements.
