FR941130-0-00040 FR941130-0-00003 Three commenters favored adoption of the new standard and nine opposed the new standard. Favorable comments expressed the view that the proposal would serve a valid public purpose and adequately respond to community and Congressional concerns regarding allocation of conversion proceeds. Comments opposed to the proposal focused primarily on the OTS' authority to adopt the proposal and on questions relating to implementation, such as whether the proposal is necessary or appropriate given existing laws and regulations; whether the OTS will consider CRA-related protests during application processing; and whether the OTS would mandate allocation of transaction proceeds to specific community credit or lending programs. 1. OTS Authority to Adopt the Proposal As noted in the preamble to the convenience and needs proposal, a convenience and needs standard has not, to date, been applied to mutual-to-stock conversions of savings associations. Similarly, a convenience and needs standard generally has not been applied to MHC stock offerings. 27 Upon review of this area, however, the OTS proposed amendments to its regulations to impose a convenience and needs standard on these transactions. The proposal was issued, among other reasons, to enhance the OTS' ability to ensure that savings associations undertaking these transactions recognize their responsibility to consider their community's credit needs. 27 A convenience and needs standard has been applied to mutual holding company reorganizations because these transactions require the OTS' approval under the Bank Merger Act (BMA). See 58 FR 44105 (August 19, 1993) (adopting part 575 governing mutual holding company reorganizations and related stock issuances). The BMA requires that the responsible agency consider the convenience and needs of the community to be served in acting on any BMA application. See 12 U.S.C. 1828(c)(5). In the notice of the proposed amendments, the OTS explained its authority to adopt and implement the proposal. 28 Some commenters argued that the proposal goes beyond OTS authority under the Home Owners' Loan Act (HOLA) 29 and the CRA. These commenters stated that the CRA limits the types of applications that may be subject to review under the CRA; that Congress intended the CRA to cover only those transactions resulting in new charters or expanded facilities, not conversions and MHC stock offerings. On this point, these commenters asserted that a convenience and needs standard is not appropriate in conversions because conversions are fundamentally a capital-raising technique, not an expansion of operations. One commenter believed that section 5(c) is the only provision of the HOLA 30 that enumerates thrift powers and authorities, and that no affirmative housing credit obligation exists in section 5(c) that would permit the OTS to direct the allocation of conversion proceeds to community lending programs. 28 See 59 FR 22764, 22765 (May 3, 1994). 29 12 U.S.C. 1461. 30 12 U.S.C. 1464(c). The OTS has concluded that it has ample statutory authority for the amendments. As noted in the proposal, the OTS has broad authority under sections 5(i)(1) and 5(i)(2) of the HOLA to regulate mutual-to-stock conversions, and under section 10(o)(7) of the HOLA to regulate mutual holding companies. 31 Inherent in this broad grant of authority is the ability to assess the impact of a proposed transaction on the convenience and needs of the communities to be served by a savings association. 31 12 U.S.C. 1464(i)(1), 1464(i)(2) and 1467a(o)(7). See also Charter Federal S.&L. Ass'n. v. Office of Thrift Supervision, 912 F.2d 1569 (11th Cir. 1990). In addition, section 4(a)(3) of the HOLA provides that the Director ``shall exercise all powers granted to the Director under this chapter so as to encourage savings associations to provide credit for housing safely and soundly.'' 32 For federal associations, in particular, the OTS is directed to exercise its regulatory powers in order to provide thrift institutions ``*␣*␣* for the extension of credit for homes and other goods and services.'' 33 The powers granted to the Director include the general regulatory authority under sections 5(i)(1), 5(i)(2), and 10(o)(7) of the HOLA mentioned above. The admonitions in the HOLA that the Director use his or her statutory powers to encourage savings associations to provide credit provides a substantial additional basis for the Director to assess community needs when reviewing applications. 32 12 U.S.C. 1463(a)(3). 33 See section 5(a) of the HOLA, 12 U.S.C. 1464(a). Thus, the OTS' authority to address convenience and needs concerns in the context of applications is not limited to the applications specifically mentioned in the CRA. While the application review sections of the CRA arguably focus primarily on transactions that involve some type of expansion of operations in a geographical market, e.g., new charters or branch facilities, 34 the CRA does not limit agency authority under other statutes or regulations to consider convenience and needs factors during the review of applications that do not necessarily involve an expansion of operations. 34 See 12 U.S.C. 2902(3), 2903. Finally, the amendments are consistent with section 5(c) of the HOLA. Section 5(c) of the HOLA generally sets forth permissible investments and investment limitations for federal savings associations, but in no way limits the OTS' authority to ensure that these investment powers are exercised in a manner that is consistent with the convenience and needs of the community. 2. Appropriateness of a Convenience and Needs Standard As stated in the proposal, the amendments are intended to enhance the OTS' ability to ensure that savings associations undertaking conversions and MHC stock offerings recognize their responsibility to consider their community's credit needs. A number of commenters questioned the wisdom of a convenience and needs standard, suggesting the OTS has sufficient regulations and policies to implement the CRA and ensure that the convenience and needs of the community are met by all thrifts. For the reasons stated above in support of the OTS' authority to adopt the amendments, the OTS believes it is appropriate to impose a convenience and needs standard on applications for conversions and MHC stock offerings. In addition, the OTS believes the amendments will enhance current regulations and policies designed to ensure that thrifts meet their community's credit needs.
