FR941007-2-00138 FR941007-2-00083 •Identify and evaluate strategies that foster communication and collaboration among the various health care practitioners relevant to pregnancy and childbirth in women with physical disabilities; •Identify and evaluate methods to improve education and training for health care providers regarding the medical and psychosexual aspects of disability and reproduction issues; •Incorporate issues pertinent to culturally diverse populations in addressing issues of pregnancy and childbirth identified by women with disabilities from minority backgrounds; and •Disseminate the research findings to health care providers and women with disabilities through the most effective channels, likely to result in maximum impact on practice and training. Proposed Priority 3: HIV/AIDS and Disability Background The Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) causes a chronic, progressive immunologic deficiency disease with a spectrum of manifestations. (Atkins, B.J. and Hancock, A.K., American Rehabilitation, 1993). The continuum can be seen as four major stages: Acute HIV Disease; Chronic Asymptomatic HIV Disease; Chronic Symptomatic HIV Disease; and Advanced Disease (AIDS). It is known that HIV affects every cultural, social, economic, sexual, racial, and geographic group in this country. Former Surgeon General C. Everett Koop stated that ``HIV is expected to impact every household in America in the 1990s.'' The number of people who have AIDS is significant: the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), in its HIV/AIDS Surveillance Report , 1994, noted that, as of December, 1993, 361,509 cases of AIDS had been reported in the United States. Of these, 138,223 individuals were known to be living with AIDS. These figures do not include individuals who have been diagnosed as HIV seropositive, but have not yet developed full-blown AIDS; that number is estimated to exceed one million. Racial and ethnic minority populations have been disproportionately affected by HIV infection and AIDS. In 1992, 47 percent of all reported AIDS cases were among African-Americans and Hispanics although these two groups represent only 21 percent of the entire population (1992 CDC Newsletter). HIV infections are also increasing rapidly among women. Although HIV disease is chronic, progressive, and, so far, ultimately fatal, the average period of time from onset of infection to death continues to grow longer, due to improved health care interventions, and is now estimated to be 11.5 years (Whitman-Walker Clinic). Individuals may well begin to live longer at each stage of the disease process. Thus, as the natural course of the disease changes, it will be important to track the changing needs for rehabilitation and community support services. Most ``Persons Living with AIDS'' (PLWA) aspire to maintain as normal a life as possible during the period of disease and disability and have both the potential and the right to benefit from appropriate service programs. It is extremely critical that culturally sensitive, community integrated service systems to promote rehabilitation, independence, employment, and community integration and to reduce barriers be developed and implemented. The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, define an individual with a disability as one who ``has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits his or her ability to perform one or more major life activities, has a record of an impairment that substantially limits a major life activity, and/or is regarded by an employer or other covered entity as having an impairment that substantially limits a major life activity.'' This definition includes people with HIV/AIDS. Individuals with HIV/AIDS may be entitled to income transfer payments and medical assistance benefits; they also may be eligible, depending on specific criteria in the various statutes, for services under a number of public service programs, including vocational rehabilitation and independent living, mental health and drug abuse services, veterans' services, and housing assistance.
