FR940106-1-00118 FR940106-1-00013 Splittail are adapted for life in the entrapment zone. Estuaries are ecosystems where the entrapment zone and salinity levels are determined by the interaction of river outflow and tidal action. Splittail are most abundant in the shallow waters of Suisun Bay, which is historically associated with the entrapment zone. The young of this species require high zooplankton densities produced by the entrapment zone environment. The best survival and growth of splittail occurs when the entrapment zone occupies a large geographic area with extensive shoal regions within the euphotic zone (depths less than 4 meters). Fall mid-water trawl survey data collected by CDFG indicate that 76 percent of the splittail captured from 1967 to 1992 in the Delta were taken in the shallow areas of Suisun and Grizzly Bays (Meng 1993). During periods of drought and increased water diversions, the entrapment zone and associated fish populations are shifted farther upstream in the Estuary. During years prior to 1984, the entrapment zone was located in Suisun Bay from October through March (except in months with exceptionally high outflows or during years of extreme drought). From April through September, the entrapment zone usually was found upstream in the river channels. Since 1984, with the exception of the record 1986 flood outflows, the entrapment zone has been located primarily in the river channels during the entire year because of drought and increased water exports and diversions. When located upstream, the entrapment zone is confined to deep river channels where the total surface area is smaller, fewer shoal areas of suitable spawning substrate exist, water currents are swifter and more turbulent, and zooplankton productivity is low. In all respects, the upstream river channels are much less favorable for spawning and rearing of splittail. Splittail declines since 1984 have been concurrent with an increasing amount and proportion of freshwater diversions that confine the entrapment zone to the narrow, deep, and less productive channels in the lower rivers. B. Overutilization for Commercial, Recreational, Scientific, or Educational Purposes This factor is not known to be applicable. Some scientific collecting is conducted for splittail, but these activities do not adversely affect this species. Little or no recreational harvest of splittail is likely occurring because the population has dramatically declined, and it is not a desirable game species. No recent records of splittail harvest exist, probably because little or no harvest occurs, and the identification of this species is often confused with other nongame species. No other recreational or educational uses of this species exist that may affect its abundance. C. Disease or Predation This factor is not known to be applicable. However, if the non-native striped bass populations increase, all size classes of splittail could be under greater threat of predation. An effort by CDFG is under way to compensate for striped bass population mortalities caused by water export projects. The 1991 striped bass stock was low relative to the population in the 1960s. Previously, the striped bass compensation program annually released 1 to 2 million juvenile, hatchery-reared striped bass in the Estuary in an effort to rebuild the population. However, for the last 2 years, the Director of CDFG has foregone release of striped bass because of the potential harm they would cause to the federally-threatened Sacramento River winter-run chinook salmon and delta smelt. D. The Inadequacy of Existing Regulatory Mechanisms Regulatory mechanisms currently in effect do not provide adequate protection for the splittail or its habitat. This species is not listed by the State of California.
