FR940826-0-00147 FR940826-0-00020 (c) A high bidder that meets its down payment obligations in a timely manner must, within ten (10) business days after being notified that it is a high bidder, submit an additional application (the ``long-form application'') pursuant to the rules governing the service in which the applicant is the high bidder (unless it has already submitted such an application, as contemplated by §1.2105(a)(1)(b). For example, if the applicant is high bidder for a license in the Interactive Video Data Service ( see 47 CFR Part 95, Subpart F), the long form application will be submitted on FCC Form 574 in accordance with §95.815 of this chapter. Notwithstanding any other provision in title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations to the contrary, high bidders need not submit an additional application filing fee with their long-form applications. Notwithstanding any other provision in Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations to the contrary, the high bidder's long-form application must be mailed or otherwise delivered to: Office of the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, Attention: Auction Application Processing Section, 1919 M Street, N.W., Room 222, Washington, D.C. 20554. An applicant that fails to submit the required long-form application as required under this subsection, and fails to establish good cause for any late-filed submission, shall be deemed to have defaulted and will be subject to the penalties set forth in §1.2104. (d) As an exhibit to its long-form application, the applicant must provide a detailed explanation of the terms and conditions and parties involved in any bidding consortia, joint venture, partnership or other agreement or arrangement it had entered into relating to the competitive bidding process prior to the time bidding was completed. Such agreements must have been entered into prior to the filing of short-form applications pursuant to §1.2105. §1.2108 Procedures for filing petitions to deny against long-form applications. (a) Where petitions to deny are otherwise provided for under the Act or the commission's Rules, and unless other service-specific procedures for the filing of such petitions are provided for elsewhere in the Commission's Rules, the procedures in this section shall apply to the filing of petitions to deny the long-form applications of winning bidders. (b) Within thirty (30) days after the Commission gives public notice that a long-form application has been accepted for filing, petitions to deny that application may be filed. Any such petitions must contain allegations of fact supported by affidavit of a person or persons with personal knowledge thereof. (c) An applicant may file an opposition to any petition to deny, and the petitioner a reply to such opposition. Allegations of fact or denials thereof must be supported by affidavit of a person or persons with personal knowledge thereof. The times for filing such opposition and replies will be those provided in §1.45. (d) If the Commission determines that: (1) an applicant is qualified and there is no substantial and material issue of fact concerning that determination, it will grant the application. (2) an applicant is not qualified and that there is no substantial issue of fact concerning that determination, the Commission need not hold a evidentiary hearing and will deny the application. (3) substantial and material issues of fact require a hearing, it will conduct a hearing. The Commission may permit all or part of the evidence to be submitted in written form and may permit employees other than administrative law judges to preside at the taking of written evidence. Such hearing will be conducted on an expedited basis. §1.2109 License grant, denial, default, and disqualification. (a) Unless otherwise specified in these rules, auction winners are required to pay the balance of their winning bids in a lump sum within five (5) business days following award of the license. Grant of the license will be conditioned on full and timely payment of the winning bid. (b) If a winning bidder withdraws its bid after the Commission has declared competitive bidding closed or fails to remit the required down payment within five (5) business days after the commission has declared competitive bidding closed, the bidder will be deemed to have defaulted, its application will be dismissed, and it will be liable for the default penalty specified in §1.2104(g)(2). In such event, the Commission may either re-auction the license to existing or new applicants or offer it to the other highest bidders (in descending order) at their final bids. The down payment obligations set forth in §1.2107(b) will apply. (c) A winning bidder who is found unqualified to be a licensee, fails to remit the balance of its winning bid in a timely manner, or defaults or is disqualified for any reason after having made the required down payment, will be deemed to have defaulted and will be liable for the penalty set forth in §1.2104(g)(2). In such event, the Commission will conduct another auction for the license, affording new parties an opportunity to file applications for the license. (d) Bidders who are found to have violated the antitrust laws or the Commission's rules in connection with their participation in the competitive bidding process may be subject, in addition to any other applicable sanctions, to forfeiture of their upfront payment, down payment or full bid amount, and may be prohibited from participating in future auctions. §1.2110 Designated entities. (a) Designated entities are small businesses, businesses owned by members of minority groups and/or women, and rural telephone companies. (b) Definitions. (1) Small businesses. The Commission will establish the definition of a small business on a service-specific basis, taking into consideration the characteristics and capital requirements of the particular service.
