FR940916-0-00011 FR940916-0-00003 6. Section 1468.8 is amended by revising paragraphs (a) and (b) to read as follows: §1468.8 Computation of payment. (a) (1) The amount of the shorn wool or mohair price support payment shall be computed by applying the rate of payment to the net proceeds for payment purposes for the wool or mohair marketed during the specified marketing year. For shorn wool payments, if there is a purchase by the producer of unshorn lambs, the resultant amount shall be reduced, by an amount resulting from multiplying the liveweight at the time of purchase of such lambs reported in the application for payment by the calculated wool on shorn lambs price support for such marketing year. If the amount of the reduction exceeds the payment computed on the shorn wool marketed, the liveweight of lambs which corresponds to the excess amount shall be carried forward and used to reduce payments on unshorn lambs marketed or slaughtered or shorn wool marketed in the current or subsequent years. (2) Except as provided in §1468.6 (b)(6) with respect to a guaranteed minimum sales price, the net proceeds for payment purposes for shorn wool and shorn mohair shall be determined by subtracting from the gross sales proceeds of the shorn wool or mohair all deductible marketing charges, and any amount of nondeductible marketing charges that exceed the combined total nondeductible marketing charges for price support payment established by CCC. (b) The amount of the price support payment due a producer for wool on unshorn lambs shall be computed by applying the rate of payment to the liveweight of the lambs sold or moved to slaughter during the specified marketing year, reduced, on account of the purchase or importation by the producer of unshorn lambs, by the liveweight at the time of purchase or importation of such lambs reported in the application for payments. If the amount of the reduction exceeds the liveweight of the unshorn lambs sold or moved to slaughter during said marketing year, such excess liveweight shall be carried forward and used to reduce payments on the wool on unshorn lambs marketed or slaughtered or shorn wool marketed in the current or subsequent years. * * * * * 7. Section 1468.10 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §1468.10 Preparation of application. (a) Application for price support payments for shorn wool, shorn mohair, and wool on unshorn lambs must be submitted by completing Form CCC&hyph;1155, ``Application for Payment (National Wool Act)''. Marketing agencies may assist producers in filling out applications by inserting the information on sales of wool and mohair and sending sales documents to the appropriate county office, but the producer must sign the application and is responsible for the requirements as to the time and manner of filing the application. If the producer paid marketing charges not shown on the sales document, such charges shall be considered in arriving at the net proceeds for payment purposes. * * * * * 8. Section 1468.13 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §1468.13 Payment. (a) Payments under this part shall be made only on the basis of the net proceeds for payment purposes received for wool or mohair or the calculated amount of wool grown on unshorn lambs sold or moved to slaughter. No payment shall be made on that part of any sale which has been canceled or on the basis of prices or weights which have been fraudulently increased for the purpose of obtaining higher payments. No payment shall be made on sales to a wool or mohair growers association, which is not a cooperative marketing association, by its producer-members on the basis of net proceeds for payment purposes in excess of the fair market value of the wool or mohair (grease basis), as determined by CCC. * * * * * §1468.15 [Removed and reserved] 9. Section 1468.15 is removed and reserved. Signed at Washington, DC, on September 8, 1994. Bruce R. Weber, Acting Executive Vice President, Commodity Credit Corporation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22921 Filed 9&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410-05-P
