FR940706-0-00084 FR940706-0-00015 (1) The revision results from changes in the scope or the objective of the project or program; (2) The need arises for additional Federal funds to complete the project; or (3) A revision is desired which involves specific costs for which prior written approval requirements may be imposed consistent with applicable OMB cost principles listed in ยง74.27. (i) No other prior approval requirements for specific items may be imposed unless a deviation has been approved by OMB. (j) When the Secretary makes an award that provides support for both construction and nonconstruction work, the Secretary may require the recipient to request prior approval from the Secretary before making any fund or budget transfers between the two types of work supported. (k) For both construction and nonconstruction awards, recipients shall notify the Secretary in writing promptly whenever the amount of Federal authorized funds is expected to exceed the needs of the recipient for the project period by more than $5,000 or five percent of the Federal award, whichever is greater. This notification shall not be required if an application for additional funding is submitted for a continuation award. (l) When requesting approval for budget revisions, recipients shall use the budget forms that were used in the application unless the Secretary indicates a letter of request suffices. (m) Within 30 calendar days from the date of receipt of the request for budget revisions, the Secretary shall review the request and notify the recipient whether the budget revisions have been approved. If the revision is still under consideration at the end of 30 calendar days, the Secretary informs the recipient in writing of the date when the recipient may expect the decision. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110) ยง74.26 Non-Federal audits. (a) Recipients and subrecipients that are institutions of higher education or other non-profit organizations are subject to the audit requirements contained in OMB Circular A&hyph;133_Audits of Institutions of Higher Education and Other Non-Profit Institutions. (b) State and local governments are subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act (31 U.S.C. 7501&hyph;7) and the ED regulations implementing OMB Circular A&hyph;128_Audits of State and Local Governments. (c) Hospitals not covered by the audit provisions of OMB Circular A&hyph;133 are subject to the audit requirements established by the Secretary. (d) Commercial organizations are subject to the audit requirements established by the Secretary or the prime recipient as incorporated into the award document. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110)
