FR940912-1-00035 FR940912-1-00010 To achieve the desired emission reduction from steam stripping or other treatment technology, it is necessary to suppress the wastewater emissions from the point of generation to the treatment device where the organic compounds are either removed or destroyed. Suppression of emissions can be achieved by using physical covers, roofs, and water seals to minimize the contact between the wastewater and the atmosphere. Examples of controls for air emissions from waste management units in a wastewater collection and treatment system, based on suppression techniques, include: fixed or floating roofs on tanks, water seals on drains, gas-tight covers on junction boxes, and covers and enclosures around oil-water separators. Hard piping of a wastewater stream from its point of generation to the steam stripper unit is one method to achieve the suppression of air emission from the wastewater. However, wastewater streams may be managed in other units prior to treatment if those units are equipped with air emission controls. F. Selection of Format of Proposed Standard Section 111 of the Act requires an emission standard whenever it is feasible. Section 111(h) states that ``if in the judgment of the Administrator, it is not feasible to prescribe or enforce a standard of performance, he may instead promulgate a design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard, or combination thereof *␣*␣* '' The term ``not feasible'' is applicable if the emissions cannot be captured and vented through a vent or stack designed for that purpose, or if the application of a measurement methodology is not practicable because of technological or economic limitations. The EPA is proposing standards for VOC emissions from the process unit wastewater segment of this source category. To ensure that emissions are captured and conveyed to a control device, the proposed standards include requirements for: (1) An enclosed wastewater collection and treatment system; (2) Treatment to reduce VOC concentration in the wastewater streams; and (3) Conveyance of emissions vented from the wastewater treatment device and the enclosed wastewater collection system in a closed-vent system to a control device. Applicability levels are included in the SOCMI wastewater standards to identify those process unit wastewater streams that are required to be controlled. Alternative formats were considered for applicability levels, waste management units, wastewater treatment processes, and vent collection and vapor recovery or destruction devices. 1. Applicability Levels The EPA identified certain low flow and low concentration wastewater streams that are not believed to be controlled at existing facilities. Parameters that characterize these streams include volatile organic concentration of the stream and volumetric flow rate, both of which can be determined by using a variety of methods. Therefore, the EPA is proposing concentration and flow rate parameters to identify process unit wastewater streams that do not require control. The EPA also is proposing that process units that generate wastewater with a total annual mass of volatile organics less than 1 Mg per year are exempt from the control requirements of the rule. The EPA solicits comment on whether it is feasible to otherwise identify specific process unit wastewater streams to be controlled. The EPA also solicits information on defining these process unit wastewater streams. 2. Waste Management Units Two formats were considered in developing the proposed standards for waste management units. These formats were a numerical emission standard and an equipment and work practice standard. A numerical standard would not be feasible because it would be difficult to capture and measure emissions from SOCMI waste management units (i.e., tanks, surface impoundments, containers, individual drain systems, and oil-water separators) for the purpose of evaluating compliance. Due to the number of openings and possible emissions points, accurate measurement would require enclosure of the entire airspace around each piece of equipment. This approach would not be practical for numerous equipment components. Therefore, the Administrator concluded that the format of the standards for this source category should include a combination of a design, equipment, work practice, and operational standards. In the case of SOCMI waste management units, the intent of the standard is to suppress and capture emissions from the process unit wastewater collection and treatment equipment. The suppression and capture of emissions is accomplished by the installation and proper maintenance of roofs, covers, lids, water seals, and enclosures on tanks, surface impoundments, containers, individual drain systems, and oil-water separators. Captured emissions are then vented to a control device through application of a closed vent system. Work practices such as periodic monitoring, inspection, and repair, would be required to ensure proper operation and maintenance of the equipment. The proposed standards would require that emissions from waste management units be controlled from the point of generation until the wastewater stream leaves the treatment device or is recycled to the process. 3. Wastewater Treatment Processes Three formats were considered in developing the proposed standards for reduction of process unit wastewater stream VOC concentration: a numerical format (i.e., emission standard), an equipment design and operational format, and an equipment and work practice standard.
