FR940721-2-00163 FR940721-2-00086 The Administration for Native Americans recognizes that eligible applicants must have the opportunity to develop their own language plans, technical capabilities and access to the necessary financial and technical resources in order to assess, plan, develop and implement programs to assure the survival and continuing vitality of their languages. ANA also recognizes that potential applicants may have specialized knowledge and capabilities to address specific language concerns at various levels. This competitive area reflects these special needs and circumstances. C. Proposed Projects To Be Funded Applicants may apply for 12-month Planning Grants, under Category I, or for projects of up to 36 months duration under Category II, Design and/or Implementation Grants. Category I_Planning grants. The purpose of the planning grants is to conduct the assessment and planning needed to identify the current status of the Native American language(s) to be addressed and to establish community long-range language goal(s). These activities may include, but are not limited to, the following: •Data collection, compilation and analysis to ascertain current language status through ``formal'' (e.g., work performed by a linguist, and/or a language survey conducted by community members) or ``informal'' (e.g., a community consensus of the language status based on elders, tribal scholars, and/or other community members) methods; •Establishment of the community's long-range language goals; and •Acquisition of the necessary training and technical assistance to assure the achievement of the project goal(s). Category II_Design and/or implementation grants. The purpose of design and/or implementation grants is to allow communities to design and/or implement, as appropriate to the applicant, a language program or programs that will contribute to the achievement of the community's long-range language goal(s). Applicants under Category II must be able to document that: (a) language statistics have been collected and analyzed, and that these statistics are current (compiled within thirty-six months prior to the grant application); (b) that the community has established long-range language goals; and (c) that community representatives are adequately trained to achieve the proposed project goals. Under Category II grants, applicants may include the purchase of specialized equipment (including audio and video recording equipment, computers, and software) which is necessary to accomplish project objectives. The applicant must fully justify the need for this equipment and explain how it will assist them in achieving their project objectives. The types of activities ANA is seeking to fund under Category II grants include, but are not limited to, the following: •Establishment and support of community Native American language projects to bring older and younger Native Americans together to facilitate and encourage the transfer of Native American language skills from one generation to another; •Establishment of projects to train Native Americans to teach Native American languages to others or to enable them to serve as interpreters or translators of such languages; •Development, printing, and dissemination of materials to be used for the teaching and enhancement of Native American languages; •Establishment or support of projects to train Native Americans to produce or participate in television or radio programs to be broadcast in Native American languages; and •Compilation, transcription, and analysis of oral testimony to record and preserve Native American languages. The Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development is established by the Act as the repository for copies of products from Native American languages grants funded under this program announcement. Products of Native American languages grants funded by this program announcement must be transmitted to this designated repository. Federally recognized Indian Tribes (as listed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs in an October 21, 1993 Federal Register notice, 58 Fed. Reg. 54. 364 (1993)) are not required to comply with this provision.
