FR940728-2-00012 FR940728-2-00009 United States Price For Enlin, we calculated USP according to the methodology described in our preliminary determination, with the following exceptions: 1. We revised inland freight, ocean freight and packing case cost to incorporate the average weight of cross pipe fittings as determined during verification because Enlin did not do so as requested by the Department. ( See Comment 1.) 2. We disregarded cancelled sales which were included in the sales listing. 3. For those sales with updated payment and/or shipment dates which were not incorporated into the final computer tape submission, we recalculated the imputed credit expenses based on the weighted-average difference between payment and shipment dates for those sales which were both shipped and paid for during the POI. For the associated expenses, we calculated a product specific weighted average. For Ta Chen, we calculated USP according to the methodology described in our preliminary determination, with the following exceptions: 1. We estimated the appropriate shipment date for U.S. purchase price sales which had an incorrect shipment date reported. ( See Comment 3.) 2. We recalculated imputed credit for purchase price sales based on amended shipment dates that were improperly reported and by using the lower of two U.S. interest rates available to Ta Chen. ( See Comment 3 and 4 below.) 3. We recalculated U.S. inventory carrying costs on a warehouse-specific basis taking into account the amended interest rate noted in item 2. 4. For ESP sales made from all U.S. warehouses, we recalculated the movement expenses and bank charges based on expenses incurred on shipments that were made during the POI rather than on expenses incurred on shipments made twelve months prior to the POI. For Yih Tai, we calculated USP according to the methodology described in our preliminary determination, with the following exceptions: 1. We recalculated packing based on revisions to packing labor as determined at the cost verifications. Foreign Market Value As stated in our preliminary determination, we determined that the home market was not viable for sales of SST pipe fittings made by either Enlin and Yih Tai. We selected Canada as the third-country market basis for FMV for both Enlin and Yih Tai. We found the home market viable for sales of SST pipe fittings made by Ta Chen. We calculated FMV as noted in the ``Price-to-Price Comparisons'' and ``Price to Constructed Value (CV)'' sections of this notice. Cost of Production As stated in our preliminary determination, the Department initiated a cost investigation based on reasonable grounds to believe or suspect that Enlin, Ta Chen, and Yih Tai's home market/third country sales were made at prices below their respective cost of production (COP). We received responses to our cost questionnaires and verified the submitted data.
