FR940831-0-00006 FR940831-0-00004 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY 10 CFR Part 1050 RIN 1990&hyph;AA04 Foreign Gifts and Decorations AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule amends regulations on foreign gifts and decorations, so that the definition of ``minimal value'' and other specific dollar figures used with respect to foreign gifts and decorations reflect changes in the consumer price index. DATES: Final rule effective August 31, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Susan Beard (Acting Deputy Assistant General Counsel for Standards of Conduct), Office of the Assistant General Counsel for General Law, GC&hyph;80, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20585 (202/586&hyph;1522). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION I. Background Article I, section 9, clause 8 of the Constitution provides that no person holding any office of profit or trust under the United States shall, without the consent of the Congress, accept any present, emolument, office, or title, of any kind whatever, from any foreign state. In the Foreign Gifts and Decorations Act (Act) (5 U.S.C. 7342), Congress consented to an exception to the general Constitutional rule against the acceptance of gifts or decorations from foreign governments by Federal employees. Among other things, the statute allows employees to accept gifts of ``minimal value'' tendered as souvenirs or as marks of courtesy. ``Minimal value'' is defined in the Act, as amended, as a retail value in the United States of $100 or less, but the Act provides that ``minimal value'' shall be redefined periodically in regulations prescribed by the Administrator of General Services, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to reflect changes in the consumer price index for the immediately preceding three-year period. The authority to redefine the term ``minimal value'' was effective on January 1, 1981. The Act also provides that, a Federal employing agency may, by regulation, define ``minimal value'' to be less than the value established under the foregoing provision. There is also a limitation on the use of appropriated funds for the purchase of gifts for foreign individuals. Effective September 30, 1977, no appropriated funds, other than funds from the ``Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service'' account of the Department of State, may be used to purchase any tangible gift of more than minimal value, as defined in the Foreign Gifts and Decorations Act, for any individual unless the gift is approved by the Congress (22 U.S.C. 2694). In 1980 the Department of Energy promulgated regulations regarding the acceptance by Department employees of gifts and decorations from foreign governments and the use of appropriated funds for the purchase of tangible gifts for a foreign individual. The Department's Foreign Gifts and Decorations regulations currently provide, at 10 CFR 1050.103(e), that ``minimal value'' means a retail value of $100 or less. This provision does not reflect changes in the definition of ``minimal value'' contained in the regulations promulgated by the General Services Administration. At the time this regulation was promulgated, the definition of ``minimal value'' was not indexed. Furthermore, Subpart D of these regulations, Gifts to Foreign Individuals, sets a $100 ceiling, but fails to incorporate the term ``minimal value'' in establishing allowable purchases of tangible gifts for any foreign individuals. This rule will redefine ``minimal value'' to be the value prescribed by the Administrator of General Services, in coordination with the Secretary of State, to reflect changes in the consumer price index, thus, making it unnecessary for the Department to issue a new rule each time the definition changes due to an increase or decrease in the consumer price index. Further, it will apply the term ``minimal value'' to the value of gifts allowable for presentation to foreign individuals. This rulemaking involves a matter relating to agency management or personnel, affecting a regulation that only applies to Department of Energy employees. Furthermore, the rule would relieve a substantive restriction that previously was placed upon Department of Energy employees. Accordingly, the Department has determined that a general notice of proposed rulemaking is not required (5 U.S.C. 553(a)(2)), and is making this rule effective immediately (5 U.S.C. 553(d)(1)). II. Review Under Executive Order 12866 Today's regulatory action has been determined not to be a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and Review,'' (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993). Accordingly, today's action was not subject to review under the Executive Order by the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs. III. Review Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act Pursuant to section 605 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 96&hyph;354), it is hereby certified that the final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities within the meaning of the Act. It is related solely to internal agency organization, management, or personnel. IV. Review Under the National Environmental Policy Act The Department has determined that the final rule does not constitute a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment, because it is a strictly procedural rulemaking within the meaning of paragraph A6 of Appendix A to subpart D of 10 C.F.R. part 1021. V. Review Under the Paperwork Reduction Act This final rule does not impose a ``collection of information'' requirement, as defined in 44 U.S.C. 3502(4). List of Subjects in 10 CFR Part 1050 Government employees. In consideration of the foregoing, the Department of Energy is amending part 1050 of Title 10 of the Code of Federal Regulations, as set forth below: Issued in Washington, D.C. on August 25, 1994. Eric J. Fygi, Acting General Counsel. PART 1050_FOREIGN GIFTS AND DECORATIONS 1. The authority citation for 10 CFR part 1050 is revised to read as follows:
