FR941222-0-00022 FR941222-0-00003 The Certificate of Compliance requires that the fuel have no known or suspected gross cladding breaches to ensure the structural integrity of the fuel. Known or suspected failed fuel assemblies (rods) and fuel with cladding defects greater than pin holes and hairline cracks are not authorized in the Standardized NUHOMS. Fuel meeting this specification will be safely stored and will remain intact in storage because the dry inert atmosphere and relatively low temperature will prevent deterioration of the cladding. Grossly breached fuel will be handled in site-specific license applications. F.5. Comment. Quite a few comments related to the structural stability of the HSM, particularly its response to earthquakes. Commenters questioned the possibility of vertical storage of the Standardized NUHOMS and suggested that it would be very difficult to restrain the HSM if the DSC were in a vertical position. One commenter wanted dry storage casks constructed to Building Officials Code Administrators (BOCA) National Building Code (and Ohio Administrative Code) for structures in use group H&hyph;4, high hazard use, which includes radioactive materials. Commenters questioned whether ground acceleration as used by the NRC in its evaluation could adequately describe all potential earthquakes east of the Rocky Mountain Front and suggested that a ground acceleration of 2.5g would not be realistic for all sites, despite proximity to fault lines. Another commenter alleged a number of seismic events in the midwest which had some effect in the Ohio area could cause a complete failure of the cask and requested that the NRC insist that the cask, containment structure, and foundation pad be designed to substantially exceed all earthquakes with a potential for 0.60g. One commenter wanted to know if the module had been analyzed for earthquake events at all United States reactor sites, according to Laurand Findmun Seismic Hazard Curves. Other commenters expressed various concerns about the integrity and reaction of the Standardized NUHOMS components under earthquake conditions and asked the following questions: Could the casks crash against each other as the ground moves beneath them? Could the module shift, crack, or move off the pad? How are the rail support holdings evaluated? Could the DSC be knocked off the rails? and Could the module roof crack and fall on the canister? Response. The Standardized NUHOMS design described in the vendor's applications for approval and the SAR does not address vertical storage. Consequently, NRC neither evaluated nor approved vertical storage for the system. Therefore, it may not be stored vertically. The NRC reviewed the Standardized NUHOMS for compliance with design criteria that are more stringent than those of the BOCA National Building Code (NBC) (see response to Comment A.5). These more stringent criteria are included in national standards that more closely represent the use of the Standardized NUHOMS. Part 72 specifies a design basis maximum ground acceleration of 0.25g for areas east of the Rocky Mountain Front that are not in areas of known seismic activity. All HSMs and DSCs are designed to withstand a 0.25g earthquake. Any reactor licensee who intends to use the Standardized NUHOMS must verify that the maximum displacements at the cask's location on the reactor site are within the design criteria for the system. The Standardized NUHOMS is free standing and not dependent on the pad for safety. Failure of the pad caused by seismic events will not cause the Standardized NUHOMS to fail. Therefore, cask safety does not require the pad to be designed to withstand a seismic event. F.6. Comment. One commenter stated that the SAR did not include consideration of the accident events such as: aircraft crashes, turbine missiles, external fires, explosions, and sabotage.
