FR940805-2-00026 FR940805-2-00020 [OPPT&hyph;59340; FRL&hyph;4904&hyph;3] Certain Chemicals; Approval of a Test Marketing Exemption AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice announces EPA's approval of an application for test marketing exemption (TME) under section 5(h)(1) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) and 40 CFR 720.38. EPA has designated this application as TME&hyph;94&hyph;15. The test marketing conditions are described below. EFFECTIVE DATE: July 25, 1994. Written comments will be received until August 22, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Edna Pleasants, New Chemicals Branch, Chemical Control Division (7405), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, Environmental Protection Agency, Rm. E&hyph;613, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460, (202) 260&hyph;4142. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 5(h)(1) of TSCA authorizes EPA to exempt persons from premanufacture notification (PMN) requirements and permit them to manufacture or import new chemical substances for test marketing purposes if the Agency finds that the manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, use and disposal of the substances for test marketing purposes will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment. EPA may impose restrictions on test marketing activities and may modify or revoke a test marketing exemption upon receipt of new information which casts significant doubt on its finding that the test marketing activity will not present an unreasonable risk of injury. Inadvertently, notice of receipt of the application was not published. Therefore, an opportunity to submit comments is being offered at this time. The complete nonconfidential document is available in the TSCA Nonconfidential Information Center (NCIC), Rm. NE&hyph;B607 at the above address between 12 noon and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays. EPA may modify or revoke the test marketing exemption if comments are received which cast significant doubt on its finding that the test marketing activities will not present an unreasonable risk of injury. EPA hereby approves TME&hyph;94&hyph;15. EPA had determined that test marketing of the new chemical substance described below, under the conditions set out in the TME application, and for the time period and restrictions specified below, will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment. Production volume, use, and the number of customers must not exceed that specified in the application. All other conditions and restrictions described in the application and in this notice must be met. The following additional restriction applies to TME-94-15: The Company is prohibited from any predictable or purposeful release of the PMN substance, or any waste stream from manufacture, processing, or use containing the PMN substance, to the waters of the United States. T&hyph;94&hyph;15 Date of Receipt: June 10, 1994. The extended comment period will close (insert date 15 days after date of publication in the Federal Register ). Applicant: A and R materials, Inc. Chemical: Isotopically altered zinc oxide (IAZO). Use: Chemical additive to nuclear power plant coolant. Production Volume: 1,000 Kilograms. Number of Customers: One. Test Marketing Period: Twelve months, commencing on the first day of manufacture under this exemption. Risk Assessment: EPA identified no significant health concerns for the test market substance. Therefore, the test market activities will not present any unreasonable risk of injury to human health. EPA has concluded, if the TME substance were to be released to surface water, the TME substance may present an unreasonable risk of injury to the environment. Therefore, the company is prohibited from any predictable or purposeful release of the TME substance, or any waste stream from manufacture, processing, or use containing the TME substance, to the waters of the United States. The Agency reserves the right to rescind approval or modify the conditions and restrictions of an exemption should any new information come to its attention which casts significant doubt on its finding that the test marketing activities will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment. List of Subjects Environmental protection, Test marketing exemptions. Dated: July 25, 1994. Charles M. Auer, Director, Chemical Control Division, Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19195 Filed 8&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
