FR941221-2-00092 FR941221-2-00067 (B) Specific examples of actual and planned improvements that emanated from the performance measurement system; (C) The specific outcomes for customers that have been achieved by the local One-Stop system; (D) A description of any performance incentives or consequences/sanction for nonperformance; and (E) Provide copies of any customer feedback mechanisms (surveys, etc.) used to measure customer satisfaction with the services received. (b) The grant application must also include in its description of the local One-Stop system, the products and services available through the local labor market information network. More specifically, the grant application should: (i) Identify the level and sources of funding resources and other support for the LMI program; (ii) The level of detail and currency of information available on job opportunities in the local area, both now and in the future, the skill requirements of these jobs, and the wage rates; (iii) The extent to which both quantitative and qualitative information is available on education and training providers in the area; and, (iv) The methods that are used to make the information widely available to individuals throughout the community; including use of technology through kiosks or other innovative delivery techniques. (c) The grant application must also address specifically what training has been provided to enable staff to operate in a One-Stop environment; how training needs were assessed, including the role of front-line workers; how the value of the training was assessed; and plans for continuing/future training. 2. Proposal to serve as a local learning laboratory. The grant application must contain a proposal for how the local One-Stop Career Center system will serve as a ``learning laboratory'' for the development of a national One-Stop Career Center system. This section of the grant application should provide detail on: (a) The capabilities of the local One-Stop Career Center staff to provide technical assistance and to test innovations; (b) Unique features of the local system that provide the rationale for designating this local system a ``learning laboratory'' for the nation; (c) A plan for delivering technical assistance, including the target audience, materials to be developed and methods for dissemination and marketing of services available; (d) A plan for tracking and evaluating the effectiveness of the local One-Stop system in serving as a ``learning laboratory;'' and (e) The vision of how this local system fits into the broader statewide and, ultimately, national One-Stop Career Center system. 3. Proposal to Serve as a Local One-Stop ``test site.'' The grant application may contain a proposal to serve as a test site. It is important that a local entity be able to test various features or components of the One-Stop system in order to determine its workability and replication. Proposals must address the ability and willingness of the local site to be a test site and their capabilities in each area proposed. In this connection, applicants should be aware that ETA has an interest in ensuring that there is a diversity among sites in the approaches tested as part of this learning laboratory effort. Among the features ETA would like to test and is particularly interested in seeing operational in a local One-Stop Career Center system are: (a) Methodologies for assessing customer satisfaction and their use as a tool for continuous improvement;
