FR940722-1-00054 FR940722-1-00012 1. Almost 52 percent of the strikes occurred at altitudes of less than 100 feet, and 26.7 percent occurred between 101 and 1000 feet. 2. Eighty-five percent of the strikes occurred at airspeeds of 150 knots or less. 3. Where bird types were reported, 27.6 percent of the strikes involved small birds and 58.6 involved medium size birds (2 pounds or less). 4. Incidents where the airplane was damaged showed that 16.9 percent resulted from small bird strikes and 64 percent resulted from medium size bird strikes. These data show that most bird strikes occur at takeoff and landing altitudes and airspeeds, and that birds weighing two pounds or less are struck most often. The standards of the proposed provision are based on these statistics. Few fatalities and injuries resulted from the bird strikes reported in the ICAO data. Similarly, a review of NTSB accident records between 1982 and 1992 revealed no U.S. accidents resulting from bird strikes to the windshields of commuter category airplanes. As a result, the FAA is not able to illustrate the justification of this provision on the basis of historical accidents. Instead, the standards are being proposed based on the expert recommendations of the ARAC. It is also noted that this standard will be applied in JAA member countries and that U.S. manufacturers wishing to export to those countries would be required to meet the standard in any event. Given that this provision cannot be quantitatively supported on the basis of past accidents alone, the FAA expressly requests public input and comments on its expected costs and potential benefits. Section 23.783␣Doors Proposed new paragraph (f) would require that the locks on lavatory doors, if installed, be designed so that they would not trap occupants. Lavatory door locks used in transport category airplanes (see §25.783) meet the requirements of this proposed rule. The FAA estimates that the incremental cost of this provision would be no more than $25 per lock. The proposal would reduce the likelihood that occupants would be trapped in a locked lavatory, both in emergency and non-emergency situations. Section 23.787␣Baggage and Cargo Compartments The proposed rule would extend to normal, utility, and acrobatic airplanes the existing commuter requirement to prevent baggage from hazardous shifting. The FAA estimates that an aerospace engineer would be required for 1 hour, at a burdened cost of $60 per hour, to analyze the subject loads that would need to be constrained. Tiedowns would cost approximately $50 per baggage compartment, or no more than $100 per airplane. These additional costs would apply only to normal, utility, or acrobatic airplanes since commuter category airplanes are already subject to the requirement under the existing rule. The potential benefits of the proposed provision include the reduced likelihood: (1) That baggage compartments would be overloaded, (2) that stowed baggage would shift dangerously, and (3) that essential co-located equipment or wiring would be damaged. Section 23.791␣Passenger Information Signs This proposed new section would require at least one illuminated sign notifying all passengers when seat belts should be fastened. The requirement would apply only to airplanes where flightcrew members could not observe occupant seats or where the flightcrew compartment is separated from the passenger compartment. The signs would have to be legible to all seated passengers and be operable from a crewmember station. The FAA estimates that an aerospace engineer could design the required sign(s) in 1 hour, at a burdened rate of $60 per hour. The sign would cost approximately $200 per airplane, including parts and installation costs. Maintenance costs for bulb replacement would be negligible. The weight penalty associated with the light system would also be minor (no more than 2 pounds). The safety benefits of the proposed change would derive from the increased likelihood that passengers would know when their seat belts should be fastened. Section 23.807␣Emergency Exits Proposed new §23.807(a)(4) would provide the same hazard protection for a person using an emergency exit as that provided by proposed §23.783(b) for a person who uses a passenger door. Emergency exits could not be located with respect to a propeller disk or any other hazard in a manner that would endanger persons using that exit. The FAA holds that no incremental cost would be incurred to meet the standards of the proposed provision for newly certificated airplanes. However, this notice specifically requests that interested parties submit comments on the potential costs and methods of compliance that manufacturers would choose to comply with this proposed requirement.
