FR940617-2-00063 FR940617-2-00041 Golden Field Office; Federal Assistance Award to Southern California Edison Company AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of Financial Assistance Award in Response to an Unsolicited Financial Assistance Application. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), pursuant to the DOE Financial Assistance Rules, 10 CFR 600.7, is announcing its intention to enter into a cooperative agreement with Southern California Edison (SCE) Company for an on-grid photovoltaics (PV) implementation program. ADDRESSES: Questions regarding this announcement may be addressed to the U.S. Department of Energy, Golden Field Office, 1617 Cole Blvd., Golden, Colorado 80401, Attention: J.W. Meeker, Contract Specialist. The telephone number is 303&hyph;275&hyph;4748. Dr. Paul K. Kearns is the Contracting Officer. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: DOE has evaluated, in accordance with ยง600.14 of the Federal Assistance Regulations, the unsolicited proposal entitled ``PV Implementation Program'' and recommends that the unsolicited proposal be accepted for support without further competition in accordance with ยง600.14 of the Federal Assistance Regulations. DOE is actively pursuing a program towards solar energy conversion, with one major objective being the cost-effective application of photovoltaics (PV) in utility applications. This SCE activity directly relates to the program objective and could be a significant step toward the implementation of PV in utility applications. The proposal from SCE is a unique opportunity to install PV in a utility application which is likely to be one of the closest to being cost effective in the near term. In addition, SCE is active in the promotion of renewable energy sources and is an ideal utility candidate to pursue the proposed PV application. The proposed application involves using PV to meet peak load requirements on selected SCE electric distribution circuits. The circuits of interest are old, underground 4 kV circuits which have reached the limit of their load-carrying capability. The circuits serve residential areas which have seen recent growth in peak load requirements so that the circuits will soon exceed their limit during the summer peak load period. Without PV, the main alternative is to replace the circuits by excavating city streets and landscaping to install new underground, high-capacity cable. Installing PV to meet the peak load requirements on these circuits results in the deferment of this significant cable replacement expense. SCE estimated that replacement of about 200 miles of underground 4 kV circuits in their system could be deferred by the use of grid-connected PV. This would require approximately 25 MW of PV to meet the peak loads on these circuits. The successful implementation of this project would provide: 1. The installation of on-grid PV systems in high-value, distributed-generation locations. 2. Major sustained PV procurements over several years, resulting in a stimulus to suppliers. 3. PV price reductions which are expected to occur from large, sequential installations. 4. Consistent, professionally-designed PV installations which will serve as demonstrations for other utilities and industries. 5. A cleaner environment in the SCE service area. The proposed on-grid PV installations are well-suited to the SCE service area. Several candidate 4 kV circuits have been identified for the displacement of peak loads by grid-connected PV, with a sufficiently large number of potential additional circuits to allow the project to develop into a major PV demonstration if warranted. Preliminary surveys conducted by SCE indicate that sufficient space will be available in the residential areas to allow PV installations.
