FR940513-0-00124 FR940513-0-00032 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 50 CFR Part 301 [Docket No. 940425&hyph;4125; I.D. 041894A] Pacific Halibut Fisheries AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Notice of control date for charterboat entry into the Pacific halibut sport fishery. SUMMARY: NMFS announces that any charterboat entering the Pacific halibut sport fishery off Washington, Oregon, and California after March 10, 1994, may not be assured of future access to the fishery if a limited access regime is developed and implemented. The intended effect of announcing this control date is to discourage speculative entry into the Pacific halibut fisheries in this area while discussions by the Pacific Fishery Management Council (Council) on access control continue. EFFECTIVE DATE: March 10, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Joe Scordino, 206&hyph;526&hyph;6140, or Lawrence D. Six, 503&hyph;326&hyph;6352. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Northern Pacific Halibut Act of 1982 (Halibut Act) at 16 U.S.C. 773c provides that the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) shall have general responsibility to carry out the Halibut Convention between the United States and Canada, and that the Secretary shall adopt such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purposes and objectives of the Convention and the Halibut Act. The Halibut Act at 16 U.S.C. 773c(c) also authorizes the Regional Fishery Management Council having authority for the geographic area concerned to develop regulations governing the Pacific halibut catch in U.S. Convention waters that are in addition to, but not in conflict with, regulations of the International Pacific Halibut Commission (IPHC). Pursuant to this authority, the Council has recommended allocations between user groups and restrictions on catch and fishing effort in the Pacific halibut fishery off Washington, Oregon, and California (IPHC statistical Area 2A). Pacific halibut in Area 2A are harvested in treaty Indian fisheries and in non-Indian commercial and sport fisheries. Because the total harvest in any one of these three fisheries can exceed the total allowable catch (TAC) for Area 2A, Catch Sharing Plans (Plan) that allocate the TAC in Area 2A have been implemented by the Secretary each year since 1988. The intended effect of each year's Plan is to ensure the conservation and management of Pacific halibut stocks by limiting the total harvest to a biologically acceptable level while equitably distributing the allowable harvest among user groups in Area 2A. However, because of decreased TACs in recent years and increased user access, additional measures to restrict fishing effort within the non-Indian commercial and recreational fisheries have been necessary. For example, the non-Indian commercial fishery has been limited by the IPHC to a single 10-hour opening with vessel trip limits to prevent this fishery from exceeding its allocation. Also, sport fisheries in some geographic areas have been limited to 1- or 2-day seasons to prevent allocations from being exceeded. In order to maintain viable Pacific halibut fisheries in Area 2A without exceeding the domestic allocations or the conservation goals established by the IPHC, the Council is considering development of additional management measures including limited access regimes to control fishing effort starting in 1995. Access to the Pacific halibut sport fishery currently is not limited, although charterboat operators must obtain a fishing license from the IPHC. At the March 8&hyph;11, 1994, public meeting in Portland, Oregon, the Council met to address concerns about the additional charterboats entering the sport fishery, additional effort restrictions in the sport fisheries and priorities for future participation by charterboats in Area 2A Pacific halibut fishery. The control date of March 10, 1994, was adopted at this meeting and public notice was provided. A charterboat in the Pacific halibut fishery is defined at 50 CFR 301.2 as follows: `` Charter vessel means a vessel used for hire in sport fishing for halibut, but not including a vessel without a hired operator''. For the non-Indian commercial fisheries, during its November 12&hyph;15, 1991, public meeting in Millbrae, California, the Council adopted November 13, 1991, as a control date to be used in determining priorities for issuance and shares in a potential individual quota-based limited access system or other access controls for Pacific coast groundfish fisheries, as well as the Area 2A Pacific halibut non-Indian commercial fishery. Notice of this control date and its implications for the non-Indian commercial fishery for Pacific halibut in Area 2A was published in the Federal Register on February 5, 1992 (57 FR 4394). At its March public meeting in Oregon, the Council reaffirmed the November 13, 1991, control date for future access to the non-Indian commercial halibut fishery if a limited access regime is developed and implemented. This announcement of a control date does not commit the Council or the Secretary to any particular management regime or priority criteria for access to the halibut fisheries. As the Council further develops a halibut limited access program, fishing activity in the halibut fishery in Area 2A, prior to the control date, may be considered in determining eligibility and allocating harvest shares under a future access limitation program. Fishermen are not necessarily guaranteed issuance of permits or access, regardless of their activity prior to the control dates. The Council may recommend additional criteria for qualifying fishermen or vessels as participants in the halibut fishery. Some additional criteria that were applied to the groundfish fishery in Amendment 6 to the Pacific Coast Groundfish Fishery Management Plan were minimum amounts landed and minimum numbers of landings. The Council also may choose to take no further action to control entry or access to the fisheries. This announcement does not prevent the development or implementation of other eligibility criteria or restrict the type of management regime selected for limited access. Authority: 5 UST 5; TIAS 2900; 16 U.S.C. 773&hyph;773(k). Dated: May 6, 1994. Charles Karnella, Acting Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, National Marine Fisheries Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11729 Filed 5&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;P
