FR941004-1-00108 FR941004-1-00018 (4) Drop-in centers to afford families opportunities for informal interaction with other families and with program staff; (5) Information and referral services to afford families access to other community services, including child care, health care, nutrition programs, adult education and literacy programs, and counseling and mentoring services; and (6) Early developmental screening of children to assess the needs of such children, and assistance to families in securing specific services to meet these needs. Joint Planning means an ongoing partnership process between ACF and the State and between ACF and an Indian tribe for the review and analysis of the State's and the Indian tribe's child and family services, including analysis of the service needs of children, youth, and families; selection of unmet service needs that will be addressed; and development of goals and objectives that will result in improved outcomes for children and families and the development of a more comprehensive, coordinated and effective child and family services delivery system. 13. Section 1357.15 is revised to read as follows: ยง1357.15 Comprehensive child and family services plan requirements. (a) Scope . (1) This section describes the requirements for the development and implementation of the five-year comprehensive child and family services plan (CFSP). The State's CFSP must meet the requirements of both of the following programs; the Indian tribe's CFSP must meet the requirements of one or both of the following programs depending on the Tribe's eligibility: (i) child welfare services under title IV&hyph;B, subpart 1; and (ii) family preservation and family support services under title IV&hyph;B, subpart 2. (2) For States only, the CFSP also must contain information on the following programs: (i) The independent living program under title IV&hyph;E, section 477 of the Act; and (ii) Two child abuse and neglect formula grant programs under the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (CAPTA): Part I (Basic State grants) and Part II (Medical Neglect/Disabled Infants State grants) (sections 107(a) and 107(g) of CAPTA). (3) States must meet all requirements of this section except those that apply only to Indian tribes. Indian tribes must meet the requirements of this section only as specified. (b) Eligibility for funds . (1) In order to receive funding under title IV&hyph;B, subparts 1 and 2, beginning in FY 1995, each State and eligible Indian tribe must submit and have approved a five-year Child and Family Services Plan (CFSP); beginning in FY 1996, each grantee must submit and have approved an Annual Progress and Services Report that meets the statutory and regulatory requirements of title IV&hyph;B, subparts 1 and 2. (2) The CFSP will be approved only if the plan was developed jointly by ACF and the State (or the Indian tribe), and only after broad consultation by the State (and the Indian tribe) with a wide range of appropriate public and non-profit private agencies and community-based organizations with experience in administering programs of services for children and families (including family preservation and support services). (3) The Annual Progress and Services Report will be approved if it was developed jointly by ACF and the State (or the Indian tribe) and if it meets the requirements of 45 CFR 1357.16. (4) The five-year CFSP for FYs 1995&hyph;1999 may be submitted in the format of the State's or the Indian tribe's choice and must be submitted no later than June 30, 1995, to the appropriate ACF Regional Office. (c) Assurances . The CFSP must contain the assurances applicable to each title IV&hyph;B program. The assurances will remain in effect on an ongoing basis and will need to be re-submitted only if a significant change in the State or the Indian tribe's program affects an assurance. (d) The child and family services plan (CFSP): General . The State and the Indian tribe must base the development of the CFSP on a planning process that includes:
