FR940106-1-00117 FR940106-1-00013 Summary of Factors Affecting the Species Section 4 of the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) and regulations (50 CFR part 424) promulgated to implement the listing provisions of the Act set forth the procedures for adding species to the Federal Lists. A species may be determined to be endangered or threatened because of one or more of the five factors described in section 4(a)(1). These factors and their application to the Sacramento splittail ( Pogonichthys macrolepidotus ) are as follows: A. The Present or Threatened Destruction, Modification, or Curtailment of Its Habitat or Range The Sacramento splittail was once widely distributed in the Central Valley of California from Redding to the modern-day site of Friant Dam near the City of Fresno. It is now restricted to western, northern, and southern portions of the Delta due to dams, diversions, dredging, and the diking and filling of historic flood basins. Within the species' constricted range, splittail have declined by 62 percent since 1984. However, the overall percentage decline over its historical range is much greater. Populations have fluctuated somewhat in the past, with most recruitment taking place in wet years. In wet years since 1976, however, splittail recruitment has declined consistently with catches per unit effort of 12.3, 8.1, 2.0, 1.3, and 0.3 for 1978, 1982, 1983, 1986, and 1993, respectively. Splittail declines are highest (82 percent) in the shallow-water Suisun Bay area, which is the center of its distribution. This may reflect the loss of productive brackish-water habitat in Suisun and Grizzly Bays due to increased salinities caused by low outflows. Currently, Delta water diversions and exports total to about 9 million acre-feet per year. Federal and State projects presently export about 6 million acre-feet per year when sufficient water is available, and in-Delta agricultural uses result in diversion of about 3 million additional acre-feet per year. Plans currently being prepared could potentially induce increased exports and diversions in the future. The Service knows of 22 major Central Valley Project, State Water Project, or private organization proposals that would result in increased water exports from the Delta, reduced water inflow to the Delta, changes in the timing and volume of Delta inflow, or increases in heavy metal contamination of the Delta. These proposed projects or actions include but are not limited to Central Valley Project Operations Criteria and Plan (including Friant Contract Renewals), Los Banos Grandes Reservoir, Los Vaqueros Reservoir, South Delta Water Management Program, South Delta Water Barriers Project, North Delta Water Management Project, West Delta Water Management Project, Coastal Aqueduct proposal, Delta Wetlands Corporation Water Storage Project, Folsom Dam Reoperation, Oroville Dam Reoperation, Auburn Dam, Central Valley Project contract renewals, the Central Valley Project and State Water Project wheeling purchase agreement, reactivation of the San Luis Drain, Stanislaus-Calaveras River Basin Water Use Program, Suisun Marsh Project Phase Three and Four, Kern Water Bank, Arvin Edison water storage and exchange proposal, Federal Water Project change in diversion point, and State Water Project Pump additions. These projects would modify or destroy the habitat of this species. Because the Federal pumping plant has been operated at capacity for many years except for a few drought years, increased exports at this plant appear unlikely. However, the State Water Project pumping plant and the capacity of the State Aqueduct have considerable unused capacity. The California Department of Water Resources (1992) reported the past and projected State Water Project deliveries from Delta sources during the years of 1962 to 2035. In the 1980s, deliveries ranged from 1.5 million acre-feet to 2.8 million acre-feet. By 2010, deliveries of up to 4.2 million acre-feet are planned. Since 1983, the proportion of water exported from the Delta during October through March has been higher than in earlier years (Moyle et al. 1992). The timing of these proportionally higher exports have coincided with the spawning season of the splittail. Federal and State water diversion projects in the southern Delta export, by absolute volume, mostly Sacramento River water with some San Joaquin River water. Moreover, during periods of high export pumping and low to moderate river outflows, reaches of the San Joaquin River reverse direction and flow upstream to the pumping plants located in the southern Delta. The State-operated pumping plant presently exports water at rates up to 6,400 cubic feet per second (cfs). The State is considering proposals to export an additional 3,900 cfs. The Federal pumping plant can export water at rates up to 4,600 cfs. In addition, local private diverters export up to 5,000 cfs from about 1,800 diversions scattered throughout the Delta. When total diversion rates are high relative to Delta outflow, and the lower San Joaquin River and other channels have a net upstream (i.e., reverse or negative) flow, out-migrating larval and juvenile fish of many species become disoriented. Large mortalities occur as a result of loss to pumps and predation by striped bass at the various water facilities and other diversion sites. Because data from State and Federal pumping facilities indicate that splittail migrate upstream to spawn, positive outflows are also important to transport splittail young downstream (Meng 1993). In recent years, the number of days of reversed San Joaquin River flow have increased (Moyle et al. 1992), particularly during the February-June spawning months for splittail. All size classes of splittail young suffer near total loss when they are entrained by the pumping plants and diversions in the south Delta. Few young are effectively salvaged at the Federal and State pumping plant screens. This species' embryonic, larval, and postlarval mortality rates also are higher when reduced outflows cause increases in salinity and relocation of the entrapment zone (Moyle and Yoshiyama 1992).
