FR940819-2-00030 FR940819-2-00011 Department's Position: Consistent with our finding in the Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value; Ferrosilicon from Brazil, 59 FR 732, 739, January 6, 1994, we have determined that the number of furnaces is not an adequate basis for allocating labor or other fabrication costs. The number of furnaces in a facility is an arbitrary measure which does not necessarily reflect the actual level of labor and overhead expended in the production of the subject merchandise. In the instant case, output tons is a more accurate allocation basis because these costs are directly related to production amounts. Therefore, we have revised the submitted costs to reflect an allocation based on actual production units. Comment 28: Eletrosilex contends that the Department incorrectly based its conversions of certain cruzeiro-denominated expenses (inland freight, port charges, ocean freight, warehousing, and packing) on the U.S. sale date. Eletrosilex argues that the Department's policy in countries with hyperinflationary economies is to base currency conversions on the date that the expenses were incurred. Eletrosilex requests that the Department follow this policy with respect to the conversion into dollars of the cruzeiro-denominated expenses outlined above. Department's Position: We agree. As is our standard practice in cases where the economy is hyperinflationary, we based our currency conversions on the date that the cost was incurred, rather than on the date of the U.S. sale (see Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value, Industrial Nitrocellulose from Yugoslavia (55 FR 34946, 34949, August 27, 1990), and Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value, Oil Country Tubular Goods from Israel (52 FR 1511, 1513, January 14, 1987)). We have adjusted our final calculations for Eletrosilex accordingly. Comment 29: Eletrosilex contends that the allocation of G&A and selling expenses that the Department used in its preliminary results is improper because it does not accurately reflect Eletrosilex's experience as a silicon metal producer and seller during the period of review. Eletrosilex notes that the Department relied upon the 1991 financial statement to perform this calculation, and that these financial statements do not fully reflect Eletrosilex's experience for the review period. Eletrosilex contends 1991 was an ``aberrational year'' in which it incurred G&A and selling expenses which were unrelated to the production of silicon metal. Eletrosilex indicates that on March 10, 1993, it submitted total G&A and selling expenses by month for every month included in the period of review. Eletrosilex urges the Department to derive G&A and selling expenses by summing all selling expenses and dividing the total amount of these expenses by the total COM that Eletrosilex reported for the period March 29, 1991 through June 30, 1992. Department's Position: As noted in our response to Comment 11, our current practice in cases in which the economy is hyperinflationary is to apply the G&A and selling expenses ratio to each month's COM calculated on a historical basis. We did not ask Eletrosilex to supply historical COM information in this review. Accordingly, as a reasonable alternative to our current practice, we have summed all selling expenses reported by Eletrosilex for the period of review, and divided this total amount by the total COM that Eletrosilex reported for the review period. Comment 30: RIMA contends that the Department's December 22, 1993 COP/CV verification report incorrectly characterized its personnel as ``unwilling'' to supply worksheets, schedules, and source documents. RIMA states that it cooperated with the verification team and that the difficulties encountered during the verification were due to: (1) The fact that the verification outline was not made available to RIMA until a week before commencement of the verification, (2) the company had never previously undergone a verification, (3) there had been a good deal of turnover in the company and the personnel responsible for the verification did not participate in the preparation of the response, and (4) the verification began on Saturday, continued through Sunday, and a Brazilian national holiday.
