FR940317-1-00041 FR940317-1-00011 50. Stale checks. The Commission's correspondent bank for fee collections will not process a personal or business check dated more than six months prior to its submission. Therefore, we propose to revise §1.1108(a) of the rules to make clear that these ``stale'' checks will not be accepted as fee payments. Under this revision, and consistent with the Uniform Commercial Code, we will not accept any instrument of payment dated more than six months prior to the date of its filing with the lockbox bank, and we will return to the filer any application or other filing submitted with a stale payment instrument. 51. Receipts. Next, with regard to receipts requested for application fee payments, the Commission's practice is to furnish receipts only upon specific requests of the submitter rather than to provide receipts automatically for all fee payments received. We propose to clarify these procedures by amending §1.1108 of the rules. In order to obtain a receipt for a fee payment, we propose to require that the application and fee package include a copy of the first page of the application or other filing, clearly marked ``copy'', submitted expressly for the purpose of serving as a receipt of the filing. The copy should be the top document in the fee payment package. The staff will date-stamp the copy immediately and provide it to the bearer of the submission, if hand delivered. For submissions by mail, the receipt copy will be provided through return mail if the filer has attached to the receipt copy a stamped self-addressed envelope of sufficient size to contain the date stamped copy of the application. We do not intend to provide receipts for regulatory fee payments. 52. Electronic payment. In addition, pursuant to our proposal above regarding the submission of regulatory fee payments by electronic means, we propose to amend §§1.1107 and 1.1108 of the rules to allow the payment of application and other filing fees by electronic means. Although such a system for electronic payment is not yet in place, we believe that it is appropriate in this proceeding, and in conjunction with the development of our pilot project, to propose changing these rules at this time and to seek comment on one particular aspect of this payment method as it specifically applies to applications and other filings. Specifically, we are concerned about matching electronically paid fees with submitted hard-copy applications. If a party chooses to pay its application filing fee electronically, we believe that it should follow existing procedures for filing its application at the lockbox bank. However, in lieu of the current payment methods, the party will indicate on its remittance advice (FCC Form 159 or the underlying application form with fee information incorporated therein) that payment is being sent to the bank electronically. We tentatively conclude that in such situations the electronic payment must be made on or before the day the application is filed. Upon receipt of an application, the bank will confirm that a fee payment has been received electronically. If the electronic payment is not received on the filing date, the application or request would be returned without processing. We believe these procedures are necessary to ensure the most efficient processing of electronic fee payments (when authorized) and applications or other filings. Finally, during the pilot phase of our electronic payment program, regulatees will be required to obtain our authorization before making electronic fee payments. 53. One-check/one-application rule. We propose to modify our rules to allow the use of a single payment instrument or method to cover multiple applications for the same or different applicants, so long as all the applications are filed at the same time at the same lockbox. Any applicant desiring to pay for multiple regulatory/application filings in the same lockbox with a single payment instrument, or when paying by credit card, must also complete FCC Form 159, FCC Remittance Advice. Each item must be listed separately on the form with its own Payment Type Code. If another space is needed for multiple filings, the applicant must use FCC Form 159&hyph;S, FCC Supplemental Remittance Advice. 17 17 All non-private radio section 9 regulatory fee payers must use FCC Form 159/159S when submitting single or multiple regulatory fees. Under current application fee rules, applicants are required to submit one check and one application. However, effective April 1, 1994, applicants will also be allowed to pay for multiple filings in the same lockbox with a single payment instrument. These applicants must also use FCC Form 159/159S for multiple filings. 54. Payment by cashier's check required. Section 1.1108(d)(1)(i) of the Commission's Rules provides that payment of fees by cashier's check may be required when a person or organization has, on two or more occasions, made payment with a payment instrument on which the Commission does not receive final payment and such failure is not excused by bank error. 47 CFR 1.1108(d)(1)(i); see also id. §1.1110(a). Under these circumstances, the Commission will send a letter detailing the terms and conditions of future payments, including a requirement that no form of payment, other than a cashier's check is acceptable. Despite this apparently strict response to ``bounced'' checks and other insufficient payment instruments, we continue to receive numerous checks that are not drawn on sufficient funds for payment. To ensure that payment instruments will result in a final payment being made to the Commission, we believe that our cashier's check safeguard should be strengthened. Accordingly, we propose that, when a person or organization has, on a single occasion, submitted a payment instrument on which final payment is not received (and not excused by bank error), we will immediately notify the party that future fee payments must be made by cashier's check. If, subsequent to such notice, payment is not made by a cashier's check, that party's other payment instrument will not be accepted and its application or other filing will be returned. 55. Filing locations for petitions, waivers, and deferrals. Finally, we will be making a few ministerial changes to the rules. Specifically, we will revise §§1.1109(a)(3) and 1.1115 to clarify that any petition for reconsideration, application for review, and any petition for waiver or deferral of a fee payment, accompanied by an application or regulatory fee payment, must be submitted to the lockbox bank. If no fee payment is required and the matter is within the scope of the fee rules, the petition or application for review should be filed with the Secretary and clearly marked to the attention of the Managing Director. Petitions for deferral or waiver for which no fee payment is required should also be directed to the attention of the Managing Director.
