FR940127-1-00033 FR940127-1-00011 Critical Habitat Definition of Critical Habitat Critical habitat is defined in section 3(5)(A) of the Act as: ``(i) the specific areas within the geographical area occupied by the species␣*␣*␣* on which are found those physical or biological features (I) essential to the conservation of the species and (II) which may require special management considerations or protection; and (ii) specific areas outside the geographical area occupied by the species at the time it is listed␣*␣*␣* upon a determination␣*␣*␣* that such areas are essential for the conservation of the species.'' The term ``conservation,'' as defined in section 3(3) of the Act, means ``*␣*␣*␣to use and the use of all methods and procedures which are necessary to bring any endangered species or threatened species to the point at which the measures provided pursuant to this Act are no longer necessary␣*␣*␣*.'' Role in Species Conservation The use of the term ``conservation'' in the definition of critical habitat indicates that its designation should identify lands that may be needed for a species' eventual recovery and delisting. However, when critical habitat is designated at the time a species is listed or before a recovery plan is completed, the Service frequently does not know all the habitat areas that may be essential for a species' recovery. In this regard, critical habitat serves to preserve options for a species' eventual recovery. The designation of critical habitat is one of several measures available to contribute to the conservation of a listed species. Critical habitat helps focus conservation activities by identifying areas that contain essential habitat features (primary constituent elements), regardless of whether or not they are currently occupied by the listed species, thus alerting the public to the importance of an area in the species' conservation. Critical habitat also identifies areas that may require special management or protection. The added emphasis on these areas for conservation of the species may shorten the time needed to achieve recovery. Critical habitat receives consideration under section 7 of the Act with regard to actions carried out, authorized, or funded by a Federal agency. Federal agencies must ensure that their actions do not result in destruction or adverse modification of critical habitat. Aside from this added consideration under section 7, the Act does not provide any additional protection to lands designated as critical habitat. Designating critical habitat does not create a management plan for the areas, establish numerical population goals or prescribe specific management actions (inside or outside of critical habitat), or have a direct effect on areas not designated as critical habitat. Specific management recommendations for critical habitat are addressed in recovery plans, management plans, and in section 7 consultations. Primary Constituent Elements A designation of critical habitat begins by identifying areas on which are found the physical and biological features essential to conservation of a species. In determining which areas to designate as critical habitat, the Service considers those physical and biological features that are essential to a species' conservation and that may require special management considerations or protection. Such physical and biological features, as stated in 50 CFR 424.12, include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) Space for individual and population growth, and for normal behavior; (2) Food, water, air, light, minerals or other nutritional or physiological requirements; (3) Cover or shelter; (4) Sites for breeding, reproduction, rearing of offspring; and
