FR940617-2-00163 FR940617-2-00093 Exhibit A The French underwriters (and their affiliates) will, and the other Underwriters (and their affiliates) may, continue to engage in the transactions and other activities described below, in France and elsewhere outside the United States, in respect of the securities being distributed, securities of the same class and series as the securities being distributed, and securities convertible into, exchangeable for, or giving a right to acquire, the foregoing securities, and derivatives thereof (collectively, the ``Relevant Securities''), during the distribution period, in accordance with exemptions obtained from the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ``Commission'') from the application outside the United States of rules 10b&hyph;6, 10b&hyph;7 and 10b&hyph;8 under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such exemptions are subject to certain exceptions, limitations and conditions set out in the Commission's exemption, including compliance with French law. The activities referred to above are (a) buying and selling Relevant Securities for the accounts of such Underwriters (or their affiliates), whether for purposes of risk management in connection with the offering, arbitrage or otherwise, (b) buying and selling Relevant Securities on behalf of customers, (c) advising customers as to the purchase or sale of Relevant Securities, including publication of specific company and industry research reports, (d) engaging in securities lending transactions in Relevant Securities and (e) stabilizing the market (as described below). As a result of these activities, the Underwriters may at any time be short or long in Relevant Securities. It is general market practice in France for the Underwriters, and the lead Underwriter in particular, to maintain an orderly market in subscription rights and existing shares, and it is expected that the lead Underwriter will take measures to avoid extreme price fluctuations during the distribution period. The activities referred to above may result in the market prices of the Relevant Securities being different from those that might otherwise have prevailed in the open market if rules 10b&hyph;6, 10b&hyph;7 and 10b&hyph;8 had applied in France and elsewhere outside the United States. United States Securities and Exchange Commission; Division of Market Regulation June 7, 1994. M. Pierre Fleuriot, Directeur General, Commission des Operations de Bourse, 39&hyph;43 Quai Andre Citroen, 75739 Paris cedex 15, France Re: Distributions of Certain French Securities, File No. TP 94&hyph;199 Dear Monsieur Fleuriot: In regard to your letter dated June 7, 1994, as supplemented by conversations with the staff, this response thereto is attached to the enclosed photocopy of your correspondence. By doing this, we avoid having to recite or summarize the facts set forth in your letter. Each defined term in this letter has the same meaning as defined in your letter, unless otherwise noted herein. Response On the basis of your representations and the facts presented, the Commission hereby grants exemptions from rules 10b&hyph;6, 10b&hyph;7, and 10b&hyph;8 to distribution participants, as defined in rule 10b&hyph;6(c)(6)(ii), including issuers of Qualified French Securities (as defined below), and their affiliated purchasers, as defined in rule 10b&hyph;6(c)(6)(i) (collectively, ``Relevant Parties''), in connection with transactions in Relevant Securities (as defined below) outside the United States during distributions of Qualified French Securities subject to the following terms, conditions, and limitations: I. Securities A. The security being distributed (``Qualified French Security'') must: 1. be issued by: (i) a ``foreign private issuer'' within the meaning of rule 3b&hyph;4 under the Exchange Act incorporated under the laws of France, which issuer (``French Issuer'') has outstanding a component security of the CAC 40 Index; 1 or (ii) a subsidiary of a French Issuer; and 1 References to the CAC 40 Index refer to the composition of the index on the date of this letter; provided, however, that any security added to the CAC 40 Index after the date of this letter also will be treated as a Qualified French Security if its issuer satisfies the requirements in paragraph I.A.1. and such security has an aggregate market value that equals or exceeds the equivalent of FF6 billion (which exceeded US$1 billion as of June 6, 1994) and an average daily trading volume that equals or exceeds the equivalent of FF30 million (which exceeded US$5 million as of June 6, 1994) as published by ``foreign financial regulatory authorities'' (as defined below) and any U.S. securities exchanges or automated inter-dealer quotation systems, during a period (``Reference Period'') that is 20 consecutive business days in Paris within 60 consecutive calendar days prior to the commencement of the Covered Period as defined in paragraph III.A. below. 2. Satisfy one of the following: i. Be a CAC 40 Index component security; or ii. Be an equity security of a French Issuer having an average daily trading volume that equals or exceeds the equivalent of FF30 million (which exceeded US$5 million as of June 6, 1994), as published by foreign financial regulatory authorities (``FFRAs'') 2 and any U.S. securities exchanges or automated inter-dealer quotation systems during the Reference Period; or 2 An FFRA is defined in Section 3(a)(51) of the Exchange Act, 5 U.S.C. 78(c)(51), as any: (A) foreign securities authority; (B) other governmental body or foreign equivalent of a self-regulatory organization empowered by a foreign government to administer or enforce its laws relating to the regulation of fiduciaries, trusts, commercial lending, insurance, trading in contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery, or other instruments traded on or subject to the rules of a contract market, board of trade, or foreign equivalent, or other financial activities; or (C) membership organization a function of which is to regulate participation of its members in the activities listed above. For purposes of this letter, the Societe des Bourses Francaises is considered to be an FFRA. iii. Be a security that is convertible into, exchangeable for, or a right to acquire a security of a French Issuer described in paragraph I.A.2.(i) or (ii) above. B. ``Relevant Security'' means: 1. A Qualified French Security; or 2. A security of the same class and series as, or a right to purchase, a Qualified French Security.
