FR940304-1-00060 FR940304-1-00011 For the reasons set out in the preamble, 40 CFR part 261 is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 261_IDENTIFICATION AND LISTING OF HAZARDOUS WASTE 1. The authority citation for part 261 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 6905, 6912(a), 6921, 6922, and 6938. 2. In Table 1 of Appendix IX of Part 261, it is proposed to add the following wastestream in alphabetical order by facility to read as follows: Appendix IX to Part 261_Wastes Excluded Under §§260.20 and 260.22 Table 1._ Wastes Excluded From Non-Specific Sources 1Facility 1Address 1Waste description ␣ *␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣ *␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣ *␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣ *␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣ *␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣ *␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣ * Bethlehem Steel Corporation Sparrows Point, Maryland Stabilized filter cake (at a maximum annual rate of 1100 cubic yards) from the treatment of wastewater treatment sludges (EPA Hazardous Waste No. F006) generated from electroplating operations after [insert date of final rule]. Bethlehem Steel (BSC) must implement a testing program that meets the following conditions for the exclusion to be valid: ␣ l (1) Testing: Sample collection and analyses (including quality control (QC) procedures) must be performed according to SW&hyph;846 methodologies. If EPA judges the stabilization process to be effective under the conditions used during the initial verification testing, BSC may replace the testing required in Condition (1)(A) with the testing required in Condition (1)(B). BSC must continue to test as specified in Condition (1)(A) until and unless notified by EPA in writing that testing in Condition (1)(A) may be replaced by Condition (1)(B) (to the extent directed by EPA). ␣ l (A) Initial Verification Testing: During at least the first eight weeks of operation of the full-scale treatment system, BSC must collect and analyze weekly composites representative of the stabilized waste. Weekly composites must be composed of representative grab samples collected from every batch during each week of stabilization. The composite samples must be collected and analyzed, prior to the disposal of the stabilized filter cake, for all constituents listed in Condition (3). BSC must report the analytical test data, including a record of the ratios of lime kiln dust and fly ash used and quality control information, obtained during this initial period no later than 60 days after the collection of the last composite of stabilized filter cake. ␣ l (B) Subsequent Verification Testing: Following written notification by EPA, BSC may substitute the testing condition in (1)(B) for (1)(A). BSC must collect and analyze at least one composite representative of the stabilized filter cake generated each month. Monthly composites must be comprised of representative samples collected from all batches that are stabilized in a one-month period. The monthly samples must be analyzed prior to the disposal of the stabilized filter cake for chromium, lead and nickel. BSC may, at its discretion, analyze composite samples more frequently to demonstrate that smaller batches of waste are non-hazardous. ␣ l (C) Annual Verification Testing: In order to confirm that the characteristics of the waste do not change significantly over time, BSC must, on an annual basis, analyze a representative composite sample of stabilized filter cake for all TC constituents listed in 40 CFR 261.24 using the method specified therein. This composite sample must represent the stabilized filter cake generated over one week. ␣ l (2) Waste Holding and Handling: BSC must store, as hazardous, all stabilized filter cake generated until verification testing (as specified in Conditions (1)(A) and (1)(B)) is completed and valid analyses demonstrate that the delisting levels set forth in Condition (3) are met. If the levels of hazardous constituents measured in the samples of stabilized filter cake generated are below all the levels set forth in Condition (3), then the stabilized filter cake is non-hazardous and may be managed and disposed of in accordance with all applicable solid waste regulations. If hazardous constituent levels in any weekly or monthly composite sample equal or exceed any of the delisting levels set in Condition (3), the stabilized filter cake generated during the time period corresponding to this sample must be retreated until it is below these levels or managed and disposed of in accordance with Subtitle C of RCRA. ␣ l (3) Delisting Levels: All concentrations must be measured in the waste leachate by the method specified in 40 CFR 261.24. The leachable concentrations for the constituents must be below the following levels (ppm): arsenic_4.8; barium_100; cadmium_0.48; chromium_5.0; lead_1.4; mercury_0.19; nickel_9.6; selenium _1.0; silver_5.0. ␣ l (4) Changes in Operating Conditions: After completing the initial verification test period in Condition (1)(A), if BSC decides to significantly change the stabilization process ( e.g ., stabilization reagents) developed under Condition (1), then BSC must notify EPA in writing prior to instituting the change. After written approval by EPA, BSC may manage waste generated from the changed process as non-hazardous under this exclusion, provided the other conditions of this exclusion are fulfilled. ␣ l (5) Data Submittals: Two weeks prior to system start-up, BSC must notify in writing the Section Chief, Delisting Section (see address below) when stabilization of the dewatered filter cake will begin. The data obtained through Condition (1)(A) must be submitted to the Section Chief, Delisting Section, OSW (OS&hyph;333), U.S. EPA, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460 within the time period specified. The analytical data, including quality control information and records of ratios of lime kiln dust and fly ash used, must be compiled and maintained on site for a minimum of five years. These data must be furnished upon request and made available for inspection by EPA or the State of Maryland. Failure to submit the required data within the specified time period or maintain the required records on site for the specified time will be considered by the Agency, at its discretion, sufficient basis to revoke the exclusion to the extent directed by EPA. All data must be accompanied by a signed copy of the following certification statement to attest to the truth and accuracy of the data submitted: ␣ l ``Under civil and criminal penalty of law for the making or submission of false or fraudulent statements or representations (pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Federal Code, which include, but may not be limited to, 18 U.S.C. 1001 and 42 U.S.C. 6928), I certify that the information contained in or accompanying this document is true, accurate and complete. ␣ l As to the (those) identified section(s) of this document for which I cannot personally verify its (their) truth and accuracy, I certify as the company official having supervisory responsibility for the persons who, acting under my direct instructions, made the verification that this information is true, accurate and complete. ␣ l In the event that any of this information is determined by EPA in its sole discretion to be false, inaccurate or incomplete, and upon conveyance of this fact to the company, I recognize and agree that this exclusion of waste will be void as if it never had effect or to the extent directed by EPA and that the company will be liable for any actions taken in contravention of the company's RCRA and CERCLA obligations premised upon the company's reliance on the void exclusion.'' ␣ *␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣ *␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣ *␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣ *␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣ *␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣ *␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣␣ * [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4990 Filed 3&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
