FR940204-1-00073 FR940204-1-00013 In 1982, a habitat conservation plan (HCP) was completed and a section 10(a) incidental take permit was issued to the cities of Brisbane, Daly City, and South San Francisco and the county of San Mateo for the endangered mission blue butterfly ( Icaricia icarioides missionensis ), San Bruno elfin butterfly ( Incisalia mossii bayensis ), and San Francisco garter snake ( Thamnophis sirtiralis tetrataenia ). The HCP, entitled ``San Bruno Mountain Habitat Conservation Plan'' (U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service permit number PRT 2&hyph;9818), permanently protects about 1,115 hectares (2,752 acres) of natural habitat at this site. The conference report on the 1982 amendments to the Endangered Species Act of 1973 indicates that Congress intended HCPs to encompass both listed and unlisted species, especially unlisted species that might later be protected. Although the callippe silverspot butterfly was not included in the section 10(a) permit, the San Bruno Mountain HCP included specific considerations and provisions in the event it did become listed by the Service. Habitat of one of the two known extant populations of the callippe silverspot butterfly is protected under this HCP. The permit allows for the loss of animals and habitat through urban development containing approximately 8 percent of the San Bruno Mountain population of the callippe silverspot butterfly. Although habitat is protected, the Service is aware of numerous preserved specimens of the callippe silverspot butterfly that have been collected recently on San Bruno Mountain on lands where the animal is not protected. The Act and implementing regulations found at 50 CFR 17.21 for endangered species set forth a series of prohibitions and exceptions that apply to all endangered wildlife. These prohibitions, in part, make it illegal for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to take (including harass, harm, pursue, hunt, shoot, wound, kill, trap, capture, collect, or attempt any such activity), import or export, transport in interstate or foreign commerce in the course of commercial activity, or sell or offer for sale in interstate or foreign commerce any such species. It also is illegal to possess, sell, deliver, carry, transport, or ship any such wildlife that was taken illegally. Certain exceptions can apply to agents of the Service and State conservation agencies. Permits may be issued to carry out otherwise prohibited activities involving endangered animal species under certain circumstances. Regulations governing permits are at 50 CFR 17.22 and 17.23. Such permits are available for scientific purposes, to enhance the propagation or survival of the species, and/or for incidental take in connection with otherwise lawful activities. Further information regarding regulations and requirements for permits may be obtained from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Office of Management Authority, Permits Branch, 4401 North Fairfax Drive, room 420C, Arlington, Virginia 22203&hyph;3507 (telephone 703/358&hyph;2104). Public Comments Solicited The Service intends that any final action resulting from this proposal will be as accurate and effective as possible. Therefore any comments or suggestions from the public, other concerned government agencies, the scientific community, industry, or any other interested party concerning any aspect of this proposal are hereby solicited. Comments particularly are sought concerning: (1) Biological, commercial, trade, or other relevant data concerning any threat (or the lack thereof) to the callippe silverspot butterfly, Behren's silverspot butterfly, and Alameda whipsnake;
