FR940722-0-00086 FR940722-0-00018 §420.115 Approval and authorization procedures. (a) The STA and its subrecipients shall obtain work program approval and authorization to proceed prior to beginning work on activities in the work program. Such approvals and authorizations should be based on final work program documents. The STA and its subrecipients also shall obtain prior approval for budget and programmatic changes as specified in 49 CFR 18.30 and for those items of allowable costs which require prior approval in accordance with the applicable cost principles specified in 49 CFR 18.22. (b) Except for advance construction, authorization to proceed with the work program(s) in whole or in part shall be deemed a contractual obligation of the Federal Government pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 106 and shall require that appropriate funds be available for the full Federal share of the cost of work authorized. Those STAs that do not have sufficient FHWA planning and research funds or obligation authority available to obligate the full Federal share of the entire work program(s) may utilize the advance construction provisions of 23 U.S.C. 115(a) in accordance with the requirements of 23 CFR Part 630, subpart G. The STAs that do not meet the advance construction provisions, or do not wish to utilize them, may request authorization to proceed with that portion of the work program(s) for which FHWA planning and research funds are available. In the latter case, authorization to proceed may be given for either selected work activities or for a portion of the program period, but such authorization shall not constitute a commitment by the FHWA to fund the remaining portion of the work program(s) should additional funds become available. (c) A project agreement shall be executed by the STA and FHWA Division Office for each statewide transportation planning, metropolitan planning area transportation planning, or RD&T work program, individual activity or study, or any combination administered as a single Federal-aid project. The project agreement shall be executed after the authorization has been given by the FHWA to proceed with the work in whole or in part. In the event that the project agreement is executed for only part of the work program, the project agreement shall be amended when authorization is given to proceed with additional work. §420.117 Program monitoring and reporting. (a) In accordance with 49 CFR 18.40, the STA shall monitor all activities, including those of its subrecipients, supported by FHWA planning and research funds to assure that the work is being managed and performed satisfactorily and that time schedules are being met. (b)(1) The STA shall submit performance and expenditure reports, including a report from each subrecipient, that contain as a minimum: (i) Comparison of actual performance with established goals; (ii) Progress in meeting schedules; (iii) Status of expenditures in a format compatible with the work program, including a comparison of budgeted (approved) amounts and actual costs incurred; (iv) Cost overruns or underruns; (v) Approved work program revisions; and (vi) Other pertinent supporting data. (2) Additional information on reporting requirements for individual RD&T studies is contained in subpart B of this part. (c) The frequency of reports required by paragraph (b) of this section shall be annual unless more frequent reporting is determined to be necessary by the FHWA; but in no case will reports be required more frequently than quarterly. These reports are due 90 days after the end of the reporting period for annual and final reports and no later than 30 days after the end of the reporting period for other reports. (d) Events that have significant impact on the work program(s) shall be reported as soon as they become known. The type of events or conditions that require reporting include: problems, delays, or adverse conditions that will materially affect the ability to attain program objectives. This disclosure shall be accompanied by a statement of the action taken, or contemplated, and any Federal assistance needed to resolve the situation. (e) A provision of the Federal-Aid Project Agreement requires both the preparation of suitable reports to document the results of activities performed with FHWA planning and research funds and FHWA approval prior to publishing such reports. The STA may request a waiver of the requirement for prior approval. The FHWA's approval constitutes acceptance of such reports as evidence of work performed but does not imply endorsement of a report's findings or recommendations. Reports prepared for FHWA funded work shall include appropriate credit references and disclaimer statements. (The information collection requirements in §§420.117(b) and (c) for metropolitan planning areas have been approved by the OMB and assigned control number 2132&hyph;0529.) §420.119 Fiscal procedures. (a) SPR funds shall be administered and accounted for as a single fund regardless of the category of Federal-aid highway funds from which they are derived. (b) PL funds shall be administered and accounted for as a single fund.
