FR940506-2-00151 FR940506-2-00081 14. Applicants acknowledge that the grant of the exemptive order requested by the application will not imply Commission approval, authorization, or acquiescence in any particular level of payments that the Funds may make pursuant to their rule 12b&hyph;1 distribution plans or Administrative Plan in reliance upon the exemptive order. 15. Purchase Class shares will convert into Target Class shares on the basis of the relative net asset values of the two classes, without the imposition of any sales load, fee, or other charge. After conversion, the converted shares will be subject to an asset-based sales charge and/or service fee (as those terms are defined in Article III, section 26 of the NASD's Rules of Fair Practice), if any, that in the aggregate are lower than the asset-based sales charge and service fee to which they were subject prior to the conversion. 16. If a Fund implements any amendment to its rule 12b&hyph;1 Plan (or, if presented to shareholders, adopts or implements any amendment of a non-rule 12b&hyph;1 service plan) that would increase materially the amount that may be borne by the Target Class shares under the plan, existing Purchase Class shares will stop converting into Target Class shares unless the Purchase Class shareholders, voting separately as a class, approve the proposal. The Trustees shall take such actions as are necessary to ensure that existing Purchase Class shares are exchanged or converted into a new class of shares (``New Target Class''), identical in all material respects to the Target Class as it existed prior to implementation of the proposal, no later than such shares previously were scheduled to convert into the Target Class. If deemed advisable by the Trustees to implement the foregoing, such action may include the exchange of all existing Purchase Class shares for a new class (``New Purchase Class''), identical to the existing Purchase Class shares in all material respects except that New Purchase Class will convert into New Target Class. The New Target Class or the New Purchase Class may be formed without further exemptive relief. Exchanges or conversions described in this condition shall be effected in a manner that the Trustees reasonably believe will not be subject to federal taxation. In accordance with condition 6 above, any additional cost associated with the creation, exchange, or conversion of the New Target Class or the New Purchase Class shall be borne solely by the investment adviser and principal underwriter. Purchase Class shares sold after the implementation of the proposal may convert into Target Class shares subject to the higher maximum payment, provided that the material features of the Target Class plan and the relationship of such plan to the Purchase Class shares are disclosed in an effective registration statement. 17. Applicants will comply with the provisions of proposed rule 6c&hyph;10 under the Act, Investment Company Act Release No. 16619 (November 2, 1988) as such rule is currently proposed and as it may be reproposed, adopted, or amended. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10981 Filed 5&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
