FR940425-0-00042 FR940425-0-00018 NHTSA has considered the impact of this rulemaking action under Equal Opportunity 12866 and the Department of Transportation's regulatory policies and procedures. This rulemaking document was reviewed under Equal Opportunity 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and Review.'' This action has been determined to be ``significant'' under the Department of Transportation's regulatory policies and procedures because of the significant public and Congressional interest in the rulemaking. NHTSA has estimated the costs of the amendments in a Final Regulatory Evaluation (FRE) which is included in the docket for this rulemaking. As discussed in that document, NHTSA estimates that testing associated with the vehicle requirements will cost approximately $54,480 for light vehicles. More generally, the agency believes that the cost of the final rule is mostly testing costs and the benefits are derived by ensuring an equivalent level of safety with gasoline vehicles. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act NHTSA has also considered the effects of this rulemaking action under the Regulatory Flexibility Act. Based upon the agency's evaluation, I certify that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Information available to the agency indicates that currently there are very few businesses manufacturing passenger cars or light trucks for CNG use. The agency further believes that as the market expands for CNG vehicles, original vehicle manufacturers will begin to produce CNG vehicles because they will be able to do so at less expense than final stage manufacturers and alterers. Few, if any, original vehicle manufacturers which manufacture CNG vehicles are small businesses. C. Executive Order 12612 (Federalism) NHTSA has analyzed this rulemaking action in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612. NHTSA has determined that the rule will not have sufficient Federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Nevertheless, the agency wishes to elaborate about its preemptive authority with respect to Federal motor vehicle safety standards given comments on the NPRM about potentially inconsistent State law. The AAMA and the NGVC/AGA stated that a Federal standard was necessary to preempt possible State and local regulations addressing CNG vehicles. AAMA stated that_ Because the U.S. Energy Policy Act will require that both Federal and state governments become mandated ``fleet customers'' of alternative fuel vehicles, AAMA is apprehensive about the potential promulgation of a plethora of state alternate fueled vehicle regulations, each slightly different from one another, with an imposed standard or an alleged higher standard than the finalized applicable federal safety standard. In such a circumstance, there would appear to be no federal preemption protection for the vehicle manufacturer. It is, therefore, conceivable that to market these mandated alternate fuel vehicles, numerous vehicle versions would have to be designed, manufactured, and certified. Similarly, NGV/AGA expressed concern that State authorities may initiate different or more stringent standards for CNG systems. It was particularly concerned that NHTSA cannot preempt separate regulation of vehicles procured by State governmental agencies. As both commenters are aware, section 103(d) of the National Traffic and Motor Safety Act sets forth NHTSA's preemptive authority as follows: Whenever a Federal motor vehicle safety standard established under this title is in effect, no State or political subdivision of a State shall have any authority either to establish, or to continue in effect, with respect to any motor vehicle or item of motor vehicle equipment any safety standard applicable to the same aspect of performance of such vehicle or item of equipment which is not identical to the Federal standard. Nothing in this section shall be construed as preventing any State from enforcing any safety standard which is identical to a Federal safety standard. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the Federal Government or the government of any State or political subdivision thereof from establishing a safety requirement applicable to motor vehicles or motor vehicle equipment procured for its own use if such requirement imposes a higher standard of performance than that required to comply with the otherwise applicable Federal standard. Pursuant to this statutory provision, once Standard No. 303 takes effect, no State or local government can have a standard in effect addressing the fuel integrity of CNG vehicles unless that standard is identical to Standard No. 303. Nevertheless, the statute permits a State to issue higher performance standards for CNG vehicles procured for the State's own use, notwithstanding AAMA's desire for the Federal government to preempt States from doing so. In other words, NHTSA has no authority to prevent States from issuing more stringent standards for vehicles procured for their own use.
