FR941003-0-00069 FR941003-0-00013 (c) Reporting requirements_ (1) General requirements. An applicant described in paragraph (a) of this section shall submit the following information for each patent described in paragraph (b) of this section: (i) Patent number and the date on which the patent will expire. (ii) Type of patent, i.e., drug, drug product, or method of use. (iii) Name of the patent owner. (iv) If the patent owner or applicant does not reside or have a place of business within the United States, the name of an agent (representative) of the patent owner or applicant who resides or maintains a place of business within the United States authorized to receive notice of patent certification under section 505(b)(3) and (j)(2)(B) of the act and §§314.52 and 314.95. (2) Formulation, composition, or method of use patents_ (i) Original declaration. For each formulation, composition, or method of use patent, in addition to the patent information described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section the applicant shall submit the following declaration: The undersigned declares that Patent No. XXXX covers the formulation, composition, and/or method of use of ( name of drug product ). This product is ( currently approved under section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act ) [or] ( the subject of this application for which approval is being sought): (ii) Amendment of patent information upon approval. Within 30 days after the date of approval of its application, if the application contained a declaration required under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, the applicant shall by letter amend the declaration to identify each patent that claims the formulation, composition, or the specific indications or other conditions of use that have been approved. (3) No relevant patents. If the applicant believes that there are no patents which claim the drug or the drug product or which claim a method of using the drug product and with respect to which a claim of patent infringement could reasonably be asserted if a person not licensed by the owner of the patent engaged in the manufacture, use, or sale of the drug product, it shall so declare. (4) Authorized signature. The declarations required by this section shall be signed by the applicant or patent owner, or the applicant's or patent owner's attorney, agent (representative), or other authorized official. (d) When and where to submit patent information_ (1) Original application. An applicant shall submit with its original application submitted under this part, including an application described in section 505(b)(2) of the act, the information described in paragraph (c) of this section on each drug (ingredient), drug product (formulation and composition), and method of use patent issued before the application is filed with FDA and for which patent information is required to be submitted under this section. If a patent is issued after the application is filed with FDA but before the application is approved, the applicant shall, within 30 days of the date of issuance of the patent, submit the required patent information in an amendment to the application under §314.60. (2) Supplements. (i) An applicant shall submit patent information required under paragraph (c) of this section for a patent that claims the drug, drug product, or method of use for which approval is sought in any of the following supplements: (A) To change the formulation; (B) To add a new indication or other condition of use, including a change in route of administration; (C) To change the strength; (D) To make any other patented change regarding the drug, drug product, or any method of use. (ii) If the applicant submits a supplement for one of the changes listed under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section and existing patents for which information has already been submitted to FDA claim the changed product, the applicant shall submit a certification with the supplement identifying the patents that claim the changed product.
