FR940324-2-00165 FR940324-2-00091 Section C_Non-Federal Resources This section is to record the amounts of ``non-Federal'' resources that will be used to support the project. ``Non-Federal'' resources mean other than OCS funds for which the applicant is applying. Therefore, mobilized funds from other Federal programs, such as the Job Training Partnership Act Program, should be entered on these lines. Provide a brief listing of the non-Federal resources on a separate sheet and describe whether it is a grantee-incurred cost or a third-party in-kind contribution. Line 8: Column (a): Enter the project title. Column (b): Enter the amount of contributions to be made by the applicant to the project. Column (c): Enter the State contribution. If the applicant is a State agency, enter the non-Federal funds to be contributed by the State other than the applicant. Column (d): Enter the amount of cash and in-kind contributions to be made from all other sources. Column (e): Enter the total of columns (b), (c), and (d). Line 9, 10, and 11 should be left blank. Line 12: Carry the total of each column of lines 8, (b) through (e). The amount in Column (e) should be equal to the amount on Section A, Line 5, column (f). Section D_Forecasting Cash Needs Line 13: Enter the amount of Federal (OCS) cash needed for this grant by quarter. Section F_Other Budget Information Line 21: Use this space and continuation sheets as necessary to fully explain and justify the major items included in the budget categories shown in Section B. Include sufficient detail to facilitate determination of allowability, relevance to the project, and cost benefits. Particular attention must be given to the explanation of any requested direct cost budget item which requires explicit approval by the Federal agency. Budget items which require identification and justification shall include, but not be limited to, the following: 1. Salary amounts and percentage of time worked for those key individuals who are identified in the project narrative; 2. Any foreign travel; 3. A list of all equipment and estimated cost of each item to be purchased wholly or in part with grant funds and which meet the definition of nonexpendable personal property provided on Line 6d, Section B. Need for equipment must be supported in the program narrative. 4. Contractual: Major items or groups of smaller items; and 5. Other: Group into major categories all costs for consultants, local transportation, space, rental, training allowances, staff training, computer equipment, etc. Provide a complete breakdown of all costs that make up this category. Line 22: Enter the type of HHS or other Federal agency approved indirect cost rate (provisional, predetermined, final or fixed) that will be in effect during the funding period, the estimated amount of the base to which the rate is applied and the total indirect expense. Also, enter the date the rate was approved, where applicable. Attach a copy of the rate agreement if it was negotiated with a Federal agency other than the Department of Health and Human Services. Line 23: Provide any other explanations and continuation sheets required or deemed necessary to justify or explain the budget information. 3. SF&hyph;424B ``Assurances_Non-Construction'': Fill out, sign and date form found at Attachment D. 4. Restrictions on Lobbying Activities: Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements: Fill out, sign and date form found at Attachment H. 5. Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, SF-LLL: Fill out, sign and date form found at Attachment H, if applicable.
