FR941103-2-00118 FR941103-2-00068 1. Financial Proposal The Financial Proposal shall contain the SF&hyph;424, ``Application for Federal Assistance'' (three ink signed originals) Appendix No., and SF 424&hyph;A, ``Budget Information'' (Appendix No. 2). The Federal Domestic Assistance Catalog number is 17.246. The budget shall include on separate pages: a cost analysis of the budget, identifying in detail the amount of each budget line item attributable to each of the Title III cost categories at Section 314 of JTPA for funds requested through this grant; an identification of the amount of each budget line item which will be covered by other funds, and the sources of those funds (including other Title III funds, employer funds, in-kind resources secured and unsecured loans, grants, and other forms of assistance, public and private); and an analysis of the cost effectiveness in terms of unit costs for the delivery of services to individual dislocated workers in comparison with similar services available to dislocated workers through Title III, and in terms of the scope of the effort with regard to the projected number of placements available and the number of different dislocated worker program operators (States and substate grantees) which will be involved. Federal funds cannot be used to support training which an employer is in a position to, and would otherwise, provide. Federal funds may not be used for acquisition of production equipment. The only type of equipment that may be acquired with Federal funds is equipment necessary for the operation of the grant. Grant funds may cover only those costs which are appropriate and reasonable. In the instance of a purchase, the cost of the equipment is to be prorated over the projected life of the equipment to determine the cost to the grant. Awardee must receive prior approval from the Department of Labor/Employment and Training Administration's Property Officer for the purchase and/or lease of any property and/or equipment with a per unit acquisition cost of $5,000 or more, and a useful life of more than one year as defined in OMB Circulars A&hyph;102 and A&hyph;110. This includes the purchase of ADP equipment. The request must be directed through your Grant Officer's Technical Representative (GOTR) and must include a detailed description and cost of the items to be acquired. Applicants may budget limited amounts of grant funds to work with technical expert(s) to provide advice and develop more complete project plans. 2. Technical Proposal The technical proposal shall demonstrate the offeror's capabilities in accordance with the Statement of Work/Project Summary as described in Part III of this announcement. NO COST DATA OR REFERENCE TO PRICE SHALL BE INCLUDED IN THE TECHNICAL PROPOSAL. 3. Page Count Limit Applications are to be limited to 30 single-side pages, single-spaced. The technical proposal should include a 2 to 3 page executive summary. C. Hand-Delivered Proposals Proposals should be mailed at least five (5) days prior to the closing date. However, if proposals are hand-delivered, they shall be received at the designated place by 2 p.m., Eastern Time by December 16, 1994. All overnight mail will be considered to be hand-delivered and must be received at the designated place by the specified time and closing date. Telegraphed and/or faxed proposals will not be honored. Failure to adhere to the above instructions will be a basis for a determination of nonresponsiveness. D. Late Proposals Any proposal received at the office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt will not be considered unless it_
