FR940810-2-00114 FR940810-2-00072 The NASD does not believe that it is appropriate for any NASD member to purchase a ``hot issue'' for its own account and that the categories of exemption should not be expanded to include member firms or expanding the categories to be exempted. The NASD, however, agrees with the suggestion of several commentators that this exemption be expanded to cover all persons associated with direct participation program or investment company/variable product broker/dealers regardless of their registration status. The Association has considered that the NASD's Membership Committee encourages members to qualify their registered persons through Series 7 even if they are going to do limited activities and that these individuals should not be penalized for holding such licenses. Investment Partnerships and Corporations There were several comments on the proposed changes, and opposition to applying the Interpretation to investment partnerships and corporations in general. First, all those who commented on substituting a certified public account's certification in lieu of an attorney opinion letter, including the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (``AICPA''), maintained that the certification would not work because the certification is more legal than factual, and because the analysis for certification would not comply with the ``Attestation Standards'' necessary for a CPA to render such a certification. Notwithstanding the proposed amendments, several of the Commenters had general policy concerns with investment partnerships and corporations. Most believed that the Interpretation should not apply to partnerships because: (1) partnerships typically represent interests of individual investors, thus the objectives of a bona fide distribution are furthered by distribution to partnerships; and (2) the Interpretation unfairly discriminates between mutual fund type accounts and partnerships because of size, maintaining that there is no need for delineation because most limited partners have no control over the purchase and sale of securities for the account and do not exercise any discretion. One commenter maintained that precedent for such a position could be found in rules and interpretations under ยง16 of the Exchange Act, which does not require officers to disgorge profits resulting from transactions through investment partnerships. Further, most maintained that receipt of performance-based fees alone should not restrict an account, maintaining that partnership law typically requires that a general partner/manager maintain some de minimis equity position in the partnership. In addition, one commenter believed that the responsibility for opening up a separate hot issue account should rest with the member. Several of the commenters suggested various de minimis provisions which would allow the participation by investment partnerships in hot issues, notwithstanding the presence of a restricted person(s). The NASD has considered the comment of the AICPA that accountants cannot provide the certification proposed in the Notice and therefore has proposed that a written representation of an accountant or counsel be substituted for the accountant's certification. This written representation would replace the existing ``opinion of counsel'' under paragraph B of the Investment Partnerships and Corporations section of the Interpretation. The NASD believes that the proposed ``written representation'' satisfies the Association's objective of ensuring that Members seek the counsel of an independent, qualified third party in meeting their obligations under the Interpretation, while not imposing any requirements that are unduly burdensome or unnecessarily problematic. The NASD has also considered various comments that indicate that more trustees and institutional investors are demanding that performance-based fees be charged rather than asset based fees for money management services and therefore has proposed that performance-based fees be deleted from the definition of beneficial interest under the Interpretation. In response to other comments, the NASD believes that securities placed into a carved out ``hot issue'' account should remain in that account until sold. The Association does not believe that such securities should be subject to ``journaling'' to the regular account after a specified time period in that such a procedure would be difficult to monitor. Foreign Mutual Funds The Board of Governors solicited comment as to exempting foreign mutual funds from the Investment Partnerships and Corporations section of the Interpretation, similar to the exemption provided for sales to investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940. One commenter suggested that the exemption apply only to foreign investment companies which are subject to regulation under foreign laws expressly designed for investment companies and/or satisfy minimum standards that the NASD would establish. Another commenter expressed disappointment that the Notice did not address the application of the Interpretation to foreign broker/dealers in general. The NASD is concerned as to whether the Association can adequately determine whether a foreign country's mutual fund regulation is similar to our own. The NASD has concluded, therefore, that no provisions should be adopted at this time. If, however, the NASD can develop a substantial equivalence standard, the issue could be revisited. Venture Capital Investors Those who commenter generally supported the exemption, and proposed certain revisions. One commenter maintained that allowing the venture capital investor to purchase only up to his percentage ownership for the prior year was too limiting in that a venture capitalist could make a crucial contribution after the one year mark, well before the issuer goes public, and should be able to recover that contribution in stock. Another commenter believed that the requirement that no special terms be received by the purchasers should be qualified to limit that to ``special terms from the member'' because a venture capitalist typically enters into special arrangements with the issuer which could be construed as prohibited special terms. The NASD believes it is an appropriate requirement that a venture capital investor have an ownership interest in the entity for at least one year prior to the offering; however, in response to the comments, the NASD believes that it is appropriate to use three months before the date that the registration statement is filed as the date to be used for calculating the investors' existing ownership interest. The NASD, in keeping with its prior recommendation, believes that a three month holding period for the securities received in the distribution is appropriate.
