FR940527-2-00113 FR940527-2-00094 The attention of interested persons is directed to the following: (1) The fact that a transaction is the subject of an exemption under section 408(a) of ERISA and section 4975(c)(2) of the Code does not relieve a fiduciary or other party in interest or disqualified person with respect to a plan from certain other provisions of ERISA and the Code, including any prohibited transaction provisions to which the exemption does not expressly apply and the general fiduciary responsibility provisions of section 404 of ERISA. Section 404 requires, in part, that a fiduciary discharge his or her duties respecting the plan solely in the interests of the participants and beneficiaries of the plan and in a prudent fashion in accordance with section 404(a)(1)(B) of ERISA. This exemption does not affect the requirement of section 401(a) of the Code that a plan must operate for the exclusive benefit of the employees of the employer maintaining the plan and their beneficiaries. (2) The proposed exemption, if granted, will not extend to transactions prohibited under section 406(b)(3) of ERISA and section 4975(c)(1)(F) of the Code. (3) Before this exemption may be granted under section 408(a) of ERISA and section 4975(c)(2) of the Code, the Department must find that the exemption is administratively feasible, in the interests of plans and of participants and beneficiaries and protective of the rights of participants and beneficiaries of such plans. (4) The proposed exemption, if granted will be supplemental to, and not in derogation of other provisions of ERISA and the Code, including statutory or administrative exemptions and transitional rules. Furthermore, the fact that a transaction is subject to an administrative or statutory exemption is not dispositive of whether the transaction is in fact a prohibited transaction. (5) If granted, the proposed exemption will be applicable to a transaction only if the conditions specified in the class exemption are satisfied. Written Comments and Hearing Requests All interested persons are invited to submit written comments or requests for a public hearing on the proposed exemption to the address above and within the time period set forth above. Comments received will be made part of the record and will be available for public inspection at the above address. Proposed Exemption The Department has under consideration the granting of the following class exemption, under the authority of section 408(a) of ERISA and section 4975(c)(2) of the Code, and in accordance with the procedures set forth in 29 CFR part 2570, subpart B (55 FR 32836, August 10, 1990). Effective (date of publication of final class exemption), the restrictions of sections 406(a)(1) (A) through (D), 406(a)(2), 406(b)(1) and 406(b)(2) of ERISA and the taxes imposed by sections 4975 (a) and (b) of the Code, by reason of section 4975(c)(1) (A) through (E) of the Code, shall not apply to a transaction or activity which is authorized, prior to the occurrence of such transaction or activity, by a settlement agreement resulting from an investigation of an employee benefit plan conducted by the Department under the authority of section 504(a) of ERISA, provided that: (A) The nature of such transaction or activity is specifically described in writing, by the terms of such settlement agreement. (B) The Department of Labor is a party to the settlement agreement. (C) A party who will be engaging in the transaction or activity has provided written notice to the affected participants and beneficiaries in a manner that is reasonably calculated to result in the receipt of such notice at least 30 days prior to entry into the settlement agreement. (D) A copy of the notice and the method of distribution is approved in advance by the area or district office of the Department which negotiated the settlement. (E) The notice includes an objective description of the transaction or activity, the approximate date on which the transaction or activity will occur, the address of the area or district office of the Department which negotiated the settlement agreement, and a statement apprising participants and beneficiaries of their right to forward their comments to such office. Signed at Washington, DC, this 20th day of May 1994. Alan D. Lebowitz, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Program Operations, Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration, U.S. Department of Labor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12933 Filed 5&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;29&hyph;M
