FR940613-0-00064 FR940613-0-00015 The FHWA intends to allow the States some latitude in implementing the definition, unless indications of nonenforcement or abuse appear. Overweight and Overwidth Vehicles: In many cases, nondivisible load permits are likely to be requested for loads which are both overweight and overwidth. The South Dakota DOT favored the definition of a nondivisible load adopted by the Western Association of State Highway Officials (WASHTO), which includes the following: Portions of a load can be detached and reloaded on the same hauling unit provided that the separate pieces are necessary to the operation of the machine or equipment which is being hauled, if the arrangement does not exceed permittable limits. The State explained how this definition would work in case of an overweight, overwidth load. For example, suppose that a ten foot wide crawler tractor with a fourteen foot wide dozer is to be moved. This load can be moved two ways, overweight and fourteen feet wide with the dozer and ten feet wide without the dozer. Clearly the safest way to move the load would be legal weight and ten feet wide but separating the dozer from the crawler tractor destroys the unit for its intended use and it requires expert knowledge to take the dozer off. FHWA Response: The State has misread the FHWA's proposed definition. Although a bulldozer might be temporarily ``unusable for its intended purpose'' without a blade, that phrase merely clarifies the term ``destroy the value of the load.'' Removing the blade certainly would not destroy the value of the bulldozer. The ``expert knowledge'' test has been eliminated, but it is unclear whether a blade would require more than 8 workhours to remove. The flaw in the WASHTO definition is that it allows the separate pieces of an allegedly nondivisible load to be reloaded onto the same vehicle. That defeats the purpose of such a provision, which is to hold down vehicle weights in order to protect the public investment in roads and bridges. The WASHTO definition simply allows a divisible load permit to masquerade as a nondivisible load permit. That is unacceptable. Overwidth Vehicles: The WTA described a related, but different situation: FHWA seems to assume that all overlength (and over-width) loads are also overweight. Much of the equipment used in agriculture is oversize, but not overweight. Allowing the removal of a portion of this type of machinery such as tires and allowing it to be carried on the same trailer is clearly in the public interest, especially when in all respects, the machinery is otherwise eligible for a nondivisible load permit. Requiring a second vehicle to haul the removed part(s) is not smart economics. FHWA Response: If a piece of farm machinery is overwidth but not overweight, the State may either issue an overwidth permit, make the permit conditional upon the removal of tires but allow them to be carried on the same trailer, or deny a permit. These options are entirely within the discretion of the State. If farm machinery is neither overwidth nor overweight, the question of divisibility would not arise unless two or more cargo-carrying units were needed to transport it, certainly a rare occurrence. California Policy: The California Highway Patrol also argued that ``there are incidents involving the transportation of some nondivisible loads, when more than one unit is loaded, (and) can be transported safely. To qualify, loads would have to be oversize, rather than overweight in nature. California permit policy allows the transportation of multiple nondivisible pieces together, provided sufficient supporting justification is given.'' The Caltrans asked for a definition that allows this kind of flexibility. FHWA Response: States may allow several nondivisible overwidth loads on the same vehicle, as long as the normal weight limits are observed. That appears to be what California authorizes. As mentioned above, Federal law gives the States great discretion in issuing permits for overwidth loads. There would also be no conflict with Federal regulations if a State allowed more than one overlength nondivisible load to be carried on a single trailer vehicle_assuming the vehicle was not overweight_because the FHWA's definition of a nondivisible load applies only to overlength nondivisible loads carried on two or more cargo-carrying units. Safety: The Wyoming DOT, the WTA, and Black Hills Trucking, Inc., referred to Rocky Mountain Prestress, Inc., v. Leno Menghini et al., No. C79&hyph;057B, an unreported 1979 Wyoming Federal district court decision, in support of the proposition that safety should be considered in any definition of nondivisible loads. Rocky Mountain Prestress manufactured concrete panels that were to be mounted, two at a time, on A-frame trailers and transported from Denver to Casper for use in construction projects. Wyoming law allowed special permits for overweight ``indivisible loads,'' but the Highway Department rejected plaintiff's application on the ground that two panels were a divisible load. Plaintiff sued the Chief Engineer of the Department, arguing among other things that Wyoming's permit law violated the Commerce Clause of the Constitution. The court held the law constitutional, but found that it had been applied in an arbitrary and capricious manner which impermissibly burdened interstate commerce. The court explained that: Our conclusion is buttressed by the admission of the Defendants that heavy equipment which is being carried by trailer qualifies as an indivisible load even though the parts thereof may be easily dismantled. Such an approach to granting overweight permits signifies that the State Highway Department has previously, as they must in this case, considered circumstances other than the mere physical divisibility of the goods in transit. * * * * * We would also observe that forestry goods, baled hay and sugar beets are statutory exceptions to the mandated weight limits. The special interest group exceptions in the Wyoming statutes discriminate against the Plaintiff and others similarly situated who may be equally deserving of exceptions from the weight limitation in view of the safety and economic factors involved. *␣*␣* *␣*␣* [T]he State's desire to protect its highways has been severely diluted by the discriminatory granting of overweight permits to special interest groups, as well as by the routine issuance of such permits based on an indivisible load regulatory provision that we believe was arbitrarily and capriciously applied to the Plaintiff.
