FR940428-2-00172 FR940428-2-00073 Thursday April 28, 1994 Part IX Environmental Protection Agency Hearing Concerning Application To Modify the Final Cancellation Order for Pesticide Products Containing EBDCs; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 81␣/␣Thursday, April 28, 1994␣/␣Notices ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [OPP&hyph;30000/18E; FRL&hyph;4773&hyph;3] Hearing Concerning Application To Modify the Final Cancellation Order for Pesticide Products Containing EBDCs AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice of Hearing. SUMMARY: On December 1, 1993 the Agency received a request from Elf Atochem and Griffin Corporations to amend labels of certain pesticide products which contain the active ingredients of mancozeb or maneb and which were affected by the final EBDC Cancellation Order and to modify the final EBDC Cancellation Order to allow all EBDC registrants to modify their end use product label(s) in the same manner that Atochem and Griffin have proposed to amend theirs. The proposed amendment seeks to allow the use of more than one EBDC active ingredient per crop per season. It also seeks to allow for a single application per crop per season for seed treatment in addition to any foliar uses for products which have a registered seed treatment use for the particular crop. The proposed amendments would not change the current maximum allowable amount of EBDCs. Under subpart D of 40 CFR Part 164, this submission constitutes a petition to modify the final cancellation order concerning EBDC products. Such a petition may not be granted without a formal adjudicatory hearing. EPA has concluded that the submissions by Atochem and Griffin, if substantiated in a hearing, may provide a basis for modification of the order canceling EBDC products. This Notice (1) announces that EPA has decided to hold a hearing regarding the petition to modify that order as it applies to the use of more than one EBDC active ingredient per crop per season and the allowance of a single application for seed treatment per crop per season (in addition to foliar applications) on crops which have registered seed treatment uses, (2) specifies the issues of fact and law to be considered at that hearing, and (3) establishes a schedule for the hearing. DATES: Requests to participate in the hearing announced by this notice must be received by the Office of the Hearing Clerk at the address given below by [insert date 30 days after date of publication in the Federal Register ]. A pre-hearing conference will be held and the evidentiary hearing will commence as soon thereafter as practicable, according to the schedule outlined herein. ADDRESSES: Requests for a hearing must be submitted to: Hearing Clerk (1900), Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. Information supporting the Administrator's decision to hold a hearing will be available for public inspection from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except legal holidays in: Information Services Section, Management and Program Support Division (7502C), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, Room 236, Crystal Mall #2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: By mail: Amy Farrell, Special Review and Reregistration Division (7508W), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. Office location and telephone number: Crystal Station, 2800 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA (703) 308&hyph;8054. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On March 2, 1992, the Administrator issued a Notice of Intent to Cancel (NOITC) and Conclusion of the EBDC Special Review which announced EPA's intent to cancel registrations and to deny applications for registration for all pesticide products containing EBDCs as an active ingredient unless the registrations/applications complied with the terms and conditions of that Notice. As a result of the Notice, 11 uses were canceled and use restrictions were placed on the remaining 45 uses. One requirement was that, to avoid cancellation, all EBDC labels and product registrations bearing agricultural uses must be amended to include the following label statement: ``If this product is used on a crop, no other product containing a different EBDC active ingredient may be used on the same crop during the same growing season.'' This requirement prohibits the use of more than one EBDC active ingredient per crop per season. I. The Submissions On December 1, 1993 the Agency received evidentiary submissions from Elf Atochem and Griffin Corporations in support of their requests: (1) To amend labels of seven EBDC pesticide products which were subject to the Cancellation Order and which contain the active ingredients of mancozeb or maneb (Manex TM , Maneb 75DF, Maneb 80, Maneb Plus Zinc F4, Penncozeb, Penncozeb DF and Pro-Tex) and (2) that the Agency modify the final EBDC Cancellation Order to allow all other EBDC registrants to modify their EBDC end use product label(s) in the same manner that Atochem and Griffin have proposed to amend theirs. Subsequently, additional related correspondence was submitted by Atochem and Griffin on December 30, 1993 and January 12, 1994 to supplement the original proposal. The current label language required by the Cancellation Order prohibits the use of more than one EBDC (maneb, mancozeb, or metiram) on a given crop during a growing season. The petitioners request that more than one EBDC active ingredient be allowed to be used per crop per season. Under their proposal, when all products being used have the same maximum poundage (maximum application rate times the maximum number of allowed applications) the total amount used must not exceed the maximum label poundage, or when the products being used have different maximum poundages, the total amount used must not exceed the lowest maximum poundage. Additionally, allowance for a single seed treatment in addition to foliar applications where there is a registered use for seed treatment is requested. In their request, Atochem and Griffin are asking that EPA modify the Cancellation Notice and Order as noted below so that any EBDC registrant may amend their labels accordingly. The request also includes applications to amend labels of seven mancozeb and maneb products. One of the elements of the Cancellation Notice and Order was a label requirement which reads ``If this product is used on a crop, no other product containing a different EBDC active ingredient may be used on the same crop during the same growing season.'' This current language prevents the use of more than one EBDC active ingredient per crop per season. The registrants are proposing to replace that language with the following language: Foliar applications. Where EBDC products used allow the same maximum poundage of active ingredient per acre per season: If more than one product containing an EBDC active ingredient (maneb, mancozeb, or metiram) is used on a crop during the same growing season and the EBDC products used allow the same maximum poundage of active ingredient per acre per season, then the total poundage of all such EBDC products used must not exceed any of the specified individual EBDC product maximum seasonal poundage of active ingredient allowed per acre. Where EBDC products used allow different maximum poundage of active ingredient per acre per season: If more than one product containing an EBDC active ingredient is used on a crop during the same growing season and the EBDC products used allow different maximum poundage of active ingredient per acre per season, then the total poundage of all such EBDC products used must not exceed the lowest specified individual EBDC product maximum seasonal poundage of active ingredient allowed per acre. Seed Treatment In addition to the maximum number of foliar applications permitted by the formula stated above, a single application for seed treatment may be made on crops which have registered seed treatment uses. The language proposed by the registrants allows the use of more than one EBDC active ingredient per crop per season, specifies formulas to follow for maximum poundage allowed when different EBDCs are used, and allows for a single seed treatment per crop per season in addition to the foliar applications where the crop has a registered seed treatment use. II. Regulatory History On March 2, 1992, the Administrator issued a Notice of Intent to Cancel (NOITC) and Conclusion of the EBDC Special Review which announced EPA's intent to cancel registrations and to deny applications for registration for all pesticide products containing EBDCs as an active ingredient unless the registrations/applications complied with the terms and conditions of that Notice. The decision to issue that order was based on the determination that use of EBDCs without such modified terms and conditions would result in unreasonable adverse effects to humans or the environment. More specifically, 11 uses were canceled and use restrictions placed on the remaining 45 uses. The information and analysis upon which that determination was based is set forth in detail in the text of the March 2, 1992 NOITC (57 FR 7484). The NOITC contained a requirement that, to avoid cancellation, all EBDC labels and product registrations bearing agricultural uses must be amended to include the following label statement: ``If this product is used on a crop, no other product containing a different EBDC active ingredient may be used on the same crop during the same growing season.'' This requirement prohibits the use of more than one EBDC active ingredient per crop per season. Although the reason for this requirement was not stated in the Notice, the Agency's decision to limit EBDC application as such was to avoid the potential overuse of EBDC's through active ingredient switching. The decision was not based on specific risk concerns or on the risk calculations underlying the Agency's EBDC regulatory decision. Subsequent to the NOITC becoming an effective order of cancellation, the Agency received a request for a subpart D hearing, the evidentiary submissions and associated correspondence from Elf Atochem and Griffin Corporations, the details of which are delineated above. The Agency received supporting letters from the Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association and the National Potato Council. The language proposed would replace a label requirement specified in the Cancellation Notice and Order which allows the use of only one EBDC per crop per season and prohibits certain seed treatment applications. III. Statutory and Regulatory Background A. Standards for Maintaining a Registration Before a pesticide product may be lawfully sold or distributed in either intrastate or interstate commerce, the product must be registered by the Environmental Protection Agency. FIFRA section 3(a) and 12(a)(1)(A). A registration is a license allowing a pesticide product to be sold and distributed for specified uses in accordance with specified use instructions, precautions, and other terms and conditions. A pesticide product may be registered or remain registered only if it performs its intended pesticidal function without causing ``unreasonable adverse effects on the environment'' FIFRA section 3(c)(5). ``Unreasonable adverse effects on the environment'' is defined as ``any unreasonable risk to man or the environment, taking into account the economic, social, and environmental costs and benefits of the use of the pesticide.'' FIFRA section 2(b). The burden to demonstrate that a pesticide product satisfies the criteria for registration is on the proponents of initial or continued registration. Industrial Union Dept. v. American Petroleum Institute , 448 U.S. 607, 653 n.61 (1980); Environmental Defense Fund v. Environmental Protection Agency , 510 F.2d 1292, 1297, 1302 (D.C. Cir. 1975). Under FIFRA section 6, the Agency may issue a notice of intent to cancel the registration of a pesticide product whenever it is determined that the product no longer satisfies the statutory criteria for registration. The Agency may specify particular modifications in the terms and conditions of registration, such as deletion of particular uses or revisions of labeling, as an alternative to cancellation. If a hearing is requested by an adversely affected person, the final order concerning cancellation of the product is not issued until after a formal administrative hearing. B. Subpart D Proceedings When the Agency receives an application to permit use of a pesticide in a manner inconsistent with a prior cancellation decision, that application constitutes a petition to the Administrator to modify the final cancellation order. Because of the opportunity for a notice and a formal adjudicatory hearing which precedes entry of a final cancellation order concerning a pesticide product, EPA has determined that such an order should not be modified or rescinded without affording interested parties a similar notice and opportunity for hearing concerning such modification or rescission. The procedures governing all applications to modify or reverse a previous final cancellation order are set forth in subpart D of 40 CFR part 164, 40 CFR 164.130 through 164.133. When all opportunities for hearing and review with respect to an Agency decision to cancel a pesticide product have either been exercised or waived, and a final cancellation order has been entered, the Agency is entitled to rely on the finality of the order and the validity of the evidentiary rationale supporting it. Applicants seeking modification of a final order should not be afforded a new adjudicatory hearing concerning the same matters which were considered or could have been considered during a prior hearing. Thus, 40 CFR 164.131(a) provides that the Administrator will grant a hearing to modify a prior final cancellation order when she finds that: (1) The applicant has presented substantial new evidence which may materially affect the prior cancellation order and which was not available to the Administrator at the time he/she made his/her final cancellation determination and, (2) such evidence could not, through the exercise of due diligence, have been discovered by the parties to the cancellation proceeding prior to the issuance of the final order. In deciding whether or not to initiate a hearing, the Administrator does not need to determine that the evidence submitted by the petitioner would in fact justify modification of the prior order. Rather, a decision to initiate a hearing means only that the Administrator has determined that the evidence submitted, if substantiated on the record in the hearing, may ``materially affect'' the evidentiary rationale upon which the prior order was based. On the other hand, if the evidence submitted, even if substantiated on the record, would be unlikely to provide a basis for modification of the prior order, then a hearing would serve no purpose. If the Administrator determines that a petitioner has met the criteria for a subpart D hearing, the Administrator then publishes a notice in the Federal Register setting forth the determination, the rationale for that determination, a description of the issues of fact and law to be adjudicated in the hearing, and a schedule for the hearing. The purpose of the hearing is to determine whether: (1) Substantial new evidence exists and (2) such substantial new evidence requires reversal or modification of the existing cancellation order. For purposes of any decision in the hearing, those portions of the substantive rationale for the existing order concerning which the petitioner did not submit substantial new evidence are assumed to be correct. Thus, the scope of any subpart D hearing is intrinsically narrower than the proceeding which was held or could have been held concerning the order to be modified. In a subpart D hearing, as in a cancellation hearing, the Administrative Law Judge transmits a recommended decision to the Administrator, who then issues a final decision retaining, modifying, or reversing the existing order. IV. Analysis of the EBDC Request for Subpart D Hearing A. Risk Issues Atochem and Griffin have not submitted any new information which would affect the validity of the Agency's analysis of the toxicity of EBDCs or the methodology used by the Agency to estimate exposure to EBDCs. The petitioners assert that the proposed language does not increase the individual or seasonal application limits and provides equivalent protection in terms of limiting exposure while addressing the Agency's concerns about multiple EBDC use and having the added advantage of being more easily understood. The petitioners further assert that the decision to restrict EBDC use as per the restrictive language of the NOITC was not based on specific risk concerns but on concerns of exceeding maximum amount of product allowed per crop per season. As mentioned in unit II above, the March 2, 1992 NOITC, which contained the requirement which would prevent the use of more than one EBDC active ingredient per crop per season, did not provide a risk/benefit rationale for the specific application prohibitions at issue here. The Agency's thinking at that time was that such a provision would help assure that growers would not exceed EBDC usage limits per crop. The language was designed to address this need. There are other disincentives to growers that should dissuade them from engaging in that type of practice, such as the risk of having crops with over-tolerance residues which could make crops subject to seizure. The Agency recognizes that there might be different and better ways to address this concern which do not increase risks and would allow EBDC use in situations where multiple EBDC use is warranted. B. Benefits Issues The Atochem and Griffin submission includes information and evidence on the benefits of using more than one EBDC active ingredient per crop per season which was not available to or considered by the Agency prior to the final Cancellation Order. The submission asserts that the current label restriction ``has had a substantial impact on the industry, including negative effects on competition, industry-wide confusion, and hardship for suppliers and growers alike'' and includes information which is summarized below in support of their assertion: The current label specification precludes growers from switching among EBDCs for any reason. This is true even if a particular product is high priced due to limited availability or unavailable altogether. The petitioners assert that the potato industry has faced a unique problem. According to petitioners, many potato growers are required by contract with food processors or packers to make pre-storage applications of Ridomil ® (metalaxyl) which contains mancozeb, because consultants and researchers have strongly recommended this as a way to prevent root rot, or late blight. This, coupled with the current prohibition on switching among EBDC active ingredients, precludes any potato grower under such a contract from using any EBDC but mancozeb on that crop for the remainder of the season--even though it may not be the most effective treatment for the pest. Petitioners further assert that there is an increased risk of resistance when the range of products used is limited. Fungal problems associated with potatoes include root rot, or late blight which is commonly treated with a metalaxyl product which is considered most effective when it is a metalaxyl/EBDC mix. Product mixes (as opposed to tank mixes) are preferred because of their convenience, ease in handling, reduced potential exposure, and reduced costs. Current labeling precludes growers from using metalaxyl/EBDC mixes such as Ridomil Mz ® (metalaxyl and mancozeb) if they had used maneb earlier in the season. This would limit them to using metalaxyl without an EBDC which may be a less effective treatment and may limit the potatoes' marketability. Reliability of supply is another issue that growers consider. All EBDC active ingredients are manufactured abroad and domestic suppliers have little control over ensuring their steady supply. The failure of a foreign supplier or manufacturer to deliver the active ingredients as scheduled can result in the shortage of a particular formulation. This could create problems for growers who are bound by current label specifications to the use of a specific active ingredient. The submission provides some evidence of the registrant/marketplace/grower confusion that resulted from implementation of this provision that was not available at the time of the NOITC. The submission asserts that there has been significant confusion in the marketplace and among growers and includes two examples: the Wisconsin Potato and Vegetable Growers Association, according to their February 8, 1993 newsletter, interpreted the current label language to restrict growers to one brand all season and Sugar Producer Magazine interpreted the statement the same way, saying that no product switching would be allowed. These interpretations of the language differ substantially from the EPA's post-cancellation order interpretation (EPA response to questions posed by the EBDC/ETU Task Force after the NOITC had become a final cancellation order) which clearly limited only switching among active ingredients and did not restrict switching among different brands of the same EBDC active ingredient. Petitioners assert that this confusion could influence purchasing decisions and create unfair advantages for certain products while undermining integrated pest control practices. As noted above, the Agency has attempted to clarify this issue, but even with clarification, the unintended impacts have continued. The Agency recognizes that the label language required by the NOITC has created confusion and implementation problems in the marketplace and at the grower level. It is obvious from the information provided by the Petitioners that this confusion has continued even after the Agency attempted to clarify the requirement and its intent. Obviously, the Agency does not want this confusing situation to continue. In light of the unfortunate situation that has evolved since the NOITC requirement became final and began to be implemented, the Agency now believes that its goal of limiting the potential exceeding of EBDC usage limits by growers can be addressed in a better way with different label language. Atochem and Griffin further assert that the current label restriction is inconsistent with the nature of Integrated Pest Management (IPM) programs which are ``based on selective use of different classes of fungicides...'' The Agency has received copies of correspondence from the Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association and the National Potato Council discussing certain problems faced by growers who are bound by the current label restrictions. Both letters expressed strong support for the Atochem and Griffin request to replace the current restriction with the proposed language. The Atochem and Griffin submission asserts that ``the proposed language serves EPA's objective which was to ensure that seasonal limits on the quantities of EBDCs that can be applied to a particular crop not be exceeded without any negative effects on competition or any hardship to the industry or to growers.'' C. Subpart D Determination Under 40 CFR 164.131(a), the Administrator is to provide a hearing to modify a prior final cancellation decision only if it is determined that certain criteria have been met. Having concluded that Atochem and Griffin have presented substantial new evidence concerning the impact of new restrictions on the use of more than one EBDC active ingredient per crop per season which was not available to the Agency when the final cancellation order went into effect, the Administrator must now determine whether that evidence ``may materially affect'' that order. The Administrator has concluded that because risk will not be increased by adoption of the proposed language, she might consider modifying the cancellation decision to alter this restriction if the evidentiary record in a hearing substantiates the Atochem and Griffin assertions concerning the impacts of the restrictions and the benefits of using more than one EBDC active ingredient per crop per season and in certain cases allowing a single seed treatment application per crop per season in addition to foliar applications. Thus, the first criterion in 40 CFR 164.131(a) has been met. Certain information provided by Petitioners on the post-cancellation order implementation confusion, and problems created by this label provision in the marketplace and among users, could not have reasonably been obtained before the restriction was in place. Having also concluded that either these petitioners or the parties in the cancellation proceeding could not have discovered earlier some of this new evidence on the impact of this restriction ``through the exercise of due diligence'' the second criterion in 40 CFR 164.131(a) has also been met. Based on the above analysis, the Administrator has decided to hold a hearing under subpart D to consider whether to modify the final cancellation order for pesticide products containing EBDCs as it applies to the restriction on the use of more than one EBDC active ingredient per crop per season and the allowance in certain cases of a single seed treatment application per crop per season in addition to foliar applications. V. Hearing Procedures A. Issues To Be Adjudicated Pursuant to 40 CFR 164.131(c), the Administrator is specifying those issues of fact and law to be adjudicated in the hearing convened pursuant to this notice. Because the purpose of such a hearing is only to consider whether to modify certain aspects of the Administrator's prior cancellation decision and because a prompt conclusion to the hearing is a requisite of meaningful relief for the petitioners, the evidentiary presentation in the hearing shall be strictly confined to the issues of fact and law which the Administrator has determined are presented by the Atochem and Griffin submission. The issues of fact to be adjudicated are: 1. What will the economic impacts on growers, processors, and consumers be if the lack of a provision for a seed treatment application and the present restriction on using multiple EBDC active ingredients on the same crop during the same growing season continue? 2. What have been the use practices regarding the use of more than one EBDC active ingredient per crop per season prior to the current restriction? 3. What will be the effect of the present restriction on using multiple EBDC active ingredients on the same crop during the same growing season if this restriction is maintained? Likewise, what would be the effect on efficacy of EBDC use and other pest control practices if the lack of a provision for a seed treatment application continues? 4. Assuming the validity of the analysis of the toxicity of EBDCs and the methodology for analysis of exposure to EBDCs upon which the cancellation order was based, what quantitative effect would adoption of the proposed language have on the total risk associated with EBDC use? The issues of law to be adjudicated are: 1. Has substantial new evidence been presented pertaining to the use of more than one EBDC active ingredient per crop per season and allowance in certain cases for a single seed treatment application per crop per season in addition to foliar applications and the impact of the current restriction? 2. Assuming the validity of the analysis of the toxicity of EBDCs and the methodology for analysis of exposure to EBDCs upon which the cancellation order was based, does the evidence presented demonstrate that the benefits of allowing use of more than one EBDC active ingredient per crop per season and allowing in certain cases a single seed treatment application per crop per season in addition to foliar applications are likely to outweigh the risks of such use? [i.e. Based on the evidence presented, should the Agency revise its prior determination that allowed use to be limited to one active ingredient per crop per season and that a single seed treatment should not be allowed in certain cases in addition to the foliar application?] The sole objective of this hearing is to determine whether or not the order canceling all sale, distribution, and use of pesticide products containing EBDCs which do not comply with the current label restriction on multiple EBDC use should be modified to permit the use of more than one EBDC active ingredient per crop per season and allow a single seed treatment in addition to foliar uses where there is a registered seed treatment use. B. Burden of Proof As provided by 40 CFR 164.132, the burden of proof in this proceeding shall be on the proponent(s) of modification of the final cancellation order and the petitioners shall proceed first. As in all formal adjudication, all testimony must be presented and documents sponsored by a witness competent to be cross-examined on the material. It is the petitioners rather than the Agency who must make an evidentiary record substantiating the assertions in the submission. Of course, Agency counsel may also present testimony and cross-examine Petitioners' witnesses concerning the issues of fact to be adjudicated. C. Hearing Requests The petitioners and the Agency shall automatically be parties in the hearing. Any other person or party who seeks to participate in the hearing must submit a written hearing request describing the interest of that person or party in the proceeding and the nature and purpose of the participation sought. All requests for a hearing must be received by the Office of the Hearing Clerk within 30 calendar days from the date of publication of this Notice in the Federal Register . Any request received after that time will be denied. Requests for a hearing must be submitted to: Hearing Clerk (1900). Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. D. Scheduling As required by 40 CFR 164.131(c), the Administrator is specifying a schedule for this hearing. In recognition of the narrow scope of the proceeding, the Administrator is establishing the following schedule. The Chief Administrative Law Judge shall appoint an Administrative Law Judge to preside at this proceeding within 35 calendar days from date of publication of this Notice in the Federal Register . The hearing shall commence in Washington, DC as soon thereafter as practicable but in no event later than 40 calendar days from the date of publication of this Notice in the Federal Register . The presiding Administrative Law Judge shall transmit recommended findings of fact and conclusions of law and the hearing record to the Administrator within 70 calendar days from the date of publication of this Notice in the Federal Register . The parties shall submit any objections to the recommended findings of fact and conclusions of law to the Administrator within 10 business days after issuance, and the Administrator will enter a final order as soon thereafter as practicable. E. Separation of Functions EPA's Rules of Practice forbid anyone who may take part in deciding this case at any stage of the proceeding, from discussing the merits of the proceeding ex parte with any party or with any person who has been connected with the preparation or presentation of the proceeding as an advocate or in any investigative or expert capacity, or with any of his/her representatives (40 CFR 164.7). Accordingly, the following EPA offices, and the staffs thereof, are designated as the judicial staff of EPA in any administrative hearing on this issue: the Office of Administrative Law Judges, the Environmental Appeals Board, the Deputy Administrator, and the members of the staff in the immediate office of the Deputy Administrator, and the Administrator and the members of staff in the immediate office of the Administrator. The following offices are designated as the trial staff in any proceeding which may arise under this Notice: The Office of General Counsel, the Assistant Administrator for the Office of Prevention, Pesticides, and Toxic Substances and immediate staff, the Office of Pesticide Programs, and the Office of Compliance Monitoring. None of the persons designated as the judicial staff may have any ex parte communications with the trial staff or any other interested person not employed by EPA on the merits of any of the issues involved in this proceedings, without fully complying with the applicable regulations. Dated: April 18, 1994. Lynn R. Goldman, Assistant Administrator for Prevention, Pesticides and Toxic Substances. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10138 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
