FR940128-1-00025 FR940128-1-00006 VII. The Proposed Regulations These proposed regulations consist of a subpart of general applicability (subpart A) and one subpart that sets forth specific additional provisions for raw molluscan shellfish (subpart C). The agency is also setting forth guidelines, in the form of appendices, that will provide assistance to processors of cooked, ready-to-eat products (Appendix A), and to processors of scombrotoxin forming species (Appendix B), on how to meet various requirements in subpart A relating to the development and implementation of HACCP plans. The products addressed in the guidelines involve special considerations or special hazards for which additional guidance would be useful. Processors and importers that follow these guidelines will increase the likelihood that FDA will find their preventive controls acceptable. FDA requests comments on the need for, and the substance of, the guidelines that it has set forth. Comments should address whether it would be more appropriate for FDA to adopt the guidelines as regulations. If the comments provide a convincing basis for doing so, FDA will include some or all of the guidelines in the regulations in any final rule that results from this rulemaking. FDA is also including a guideline on how to ensure product integrity relating to economic adulteration (Appendix D). FDA is including this guideline because economic adulteration is a particular problem in the seafood industry. In Appendix 1 to this document, FDA is also providing samples from a package of general guidance, to be published separately, for processors to use in understanding and implementing HACCP principles in their operations. One of these samples is specific guidance on the processing of smoked and smoke-flavored fish. FDA requests comments on whether the latter guidance should remain as such, be provided as guidelines in an appendix to the regulations, or be made mandatory by incorporating them into any final rule that results from this proceeding. A. Definitions The agency is relying generally on the definitions contained in the act, in the umbrella good manufacturing practice guidelines in part 110, and in other agency regulations. The agency is using these definitions because it considers consistency in how it uses terms in its regulations to be necessary and appropriate. Thus, §123.3(o) is derived from §113.3(s), and §123.3(r) is derived from §110.3(q). Additional definitions are proposed in §123.3 that are specific to the proposed HACCP program for fish and fishery products.
