FR940804-0-00006 FR940804-0-00003 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 17 CFR Part 200 [Release No. 34&hyph;34466] Delegation of Authority to the Office of General Counsel agency: Securities and Exchange Commission. action: Final rule. summary: The Securities and Exchange Commission is amending its rules on organization and program management to rescind its delegation of authority for advice and activities concerning certain proceedings conducted pursuant to the provisions of Rule 2(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice to the Executive Assistant to the Chairman and to transfer that delegation to the Office of the General Counsel. effective date: September 6, 1994. for further information contact: Joan L. Loizeaux, Assistant General Counsel, or Susie Youn, Attorney, Office of the General Counsel, (202) 942&hyph;0990. supplementary information: In 1989, in connection with the consolidation of the Office of Opinions and Review into the Office of the General Counsel, the responsibility to advise the Commission, make certain procedural decisions, and take certain actions in connection with Rule 2(e) proceedings was delegated to the Executive Assistant to the Chairman. The delegation was designed to ensure required separation of functions in light of the fact that the General Counsel was then responsible for prosecuting Rule 2(e) proceedings. In February 1993, the Task Force on Administrative Proceedings of the Securities and Exchange Commission recommended that the authority to advise the Commission with respect to Rule 2(e) proceedings be delegated to the Office of the General Counsel. Since then, responsibility for the prosecution of Rule 2(e) proceedings involving professionals, other than attorneys, has been transferred to the Division of Enforcement. Transfer of the responsibility to advise the Commission, make certain procedural decisions, and take certain actions in connection with Rule 2(e) proceedings would permit the Commission to employ, with respect to those proceedings, the staff that reviews and prepares opinions and orders in other proceedings decided by the Commission. The Commission has determined to adopt the Task Force's recommendations and is not delegating the responsibility to advise the Commission, make certain procedural decisions, and take certain actions in connection with Rule 2(e) proceedings to the General Counsel. The delegation provides that, in a case in which the involvement of the General Counsel is deemed inappropriate for any reason, the Executive Assistant to the Chairman, or other staff outside the Office of the General Counsel, will assume responsibility for the matter. In light of the fact that the General Counsel retains responsibility for prosecuting Rule 2(e) proceedings against attorneys, the Commission intends that persons other than staff in the Office of the General Counsel will provide advice concerning any such matters so long as the Office of the General Counsel prosecutes such cases. Some minor clarifying changes in language, without substantive effect, are also being made. The Commission finds, in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(3)(A), that this revision relates solely to agency organization, procedures, or practice. It is therefore not subject to the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act requiring prior publication. The Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. , also does not apply. The revisions adopted today are effective September 6, 1994. List of Subjects in 17 CFR Part 200 Administrative practice and procedure, Authority delegations (Government agencies). Text of Amendments For the reasons set out in the preamble, Title 17, Chapter II of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 200_ORGANIZATION; CONDUCT AND ETHICS; AND INFORMATION AND REQUESTS 1. The authority citation for Part 200, Subpart A continues to read, in part, as follows: Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77s, 78d&hyph;1, 78d&hyph;2, 78w, 7811(d), 79t, 77sss, 80a&hyph;37, 80b&hyph;11, unless otherwise noted.
