FR940616-2-00146 FR940616-2-00095 The basis for determining the value of cash and in-kind contributions must be in accordance with OMB circular A110, Attachment E. Cost sharing and Matching should be described in the proposal. In the event the organization does not provide the minimum amount of cost sharing as stipulated in the recipient's budget, the Agency's contribution will be reduced in proportion to the participant's contribution. Review Process USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines established herein and in the application packet. Eligible proposals will be forwarded to panels of USIA officers for advisory review. All eligible proposals will also be reviewed by the appropriate geographic area office, and the budget and contracts office. Proposals may also be reviewed by the Agency's Office of General Counsel. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the Associate Director of Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority to grant awards resides with the Agency's Office of Contracts. Review Criteria Technically eligible applications will be competitively reviewed according to the following criteria: 1. Quality of the Program Idea Proposals should exhibit originality, substance, rigor, and relevance to Agency mission and adherence to the criteria and conditions described above and in application packet guidelines. 2. Reasonable, Feasible, and Flexible Objectives Proposals should clearly demonstrate how the institution will meet the program's purposes as outlined in this RFP. 3. Multiplier Effect Proposals should demonstrate how the programs will encourage continuation of the training objectives beyond the training period and beyond the training population. 4. Cost Effectiveness The overhead and administrative components of grants, as well as salaries and honoraria, should be kept as low as possible. All other items should be necessary and appropriate. 5. Institutional Capacity and Track Record The organization should have demonstrated experience in the aspects of the program which they propose to administer. Proposals benefit by displaying a record of successful programs, including responsible fiscal management and full compliance with past Agency grants. 6. Follow-Up Activities Proposals should present a plan to track the effectiveness of the training on following year exchange programs. 7. Evaluation Plan Proposals should provide a plan for evaluation of the program by the grantee institution. Notice The terms and conditions published in this RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by the Agency that contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of the RFP does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the Government. Final award cannot be made until the funds have been fully appropriated by Congress, allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about 15 December 1993. Awarded grants will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: June 11, 1994. Barry Fulton, Deputy Associate Director, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14694 Filed 6&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
