FR941019-2-00117 FR941019-2-00080 The 1994 Antitrust Enforcement Guidelines for International Operations (hereinafter ``Guidelines'') are intended to provide antitrust guidance to businesses engaged in international operations on questions that relate specifically to the Agencies' international enforcement policy. 2 They do not, therefore, provide a complete statement of the Agencies' general enforcement policies. The topics covered include the Agencies' subject matter jurisdiction over conduct and entities outside the United States and the considerations, issues, policies, and processes that govern their decision to exercise that jurisdiction; comity; mutual assistance in international antitrust enforcement; and the effects of foreign governmental involvement on the antitrust liability of private entities. In addition, the Guidelines discuss the relationship between antitrust and international trade initiatives. Finally, to illustrate how these principles may operate in certain contexts, the Guidelines include a number of examples. 2 Readers should separately evaluate the risk of private litigation by competitors, consumers and suppliers, as well as the risk of enforcement by state prosecutors under state and federal antitrust laws. As is the case with all guidelines, users should rely on qualified counsel to assist them in evaluating the antitrust risk associated with any contemplated transaction or activity. No set of guidelines can possibly indicate how the Agencies will assess the particular facts of every case. Persons seeking more specific advance statements of enforcement intentions with respect to the matters treated in these Guidelines should use the Department's Business Review procedure, the Commission's Advisory Opinion procedure, or one of the more specific procedures described below for particular types of transactions. 2. Antitrust Laws Enforced by the Agencies Foreign commerce cases can involve almost any provision of the antitrust laws. 3 The Agencies do not discriminate in the enforcement of the antitrust laws on the basis of the nationality of the parties. Once jurisdictional requirements and considerations of international comity have been considered and satisfied, the same substantive rules apply to all. 3 Certain exceptions may arise due to jurisdictional limitations. For example, the Robinson-Patman Act, 15 U.S.C. §13 (1988), applies only to purchases involving commodities ``for use, consumption, or resale within the United States.'' It has been construed not to apply to sales for export See, e.g., General Chem., Inc. v. Exxon Chem. Co., 625 F.2d 1231, 1234 (5th Cir. 1980). Intervening domestic sales, however, would be subject to the Act. See Raul Int'l Corp. v. Sealed Power Corp., 586 F. Supp. 349, 351&hyph;55 (D.N.J.) 1984). The following is a brief summary of the laws enforced by the Agencies that are likely to have the greatest significance for international transactions. 2.1␣Sherman Act Section 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. §1, sets forth the basic antitrust prohibition against contracts, combinations, and conspiracies in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States or with foreign nations. Section 2 of the Act, 15 U.S.C. §2, prohibits monopolization, attempts to monopolize, and conspiracies to monopolize any part of trade or commerce among the several States or with foreign nations. Section 6a of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. §6a, defines the jurisdictional reach of the Act with respect to non-import foreign commerce.
