FR941205-2-00096 FR941205-2-00051 3. Applicants represent that the mortality and expense risk charge is within the range of industry practice with respect to comparable annuity products. Applicants base this representation on an analysis of publicly available information about comparable products, taking into consideration such factors as current charge levels, the existence of charge level guarantees, and guaranteed annuity rates. Citicorp Life and First Citicorp represent that they will maintain at their administrative offices memoranda, available to the Commission, setting forth in detail this analysis. 4. To the extent the CDSC is insufficient to cover the actual cost of distribution costs will be paid from Citicorp Life's and First Citicorp's general assets, including the profits, if any, from the mortality and expense risks charges. Applicants represent that there is a reasonable likelihood that the proposed distribution financing arrangements will benefit the Separate Accounts and Contract owners. The basis for such conclusion will be set forth in memoranda maintained by the Citicorp Life and First Citicorp at their administrative offices and available to the Commission upon request. 5. Citicorp Life and First Citicorp represent that the Separate Accounts will invest only in management investment companies that undertake, in the event the company adopts a plan to finance distribution expenses under Rule 12b&hyph;1 under the 1940 Act, to have a board of directors, a majority of whom are not interested persons of the company within the meaning of Section 2(a)(19) of the 1940 Act, formulate and approve any such plan. Conclusion Applicants assert that, for the reasons and upon the facts set forth above, the requested exemptions from Sections 26(a)(2) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act to deduct the mortality and expense risk charge from the assets of the Separate Accounts under the Contracts meet the standards in Section 6(c) of the 1940 Act. Applicants assert that the exemptions requested are necessary and appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purpose fairly intended by the policies and provisions of the 1940 Act. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29793 Filed 12&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
