FR941011-1-00006 FR941011-1-00002 Paperwork Reduction Act This proposed rule contains no new information collection or recordkeeping requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). List of Subjects in 9 CFR Part 113 Animal biologics, Export, Imports, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Accordingly, 9 CFR part 113 would be amended as follows: PART 113_STANDARD REQUIREMENTS 1. The authority citation for part 113 would continue to read as follows: Authority: 21 U.S.C. 151&hyph;159; 7 CFR 2.17, 2.51, and 371.2(d). 2. A new §113.124 would be added to read as follows: §113.124 Escherichia Coli Bacterin (E. coli). Bacterins for the prevention of colibacillosis in mammalian neonates born to vaccinated dams shall be prepared from bacterial cultures which are inactivated and nontoxic. Each lot of Master Seed Bacteria and serial or subserial of product containing Escherichia coli shall meet the applicable requirements described in §113.100 and the special requirements prescribed in this section. A lot of Master Seed Bacteria found unsatisfactory by any prescribed test shall not be used. A serial or subserial found unsatisfactory by any prescribed test shall not be released. (a) Each lot of Master Seed Bacteria shall be tested for immunogenicity in each species for which the bacterin is recommended. The immunogenicity of the Master Seed Bacteria shall be established as follows: (1) A Qualifying Serial of product with a minimum level of potency shall be produced from the highest allowable passage of the Master Seed Bacteria for use in the immunogenicity test. The allowable passage level must be specified in the filed Outline of Production. The relative potency of the Qualifying Serial compared to the References shall be established as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. (2) At least 30 pregnant cows or heifers (20 vaccinates and 10 controls) or at least 13 sows or gilts (8 vaccinates and 5 controls) shall be used as test animals. The animals shall be randomly divided between vaccinates and controls. If the neonates to be protected are ovine or caprine, the number of test animals must be specified in a protocol approved by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. (3) Pregnant dams used as vaccinates shall be injected with one dose of the serial of product by the method recommended on the label. If two doses are recommended, the second dose shall be administered at the time interval recommended on the label. Serum samples shall be collected from each dam immediately prior to each inoculation, 2 weeks after the last inoculation, and at parturition. Colostral samples shall be collected from each dam at parturition. (4) Challenge of the neonates. (i) Challenge culture(s), one for each E. coli pilus type for which protection is claimed, shall be provided or approved by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. The challenge culture(s) used in the efficacy test(s) shall be aliquoted into individual doses, and stored frozen at minus 70 ○C until needed. (ii) After parturition, each neonate shall be allowed to suckle normally for at least 4 hours. Four to 12 hours after parturition, each neonate shall be weighed, have a serum sample collected, and then be challenged. (iii) Each neonate shall receive orally a predetermined dose of challenge culture. (iv) Each neonate shall be examined at least twice daily for 7 days postchallenge for signs of colibacillosis. Neonates that die shall be necropsied to determine the cause of death. (5) Interpretation of results. (i) If the mortality of the neonates from nonvaccinated bovine dams is less than 60 percent, the test is inconclusive and may be repeated. (ii) If at least 80 percent of the neonates from vaccinated bovine dams do not survive without showing clinical signs of colibacillosis, the immunogenicity of the serial of product and the Master Seed Bacteria is unsatisfactory. (iii) For porcine, ovine, and caprine neonates, if a statistically significant greater number of neonates from vaccinated dams do not survive, or the survivors do not show a significant reduction in clinical signs of colibacillosis, or both, when compared with neonates from nonvaccinated control dams, the immunogenicity of the serial of product and the Master Seed Bacteria is unsatisfactory. The level of significance required is p <0.05. Clinical signs shall be evaluated by a method of scoring and statistical analysis acceptable to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. (b) References for in vitro potency tests. (1) Comparison of the Qualifying Serial and Working References (i) If the Qualifying Serial is the Working Reference, no comparative potency testing between the Qualifying Serial and the reference is required.
