FR941004-2-00110 FR941004-2-00068 IX. Matters Related to the Standing Committee No documents have been received yet. This agenda item consists of three subitems: 1. Report of the Chairman. The United States strongly supports the active role which the current Standing Committee, under the leadership of New Zealand, has played in carrying out the many functions given to it by resolutions adopted by Conferences of the Parties. This includes the review of compliance with these resolutions by the Parties and making decisions for appropriate action when Parties are not in compliance. 2. Regional representation on the Standing Committee: Support an increase in Standing Committee membership if budgetary implications can be resolved. The Standing Committee is currently composed of six Regional voting representatives of North America (Canada), Central and South America and the Caribbean (Trinidad and Tobago, the Vice Chair), Asia (Thailand), Oceania (New Zealand, the Chair), Africa (Senegal), and Europe (Sweden). There are also three ex officio, nonvoting members: Switzerland (depositary country), Japan (past host country), and the United States (current host country). Each CITES Region currently has one representative on the Standing Committee, regardless of how large or small the number of Parties (Africa has 43 CITES parties, for example, while North America has only 3 and Oceania only 4). A proposal submitted by Malawi but not yet actually reviewed would increase the number of Regional representatives from Regions having larger numbers of Parties. The United States will consider support for such proposals depending on their exact nature and only after full consideration by the Budget Committee of their financial effects. 3. Election of new members and alternate regional members: Encourage membership which will continue the active role of the Standing Committee. The Regional representatives of North America, Europe, and Oceania are open for review by their respective Regions at COP9. The United States, as host of COP9, will continue on the Standing Committee as past host country until COP10. A new Chair will be selected by the new Standing Committee during a meeting to be held at the close of COP9; while the United States will not have a vote, the U.S. position is to encourage selection of a Chair with a strong commitment to a proactive Standing Committee role in the management of CITES affairs, as New Zealand has done during the past two years. X. Report of the Secretariat The Report of the Secretariat has not yet been received by the Service. When received, the Service will carefully review issues pertaining to: success of procedures for Parties to set budgetary and work priorities; setting of new short-term and long-term objectives for the Secretariat; evaluation of the performance of the Secretariat; and progress in assisting Parties to more forcefully implement the Convention. The biennial report provides the major way for the Secretariat, and the Secretary General, to report priorities, accomplishments, and problems to the Parties. These are critical management issues facing CITES which need to be addressed in the Secretariat's report. XI. Financing and budgeting of the Secretariat and of meetings of the Conference of the Parties 1. Financial Report for 1992&hyph;1993 No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet; no position is possible at this time. The United States continues to advocate fiscal responsibility and accountability. 2. Anticipated expenditures for 1994 and 1995 No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet; no position is possible at this time. The United States continues to advocate fiscal responsibility and accountability. 3. Budget for 1996&hyph;1998 and Medium-term Plan for 1996&hyph;2000 See Doc. 9.10_Budget Estimates for the CITES Trust Fund for 1996&hyph;1997 and for the Medium-term Plan for 1996&hyph;2000. This document was only received a short time ago by the Service, and is still undergoing review. Oppose any substantial increase in the Secretariat's budget representing a significant increase in its work plan. Support budget increases requested by the Secretariat in cases where the growing membership is placing increasing burdens on staff, without any commitment to an increased U.S. contribution. Support an evaluation of priorities and possible reprogramming of budget items into underfunded or unfunded areas of higher priority.
