FR940524-1-00071 FR940524-1-00010 (6) Type ``CE'' supplied-air respirators. A type ``C'' supplied-air respirator equipped with additional devices designed to protect the wearer's head and neck against impact and abrasion from rebounding abrasive material, and with shielding material such as plastic, glass, woven wire, sheet metal, or other suitable material to protect the window(s) of facepieces, hoods, and helmets which do not unduly interfere with the wearer's vision and permit easy access to the external surface of such window(s) for cleaning. §84.131 Supplied-air respirators; required components. (a) Each supplied-air respirator described in §84.130 shall, where its design requires, contain the following component parts: (1) Facepiece, hood, or helmet; (2) Air supply valve, orifice, or demand or pressure-demand regulator; (3) Hand operated or motor driven air blower; (4) Air supply hose; (5) Detachable couplings; (6) Flexible breathing tube; and (7) Respirator harness. (b) The component parts of each supplied-air respirator shall meet the minimum construction requirements set forth in subpart G of this part. §84.132 Breathing tubes; minimum requirements. Flexible breathing tubes used in conjunction with supplied-air respirators shall be designed and constructed to prevent: (a) Restriction of free head movement; (b) Disturbance of the fit of facepieces, mouthpieces, hoods, or helmets; (c) Interference with the wearer's activities; and (d) Shutoff of airflow due to kinking, or from chin or arm pressure. §84.133 Harnesses; installation and construction; minimum requirements. (a) Each supplied-air respirator shall, where necessary, be equipped with a suitable harness designed and constructed to hold the components of the respirator in position against the wearer's body. (b) Harnesses shall be designed and constructed to permit easy removal and replacement of respirator parts, and where applicable, provide for holding a full facepiece in the ready position when not in use. §84.134 Respirator containers; minimum requirements. Supplied-air respirators shall be equipped with a substantial, durable container bearing markings which show the applicant's name, the type and commercial designation of the respirator it contains, and all appropriate approval labels. §84.135 Half-mask facepieces, full facepieces, hoods, and helmets; fit; minimum requirements. (a) Half-mask facepieces and full facepieces shall be designed and constructed to fit persons with various facial shapes and sizes either: (1) By providing more than one facepiece size; or (2) By providing one facepiece size which will fit varying facial shapes and sizes. (b) Full facepieces shall provide for optional use of corrective spectacles or lenses, which shall not reduce the respiratory protective qualities of the respirator. (c) Hoods and helmets shall be designed and constructed to fit persons with various head sizes, provide for the optional use of corrective spectacles or lenses, and insure against any restriction of movement by the wearer. (d) Facepieces, hoods, and helmets shall be designed to prevent eyepiece fogging. §84.136 Facepieces, hoods, and helmets; eyepieces; minimum requirements. (a) Facepieces, hoods, and helmets shall be designed and constructed to provide adequate vision which is not distorted by the eyepiece. (b) All eyepieces except those on Types B, BE, C, and CE supplied-air respirators shall be designed and constructed to meet the impact and penetration requirements specified in Federal Specification, Mask, Air Line, and Respirator, Air Filtering, Industrial GGG&hyph;M&hyph;125d, October 11, 1965. (c) (1) The eyepieces of AE, BE, and CE type supplied-air respirators shall be shielded by plastic, glass, woven wire, sheet metal, or other suitable material which does not interfere with the vision of the wearer. (2) Shields shall be mounted and attached to the facepiece to provide easy access to the external surface of the eyepiece for cleaning. §84.137 Inhalation and exhalation valves; check valves; minimum requirements. (a) Inhalation and exhalation valves shall be provided where necessary and protected against distortion. (b) Exhalation valves shall be:
