FR940203-0-00042 FR940203-0-00009 §207.108 Preliminary conference. As soon as practicable after the response to the charging letter is filed, the administrative law judge shall direct counsel or other representatives for the parties to meet with him or her at a preliminary conference, unless the administrative law judge determines that such a conference is not necessary. At the conference, the administrative law judge shall consider the issuance of such orders as the administrative law judge deems necessary for the conduct of the proceedings. Such orders may include, as appropriate under these regulations, the establishment of a discovery schedule or the issuance of an order, if requested, to provide for maintaining the confidentiality of the proceedings pursuant to §207.105(b) of this subpart. §207.109 Discovery. (a) Discovery methods. All parties may obtain discovery under such terms and limitations as the administrative law judge may order. Discovery may be by one or more of the following methods: (1) Depositions upon oral examination or written questions; (2) Written interrogatories; (3) Production of documents or things for inspection and other purposes; and (4) Requests for admissions. (b) Sanctions. If a party or an officer or agent of a party fails to comply with a discovery order, the administrative law judge may take such action as he deems reasonable and appropriate, including the issuance of evidentiary sanctions or deeming the respondent to be in default. (c) Depositions of nonparty officers or employees of the United States or another Free Trade Area country government. _(1) Depositions of Commission officers or employees. A party desiring to take the deposition of an officer or employee of the Commission (other than a member of the Office of Unfair Import Investigations or of the Office of the Administrative Law Judges), or to obtain nonprivileged documents or other physical exhibits in the custody, control, and possession of such officer or employee, shall file a written motion requesting the administrative law judge to recommend that the Commission direct that officer or employee to testify or produce the requested materials. (2) Depositions of officers or employees of other United States agencies, or of the government of another Free Trade Area country. A party desiring to take the deposition of an officer or employee of another agency, or of the government of another Free Trade Area country, or to obtain nonprivileged documents or other physical exhibits in the custody, control, and possession of such officer or employee, shall file a written motion requesting the administrative law judge to recommend that the Commission seek the testimony or production of requested material from the officer or employee. §207.110 Subpoenas. (a) Application for issuance of a subpoena. Except as provided in §207.109(c) of this subpart, an application for issuance of a subpoena requiring a person to appear and depose or testify at the taking of a deposition or at a hearing shall be made to the administrative law judge. The application shall be made in writing, and shall specify the material to be produced as precisely as possible, showing the relevancy of the material and the reasonableness of the scope of the subpoena. The application shall be ruled upon by the administrative law judge. (b) Enforcement of a subpoena. A motion for enforcement of a subpoena shall be made to the administrative law judge. Upon consideration of the motion and any response thereto, the administrative law judge shall recommend to the Commission in favor of or against enforcement. The administrative law judge's recommendation shall provide the basis therefor, and shall address each of the criteria necessary for enforcement of an administrative subpoena. After consideration of the administrative law judge's recommendation, the Commission shall determine whether initiation of enforcement proceedings is appropriate. (c) Application for subpoena grounded upon the Freedom of Information Act. No application for a subpoena for production of documents grounded upon the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) shall be entertained by the administrative law judge or the Commission. §207.111 Prehearing conference. The administrative law judge may direct the attorney or other representatives for the parties to meet with him or her to consider any or all of the following: (a) Simplification and clarification of the issues; (b) Scope of the hearing; (c) Stipulations and admissions of either fact or the content and authenticity of documents; (d) Disclosure of the names of witnesses and the exchange of documents or other physical evidence that will be introduced in the course of the hearing; and (e) Such other matters as may aid in the orderly and expeditious disposition of the proceedings. §207.112 Hearings. (a) Purpose of and scheduling of hearings. An opportunity for a hearing before an administrative law judge shall be provided for each action initiated under §207.102 of this subpart. The purpose of such hearing shall be to receive evidence and hear argument in order to determine whether a charged party has committed a prohibited act and if so, what sanctions are appropriate. Hearings shall proceed with all reasonable expedition, and, insofar as practicable, shall be held at one place, continuing until completed, unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge. (b) Joinder or consolidation. The administrative law judge may order such joinder or consolidation of proceedings initiated under §207.102 of this subpart at the administrative law judge's discretion. (c) Compliance with Administrative Procedure Act. The administrative law judge shall conduct a hearing that complies with the requirements of section 554 of title 5 of the United States Code. §207.113 The record. (a) Definition of the record. The record shall consist of_ (1) The charging letter and response, motions and responses, and other documents and exhibits properly filed with the Commission Secretary; (2) All orders, notices, and the recommended or initial determinations of the administrative law judge;
