FR940810-0-00244 FR940810-0-00021 Cleavage Fragments: Mineral particles formed by comminution of minerals, especially those characterized by parallel sides and a moderate aspect ratio (usually less than 20:1). Detection Limit: The number of fibers necessary to be 95% certain that the result is greater than zero. Differential Counting: The term applied to the practice of excluding certain kinds of fibers from the fiber count because they do not appear to be asbestos. Fiber: A particle that is 5 m m or longer, with a length-to-width ratio of 3 to 1 or longer. Field: The area within the graticule circle that is superimposed on the microscope image. Set: The samples which are taken, submitted to the laboratory, analyzed, and for which, interim or final result reports are generated. Tremolite, Anthophyllite, and Actinolite: The non-asbestos form of these minerals which meet the definition of a fiber. It includes any of these minerals that have been chemically treated and/or altered. Walton-Beckett Graticule: An eyepiece graticule specifically designed for asbestos fiber counting. It consists of a circle with a projected diameter of 100 # 2 m m (area of about 0.00785 mm 2 ) with a crosshair having tic-marks at 3- m m intervals in one direction and 5- m m in the orthogonal direction. There are marks around the periphery of the circle to demonstrate the proper sizes and shapes of fibers. This design is reproduced in Figure 2. The disk is placed in one of the microscope eyepieces so that the design is superimposed on the field of view. 1.1. History Early surveys to determine asbestos exposures were conducted using impinger counts of total dust with the counts expressed as million particles per cubic foot. The British Asbestos Research Council recommended filter membrane counting in 1969. In July 1969, the Bureau of Occupational Safety and Health published a filter membrane method for counting asbestos fibers in the United States. This method was refined by NIOSH and published as P & CAM 239. On May 29, 1971, OSHA specified filter membrane sampling with phase contrast counting for evaluation of asbestos exposures at work sites in the United States. The use of this technique was again required by OSHA in 1986. Phase contrast microscopy has continued to be the method of choice for the measurement of occupational exposure to asbestos. 1.2. Principle Air is drawn through a MCE filter to capture airborne asbestos fibers. A wedge shaped portion of the filter is removed, placed on a glass microscope slide and made transparent. A measured area (field) is viewed by PCM. All the fibers meeting a defined criteria for asbestos are counted and considered a measure of the airborne asbestos concentration. 1.3. Advantages and Disadvantages There are four main advantages of PCM over other methods: (1) The technique is specific for fibers. Phase contrast is a fiber counting technique which excludes non-fibrous particles from the analysis. (2) The technique is inexpensive and does not require specialized knowledge to carry out the analysis for total fiber counts. (3) The analysis is quick and can be performed on-site for rapid determination of air concentrations of asbestos fibers. (4) The technique has continuity with historical epidemiological studies so that estimates of expected disease can be inferred from long-term determinations of asbestos exposures. The main disadvantage of PCM is that it does not positively identify asbestos fibers. Other fibers which are not asbestos may be included in the count unless differential counting is performed. This requires a great deal of experience to adequately differentiate asbestos from non-asbestos fibers. Positive identification of asbestos must be performed by polarized light or electron microscopy techniques. A further disadvantage of PCM is that the smallest visible fibers are about 0.2 m m in diameter while the finest asbestos fibers may be as small as 0.02 m m in diameter. For some exposures, substantially more fibers may be present than are actually counted.
