FR940207-2-00192 FR940207-2-00085 DEPARTMENT OF STATE Office of Defense Trade Controls [Public Notice 1944] Statutory Debarment Under the International Traffic in Arms Regulations AGENCY: Department of State. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given of which persons have been statutorily debarred pursuant to §127.7(c) of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) (22 CFR parts 120&hyph;130). EFFECTIVE DATE: February 7, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Clyde G. Bryant Jr., Chief, Compliance and Enforcement Branch, Office of Defense Trade Controls, Department of State (703&hyph;875&hyph;6650). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 38(g)(4)(A) of the Arms Export Control Act (AECA), 22 U.S.C. 2778, prohibits export licenses to be issued to a person, or any party to the export, who has been convicted of violating certain U.S. criminal statutes, including the AECA. The term ``person,'' as defined in §120.14 of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), means a natural person as well as a corporation, business association, partnership, society, trust, or any other entity, organization or group, including governmental entities. The ITAR, specifically §126.7(e), defines the term ``party to the export'' to include the president, the chief executive officer, and other senior officers and officials of the license applicant; the freight forwarders or designated exporting agent of the license applicant; and any consignee or end-user of any item to be exported. The statute permits certain limited exceptions to this prohibition to be made on a case-by-case basis. 22 U.S.C. 2778(g)(4). The ITAR, §127.7, authorizes the Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs to prohibit certain persons convicted of violating, or conspiring to violate, the AECA, from participating directly or indirectly in the export of defense articles or in the furnishing of defense services. Such a prohibition is referred to as a ``statutory debarment,'' which may be imposed on the basis of judicial proceedings that resulted in a conviction for violating, or of conspiring to violate, the AECA. See 22 CFR 127.7(c). The period for debarment will normally be three years from the date of the most recent conviction. At the end of the debarment period, licensing privileges may be reinstated at the request of the debarred person following the necessary interagency consultations, after a thorough review of the circumstances surrounding the conviction, and a finding that appropriate steps have been taken to mitigate any law enforcement concerns, as required by the AECA, 22 U.S.C. 2778(g)(4). Statutory debarment is based solely upon a conviction in a criminal proceeding, conducted by a United States court. Thus, the administrative debarment procedures, as outlined in the ITAR, 22 CFR part 128, are not applicable in such cases. The Department of State will not consider applications for licenses or requests for approvals that involve any person or any party to the export who has been convicted of violating, or of conspiring to violate, the AECA during the period of statutory debarment. Persons who have been statutorily debarred may appeal to the Under Secretary for International Security Affairs for reconsideration of the ineligibility determination. A request for reconsideration must be submitted in writing within 30 days after a person has been informed of the adverse decision. 22 CFR §127.7(d). Department of State policy permits debarred persons to apply for an exception one year after the date of the most recent debarment, in accordance with the AECA, 22 U.S.C. 2778(g)(4)(A), and the ITAR, §127.7. This request is made to the Director of the Office of Defense Trade Controls. Any decision to grant an exception can be made only after the statutory requirements under section 38(g)(4) of the AECA have been satisfied. If the exception is granted, the debarment will be suspended.
