FR941011-2-00124 FR941011-2-00082 The CBOE believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act in general and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) of the Act in particular in that it is designed to provide for the equitable allocation of reasonable dues, fees and charges among CBOE members. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The CBOE does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose a burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received respect to the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The Exchange has requested that the proposed rule change be given accelerated effectiveness pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act. The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and in particular, the requirements of Section 6(b)(5). 12 Specifically, the Commission finds, as it did in originally approving the Pilot Program and the subsequent extension, that imposing fees on members who submit As-of-Adds for more than a prescribed percentage of transactions in any month is likely to: (1) Offset the carrying costs incurred by the Exchange and Exchange members as a result of these post-trade date submissions; (2) make trade comparisons on the CBOE more efficient in terms of the time and expense involved in trade processing; and (3) reduce the risk exposure to investors and Exchange clearing members. 13 Additionally, the Commission continues to believe that the Pilot Program does not raise any due process concerns because of the availability of the verification and appeals processes. 14 12 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). 13 See Exchange Act Release No. 32999, supra note 3, and Continuation Order, supra note 4. 14 Id. The regulatory circular to be issued upon approval of the proposed rule change shall also expressly state that all members assessed a fee pursuant to the pilot program may submit a request for verification and may appeal the fees assessed pursuant to Chapter XIX of the CBOE Rules. See October 3 Conversation, supra note 11. Although the Exchange believes the fees that can be incurred are relatively modest, the Commission believes that the fee assessments, which have reached in excess of $800 per month for an individual member and in excess of $2,400 per month for a clearing member, 15 can be substantial. Nevertheless, because such high fees would only be imposed on the most egregious offenders of Rule 2.26, the Commission believes the fee structure is not totally unreasonable. Furthermore, the Exchange has represented that in determining the number of As-of-Add submissions each month, it cannot determine, without reviewing each individual trade, whether a particular As-of-Add was submitted late due to the fault of an individual member or that member's clearing firm. 16 As a result, in determining whether a member has exceeded its stated monthly percentage of allowable As-of-Adds, each As-of-Add processed by a member firm is counted against both that member firm and the individual member who executed the transaction. 17 In this context, the Commission remains troubled that to the extent that a clearing member is responsible for the late submission, the individual member can still be assessed a substantive fine, and vice versa. 15 See supra note 7. 16 See Continuation Order, supra note 4. 17 Id. Despite these concerns, the Commission finds that the differential in the per-trade fee amount assessed against clearing members ($3) and individual members ($10) is consistent with the Act based on the representations by the Exchange that in its experience, most As-of-Adds are the result of late submissions by individual members rather than by clearing members, and that clearing members are often delayed in submitting trade data because individual members fail to submit trade data to the clearing members in a timely manner. As a result, the Commission believes that the proposed rule change may serve to reduce the number of monthly As-of-Adds by individual members which should benefit all Exchange members, and ultimately investors, by increasing the efficiency with which Exchange transactions are processed as well as helping the Exchange to defray the additional costs it incurs with the processing of those transactions. 18 Although the maximum monthly allowable percentage of As-of-Adds for clearing members is lower than for individual members, this alone does not address the fee differential because clearing members are clearing transactions for many Exchange members. The Commission, therefore, continues to encourage the Exchange to consider methods of administering the Pilot Program to ensure that As-of-Add fees are assessed in a fair and equitable manner. 18 The Commission does not necessarily agree with the Exchange that when the cost to clearing members of processing As-of-Adds is factored in, that the difference between the per-submission transaction fees ($10 v. $8) is de minimis.
