FR940202-0-00105 FR940202-0-00012 5. A new §1312.41 is added to read as follows: §1312.41 Range tariffs. (a) A range tariff presents a series of rates or discounts with each rate or discount potentially applicable to any given shipment; the particular rate or discount made applicable to particular shipment(s) is given effect by the filing of a second tariff. Under these circumstances the rate or discount made applicable by the filing of the second tariff takes precedence over other filed tariffs otherwise applicable to the shipment(s). (b) To initiate range tariff pricing, a carrier or agent shall: (1) File with the Commission a tariff setting forth the series (range) of rates or discounts potentially applicable to shipments moving on, or subsequent to, the effective date of the tariff. The tariff shall show on its title page the term INITIATING RANGE TARIFF; (2) Provide an explanation of the application of the tariff, including any conditions, limitations or restrictions that attend use of the tariff; the explanation shall be contained in an Item 150 designated ``Application of Tariff''; (3) File not more than one initiating range tariff to be in effect at any one time; however, different ranges of rates or discounts may be established within the one tariff provided the application of the different ranges is clearly explained to avoid ambiguity of applicability; (4) File initiating range tariffs with the Commission in the manner required by §1312.3 and §1312.4(a) and (b) of this part; and (5) Establish and maintain with the Commission a tariff filing fee account pursuant to the provisions of §1002.2(a)(1)(ii) of this chapter, for use in making activating range tariff filings under paragraph (c) of this section. (c) To activate for particular shipment(s) a particular rate or discount (from among the range of rates or discounts provided in the initiating range tariff established under paragraph (b) of this section), a carrier or agent shall: (1) Prior to transporting a specifically identified shipment(s), file a tariff with the Commission stating the actual rate or discount that applies to the shipment(s). The tariff shall show on its title page the term ACTIVATING RANGE TARIFF and shall refer to the initiating range tariff (previously established under paragraph (b) of this section) as a control tariff; (2) Publish activating rates or discounts in a tariff in the carrier's own name or in a tariff filed in the name of a duly authorized agent, immediately followed by the carrier's or agent's code and the characters ``6R''; immediately under this designation shall be shown the actual date of filing with the Commission, which shall serve as the date on which the tariff becomes applicable for traffic moving subsequent to the filing. Example: ICC ABCD 6R Filed: 7/1/93 Each page of the activating range tariff shall show this same information. Each page shall be sequentially numbered with the final page stating ``end'' following the last page number; (3) Show on the title page of each activating range tariff a specific date of expiration that shall not exceed 7 days from the date of the tariff's filing. In the event an expiration date is not designated, the tariff shall expire 7 days from the date of filing; (4) Identify the specific traffic to be accorded service under the stated rate or discount with whatever information is needed to identify specifically the intended shipments, but in any event, at a minimum, identify either the shipper's name or the commodity description and origin and destination points; and (5) File with the Commission: (i) One copy of each activating tariff submitted by fax transmission to (202) 927&hyph;5888; to avoid the necessity of filing a separate transmittal letter (see §1312.4(b) of this part), the title page of every activating range tariff shall provide the name, title and phone number of the party authorized to submit the publication for filing with the Commission, and the fee account number established for the filing carrier or agent; or (ii) Two copies of each activating tariff transmitted by hand in accordance with the requirements of §1312.3 and 1312.4(a) and (b) of this part. (d) Except as expressly provided in this section, range tariffs are subject to the provisions of §§1312.1 through 1312.40 of this part. Decided: January 10, 1994. By the Commission, Chairman McDonald, Vice Chairman Simmons, Commissioners Phillips, and Philbin. Commissioner Phillips concurred in part and dissented in part with a separate expression. Sidney L. Strickland, Jr., Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2358 Filed 2&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7035&hyph;01&hyph;P
