FR940705-2-00209 FR940705-2-00091 Appendix K&hyph;II&hyph;B. Written instructions and training of personnel shall be provided to assure that cultures of viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules are handled prudently and that the workplace is kept clean and orderly. Appendix K&hyph;II&hyph;C. In the interest of good personal hygiene, facilities (e.g., hand washing sink, shower, changing room) and protective clothing (e.g., uniforms, laboratory coats) shall be provided that are appropriate for the risk of exposure to viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules. Eating, drinking, smoking, applying cosmetics, and mouth pipetting shall be prohibited in the work area. Appendix K&hyph;II&hyph;D. Cultures of viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules shall be handled in facilities intended to safeguard health during work with microorganisms that do not require containment. Appendix K&hyph;II&hyph;E. Discharges containing viable recombinant organisms shall be handled in accordance with applicable governmental environmental regulations. Appendix K&hyph;II&hyph;F. Addition of materials to a system, sample collection, transfer of culture fluids within/between systems, and processing of culture fluids shall be conducted in a manner that maintains employee's exposure to viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules at a level that does not adversely affect the health and safety of employees. Appendix K&hyph;II&hyph;G. The facility's emergency response plan shall include provisions for handling spills. Spills and accidents which result in overt exposures to organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules are immediately reported to the Biological Safety Officer, Institutional Biosafety Committee, NIH/ORDA, and other appropriate authorities (if applicable). Reports to NIH/ORDA shall be sent to the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, National Institutes of Health, Building 31, room 4B11, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, (301) 496&hyph;9838. Appendix K&hyph;III. Biosafety Level 1 (BL1)_Large Scale Appendix K&hyph;III&hyph;A. Spills and accidents which result in overt exposures to organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules are immediately reported to the Biological Safety Officer, Institutional Biosafety Committee, NIH/ORDA, and other appropriate authorities (if applicable). Reports to NIH/ORDA shall be sent to the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, National Institutes of Health, Building 31, room 4B11, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, (301) 496&hyph;9838. Medical evaluation, surveillance, and treatment are provided as appropriate and written records are maintained.
