FR940405-1-00112 FR940405-1-00013 More than half of the buildings sampled were occupied during renovation activities. However, all projects in which asbestos-related work was being performed were sealed off from the building occupants. A variety of renovation projects were performed in buildings ranging in project area from 15 to 900,000 square feet, in duration from one to 156 weeks and in cost from $700 to more than $10 million. The average cost was approximately $0.3 million and the average duration for a project was 13 weeks. However, no data are available on the cost to provide controls required under the proposed IAQ standard or for current industry compliance for chemical exposure other than exposure to asbestos. OSHA assumed minimal cost due to the nature of these processes. F. Economic Impact and Regulatory Flexibility Analysis The previous section presented the costs to all industries of complying with the proposed standard. This chapter examines projected economic and environmental impacts on those industries. OSHA developed quantitative estimates of the economic impact of the proposed standard on the affected industries. Data on profits are presented to illustrate the scale of profitability of affected industries and do not necessarily represent their ability to pay for proposed standard provisions. OSHA assessed the potential economic impacts and has preliminarily determined that the standard is economically feasible for each of the major industry groups that will be affected. OSHA conducted its analysis at the two digit SIC level. This has been OSHA's procedure for doing regulatory impact analyses for other proposed standards. OSHA preliminarily concludes that this is reflective of the actual impact on the average firm within each subsector. It does not appear that the affected groups will experience significant adverse economic impact as a result of the standard. However, if any interested person has information to show that the analysis at the two digit level is not representative of the potential economic impact of the proposal, OSHA requests the following information: Reasons why the preliminary regulatory analysis is not reflective of the actual anticipated costs in any particular sector; specific information as to why the analysis at the two digit level fails to adequately represent the economic impact; and specific information to help OSHA to better predict the impact on the sector in question. Such information should be included in the comments on the proposal. In accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, OSHA additionally examined the potential for an unduly burdensome impact on small entities. OSHA believes that the standard will not have significant adverse effect on a substantial number of small entities. However, OSHA requests comment on those workplaces for which compliance with the proposed standard would prove economically and technologically challenging (e.g., restaurants, bars and other ``public'' places where employees are exposed to customer's tobacco smoke). While it is technologically feasible to ban smoking in those establishments, there may be other countervailing problems, legal and economic, which OSHA should consider. (1) Economic Feasibility In order to determine the economic feasibility of the rule, OSHA compared estimated compliance costs with: (1) The value of sales and (2) before-tax profits. All financial data developed for this analysis are based on information from Dun and Bradstreet's annual credit survey. Aggregate sales data for 1991 were taken from the D&B Market Identifiers data base [Exs. 4&hyph;94, 4&hyph;95, 4&hyph;96]. Mean profit rates (profit as a percentage of sales) were taken from D&B's Insight data base; OSHA averaged data for 1990, 1991 and 1992. 11 11 Dun's Insight computer data base presents data from their three most recent annual industry Norms and Key Business Ratios publications. For most industry groups, OSHA averaged data for three years. Using a conversion formula 12 based on the federal corporate tax schedule, OSHA calculated pre-tax profits from its estimate for post-tax profits. It should be noted that the sales and profit data, while the most recent available, reflect conditions during a cyclical trough; therefore, impacts may depict a worst case scenario. In the case of the federal government sector, price increases for services rendered may not apply. Budgets are usually fixed (in the short run) and compliance costs are paid by reducing funds for other items in the budget. 12 This conversion implicitly assumes individual business establishments are separate corporations. Because more than one establishment may be grouped together for tax purposes, the conversion will tend to underestimate pre-tax profits. State, local and other business taxes have not been factored into the conversion formula. Additionally, because average tax rates may decline as pre-tax profits decline, the after-tax impact to the company may be less than suggested here. Where industry enjoys an inelastic demand for its product, an increase in operating costs can ordinarily be passed on to consumers. In this case, the maximum expected price increase is calculated by dividing the estimated compliance cost for each industry by the sales for that industry. Table VI&hyph;13 shows that the average price increase related to the cost of this proposed standard would be extremely small, 0.07 percent, with the largest being 0.41 percent (Personal Services, SIC&hyph;72). The results in Table VI&hyph;13 indicate that even if all costs were passed on to consumers through price increases, the rule would have a negligible impact on prices. In many industries, however, establishments will not be able to pass along the entire cost of compliance through price increases since consumers may respond by reducing demand. Such establishments will have to absorb from profit the costs they cannot pass through. If all costs were absorbed from profit, the maximum expected decrease in profit can be calculated by dividing the estimated compliance cost for each industry by its estimated profit. Table VI&hyph;13 shows that the average decline in profits under this worst-case-elasticity assumption would be less than 0.94 percent. The largest potential decline in profits would be in Fishing at 4.5 percent (SIC&hyph;9). Because most establishments will not find it necessary to absorb all of the costs from profits and will be able to pass some of the costs on to consumers, average profits will not decline to the extent calculated in this analysis. BILLING CODE: 4510&hyph;26&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEP05Ap94.001 BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;26&hyph;C OSHA believes that these impacts are not large enough to impair economic viability. While some marginal firms might be more seriously impacted, extensive economic dislocation is not expected to occur in any industry. OSHA has, therefore, preliminarily determined that the standard is economically feasible.
