FR940523-0-00071 FR940523-0-00014 (f) Each licensee should utilize generally accepted accounting principles consistently throughout the claim. These accounting principles, underlying assumptions, and any other information necessary for the Department to evaluate the claim shall be set forth in each claim. (g) Following each annual appropriation by Congress, the Department will issue a Federal Register Notice announcing: (1) A claim submission deadline for that fiscal year; (2) Availability of funds for reimbursement of costs of remedial action; (3) Whether the Department anticipates that approved claims for that fiscal year may be subject to prorated payment; (4) Any changes in the Federal reimbursement ratio or maximum reimbursement ceiling for any active uranium or thorium processing site; (5) Any revision in the per dry short ton limit on reimbursement for all active uranium processing sites; and (6) Any other relevant information. (h) A licensee shall certify, with respect to any claim submitted by it for reimbursement, that the work was completed as described in an approved reclamation plan or other authorization. In addition, the licensee shall certify that all costs for which reimbursement is claimed, all documentation relied upon in support of its costs, and all statements or representations made in the claim are complete, accurate, and true. The certification shall be signed by an officer or other official of the licensee with knowledge of the contents of the claim and authority to represent the licensee in making the certification. Any knowingly false or frivolous statements or representations may subject the individual to penalties under the False Claims Act, sections 3729 through 3731 of title 31 United States Code, or any other applicable statutory authority; and criminal penalties under sections 286, 287, 1001 and 1002 of title 18, United States Code, or any other applicable statutory authority. (i) All claims for reimbursement submitted to the Department shall be sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested. The Department reserves all rights under applicable law to recover any funds paid to licensees which an audit finds to not meet the requirements of this part. ยง765.21 Procedures for processing reimbursement claims. (a) The Department will conduct a preliminary review of each claim within 60 days after the claim submission deadline announced in the Federal Register Notice specified in ยง765.20(g) to determine the completeness of each claim. Payments from the Fund to active uranium or thorium processing site licensees for approved costs of remedial action will be made simultaneously by the Department within 1 year of the claim submission deadline. (b) After completing the preliminary review specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the Department may audit, or require the licensee to audit, any documentation used in support of such claim, request the licensee to provide additional information, or request the licensee to provide other clarification determined by the Department to be necessary to complete its evaluation of the claim. In addition, the Department reserves the right to conduct an inspection of the site to verify any information provided by the licensee in a claim for reimbursement, or in support thereof. Any information requested by the Department, if provided, must be submitted by the claimant within 60 days of receipt of the request unless the Department specifies in writing that additional time is provided. (c) At any time during the review of a claim, the Department may request an informal conference with a licensee to obtain further information or clarification on any unresolved issue pertaining to the claim. While the licensee is not required to provide additional clarification requested by the Department, a failure to do so may result in the denial of that portion of the claim for which information is requested. (d) Based upon the claim submitted and any additional information received by the Department, including any audit or site inspection if conducted, the Department shall complete a final review of all relevant information prior to making a reimbursement decision. When the Department determines it is not clear that an activity for which reimbursement is claimed was necessary to comply with UMTRCA or where appropriate, with applicable Agreement State requirements, the Department may consult with the appropriate regulatory authorities. (e) A written decision regarding the Department's determination to approve, approve in part, or deny a claim will be provided to the licensee within 10 days of completion of the final review. (f) If the Department determines that insufficient funds are available at any time to provide for complete payment of all outstanding approved claims, reimbursements of approved claims will be made on a prorated basis. A prorated payment of all outstanding approved claims for reimbursement, or any unpaid portion thereof, shall be made on the basis of the total amount of all outstanding approved claims, regardless of when the claims were submitted or approved.
