FR940628-0-00045 FR940628-0-00017 (i) $5,000 for enrollment in a program whose length is at least a full academic year; (ii) If the student is enrolled in a program with less than a full academic year remaining, a prorated amount that bears the same ratio to $5,000 as the remainder of the program measured in semester, trimester, quarter, or clock hours bears to one academic year; (3) In the case of a student in a program who has an associate or baccalaureate degree which is required for admission into the program, the total amount the student may borrow for an academic year under the Unsubsidized Stafford Loan and Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan Program may not exceed the amount in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section; and (4) In the case of a graduate or professional student, may not exceed $10,000. (e) Unsubsidized Stafford Loan Program aggregate limits. The total unpaid principal amount of Stafford Loans, Direct Stafford Loans, Unsubsidized Stafford Loans, Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loans and SLS Loans, may not exceed_ (1) $46,000 for an undergraduate student; and (2) $138,500 for a graduate or professional student. (f) SLS Program annual limit. (1) In the case of a loan for which the first disbursement is made prior to July 1, 1993, the total amount of all SLS loans that a student may borrow for any academic year may not exceed $4,000 or, if the student is entering or is enrolled in a program of undergraduate education that is less than one academic year in length and the student's SLS loan application is certified pursuant to ยง682.603 by the school on or after January 1, 1990_ (i) $2,500 for a student enrolled in a program whose length is at least two-thirds of an academic year but less than a full academic year in length; (ii) $1,500 for a student enrolled in a program whose length is less than two-thirds of an academic year in length; and (iii) $0 for a student enrolled in a program whose length is less than one-third of an academic year in length. (2) In the case of a loan for which a first disbursement is made on or after July 1, 1993, the total amount a student may borrow for an academic year under the SLS program_ (i) In the case of a student who has not successfully completed the first and second year of a program of undergraduate education, may not exceed_ (A) $4,000 for enrollment in a program whose length is at least a full academic year in length; (B) $2,500 for enrollment in a program whose length is at least two-thirds but less than a full academic year in length; (C) $1,500 for enrollment in a program whose length is least one-third but less than two-thirds of an academic year in length; (ii) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(4) of this section, in the case of a student who successfully completed the first and second year of an undergraduate program, but has not completed the remainder of the program, may not exceed_ (A) $5,000 for enrollment in a program whose length is at least a full academic year; (B) $3,325 for enrollment in a program whose length is at least two-thirds of an academic year but less than a full academic year in length; and (C) $1,675 for enrollment in a program whose length is at least one-third of an academic year but less than two-thirds of an academic year; and (iii) In the case of a graduate or professional student, may not exceed $10,000. (4) For a period of enrollment beginning after October 1, 1993, but prior to July 1, 1994 for which the first disbursement is made prior to July 1, 1994, in the case of a student who has successfully completed the first and second years of a program but has not successfully completed the remainder of a program of undergraduate education_ (i) $5,000; or (ii) If the student is enrolled in a program, the remainder of which is less than a full academic year, the maximum annual amount that the study may receive may not exceed the amount that bears the same ratio to the amount in paragraph (f)(4)(i) of this section as the remainder measured in semester, trimester, quarter, or clock hours bears to one academic year. (g) SLS Program aggregate limit. The total unpaid principal amount of SLS Program loans made to_ (1) An undergraduate student may not exceed_ (i) $20,000, for loans for which the first disbursement is made prior to July 1, 1993; or (ii) $23,000, for loans for which the first disbursement was made on or after July 1, 1993; and (2) A graduate student may not exceed_ (i) $20,000, for loans for which the first disbursement is made prior to July 1, 1993; or (ii) $73,000, for loans for which the first disbursement was made on or after July 1, 1993 including loans for undergraduate study. (h) PLUS Program annual limit. The total amount of all PLUS Program loans that parents may borrow on behalf of each dependent student for any academic year of study may borrow for enrollment in an eligible program of study may not exceed the student's cost of education minus other estimated financial assistance for that student. (i) Minimum loan interval. The annual loan limits applicable to a student apply to the length of the school's academic year. (j) Treatment of Consolidation loans for purposes of determining loan limits. The percentage of the outstanding balance on a Consolidation loan counted against a borrower's aggregate loan limits under the Stafford loan, Unsubsidized Stafford loan, Direct Stafford loan, Direct Unsubsidized loan, SLS, PLUS, Perkins Loan, or HPSL program must equal the percentage of the original amount of the Consolidation loan attributable to loans made to the borrower under that program. (k) Maximum loan amounts. In no case may a Stafford, PLUS, or SLS loan amount exceed the student's estimated cost of attendance for the period of enrollment for which the loan is intended, less_ (1) The student's estimated financial assistance for that period; and (2) The borrower's expected family contribution for that period, in the case of a Stafford loan that is eligible for interest benefits. (l) In determining a Stafford loan amount in accordance with ยง682.204 (a), (c) and (d), the school must use the definition of academic year in 34 CFR 668.2. 8. Section 682.206 is amended by revising the introductory text in paragraph (c)(2); and revising paragraph (e)(2) to read as follows: ยง682.206 Due diligence in making a loan. * * * * * (c) * * * (2) Except in the case of a Consolidation loan, in determining the amount of the loan to be made, the lender must review the data on the student's cost of attendance and estimated financial assistance that is provided by the school. In no case may the loan amount exceed the student's estimated cost of attendance less the sum of_
