FR940404-2-00130 FR940404-2-00085 The applicants and CoreStates intend to enter into a shareholders' voting agreement (''Voting Agreement'') which provides, among other things, that the power to vote all PFG Common Stock then held and thereafter acquired by the Trusts, the individual trustees and corporate trustee, and the Ware siblings in their individual capacities will be delegated to Marilyn Ware Lewis, effective upon the granting of the requested order. 5 Applicants state that the delegation of voting power will facilitate a smooth transition of voting control to Ms. Lewis, whose general business experience is expected to promote the efficient and economic operation of the PFG system. 5 As noted previously, each Ware sibling currently holds, in an individual capacity, less than 5% of the PFG Common Stock. Applicants do not anticipate that the Ware siblings will acquire any additional PFG Common Stock in their individual capacities. Additional authorization of the Commission will be obtained before any Ware sibling acquires an amount that would result in that individual's owning, controlling or holding with power to vote 5% or more of the PFG Common Stock. Applicants request authorization under sections 9(a)(2) and 10 for each of the four Trust Groups and each individual trustee, as a co-trustee with CoreStates, to acquire an initial amount of 5% or more of the PFG Common Stock. 6 Applicants further request any authorization that may be necessary for Ms. Lewis, in her individual capacity, to obtain the delegated power to vote the PFG Common Stock pursuant to the Voting Agreement. 7 6 The individual trustees will rely on the exemption from section 9(a)(2) provided by rule 11(d) with regard to any acquisition of PFG Common Stock made subsequent to the initial acquisition. CoreStates will rely on the exemption from section 9(a)(2) provided by rule 3(b) with respect to its acquisitions of PFG Common Stock. 7 Specifically, applicants request any necessary authorization for Ms. Lewis, in her individual capacity, to obtain a delegation of the right to vote 5% of the PFG Common Stock. Ms. Lewis will rely on the exemption from section 9(a)(2) provided by rule 11(d) with regard to any delegation under the Voting Agreement that results in the power to vote, in her individual capacity, more than 5% of PFG Common Stock. Applicants also request an order under section 3(a)(1) exempting PFG from all provisions of the Act, except section 9(a)(2). Applicants state that PFG and all of its public-utility subsidiary companies are incorporated in Pennsylvania, and that the utility business of PFG and each of its public-utility subsidiary companies is predominantly intrastate in character and carried on substantially in Pennsylvania. Applicants state that none of the trustees, Trusts or Trust Groups will be a holding company within the meaning of the Act as a result of the proposed transactions. CoreStates, as a bank-fiduciary, will rely on rule 3(a) to exempt it from any obligation, duty, or liability imposed upon it as a holding company. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7909 Filed 4&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
