FR940111-1-00006 FR940111-1-00002 Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service 7 CFR Part 723 RIN 0560&hyph;AD56 Tobacco Marketing Quotas, Acreage Allotments, and Production Adjustment AGENCY: Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, USDA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (the 1993 Act) was enacted on August 10, 1993. Section 1106 of the 1993 Act amended the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (the 1938 Act) by adding new section 320C that imposes a domestic tobacco content requirement for cigarettes made in the United States by any ``domestic manufacturer of cigarettes'' as defined in the 1938 Act. Under the provisions of the Act, as amended, each such manufacturer of cigarettes must certify the percentage of tobacco produced in the United States which was used by the manufacturer to produce cigarettes during the preceding calendar year. If the percentage of United States produced tobacco used by a domestic manufacturer of cigarettes in the manufacture of cigarettes is less than 75 percent, the manufacturer will be subject to a domestic marketing assessment and must purchase a quantity of tobacco from inventories of the producer owned burley and flue-cured cooperative marketing associations in an amount equal to the quantity of imported tobacco used by the manufacturer to produce cigarettes during the preceding calendar year that exceeds 25 percent of the total quantity of tobacco used in such cigarette production. When a manufacturer is subject to a domestic content marketing assessment, the assessment rate will be based on the amount by which 1/2 the sum of the average prices per pound received during the most recent marketing year, by producers of domestically produced burley tobacco and flue-cured tobacco, respectively, exceeds the average price per pound paid for unmanufactured imported tobacco during the preceding calendar year. This proposed rule would amend the regulations to implement the provisions of section 320C. DATES: Comments must be received on or before February 10, 1994, in order to be assured of consideration. ADDRESSES: Interested persons are invited to submit written comments to: Director, Tobacco and Peanuts Division, Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, United States Department of Agriculture, P.O. Box 2415, Washington, DC 20013&hyph;2415. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michael D. Thompson, Agricultural Program Specialist, Tobacco and Peanuts Division, Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, United States Department of Agriculture, P. O. Box 2415, Washington, DC 20013&hyph;2415, telephone 202&hyph;720&hyph;4281. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Executive Order 12886 This proposed rule is issued in conformance with Executive Order 12866. Based on a preliminary regulatory impact analysis, this proposed rule has been determined to be economically significant. To obtain a copy of the Preliminary Regulatory Impact Statement, contact Dr. Robert Miller, Director, Tobacco and Peanut Analysis Division, Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, United States Department of Agriculture, P. O. Box 2415, Washington, DC 20013&hyph;2415, telephone (202) 720&hyph;8839. The 75 percent domestic tobacco content requirement is expected to increase the usage of domestic tobacco by 188 million pounds for 1994 which will cost domestic manufacturers about $200 million. Since the cost of domestic tobacco is about double that of imported tobacco, domestic cigarette manufacturers are expected to shift cigarette production to foreign based operations. As this shift in production occurs, domestic cigarette production is expected to decline about 9 percent a year for the next four years. This will result in the loss of about 11,000 jobs in domestic cigarette manufacturing plants. The use of domestically produced tobacco will eventually decline to a level less than if there were no domestic content requirement. Domestic cigarette output is expected to decline about 40 percent by 1998. The impact statement indicates little effect on the consumer prices for cigarettes because the tobacco accounts for only about 3 percent of the cost of cigarettes. The regulatory impact analysis does not consider any effects that an increase in cigarette excise tax may have on domestic cigarette production. The initial increase in the use of domestic tobacco is expected to draw down current loan stocks of burley and flue-cured tobacco. This will benefit tobacco producers in the short term since the Commodity Credit Corporation's net loan outlays for the 1994 marketing year are estimated to be about $380 million less as a result of the domestic tobacco content requirement. This will reduce the amount of the no-net-cost assessments paid by producers and purchasers of tobacco. Except for the cigarette manufacturing sector, this proposed regulatory action is not expected to have an adverse effect on the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities. This regulatory action is not expected to be inconsistent nor interfere with an action taken or planned by another federal agency. Other than as indicated in the summary of the regulatory impact statement, this action would not alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, loan programs, or the rights and obligations of the recipients thereof. This proposed rule would be consistent with the President's priorities and principles set forth in Executive Order 12866. Regulatory Flexibility Act It has been determined that the Regulatory Flexibility Act is not applicable to this proposed rule since the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service is not required by 5 U.S.C. 553 or any other provision of law to publish a notice of proposed rule making with respect to the subject matter of this rule. Federal Assistance Program The title and number of the Federal Assistance Program, as found in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance, to which this rule applies are:
