FR940407-1-00022 FR940407-1-00010 Ozone Nonattainment Area Statement The requirement for ozone nonattainment area's statements is documented in subsection B.3. This subsection requires stationary sources in ozone nonattainment areas emitting a minimum of 10 TPY of VOC, 25 TPY of NO X , or 100 TPY of CO to submit an annual statement. The statement shall consist of actual annual emissions and typical weekday emissions that occur during the three-month period of greatest or most frequent ozone exceedences as published by the Department in the Enforcement and Regulatory Compliance notice that is mailed out monthly from the Division of Legal Affairs and Enforcement. ``Typical weekday'' emissions are defined as an ``average'' of two actual daily emissions rates (one at the lowest emission rate and one at the highest emission rate) during a seven-day period. Minimum Data Requirements The minimum data requirements are documented in subsection B.5. The data requirements include a certifying statement, facility identification information, operating information, process rate data, control equipment information, and emissions information. A statement is required from the owner or operator to accompany the emission statement certifying that the information is true and accurate to the best knowledge of the certifying official. The certification will include the name, title, signature, date of signature, and telephone number of the certifying official (subsection B.5.a.). Source data elements required by the Louisiana regulation are: 1. Facility identification information (subsection B.5.b.) a. Full name, physical location, and mailing address of facility. b. Universal Transverse Mercator horizontal and vertical coordinates. c. Standard Industrial Classification code(s). 2. Operating information (subsection B.5.c.) a. Percentage annual throughput by season. b. Days per week during the normal operating schedule. c. Hours per day during the normal operating schedule. d. Hours per year during the normal operating schedule. 3. Process rate data (subsection B.5.d.) a. Annual process rate (annual throughput). b. Peak ozone season daily process rate (in nonattainment areas. 4. Control equipment information (subsection B.5.e.) a. Current primary and secondary AIRS Facility Subsystem (AFS) control equipment identification codes. b. Current control equipment efficiency (percent). 5. Emissions information (subsection B.5.f.) a. Estimated actual VOC and/or NO X emissions at the segment level, in TPY for an annual emission rate and pounds per day for a typical ozone season day (defined as the average or typical operating day during the peak ozone season). Actual emission estimates must include upsets, downtime, and fugitive emissions, and must follow an ``emission estimation method''. Emissions will be reported as one number. b. AFS estimated emissions method code. c. Emission factor (if emissions were calculated using an emissions factor). Calculations Calculations of emissions are documented in subsection C. The subsection specifies actual measurement with continuous monitoring systems (CEMS) is the desired method of calculating emissions from a point source. In lieu of CEMS data, emissions may be calculated using methods found in the most recent edition of the Compilation of Air Pollution Emission Factors (AP&hyph;42), or calculations published in Engineering Journals with prior administrative approval from the Assistant Secretary. Reporting Requirements The reporting requirements are documented in subsection E. The reporting deadline for the 1992 ozone nonattainment area is March 31, 1993, unless otherwise directed by the Secretary of the LDEQ. Subsequent emission statements are due on March 31 of each year, unless otherwise directed by the Secretary of the LDEQ, and will contain data for the previous year. Enforcement The enforcement requirements are documented in subsection F. The State of Louisiana has included language in its regulation that permits the State to enforce the provisions of the regulation under all pertinent State enforcement authorities. All measures and other elements in the SIP must be enforceable by the State and EPA. The EPA criteria addressing the enforceability of SIPs and SIP revisions were stated in a September 23, 1987, memorandum (with attachments) from J. Craig Potter, Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation, et al. (see 57 FR 13541). SIP provisions must also contain a program that provides for enforcement of the control measures and other elements in the SIP (see section 110(a)(2)(C)). Technical Correction In reviewing the State's submitted permanent regulation, a technical error was discovered in subsection B.2.a. This subsection contains a reference to subsection B.2.d., when it should refer to subsection B.2.c. This appears to be a typographical error and is not substantive since it is unlikely that it would lead to a misinterpretation of the regulation. This error has been discussed with the State, and the State has agreed to amend the regulation to correct the error through the State's rulemaking process. Final EPA rulemaking will not occur until the State has made the correction and submitted documentation of evidence that the error has been corrected. The EPA expects the correction will be made by June 30, 1994. Proposed Action
