FR940527-1-00054 FR940527-1-00014 We solicited public comments on ProPAC's proposal and suggestions concerning the development of an exceptions or appeals process, if appropriate, for possible implementation in FY 1995. We also solicited comments on a number of other issues such as the feasibility of using road miles instead of air miles, a process to verify hospital locations, and what the process should be to establish a wage index for new hospitals. We stated that we planned to continue our analysis of alternatives based on the current MSA based system that have appeared promising in the past, and that we planned to evaluate all potential labor market revisions using the same basic criteria. Comments on these issues were due to HCFA by August 31, 1993. In both the proposed and final rules for FY 1994, we stated our intention to analyze the comments we received as well as to conduct the research we outlined. We also stated that we would continue to consult with ProPAC and study any additional information they developed. We stated our intention to publish a proposal for formal public comment in the FY 1995 proposed rule if hospital-specific labor market areas based on the nearest neighbor concept proved promising. We indicated that we would include information describing all aspects of our proposal, and consider all comments, before issuing a final rule for implementation. In response to the May 26, 1993 proposed rule, we received a total of 266 comments on the nearest neighbor wage index proposal, including 28 from national, State, and local organizations representing hospitals. In all, 33 commenters were in favor of the nearest neighbors proposal, 128 were opposed and 105 were in support if changes were made to satisfy their concerns. The areas of major concern raised by the commenters were the redistribution of Medicare payments that would occur if hospital-specific labor market areas were adopted, how the boundaries should be drawn around hospitals to define labor market areas, and the nature and extent of an exceptions process. Several commenters also had reservations about whether a hospital's nearest neighbors were reflective of its labor market area. We discuss these and other issues below. • Redistribution of Medicare Payments _Many commenters were concerned about whether instituting hospital-specific labor market areas would lead to major shifts in Medicare payments at the same time that hospitals face an uncertain financial future because of the impact of health care reform. One state hospital association noted that adoption of the nearest neighbors proposal would cause a major redistribution of payments among rural hospitals, and that many hospitals that would be adversely affected were already in precarious financial condition. Another state association commented that the effects of the proposal on the hospitals in its State would vary greatly, with substantially increased payments to some hospitals and decreased payments to others. Many commenters suggested that if we were to adopt the nearest neighbors proposal, some type of phase-in over several years would be essential. • Definition of Labor Market Areas _Several commenters stated that hospital characteristics such as size, services offered, and case mix are a more reliable determinant of who a hospital competes with for labor than who its nearest neighbors are. One state association stated that its analysis of the wage index computed under the nearest neighbors proposal demonstrates that geographic proximity does not provide an accurate measure of the amount a hospital must pay to compete for labor. Since there are a wide range of options for defining hospital-specific labor market areas, many of the commenters suggested variations depending on their perception of what new labor market areas should achieve. Some favored changing the size of labor market areas so as to increase payment to a particular hospital or type of hospital, while others favored defining labor markets in a way that would decrease the payment shifts that would occur under the options. In order to minimize the payment changes that would result from the wage index, some groups supported including a larger number of hospitals in each labor market, while others supported limiting the size of labor market areas. One state association asserted that both nearest neighbor and fixed boundary labor market alternatives are problematic because neither method allows a sufficient amount of flexibility for determining labor market areas. The association believes that it would be more accurate if the direction and distance of worker commuting patterns were incorporated into the determination of a hospital's nearest neighbors. Another association stated that it may be difficult to identify a uniform approach that is equitable for all areas of the country, and urged HCFA to consider using different methodologies in different regions as appropriate. A national association stated that while the nearest neighbors proposal has conceptual appeal, whether the association would support a nearest neighbor proposal ultimately would depend on where HCFA draws the line around hospitals.
