FR940628-0-00003 FR940628-0-00001 Additionally, naming a single firm as the manufacturer or supplier of an item of equipment which is available from other sources may be unfair to those firms not identified in the footnotes. The Commission has considered the possibility that the footnotes could be revised to include the names of additional firms which make or sell those items of test equipment. However, that approach could require periodic revision of the standard to assure that the footnote lists all current sources for the flammability tester and brushing device. Rather than list all sources of those items, the Commission has decided to amend the Standard for the Flammability of Clothing Textiles by removing footnotes 3 and 5. C. Rulemaking Procedures Generally, the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553) requires that agencies must give notice of proposed rulemaking and provide opportunity for interested parties to submit written comments on the proposal before a rule can be issued or amended. However, 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(B) provides that notice of proposed rulemaking and public participation are not required when the agency makes a finding for good cause that such notice and opportunity for comment are ``impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest.'' The Commission finds for good cause that notice of proposed rulemaking and opportunity for written comment are not necessary for issuance of the amendment to delete footnotes 3 and 5 from the clothing textiles flammability standard because that amendment does not affect the rights or duties of any person or firm subject to the requirements of the standard. The amendment does not change the apparatus, procedure, or criteria used to determine if clothing and textiles intended for use in clothing are dangerously flammable because of rapid and intense burning. The only purpose of the amendment is to delete footnotes which identify a single firm as the source of two items of equipment used to conduct the test specified by the standard. D. Impact on Small Businesses Section 603 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) (5 U.S.C. 603) requires agencies to prepare and make available for public comment an initial regulatory flexibility analysis of the impact of a proposed rule on small entities, including small businesses. Section 605(b) of the RFA provides that an agency is not required to prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis when the agency certifies that the rule will not, if issued, have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. In accordance with provisions of section 605(b) of the RFA, the Commission certifies that the amendments proposed below, if issued on a final basis, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. As noted above, the amendment does not modify the equipment, test procedure, or pass/fail criteria of the clothing textiles flammability standard. The amendment will simply remove two footnotes naming one firm as the source for two items of test equipment. The amendment will not affect the availability of either item of test equipment or increase or decrease any cost for any firm which manufactures or sells any product subject to the clothing textiles flammability standard. E. Environmental Considerations The proposed amendments fall within the categories of Commission actions described at 16 CFR 1021.5(c) that have little or no potential for affecting the human environment. Because the proposed amendments, if issued on a final basis, will not change any aspect of the testing required by the standard, the proposed action does not have any potential to produce significant environmental effects. For that reason, neither an environmental assessment nor an environmental impact statement is required. List of Subjects in 16 CFR Part 1610 Consumer protection, Flammable materials, Records, Textiles, Warranties. Conclusion Therefore, pursuant to the authority of section 30(b) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2079(b)) and section 4 of the Flammable Fabrics Act (15 U.S.C. 1193), the Commission hereby amends title 16 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Chapter II, Subchapter D, Part 1610 to read as follows: PART 1610_STANDARD FOR THE FLAMMABILITY OF CLOTHING TEXTILES 1. The authority for part 1610 continues to read as follows: Authority: Sec. 5, Pub. L. 83&hyph;88, 67 Stat. 112, as amended, 68 Stat. 770 (15 U.S.C. 1193); sec. 11, Pub. L. 90&hyph;189, 81 Stat. 568. 2. Section 1610.4 is amended by revising paragraphs (b) introductory text and (c)(1) to read as follows: ยง1610.4 Methods of test. * * * * * (b) Flammability tester. The flammability tester consists of a draft-proof ventilated chamber enclosing a standardized ignition medium, sample rack, and automatic timing device. * * * * * (c) Brushing device. h (1) This device consists of a baseboard over which a smaller carriage is drawn. This carriage runs on parallel tracks attached to the edges of the upper surface of the baseboard. The brush is hinged with pin hinges at the rear edge of the baseboard and rests on the carriage vertically with a pressure of 150 grams. * * * * * h See ยง1610.61(c)(2) for a clarification of the brushing technique for fabric with raised-fiber surfaces. Dated: June 21, 1994. Sadye E. Dunn, Secretary, Consumer Product Safety Commission. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15550 Filed 6&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6355&hyph;01&hyph;P
