FR940124-1-00048 FR940124-1-00008 Subpart C_Criteria for Secretarial Recognition Section 602.22␣Demonstration of Accreditation Experience Section 496(a)(1) of the HEA requires accrediting agencies to demonstrate experience in operating as an accrediting agency as a condition for recognition. In §602.22 of the proposed regulations, the Secretary defines what a demonstration of accrediting experience must include, basically reiterating the requirements for experience set forth in §602.14 of the current regulations. However, §602.22 does not contain the requirement set forth in §602.14(c) of the current regulations that agencies must demonstrate that their policies, evaluation methods, and decisions are accepted throughout the United States by recognized accrediting agencies. The Secretary is aware, as argued by the non-Federal negotiators, that this requirement is an important indicator of an agency's acceptance. On the other hand, this requirement has been subject to criticism by persons and institutions interested in forming new accrediting agencies. These individuals and agencies have often expressed concern to the Secretary that this requirement imposes unfair hurdles for them and unduly stifles competition among accrediting agencies. The Secretary proposes to eliminate this requirement because the Secretary believes that it is inappropriate to require acceptance by recognized agencies as a condition for recognition even though evidence of acceptance by recognized accrediting agencies provides some measure of an agency's reliability. Section 602.23␣Application of Standards Current regulations require accrediting agencies to maintain a systematic program of review designed to assess the validity and reliability of their criteria, procedures, and standards and their relevance to the educational and training needs of affected students. As this requirement is fundamental to sound accrediting practice, there was consensus among negotiators that it should continue to be part of any regulations governing the accrediting agency recognition process. However, the language of the requirement has been changed in the proposed regulations from the language of the current regulations in response to the non-Federal negotiators' concerns about various technical interpretations of the words ``validity and reliability.'' The substance of the requirement, as expressed in §602.23(b)(5), is unchanged. The Secretary wishes to emphasize the importance of this requirement, which is fundamental to the establishment of sound standards for the accreditation process and the determination of educational quality. Section 602.24␣Accreditation Processes Section 496(c)(1) of the HEA requires that, in addition to the announced on-site review that is part of the regular accreditation process, an accrediting agency whose accreditation enables the institutions it accredits to participate in programs authorized under the HEA must conduct, some time during any accreditation or preaccreditation period, at least one unannounced on-site review at each institution that provides vocational education or training. Accordingly, in §602.24(c) of the proposed regulations, the Secretary requires unannounced site visits by these accrediting agencies. However, as noted in the discussion of §602.2, if the term ``vocational education'' is interpreted literally, it could be viewed as including all postsecondary education, and, under this interpretation, accrediting agencies would have to conduct unannounced site visits to all institutions. To avoid this outcome, in §602.24(c) of the proposed regulations, the Secretary limits the type of vocational education programs that trigger unannounced visits to the prebaccalaureate level. As non-Federal negotiators were divided among themselves as to the definition of vocational education, they did not reach consensus on this point. As mentioned in the discussion under §602.2, the Secretary is considering an alternative definition of prebaccalaureate vocational education that would not require unannounced site visits to degree-granting institutions whose prebaccalaureate vocational programs lead to the associate degree. This would minimize the burden of the new requirement for unannounced visits, hopefully without any adverse consequences. The Secretary invites comments on this approach and suggestions for alternative ways of reducing the burden without eliminating from review those institutions offering vocational education that have abused the Title IV program.
