FR940325-2-00012 FR940325-2-00004 In accordance with section 773(e)(1)(B) (i) and (ii) of the Act we included in CV the recalculated general expenses since these expenses were greater than the statutory minimum of ten percent of the COM. We revised respondent's reported profit calculation to reflect verification findings. (See Comment 8 in the ``Interested Party Comments'' section of this notice.) Since this amount was greater than the statutory minimum of eight percent of the sum of the COM and general expenses, we used the recalculated profit for CV purposes. We deducted from CV home market direct selling expenses. We also deducted home market indirect selling expenses capped by the amount of U.S. indirect selling expenses attributable to the cement clinker imported into the United States and further manufactured into finished cement, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b)(2). Price-to-Price Comparisons For sales of flux, we calculated FMV based on packed, ex-factory or delivered prices to unrelated home market customers. We excluded from our analysis those sales made to home market customers on a test basis because they were in unusually small quantities, rather than in the usual commercial quantities, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.46(a)(1). We also excluded from our analysis those sales to a home market customer which were destined for a third country market. (See Comment 16 in the ``Interested Party Comments'' section of this notice.) We made deductions, where appropriate, for rebates. We also deducted home market packing costs which were recalculated to exclude the costs of bagging and G&A expenses. (See Comments 11 and 12 in the ``Interested Party Comments'' section of this notice.) Pursuant to section 773(a)(4)(B) and 19 CFR 353.56(a)(2), we also deducted direct selling expenses including bagging costs, credit, technical service expenses and product liability premiums. (See Comments 11, 13 and 15 in the ``Interested Party Comments'' section of this notice.) We recalculated credit expenses to exclude VAT from the gross unit prices and to correct minor clerical errors found at verification with respect to the credit periods reported for certain transactions. (See Comment 14 in the ``Interested Party Comments'' section of this notice.) We revised respondent's reported technical service expense calculation, treating the verified travel expense portion of the calculation as a direct expense and the verified salary portion as an indirect selling expense. (See Comment 13 in the ``Interested Party Comments'' section of this notice.) In accordance with the decision in Ad Hoc Committee of AZ&hyph;NM&hyph;TX&hyph;FL Producers of Gray Portland Cement v. United States, Slip Op. 93&hyph;1239 (Fed. Cir., January 5, 1994), we made a circumstance-of-sale adjustment for post-sale home market movement expenses, namely inland freight and loading charges. We also deducted from FMV home market indirect selling expenses, including inventory carrying costs. The deduction for home market indirect selling expenses was capped by the sum of U.S. indirect selling expenses and U.S. commissions attributable to the flux imported into the United States and further manufactured, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b) (1) and (2). Where there was no U.S. commission applicable to a particular U.S. flux sale, we offset the indirect selling expenses in the United States with a corresponding deduction for indirect selling expenses in the home market, capped by the total indirect selling expenses incurred on the U.S. sale in the manner described above. We included in FMV the amount of the VAT collected in the home market. We also calculated the amount of the tax that was due solely to the inclusion of price deductions in the original tax base (i.e., 18.6 percent of the sum of any adjustments, expenses, charges and offsets that were deducted from the tax base). We deducted this amount after all other additions and deductions had been made. By making this additional tax adjustment, we avoid a distortion that would cause the creation of a dumping margin even when pre-tax dumping is zero. We also made an adjustment for physical differences in the merchandise, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.57. We revised the reported difmer amount to reflect only the verified variable COM, excluding the reported costs of bagging associated with the home market products, and associated G&A expenses and profit. (See Comments 11 and 12 in the ``Interested Party Comments'' section of this notice.) Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we conducted verification of the information provided by Lafarge by using standard verification procedures, including the examination of relevant sales, cost and financial records, and selection of original source documentation.
