FR940302-2-00079 FR940302-2-00058 DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Office of the Secretary Agency Recordkeeping/Reporting Requirements Under Review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Background The Department of Labor, in carrying out its responsibilities under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. Chapter 35), considers comments on the reporting/recordkeeping requirements that will affect the public. Recordkeeping/Reporting Requirements Under Review As necessary, the Department of Labor will publish Agency recordkeeping/ reporting requirements under review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) since the last publication. These entries may include new collections, revisions, extensions, or reinstatements, if applicable. The Departmental Clearance Officer will, upon request, be able to advise members of the public of the nature of the particular submission they are interested in. Each entry may contain the following information: The Agency of the Department issuing this recordkeeping/ reporting requirement. The title of the recordkeeping/reporting requirement. The OMB and/or Agency identification numbers, if applicable. How often the recordkeeping/reporting requirement is needed. Whether small businesses or organizations are affected. An estimate of the total number of hours needed to comply with the recordkeeping/reporting requirements and the average hours per respondent. The number of forms in the request for approval, if applicable. An abstract describing the need for and uses of the information collection. Comments and Questions Copies of the recordkeeping/reporting requirements included in each notice may be obtained by calling the Departmental Clearance Officer, Kenneth A. Mills ([202] 219&hyph;5095). Comments and questions about the items included in each notice should be directed to Mr. Mills, Office of Information Resources Management Policy, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., room N&hyph;1301, Washington, DC 20210. Comments should also be sent to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Attn: OMB Desk Officer for (BLS/DM/ESA/ ETA/OAW/MSHA/OSHA/PWBA/VETS), Office of Management and Budget, room 3001, Washington, DC 20503 ([202] 395&hyph;6880). Any member of the public who wants to comment on recordkeeping/ reporting requirements which have been submitted to OMB should advise Mr. Mills of this intent at the earliest possible date. New Employment and Training Administration. Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA) Title II Quarterly Status. Report Supplement. ETA 9045. Annually. State or local governments. 59 respondents; 1 hour per response; 59 total hours; 1 form. The information will be used to assess JTPA local financial and participant data. Participant and financial data will be used to respond to Congressional oversight, to prepare budget requests and make annual reports to Congress as required by statute. New Employment and Training Administration. Worker Adjustment Formula Financial Report Supplement. ETA 9046. Annually. State or local governments. 52 respondents; 1 hour per response; 52 total hours; 1 form. The information will be used to assess formula programs under the Job Training Partnership Act, Title III, as amended. Participant and financial data will be used to monitor program performance and to prepare reports and budget requests. New Employment and Training Administration. National Job Analysis Study. One-time survey. State or local governments; Farms, Businesses or other for-profit; Federal agencies or employees; Non-profit institutions; Small businesses or organizations. 21,966 respondents; 33 minutes per response; 12,157 total hours. The study will identify workplace behaviors that are generalizable across most occupations in the nation. Once identified, the behaviors will form the foundation for workplace assessments, curriculum development, and career selection and training. Reinstatement Mine Safety and Health Administration. Program of Instruction: location and use of fire fighting equipment; location of escapeways; exits and routes of travel; evacuation procedures; fire drills. 1219&hyph;0054. On occasion; quarterly. 270 respondents; 30 minutes per response; 135 total hours. Underground coal mine operators are required to have a plan approved by the Mine Safety and Health Administration for the instruction of miners in firefighting and evacuation procedures to be followed in the event of an emergency. To implement the plan, fire drills are required to be conducted on a quarterly basis, and certified by the operators' signature and date that the fire drills were conducted in accordance with the approved plan. Signed at Washington, DC this 24th day of February, 1994. Kenneth A. Mills, Departmental Clearance Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4746 Filed 3&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;30&hyph;P
