FR940707-2-00170 FR940707-2-00093 Tuesday, July 19, 1994 Morning Session 8:30 am_Opening remarks by Commissioner Richard Y. Roberts. 8:45 am_Brief remarks by staff of the Division of Investment Management 9:00 am_Financings and intrasystem transactions What protections are provided by review of financing transactions under a federal holding company statute? Is this review still necessary in light of developments in other federal and state regulation? If so, how could this review be made more effective and efficient? Is federal oversight of intrasystem transactions needed to prevent affiliate abuses, or can the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the states effectively safeguard the interests of consumers? 10:50 am_Integration and exemption The requirement of a single integrated public-utility system was intended to ensure economical and efficient utility operations. Are the interests of investors and consumers still served by this requirement? Has the requirement of geographic integration affected the development of creative solutions to the production and delivery of energy? Should the law prohibit foreign ownership of United States public-utility companies? If so, why and under what conditions? The law currently exempts certain types of holding companies. Do the theories underlying these exemptions remain valid? Should the exemptions be changed in light of recent developments? Are additional exemptions needed? Afternoon Session 1:30 pm_Diversification Has the requirement that nonutility interests be ``functionally related'' to a system's core utility operations demonstrably benefited investors and consumers of registered holding companies? What has been the experience of companies that were not similarly constrained? Should there be limits on diversification by utility holding companies? How would increased diversification affect the ability of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the states to protect the interests of consumers? When would the risks associated with diversification outweigh the potential benefits? 4:00 pm_Questions and comments 5:00 pm_Session ends Based upon the roundtable discussions and its own review, the Commission will thereafter invite public comment generally on every aspect of the 1935 Act and specifically on certain issues. The comments will be incorporated in a report and recommendations at the conclusion of the study. Dated: July 1, 1994. By the Commission. Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16488 Filed 7&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
