FR941121-2-00093 FR941121-2-00078 This proposal recognizes that when a designated Nasdaq/NM security becomes involved in a merger or acquisition, CBOE market makers may need to hedge positions in options on the designated Nasdaq/NM security by buying or selling shares of stock of the other company involved in the merger or acquisition, whether or not the other company's stock has listed overlying options. Indeed, where there are no options on that stock, buying or selling the stock itself may at times be the only feasible way for a market maker to hedge positions in options on the designated Nasdaq/NM security, given the risk arbitrage relationship that is likely to exist between the two stocks. The proposed rule change will facilitate hedging by options market makers in this circumstance, by allowing them to sell short shares of the other company involved in the merger for hedging purposes, and to designate those short sales as bid test exempt. The CBOE believes that its proposal will enhance the ability of CBOE market makers to perform their market making functions, thereby contributing to the liquidity of the market for options, as well as the market for the stocks of both companies. This proposed rule change, like the remainder of Rule 15.10, is intended to operate in coordination with an exemption from the bid test provided for in the NASD Rules of Fair Practice. It is CBOE's understanding that the NASD intends to publish an interpretation of its bid test rule that is consistent with the amendment to CBOE Rule 15.10 proposed herein. CBOE believes that the proposed rule change will enhance the ability of market makers to perform their market making activities, thereby contributing to the depth and liquidity of the options market, and thus will serve in furtherance of the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) of the Act to promote just and equitable principles of trade and to protect investors and promote the public interest. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition CBOE does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Written comments on the proposed rule change were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (a) By order approve such proposed rule change, or (b) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-mentioned self-regulatory organization. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;27 and should be submitted by December 12, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 5 5 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28675 Filed 11&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
