FR940822-0-00061 FR940822-0-00019 Each participating railroad must have the essential components of a computer system ( i.e. , a desk-top computer and either a facsimile machine or a printer connected to the computer to retrieve and produce records for immediate review). The material retrieved in hard copy form must contain relevant information organized in a usable format to render the data completely understandable. The documents must be made available for FRA inspection during normal business hours, which FRA interprets as the time, any day of the week, when railroads conduct their regular business transactions. Nevertheless, FRA reserves the right to review and examine the documents prepared in accordance with the Railroad Operating Rules and Radio Standards and Procedures regulations at any reasonable time if situations warrant. Additionally, each railroad must provide adequate security measures to limit employee access to its electronic data processing system and must prescribe who can create, modify, or delete data from the data base. Although FRA does not identify the management position capable of instituting changes in the data base, each railroad must indicate the source authorized to make such changes. Each railroad must also designate who will be authorized to authenticate the hard copies produced from the electronic format. In short, each railroad electing to electronically retain its records must ensure the integrity of the information and prevent possible tampering of data, enabling FRA to fully execute its enforcement responsibilities. 4. Program of instruction on operating rules; recordkeeping; electronic recordkeeping. Section 217.11 is revised to require that a railroad retain a copy of its instruction program on operating rules instead of filing a copy with the Federal Railroad Administrator. Paragraph (a), which mandates periodic instruction of employees whose activities are governed by the railroad's operating rules in accordance with a written program, remains unchanged, with the exception that the system headquarters of the railroad is to retain a copy of the entire instruction program and that the division headquarters for each division where an employee is instructed is to retain all portions of the copy of the program that the division applies and enforces. (In other words, the records availability at the division headquarters may be division specific.) Paragraph (b) mandates that after November 21, 1994, or 30 days before commencing operations, whichever is later, a railroad must make one copy of its current program and one copy of any subsequent revision available to FRA for inspection and photocopying during normal business hours. Paragraph (c) is added to authorize a railroad to retain by electronic recordkeeping its instruction program on operating rules, provided that certain conditions specified in §217.9(e) (1)&hyph;(5) are met. 5. Annual report on enforcement of part 219; information collection requirements. The requirements formerly provided under §217.13(d) , ``Annual report on enforcement of part 219,'' have been transferred to part 219 with the final rule publication of 49 CFR §219.803. See final rule at 58 FR 68235 (1993). Because existing §217.13 (a)&hyph;(c) is redesignated as §217.9(d), §217.13 is removed and existing §217.15, ``Information collection requirements,'' is redesignated as §217.13. The removal of existing §217.13 eliminates the information collection requirements provided under existing §217.15(b)(4), redesignated §217.13(b)(4), which is, therefore, removed. 6. Definitions. Section 220.5 is amended by adding paragraphs (d) and (e), which define ``division headquarters'' and ``system headquarters.'' These terms also appear in §217.4 and are discussed previously in the preamble. 7. Railroad operating rules; radio communications; recordkeeping. Section 220.21(b) is amended by requiring railroads subject to Part 220 to retain one copy of their current radio operating rules and any subsequent revisions at the locations prescribed in newly added subparagraphs (1) and (2). Subparagraph (1) provides that Class I railroads, Class II railroads, the National Railroad Passenger Corporation, and railroads providing commuter service in a metropolitan or suburban area must retain their radio rules at all division headquarters and at the system headquarters. Under subparagraph (2), Class III railroads and all other railroads subject to this part but not subject to subparagraph (1) are required to retain their radio rules at their respective system headquarters. These records are required to be made available to FRA representatives for inspection and photocopying during normal business hours.
