FR940418-2-00131 FR940418-2-00073 D. Market Impact The Commission believes that the listing and trading of Hong Kong Index options, including long-term options based on either the full or a reduced value of the Index, on the Amex will not adversely affect the securities markets in the U.S. or Hong Kong. 29 First, the existing index option surveillance procedures of the Amex will apply to options based on the Index. Second, the Commission notes that the Index is broad-based and diversified and includes highly capitalized securities that are actively traded on the HKSE. Third, the Commission notes that at the present time, index options and futures contracts based on another Hong Kong market index, the Hang Seng Index, are traded on Hong Kong securities and futures exchanges, and that numerous warrants and off-exchange options based on the Hang Seng Index and other Hong Kong related indexes are traded worldwide. Fourth, the position limit of 25,000 contracts on the same side of the market, provided no more than 15,000 of such contracts are in series in the nearest expiration month, will serve to minimize potential manipulation and market impact concerns. 30 Fifth, the risk to investors of contra-party non-performance will be minimized because Index regular and long-term options will be issued and guaranteed by the Options Clearing Corporation just like any other standardized option traded in the United States. 29 In addition, the Amex and the Options Price Reporting Authority (``OPRA'') have both represented that they have the necessary systems capacity to support those new series of index options that would result from the introduction of Index options and long-term Index options. See letter from Edward Cook, Jr., Director, Information Technology, Amex to Sharon Lawson, Assistant Director, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, dated March 28, 1994; letter from Charles H. Faurot, Managing Director, Market Data Services, Amex to Sharon Lawson, Assistant Director, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, dated March 28, 1994; letter from Joe Corrigan, Executive Director, OPRA to Sharon Lawson, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, dated March 28, 1994. 30 The Commission notes that the current proposal does not establish a hedge exemption pursuant to Amex Rule 904C, Commentary .01 for Index option participants. The Commission finds good cause for approving Amendment Nos. 1, 2, and 3 to the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of filing thereof in the Federal Register . The purpose and effect of Amendment No. 1 is limited to renaming the Index, clarifying that options based on the Index will begin trading at a certain Index level, and reaffirming that regular Index options will be subject to 21/2 point strike intervals if the Index falls below 200. These are non-substantive changes. Amendment No. 2 establishes an Index level of 0.40 times that of the Amex Hong Kong 30 Index. The Commission shares the Amex's concern that the introduction of options at the current higher Amex Hong Kong 30 Index level with a standardized 100 multiplier could result in very high premiums on near-term series, even those slightly out-of-the-money. 31 By introducing a lower Index level for standardized options, Amendment No. 2 addresses this concern, thereby strengthening the Exchange's proposal. Amendment No. 3 reduces from 99 contracts to 50 contracts the maximum number of contracts for market and marketable limit orders in options on the Hong Kong Option Index for which the Amex Auto-Ex system may be used. The Commission believes that reducing the number of contracts subject to Auto-Ex will ensure that only relatively small orders are entitled to automatic execution at the current quote and that larger orders are exposed to the floor for potential price improvement. Further, no comments were received on the original Auto-Ex proposal. Amendment Nos. 1, 2, and 3 help to remove impediments to a free and open securities market and facilitate transactions in securities. Additionally, no comments were received on the proposed rule change set forth in the original notice. Therefore, the Commission believes it is consistent with Sections 6(b)(5) and 19(b)(2) of the Act to approve Amendment Nos. 1, 2, and 3 to the proposal on an accelerated basis. 31 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 3. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning Amendment Nos. 1, 2, and 3. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the Amex. All submissions should refer to File No. SR-Amex-93-32 and should be submitted by (insert date 21 days from date of publication). V. Conclusion For the reasons set forth above, the Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of section 6(b)(5). 32 32 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1982). It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the proposed rule change (SR-Amex-93-32), as amended, is approved. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 33 33 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9204 Filed 4&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
