FR940314-2-00034 FR940314-2-00015 g. Information about U.S. and foreign legislation and regulations affecting sales in Export Markets; and h. Information about ASIA's or its Members' export operations, including without limitation sales and distribution networks established by ASIA or its Members in Export Markets, and prior export sales by Members (including prior export price information). 5. ASIA may provide the Members the benefit of any Export Trade Facilitation Service to facilitate the export of Products to Export Markets. This may be accomplished by ASIA itself, or by agreement with Members or other parties. 6. Except as set forth in paragraph 8, ASIA and/or its Members may meet to engage in the activities described in paragraphs 1 through 4 above. 7. ASIA and/or its Members may forward to the appropriate individual Member requests for information received from a foreign government or its agent (including private pre-shipment inspection firms) concerning that Member's domestic or export activities (including prices and/or costs), and if such individual Member elects to respond, it shall respond directly to the requesting foreign government or its agent with respect to such information. 8. Restricted Information Exchanges In the case of engine bearings, any exchange or discussion of, as well as any meeting pursuant to paragraph 6 to exchange or discuss, the types of information set forth in paragraph 4 (not including subparagraphs (f) and (g) thereof) shall be subject to the following restrictions: a. Participation in any price discussion is limited to those instances in which the prices are discussed and determined solely in the following manner: a Neutral Third Party, hereinafter defined, acting independently, will obtain price information concerning engine bearings from the Members which intend to participate in a joint bid and will incorporate that price information into the joint bid or other sales agreement. For purposes of this provision, ``acting independently'' means that the Neutral Third Party who obtains from and negotiates price information on behalf of the Members will not disclose the price information of one Member to any other Member intending to participate in a joint undertaking with regard to engine bearings. b. The limitation set forth in (a) above shall also apply to instances where more than one Member intends to participate, but the participation of a Member is solely as an Export Intermediary for the Export Trade Activity or Method of Operation. c. Neither ASIA nor any Member participating in the Export Trade Activity or Method of Operation shall disclose the engine bearing price information of one Member to any other Member that produces engine bearings. d. As used in this paragraph, the term ``Neutral Third Party'' means an individual, partnership, corporation (profit or non-profit), or any representative thereof which is not engaged in the manufacture, distribution, or sale of engine bearings. Definitions 1. Export Intermediary means a person who acts as a distributor, sales representative, sales or marketing agent or broker, or who performs similar functions, including providing or arranging for the provision of Export Trade Facilitation Services. 2. Supplier means a person who produces, provides, or sells a Product, Service, Technology Rights and/or Export Trade Facilitation Services, whether a Member or non-Member.
