FR940819-2-00133 FR940819-2-00078 [Docket Nos. 50&hyph;317 and 50&hyph;318] Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant, Unit Nos. 1 and 2); Exemption I The Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (BG&E/licensee) is the holder of Facility Operating License Nos. DRP&hyph;53 and DRP&hyph;69, which authorizes operation of the Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant, Unit Nos. 1 and 2 (the facilities). The licenses provide, among other things, that the facilities are subject to all the rules, regulations, and orders of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) now or hereafter the effect. The facilities are pressurized water reactors located at the licensee's site in Calvert County, Maryland. II The Code of Federal Regulations at 10 CFR 73.55, ``Requirements for physical protection of licensed activities in nuclear power reactors against radiological sabotage,'' paragraph (a), in part, states that ``the licensee shall establish and maintain an onsite physical protection system and security organization which will have as its objective to provide high assurance that activities involving special nuclear material are not inimical to the common defense and security and do not constitute an unreasonable risk to the public health and safety.'' The Code of Federal Regulations at 10 CFR 73.55(d), ``Access Requirements,'' paragraph (1), specifies that, ``the licensee shall control all points of personnel and vehicle access into a protected area.'' The Code of Federal Regulations at 10 CFR 73.55(d)(5) also requires that, ``A numbered picture badge identification system shall be used for all individuals who are authorized access to protected areas without escort.'' It further states that individuals not employed by the licensee (e.g., contractors) may be authorized access to protected areas without escort provided that the individual, ``receives a picture badge upon entrance into a protected area which must be returned upon exit from the protected area *␣*␣*.'' The licensee proposes to implement an alternative unescorted access system which would eliminate the need to issue and retrieve picture badges at the entrance/exit location to the protected area and would allow all individuals, including contractors, to keep their picture badges in their possession when departing the Calvert Cliffs site. By letter dated March 23, 1994, the licensee requested an exemption from certain requirements of 10 CFR 73.55(d)(5). Specifically, the requested exemption would allow contractors who have unescorted access to retain possession of their picture badges instead of returning them as they exit the protected area.
