FR940114-0-00056 FR940114-0-00020 Other Specific Comments Comment: The Department is encouraged to coordinate this rule with a review of seismic and flood loads, especially with respect to foundation and attachment designs (25). Response: The requirements in the proposed rule for a permanent foundation design have been eliminated in this final rule. However, as the Department continues to review the issue of adequate anchoring/foundation systems for manufactured homes, it will also review these other considerations. Comment: There are not enough DAPIA personnel in the HUD system to review and approve design changes within the time provided for the effectiveness of this rule (83, 124, 136, 179). Response: The Department has agreed to delay the effectiveness of the new requirements for 180 days, which should allow sufficient time for the DAPIA process, as well. Comment: The Department should consider requiring the DAPIA approval stamp on all pages of a manufacturer's installation instructions (48). Response: The final rule continues to require that the manufacturer provide installation instructions certified by a registered professional engineer indicating at least one acceptable system of anchoring (24 CFR 3280.306(b)). However, the Department will consider the suggestion to require a DAPIA approval stamp on each page of the manufacturers' installation instructions when developing future revisions to the Manufactured Home Procedural and Enforcement Regulations (24 CFR part 3282). Comment: Some explanation is needed about the effect of the new standards on ``B'' letters, interpretative bulletins, and compliance determinations (122). Response: This new standard supersedes any portions of ``B'' letters, interpretative bulletins, and compliance determinations that are in conflict with this standard. Comment: If the higher standards are adopted, manufacturers will prefer to build modular homes that meet the necessary State standards. Response: Manufacturers are free to channel their activities in any way that best responds to market forces. In the development of the regulatory impact analysis, the Department has accounted for the cost of potential lost business. To the extent that manufacturers could redirect their production to alternative housing, the costs of the higher standards would be lessened. However, as noted above, the Department believes that the trend in State standards also will be to stricter wind standards. Therefore, while manufactured homes may experience a price increase because of these standards, they will be affordable relative to site-built homes meeting the higher State-imposed standards. Comment: The Department should prepare a brochure on hurricane awareness and windstorm protection. Response: As noted in the discussion on Improved Anchoring and Foundation Systems earlier in the preamble, the Department is reviewing what would be an appropriate consumer information disclosure requirement on installation. As part of that review, the Department may consider requirements on the disclosure of general information relating to high winds and hurricanes, and may coordinate with FEMA on the development of a brochure on hurricane awareness and protection for occupants of manufactured homes. ( Note: Other specific comments that have become moot as a result of the decision not to proceed with changes in Wind Zone I and requirements relating to a permanent foundation system are not addressed in this preamble.) III. Description of Changes to the Standards Because of the risk of loss of life to building occupants and the extraordinary loss of property due to Hurricane Andrew, the Department has determined that it is necessary to amend the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (FMHCSS) to raise the level of wind resistance standards, especially in areas subject to high winds. Specifically, the Department is amending the FMHCSS to include a Basic Wind Zone Map that is based on the map contained in the incorporated standard ASCE 7&hyph;88, ``Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and Other Structures.'' The revised map contains a more concentrated area for the 100 mph wind zone than was specified in the current standard or the proposed rule. The boundary between Wind Zones I and II follows the 90 mph isotach on the ASCE 7&hyph;88 basic wind speed map, while the boundary between Wind Zones II and III remains the 100 mph isotach indicated in the proposed rule. The design wind speeds for high wind areas are designated as 100 mph for Wind Zone II and 110 mph for Wind Zone III. This rule does not change the current design wind speed for Wind Zone I. Based on the revised map, this final rule enumerates the States, Territories, and local governments in which the more stringent standards will be applicable. The enumerated areas are those that the Department has determined to be at least partially within the higher wind zones demarcated on the revised map. The Department also will monitor local building code requirements and will consider adoption through rulemaking of requirements for manufactured homes that are comparable to any more stringent requirements established for site-built homes by a State or local building authority. The current wind standard for manufactured housing is considered inadequate because it addresses only positive (external) design wind pressures for walls, components, windows, and cladding, without specifying that designs must take into account the effect of negative pressure (suction) on these building elements, as well as internal pressures on walls and roof/ceiling systems. The formulae used in ASCE 7&hyph;88 also include other factors, which account for higher uplift forces on roof eaves, ridges, overhangs, and corners. These and other issues are now addressed in high wind areas by requiring the manufactured home structure, components, and cladding to be designed to resist design wind forces for Exposure C, as specified in ASCE 7&hyph;88.
