FR940104-2-00091 FR940104-2-00056 (5) A state or local government or agency, or a political or special purpose subdivision of a state. B. To be eligible to apply for and receive a planning grant, an applicant must be: (1) Any of the organizations described in paragraph A of this section; or, (2) A nonprofit foundation, corporation, institution, or association organized for any purpose except primarily religious. C. An applicant that is eligible under paragraphs A or B of this section may file an application with the Agency for a planning or construction grant to achieve the following: (1) The provision of new public telecommunications facilities to extend service to areas currently not receiving public telecommunications services; (2) The expansion of the service areas of existing public telecommunications entities; (3) The establishment of new public telecommunications entities serving areas currently receiving public telecommunications services; or, (4) The improvement of the capabilities of existing licensed public broadcast stations to provide public telecommunications services. D. Applicants must certify whether they are delinquent on any Federal debt. No award of Federal funds shall be made to an applicant who has an outstanding delinquent Federal debt until either: (1) The delinquent account is paid in full, (2) A negotiated repayment schedule is established and at least one payment is received, or (3) Other arrangements satisfactory to the Department of Commerce are made. Delinquent accounts include debts incurred by sub-units of the applicant other than the sub-unit that is applying to NTIA, and includes debts owed to any agency of the Federal government, not just to the Department or NTIA. E. An applicant whose proposal requires an authorization from the FCC must be eligible to receive such authorization. II. Program Goals and Priorities The Goals of this program as stated in section 390 of the Communications Act (47 U.S.C. 390) are: ``To assist through matching grants, in the planning and construction of public telecommunications facilities in order to achieve the following objectives: (1) Extend delivery of public telecommunications services to as many citizens of the United States as possible by the most efficient and economical means, including the use of broadcast and nonbroadcast technologies; (2) Increase public telecommunications services and facilities available to, operated by, and owned by minorities and women; and (3) Strengthen the capability of existing public television and radio stations to provide public telecommunications services to the public.'' The Agency has established the following priorities for the PTFP: Special Applications NTIA possesses the discretionary authority to recommend awarding grants to eligible broadcast and nonbroadcast applicants whose proposals are so unique or innovative that they do not clearly fall within the priorities listed below. Innovative projects submitted under this category must address demonstrated and substantial community needs (e.g., service to identifiable ethnic or linguistic minority audiences, service to the blind or deaf, electronic text, and nonbroadcast projects offering educational or instructional services). Priority 1_Provision of Public Telecommunications Facilities for First Radio and Television Signals to a Geographic Area There are three subcategories: A. Projects that include local origination capacity. This subcategory includes the planning or construction of new facilities that can provide a full range of radio and/or television programs including material that is locally produced. B. Projects that do not include local origination capacity. This subcategory includes projects such as increases in tower height and/or power of existing stations and construction of translators, cable networks, and repeater transmitters that will result in providing public telecommunications services to previously unserved areas. C. Projects that provide first nationally distributed programming. This subcategory includes projects that provide satellite downlink facilities to noncommercial radio and television stations that would bring nationally distributed programming to a geographic area for the first time. Priority 1 and its subcategories apply only to grant applicants proposing to plan or construct new facilities to bring public telecommunications services to geographic areas that are presently unserved. Priority 2_Replacement of Basic Equipment of Existing Essential Broadcast Stations Projects eligible for consideration under this category include the urgent replacement of obsolete or worn out equipment in existing broadcast stations that provide either the only public telecommunications signal or the only locally originated public telecommunications signal to a geographical area. Priority 3_Establishment of a First Local Origination Capacity in a Geographical Area Projects in this category include the planning or construction of facilities to bring the first local origination capacity to an area already receiving public telecommunications services. Priority 4_Replacement and Improvement of Basic Equipment for Existing Broadcast Stations
