FR940930-0-00023 FR940930-0-00005 The Port Authority also believes safety would not be compromised by the inclusion of maintenance-related delays; and, the proposed changes would provide consumers with more useful information to make informed decisions. Alternative Data Sources_Wheels-Off/On Times While not objecting to the reporting of wheels-off and wheels-on data, ATA does not believe airlines should be required to submit data that the agency itself could compile. Delta believes the wheels-off, wheels-on and tail number data could provide the FAA with valuable information for improving the air traffic control system. However, Delta also believes carriers are already providing much of this information to the FAA, and questions whether reporting the same data in a different format is cost justified. The Port Authority believes the additional data items will significantly benefit the study and reduction of air traffic delays. By measuring wheels-off/on times against gate departure/arrival times, an airport operator can better assess the efficiency of its airfield layout and take action to improve traffic flow and reduce ground delays, which the authority estimates account for 70 percent of the total aircraft delay time at its airports. Alaska believes carrier submission of wheels-off and wheels-on time data is unnecessary and unjustified. The proposed elements should be based on DOT's on-time flight performance needs rather than on FAA's air traffic control needs. By collecting wheels-off and wheels-on times and tail numbers, the FAA will be able to use the on-time flight performance data base to track flight delays. It is cost efficient to add these data items to an existing data base rather than to create a new one. The Department agrees with Alaska that wheels-off and wheels-on times are not needed for consumer information purposes, although consumers would benefit directly from reduced aircraft delays. There is an existing company that is a potential data source for aircraft tail numbers, and wheels-off and wheels-on times. Through its tracking system, the company captures these data elements for all scheduled domestic flights for six of the ten reporting air carriers. The Department would accept carrier data through any outside company, if the proper arrangements can be made for data transmittal. A carrier must give its permission to the outside company to provide the data to the government without cost to the government. Proprietary Data_Aircraft Tail Number The collection of tail number data will benefit the FAA directly, by giving the FAA the necessary information to track aircraft throughout the air traffic system. This tracking will enable the FAA to reduce aircraft delays, thereby benefiting the consumer. ATA opposes collecting aircraft tail number information because it believes: (1) The information is proprietary and very sensitive; (2) there is an appreciable cost burden to the carrier, especially to one carrier that tracks its aircraft by nose numbers rather than tail numbers; and (3) consumers would not derive any benefits from the reporting of tail numbers. ATA believes that the availability of tail-number data would enable a person to determine the way a carrier deploys its aircraft throughout its route system. Thus, the reporting would reveal basic management decisionmaking. ATA argues that such fundamental business decisions should not be required to be disclosed in monthly reports to the government. The claim that data are proprietary in nature does not preclude the Department from collecting the data. FOIA provides safeguards from the public disclosure of proprietary information. Moreover, the Department has no plans for routine public release of tail-number data. A carrier objecting to public disclosure of tail-number data may file a motion under the Department's regulation 14 CFR ยง302.39 Objections to public disclosure of information. Such a motion would be reviewed under the requirements of FOIA.
