FR940727-1-00063 FR940727-1-00016 2. Section 51&hyph;2.2 is amended by adding the following sentence at the end of paragraph (b): §51&hyph;2.2 Powers and responsibilities. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* Authorize and deauthorize central nonprofit agencies and nonprofit agencies to accept orders from contracting activities for the furnishing of specific commodities and services on the Procurement List. * * * * * 3. Section 51&hyph;2.3 is revised to read as follows: §51&hyph;2.3 Notice of proposed addition or deletion. At least 30 days prior to the Committee's consideration of the addition or deletion of commodity or service to or from the Procurement List, the Committee publishes a notice in the Federal Register announcing the proposed addition or deletion and providing interested persons an opportunity to submit written data or comments on the proposal. Interested persons submitting comments in bound form should also submit an unbound copy that is capable of being legibly photocopied. 4. Section 51&hyph;2.4 is amended by removing paragraph (d), redesignating the introductory text and paragraphs (a) through (c) as paragraphs (a) through (a)(3), redesignating paragraphs (e) through (e)(3) as paragraphs (a)(4) through (a)(4)(ii), revising the newly redesignated paragraphs (a)(4) through (a)(4)(ii), and adding paragraph (b) to read as follows: §51&hyph;2.4 Determination of suitability. (a) For a commodity or service to be suitable for addition to the Procurement List, each of the following criteria must be satisfied: * * * * * (4) Level of impact on the current contractor for the commodity or service. (i) In deciding whether or not a proposed addition to the Procurement List is likely to have a severe adverse impact on the current contractor for the specific commodity or service, the Committee gives particular attention to: (A) The possible impact on the contractor's total sales, including the sales of affiliated companies and parent corporations. In addition, the Committee considers the effects of previous Committee actions. (B) Whether that contractor has been a continuous supplier to the Government of the specific commodity or service proposed for addition and is, therefore, more dependent on the income from such sales to the Government. (C) Any substantive comments received as the result of the notice of the proposed addition in the Federal Register . (ii) If there is not a current contract for the commodity or service being proposed for addition to the Procurement List, the Committee may consider the most recent contractor to furnish the item to the Government as the current contractor for the purpose of determining the level of impact. (b) In determining the suitability of a commodity or service for addition to the Procurement List, the Committee also considers other information it deems pertinent, including comments on a proposal published in the Federal Register to add the commodity or service to the Procurement List and information submitted by Government personnel and interested persons. 5. Section 51&hyph;2.5 is revised to read as follows:
