FR941216-2-00031 FR941216-2-00019 With respect to the current contractor, the annual value of this contract represents an extremely small percentage of its total sales. As a result, even taking into account that firm's recent investment in specialized filling equipment, the Committee does not consider the loss in question to constitute severe adverse impact. With respect to the other two firms, one of which has not received a contract for these paints for several years, because neither is a current contractor, their objections to the addition must be considered objections to losing the opportunity to bid on future procurements for the tree marking paints. Under the competitive bidding system, no bidder is guaranteed that it will receive a contract. Accordingly, the Committee does not consider loss of the opportunity to bid on future procurements to constitute severe adverse impact. Several commenters questioned whether the nonprofit agency would meet the requirement of the Javits-Wagner-O'Day (JWOD) Act that 75 percent of the direct labor hours be performed by people who are blind. One commenter suggested that the action might not create much employment for people who are blind. Another question involved the appropriateness of a majority of the sales dollars going to a for-profit company. The JWOD Act's direct labor requirement with regard to nonprofit agencies employing blind persons stipulates that 75% of the total direct labor hours performed by such a nonprofit agency be carried out by people who are blind. Contrary to the suggestion by certain commenters and confirmed by a court decision, there is no requirement that 75% of the total direct labor required to produce a commodity be performed by people who are blind. Every year for the past decade, people who are blind have performed over 85% of the direct labor hours at the nonprofit agency in question. Consequently, the Committee has concluded that the organization not only meets, but substantially exceeds the direct labor requirements of the JWOD Act. In considering items for the Procurement List, the Committee focuses on the amount of employment the item will generate for people with severe disabilities. The amount of sales dollars paid to for-profit entities is not an appropriate criterion since providing most commodities to the Government requires nonprofit agencies to make substantial purchases of materials from for-profit firms. In this case, the Committee is satisfied that the amount of employment that will be generated for people who are blind justifies placing the paints on the Procurement List. Two commenters mentioned the risk assessment study currently underway because of Federal employee concerns about the paints' effects on their health and safety. One questioned the nonprofit agency's ability to develop any new formulations required as a result of the study, while another expressed concerns that the study would be compromised by the addition of another paint. As indicated above, the Committee is satisfied that the nonprofit agency, working with other firms involved in formulating paints, will be able to develop new formulations in response to internal or external initiatives. In addition, both the nonprofit agency and the Federal agency which has commissioned the risk assessment study confirmed that the nonprofit agency's Qualified Products List paints are already included in the study. Consequently, the Committee has concluded that adding the paints to the JWOD Program will not compromise the study's results. Two of the three commenting paint firms argued that tree marking paints should not be added to the Committee's Procurement List because they are not commodities and, thus, the Committee has no authority over them. The firms argue that the paints are very complex and time-consuming to produce, while a commodity is a commonly available item. The word ``commodity,'' as used in the JWOD Act, is a generic term for a product. Nonprofit agencies are currently producing many highly complex items for the Government under the JWOD Program. Some of these, like the tree marking paints, are Qualified Products List items. The Committee finds no basis in its legislation or past practice that would lend credibility to the contention that tree marking paints are not commodities within the meaning of the Act. Several commenters, including all three paint firms, contended that the nonprofit agency would not be able to supply the paints at fair market prices as required by the JWOD Act. One cited the agency's inability to win the contract through the competitive bidding pro- cess as evidence of its position. The nonprofit agency has been advised of the fair market prices as calculated from the most recent set of bids on the basis of the Committee's fair market pricing procedures. The nonprofit agency has indicated through its central nonprofit agency that it is willing to supply the paints using those prices as the base prices for the paints, in accordance with the Committee's fair market pricing system. Comments were also received regarding concerns about the adverse impact of adding the tree marking paints to the Procurement List on the economies of areas in which two of the three paint firms have production facilities. The Committee believes that any potential impact on these areas' economies is outweighed by the creation of employment for people who are blind, whose national unemployment rate substantially exceeds that of people who are not blind or do not have severe disabilities. One of the paint firms commented that the nonprofit agency is not a manufacturer or regular dealer under the Walsh-Healey Public Contracts Act, and thus should not be permitted to supply the paints under the JWOD Program. The manufacturer/regular dealer requirement was repealed by section 7201 of the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994, Public Law 103&hyph;455.
