FR941216-1-00122 FR941216-1-00012 Subpart J_Fire Protection §184.100 General. This subpart provides general requirements for personnel developing and effecting fire protection and prevention programs in A&E environments. §184.101 Fire plan. A written fire plan shall be prepared. Although details may vary, plans for all establishments shall itemize the emergency functions of each department or outside agency, indicating responsible individuals and alternates. §184.102 Firefighting agreements. Voluntary and mutual agreements with nearby municipalities or industrial centers should include firefighting procedures as established by the plant officials. Plant officials are responsible for informing the assisting firefighters of particular procedures to be followed. Outside firefighters should not assist in fires involving A&E. If the practical need for their doing so can be anticipated, they shall receive advance instruction in A&E firefighting procedures. Outside firefighters shall never attack fires involving Hazard Divisions 1.1 and 1.2. §184.103 Smoking. Smoking may take place only in safe, specifically designated and posted ``smoking locations.'' (a) Cigarettes, tobacco, and matches shall be discarded in ash receptacles only. They shall not be dropped into trash cans. (b) Electric lighters with automatic pressure cutoffs shall be fixed, ensuring against removal. (c) At least one fire extinguisher shall be provided at smoking locations. (d) Persons wearing clothing contaminated with explosives or other dangerous material should not be permitted in smoking areas. §184.104 Hot work permits. A written permit shall be required for the temporary use of heat-producing equipment or devices when explosives or highly flammable materials are involved. §184.105 Portable fire extinguishers. Hand extinguishers within buildings can squelch incipient fires before major damage is done. Portable equipment may provide similarly valuable outside aboveground magazines and other buildings with explosives. §184.106 Hazards in fighting fires involving ammunition and explosives. A fire hazard identification system shall be adopted. This shall assess relative dangers, up to the most hazardous material stored. (a) The following fire symbol system is provided as a guide: (1) Fire divisions, numbered ``1'' through ``4,'' shall correspond to Hazard Divisions 1.1 through 1.4. (2) The lower the number, the greater the hazard: ␣ 1Fire division 1Hazard involved 1 Mass detonation. 2 Explosion with fragment hazard. 3 Mass fire. 4 Moderate fire. (3) Distinctively shaped placards, instantly recognizable from a distance, signify the different divisions. Each placard, or symbol, shows the fire division number: ␣ 1Shape 1Fire division Octagon 1 Cross 2 Inverted triangle 3 Diamond 4
