FR940728-2-00126 FR940728-2-00088 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34426; File No. SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;92&hyph;14] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc.; Order Approving and Notice of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval to Amendment No. 1 to a Proposed Rule Change Relating to the Identification of Broker-Dealer Orders July 21, 1994. On April 13, 1992, the Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc. (``PSE'' or ``Exchange''), pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act'') 1 and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder, 2 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') a proposal to require that broker-dealer orders be identified as such before being executed at the disseminated bid or offer price. On May 19, 1992, the PSE amended the filing to eliminate duplicative language from Rule 6.85(c) by substituting a cross reference to proposed Rule 6.66(b) (``Amendment No. 1''). 3 1 15 U.S.C. 78S(b)(1) (1982). 2 17 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4 (1989). 3 See Letter from Michael Pierson, Staff Attorney, PSE, to Thomas Gira, Branch Chief, Division of Market Regulation, Commission, dated May 12, 1992. The proposed rule change was published for comment in the Federal Register on May 21, 1992. 4 No comments were received on the proposed rule change. This order approves the PSE's proposal, as amended. 4 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 30704 (May 14, 1992), 57 FR 21687 (May 21, 1992). The Exchange states that the purpose of the proposed rule change is to facilitate efficient options trading on the PSE floor by requiring the identification of broker-dealer orders to the trading crowd so that market makers will be aware of whether orders represented in the trading crowds are for public customers or broker-dealers. Under PSE Rule 6.86, the ``Ten-Up Rule,'' floor brokers are required, prior to executing a ten-up order, to ascertain and note on the subject order ticket whether any given order is for the account of a broker-dealer. Therefore, the PSE believes that no additional burdens would be placed on floor brokers in executing orders under the proposed rule. The PSE also believes that requiring broker-dealer orders to be identified as such will result in an improvement in the quality of the Exchange's options markets and help to encourage trading crowds to provide greater volume guarantees to public customers than the minimum ten-up amount. Existing PSE Rules 6.66 and 6.85, and Options Floor Procedure Advice (``OFPA'') D&hyph;9 currently require account information to be identified for the trading crowd in connection with the execution of orders on the floor. Rule 6.66(a) requires members participating in transactions to immediately give up the name of the clearing member through whom the transaction will be cleared. Rule 6.85(c) requires that orders for the account of a market maker be verbally identified as such prior to the consummation of a transaction. Finally, OFPA D&hyph;9 provides that, if a floor broker requests a market quotation and also requests the size of the market, the floor broker must indicate with his request the name of the member organization for whom he is acting. Under the proposal, if an order is for the account of a broker-dealer, a member must indicate by public outcry that such order is for a broker-dealer if it is to be executed at the trading crowd's disseminated bid or offer price. Proposed PSE Rule 6.66(b) and existing Rule 6.85(c) place identical obligations on floor brokers with respect to orders executed for market makers. Under Amendment No. 1 to the proposal, Rule 6.85(c) would be amended to eliminate duplicative language and replaced with a cross reference to 6.66(b). Although OFPA D&hyph;9 will be deleted, the substance of it is being consolidated into Rule 6.66(b). The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, with the requirements of Section 6(b)(5) 5 in that the proposal is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade and to protect investors and the public interest. 5 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1982). The Commission concludes that the PSE's proposal requiring members to identify broker-dealer orders to the trading crowd will enhance the market-making mechanism on the PSE, thereby improving the markets for listed options on the Exchange. Specifically, the Commission believes unnecessary delays in trading occasioned by the market maker's need to inquire as to the account status of orders represented on the floor will be reduced or minimized. Furthermore, under the PSE's current ``Ten-Up Rule,'' floor brokers are required to ascertain whether a given order is for the account of a broker-dealer. Requiring a floor broker to verbally identify prior to consummation that an order is undertaken on behalf of a broker-dealer should improve the quality of the PSE's options markets and enhance market depth because trading crowd participants may be more inclined to provide greater volume guarantees to public customers than the minimum ten-up amount. Finally, as the Commission has not received any negative comments from broker-dealers or market makers potentially affected by the proposal, the Commission has no reason to believe that the identification requirement will be particularly burdensome on them. 6 6 This proposed rule change does not affect the definition of ``public customer,'' which is the subject of a separate PSE proposal, SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;93&hyph;10. The Commission finds good cause for approving Amendment No. 1 prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of filing thereof in the Federal Register . Accelerating approval will allow the Exchange to implement the complete rule change without delay. Further, the purpose of the amendment is non-substantive, limited to amending Rule 6.85(c) so that it will cross-reference Rule 6.66(b), and, moreover, the substance of both Rules was fully described in the original filing.
