FR940525-2-00149 FR940525-2-00078 Moreover, the BSE rules governing the auction market principles of priority, parity, and precedence remain unchanged. 8 Thus, if the specialists are quoting the same price (i.e., they are on price parity), the earliest bid/offer at that price has time priority and will be filled first up to its specified size; and if the specialists are on both price and time parity, then all bids/offers equal to or greater than the size of the contra-side order are on parity and entitled to precedence over smaller ones (if it is possible to determine the order of time such orders were made, they shall be filled in that order). 8 See BSE Rules Ch. II §6. In addition to facilitating competition among the specialists, the proposal permits preferenced order routing. Orders may be directed to any specialist based on the request of the firm submitting the order, or, if a particular specialist is not specified, then the orders will be directed to the regular specialist. 9 If an order is entered into BSE's automated order routing system (``BEACON'') by a member firm affiliated with a specialist, that order automatically will be routed to that member firm's affiliated specialist, thereby preventing member firms affiliated with a specialist from routing non-profitable orders through BEACON to the other specialist when market conditions are unfavorable. 10 9 As noted below, however, if the CS is quoting the ITS/BBO and clearly has established priority on the BSE floor, then the CS will fill the order despite the default routing to the regular specialist. 10 Conversation between Karen Aluise, Assistant Vice President, Boston Stock Exchange, and N. Amy Bilbija, Commission, on December 14, 1993. All limit orders in a pilot stock, regardless as to which specialist they are sent, will be represented and executed strictly according to time priority in BEACON. Once all limit orders at the Intermarket Trading System best bid or offer (``ITS/BBO'') or better are depleted, each specialist will be responsible for the market orders directed specifically to it. BEACON (which handles approximately 95% of all order flow on the BSE) will execute automatically 11 an incoming order against an order on the book, and only if there is no contra-side agency order on the limit order book at the price will the incoming order be routed to the designated specialist for execution. 11 BEACON will continue to expose all market and marketable limit orders (on the designated specialist's BEACON terminal) for 15 seconds, prior to automatic execution at the ITS/BBO, for possible price betterment. In addition to the rules discussed above, the proposal outlines registration procedures and daily responsibilities for CSs. All competing specialists will be responsible for: a. Cooperating with the regular specialist regarding openings and reopenings to ensure that they are unitary; b. Keeping each other informed and communicating to inquiring floor brokers the full size of any executable ``all or none'' orders in their possession and representing such orders on a best efforts basis to ensure the execution of the entire order at a single price or prices, or not at all; c. Communicating their markets to the regular specialist and being responsible for their portion of the published bid and/or offer; and d. Conforming generally to all of the rules and policies applicable to a regular specialist. To register as a CS the applicant must submit a written application to the Market Performance Committee (``MPC''), listing in order of preference the stock(s) in which the applicant requests to compete. The MPC will then review the application 12 considering the following factors: 12 The decision of the MPC may be appealed to the Executive Committee. •Overall performance evaluation results of the applicant; •Financial capability; •Adequacy of manpower on the floor;
