FR940512-1-00010 FR940512-1-00001 (2) Requests for admissions of the authenticity of any relevant document or of the truth of any relevant fact; (3) Written interrogatories; and (4) Depositions. (b) For the purpose of this section and §§185.122 and 185.123, the term ``documents'' includes information, documents, reports, answers, records, accounts, papers, and other data and documentary evidence. Nothing contained herein shall be interpreted to require the creation of a document. (c) Unless mutually agreed to by the parties, discovery is available only as ordered by the ALJ. The ALJ shall regulate the timing of discovery. (d) Motions for discovery are to be handled according to the following procedures: (1) A party seeking discovery may file a motion with the ALJ. Such a motion shall be accompanied by a copy of the requested discovery, or in the case of depositions, a summary of the scope of the proposed deposition. (2) Within 10 days of service, a party may file an opposition to the motion and/or a motion for protective order as provided in §185.125. (3) The ALJ may grant a motion for discovery only if he or she finds that the discovery sought: (i) Is necessary for the expeditious, fair, and reasonable consideration of the issues; (ii) Is not unduly costly or burdensome; (iii) Will not unduly delay the proceeding; and (iv) Does not seek privileged information. (4) The burden of showing that discovery should be allowed is on the party seeking discovery. (5) The ALJ may grant discovery subject to a protective order under §185.125. (e) Depositions are to be handled in the following manner: (1) If a motion for deposition is granted, the ALJ shall issue a subpoena for the deponent, which may require the deponent to produce documents. The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the deposition will be held. (2) The party seeking to depose shall serve the subpoena in the manner prescribed in §185.108. (3) The deponent may file with the ALJ within 10 days of service a motion to quash the subpoena or a motion for a protective order. (4) The party seeking to depose shall provide for the taking of a verbatim transcript of the deposition, which it shall make available to all other parties for inspection and copying. (f) Each party shall bear its own costs of discovery. §185.123 Exchange of witness lists, statements, and exhibits. (a) At least 15 days before the hearing or at such other time as may be ordered by the ALJ, the parties shall exchange witness lists, copies of prior statements of proposed witnesses, and copies of proposed hearing exhibits, including copies of any written statements that the party intends to offer in lieu of live testimony in accordance with §185.133(b). At the time the documents listed in this paragraph are exchanged, any party that intends to rely on the transcript or deposition testimony in lieu of live testimony at the hearing, if permitted by the ALJ, shall provide each party with a copy of the specific pages of the transcript it intends to introduce into evidence. (b) If a party objects, the ALJ may not admit into evidence the testimony of any witness whose name does not appear on the witness list or any exhibit not provided to the opposing party as provided above unless the ALJ finds good cause for the failure or that there is no prejudice to the objecting party. (c) Unless another party objects within the time set by the ALJ, documents exchanged in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section shall be deemed to be authentic for the purpose of admissibility at the hearing. §185.124 Subpoenas for attendance at hearing. (a) A party wishing to procure the appearance and testimony of any individual at the hearing may request that the ALJ issue a subpoena. (b) A subpoena requiring the attendance and testimony of an individual may also require the individual to produce documents at the hearing. (c) A party seeking a subpoena shall file a written request therefore not less than 15 days before the date fixed for the hearing unless otherwise allowed by the ALJ upon a showing of good cause. Such request shall specify any documents to be produced and shall designate the witnesses and describe the address and location thereof with sufficient particularity to permit such witnesses to be found. (d) The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the witness is to appear and any documents the witness is to produce. (e) The party seeking the subpoena shall serve it in the manner prescribed in §185.108. A subpoena on a party or upon an individual under the control of a party may be served by first class mail. (f) A party or the individual to whom the subpoena is directed may file with the ALJ a motion to quash the subpoena within 10 days after service or on or before the time specified in the subpoena for compliance if it is less than 10 days after service. §185.125 Protective order. (a) A party or a prospective witness or deponent may file a motion for a protective order with respect to discovery sought by an opposing party or with respect to the hearing, seeking to limit the availability or disclosure of evidence. (b) In issuing a protective order, the ALJ may make any order which justice requires to protect a party or person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense, including one or more of the following: (1) That the discovery not be had; (2) That the discovery may be had only on specified terms and conditions, including a designation of the time or place; (3) That the discovery may be had only through a method of discovery other than that requested; (4) That certain matters not be the subject of inquiry, or that the scope of discovery be limited to certain matters; (5) That discovery be conducted with no one present except persons designated by the ALJ; (6) That the contents of discovery or evidence be sealed; (7) That a sealed disposition be opened only by order of the ALJ; (8) That a trade secret or other confidential research, development, commercial information, or facts pertaining to any criminal investigation, proceeding, or other administrative investigation not be disclosed or be disclosed only in a designated way; or (9) That the parties simultaneously file specified documents or information enclosed in sealed envelopes to be opened as directed by the ALJ; §185.126 Evidence. (a) The ALJ shall determine the admissibility of evidence. (b) Except as provided in this part, the ALJ shall not be bound by the Federal Rules of Evidence. However, the ALJ may apply the Federal Rules of Evidence where appropriate, e.g. to exclude unreliable evidence. (c) The ALJ shall exclude irrelevant and immaterial evidence.
