FR940817-2-00153 FR940817-2-00080 (a) The term ``M&I'' means the Marshall & Ilsley Trust Company and any affiliate thereof as defined below in paragraph (b) of this section. (b) An ``affiliate'' of a person includes: (1) Any person directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the person; (2) Any officer, director, employee, relative, or partner in any such person; and (3) Any corporation or partnership of which such person is an officer, director, partner, or employee. (c) The term ``control'' means the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of a person other than an individual. (d) The term ``Fund'' or ``Funds'' shall include the Marshall Funds, Inc., or any other diversified open-end investment company or companies registered under the 1940 Act for which M&I serves as an investment adviser and may also serve as a custodian, shareholder servicing agent, transfer agent or provide some other ``secondary service'' (as defined below in paragraph (h) of this Section) which has been approved by such Funds. (e) The term ``net asset value'' means the amount for purposes of pricing all purchases and sales calculated by dividing the value of all securities, determined by a method as set forth in the Fund's prospectus and statement of additional information, and other assets belonging to the Fund or portfolio of the Fund, less the liabilities charged to each such portfolio or Fund, by the number of outstanding shares. (f) The term ``relative'' means a ``relative'' as that term is defined in section 3(15) of the Act (or a ``member of the family'' as that term is defined in section 4975(e)(6) of the Code), or a brother, a sister, or a spouse of a brother or a sister. (g) The term ``Second Fiduciary'' means a fiduciary of a Client Plan who is independent of and unrelated to M&I. For purposes of this exemption, the Second Fiduciary will not be deemed to be independent of and unrelated to M&I if: (1) Such fiduciary directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with M&I; (2) Such fiduciary, or any officer, director, partner, employee, or relative of the fiduciary is an officer, director, partner or employee of M&I (or is a relative of such persons); (3) Such fiduciary directly or indirectly receives any compensation or other consideration for his or her own personal account in connection with any transaction described in this exemption. If an officer, director, partner or employee of M&I (or relative of such persons), is a director of such Second Fiduciary, and if her or she abstains from participation in: (i) The choice of the Client Plan's investment adviser, (ii) the approval of any such purchase or sale between the Client Plan and the Funds, and (iii) the approval of any change in fees charged to or paid by the Client Plan in connection with any of the transactions described in Sections I and II above, then paragraph (g)(2) of this section shall not apply. (h) The term ``secondary service'' means a service other than an investment management, investment advisory, or similar service, which is provided by M&I to the Funds. However, for purposes of this exemption, the term ``secondary service'' will not include any brokerage services provided to the Funds by M&I for the execution of securities transactions engaged in by the Funds. (i) The term ``Termination Form'' means the form supplied to the Second Fiduciary which expressly provides an election to the Second Fiduciary to terminate on behalf of a Client Plan the authorization described in paragraph (j) of Section II. Such Termination Form may be used at will by the Second Fiduciary to terminate an authorization without penalty to the Client Plan and to notify M&I in writing to effect a termination by selling the shares of the Funds held by the Client Plan requesting such termination within one business day following receipt by M&I of the form; provided that if, due to circumstances beyond the control of M&I, the sale cannot be executed within one business day, M&I shall have one additional business day to complete such sale. EFFECTIVE DATE: If the proposed exemption is granted, the exemption will be effective November 20, 1992. Summary of Facts and Representations
