FR940627-2-00004 FR940627-2-00003 International Trade Administration [A&hyph;821&hyph;807] Notice of Initiation of Antidumping Duty Investigation: Ferrovanadium and Nitrided Vanadium From the Russian Federation AGENCY: Import Administration, International Trade Administration, Commerce. EFFECTIVE DATE: June 27, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michelle Frederick or David Goldberger, Office of Antidumping Investigations, Import Administration, International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C., 20230; telephone (202) 482&hyph;0186 or 482&hyph;4136. Initation of Investigation The Petition On May 31, 1994, we received a petition filed in proper form by Shieldalloy Metallurgical Corporation (``Shieldalloy''). In accordance with 19 CFR 353.12, petitioner alleges that imports of ferrovanadium and nitrided vanadium from the Russian Federation are being, or are likely to be, sold in the United States at less than fair value within the meaning of section 731 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (``the Act''), and that such imports are materially injuring, or threaten material injury to, a U.S. industry. Petitioner states that it has standing to file the petition because it is a domestic industry producing the produce subject to this investigation. If any interested party, as described under paragraphs (C), (D), (E), or (F) of section 771(9) of the Act, wishes to register support for, or opposition to, this petition, it should file a written notification with the Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. Scope of Investigation The products covered by this investigation are imports of ferrovanadium and nitrided vanadium, regardless of grade, chemistry, form, shape, or size, unless expressly excluded from the scope of this investigation. Ferrovanadium includes alloys containing vanadium as the predominant element, by weight ( i.e. more weight than any other element, except iron in some instances), and at least 4 percent, by weight, of iron. Nitrided vanadium includes alloys containing vanadium as the predominant element, by weight, and at least 5 percent, by weight, of nitrogen. Excluded from the scope of this investigation are vanadium additives other than ferrovanadium and nitrided vanadium, such as vanadium-aluminum master alloys, vanadium chemicals, vanadium waste and scrap, vanadium-bearing raw materials such as slag, boiler residues, and fly ash, and vanadium oxides. The products subject to this investigation are classifiable under subheadings 7202.92.00 and 2850.00.20 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (``HTSUS''). Although the HTSUS subheadings are provided for convenience and customs purposes, our written description of the scope is dispositive. United States Price and Foreign Market Value Petitoner based United States Price (USP) on price quotes to U.S. customers, and made adjustments for distributor mark-ups and movement expenses. Petitioner contends that the foreign market value (FMV) of Russian-produced imports subject to this investigation must be determined in accordance with section 773(c) of the Act, which concerns non-market economy (NME) countries. The Russian Federation is presumed to be an NME within the meaning of section 771(18)(C) of the Act, because the Department has treated it as such in previous investigations ( See, e.g., Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Ferrosilicon from the Russian Federation, 58 FR 29192 (May 19, 1993)). In accordance with section 773(c) of the Act, foreign market value (FMV) in NME cases is based on NME producers' factors of production, as valued in a market economy country. Absent evidence that a particular NME country government determines which of its factories shall produce for export to the United States, we intend, for purposes of this investigation, to base FMV only on those factories that produced ferrovanadium and/or nitrided vanadium sold to the United States during the period of investigation (POI). In the course of this investigation, parties will have the opportunity to address this NME determination and provide relevant information and argument on this issue. In addition, parties will have the opportunity in this investigation to submit comments on whether FMV should be based on prices or costs in the respective NME. Petitioner calculated FMV on the basis of the valuation of the factors of production. The factors of production used by petitioner were based on experience at a German factory, related to the petitioner, which uses a production process similar to that used in Russia. Petitioner's FMV consisted of the sum of raw materials: labor, energy, utilities, overhead, general expenses, profit and packing. To value the factors of production, petitioner, citing an August 11, 1992, memorandum from the Import Administration Office of Policy to David L. Binder with regard to Ferrosilicon from Russia, used Brazil as the surrogate country and relied on information obtained by a related party in Brazil. Where it could not obtain Brazilian data, petitioner used information on South Africa, as South Africa was also mentioned as a possible surrogate for Russia in the August 11, 1992, memorandum. Petitioner relied on the Brazilian related party's labor rate data instead of publicly available, published information because it contended that the public data were obsolete and/or less accurate. Because the Department has a clear preference for the use of publicly available, published information, and petitioner did not demonstrate conclusively that its reported labor rates were superior to the publicly available information, we have recalculated FMV using the labor rate submitted in the petition of Pure and Alloy Magnesium from the Russian Federation, which is based on a publicly available, published cost index for Brazil. Fair Value Comparisons Based on the information contained on the petition and subsequent amendments, comparisons of USP and FMV result in alleged dumping margins of 92.6 to 108 percent. Initiation of Investigation We have examined the petition on ferrovanadium and nitrided vanadium and have found that it meets the requirements of section 732(b) of the Act. Therefore, we are initiating an antidumping duty investigation to determine whether imports of ferrovanadium and nitrided vanadium from the Russian Federation are being, or are likely to be, sold in the United States at less than fair value. ITC Notification Section 732(d) of the Act requires us to notify the International Trade Commission (ITC) of these actions, and we have done so. Preliminary Determination by the ITC The ITC will determine by July 15, 1994, whether there is a reasonable indication that imports of ferrovanadium and nitrided vanadium from the Russian Federation are materially injuring, or threaten material injury to, a U.S. industry. Any ITC determination which is negative will result in the termination of the investigation; otherwise, this investigation will proceed according to statutory and regulatory time limits. This notice is published pursuant to section 732(c)(2) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.13(b). Dated: June 20, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15534 Filed 6&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;M
