FR940128-2-00063 FR940128-2-00036 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Intent To Prepare Hanford Tank Waste Remediation System Environmental Impact Statements, Richland, WA AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of Intent (NOI) to prepare two Environmental Impact Statements (EISs) for proposed actions at the Hanford Site, Richland, Washington. One EIS will address the proposed Tank Waste Remediation System (TWRS) activities, and the second will address the proposed construction of six new tanks for the storage of high-level radioactive waste as an interim action to the TWRS EIS. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) announces its intent to prepare two EISs pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq .), in accordance with the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of NEPA (40 CFR parts 1500&hyph;1508) and the DOE implementing procedures (10 CFR part 1021), and to conduct a series of public scoping meetings. It is intended that the TWRS EIS cover all TWRS activities that are ripe for decision. In addition, DOE proposes to prepare an EIS for the construction and operation of six new storage tanks as an interim action while the TWRS EIS is being prepared, consistent with the provisions of 40 CFR 1506.1. The public scoping period being announced in this NOI provides an opportunity for the public to comment on the scope of issues to be addressed in both the TWRS EIS and the new tanks EIS. The TWRS program is conducted in concert with the Hanford Federal Facility Agreement and Consent Order (also called the Tri-Party Agreement or TPA) among DOE, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Washington State Department of Ecology (Ecology). The scope of the TWRS Program includes: Resolution of high-level radioactive waste tank safety issues; management of high-level waste tank farm operations; upgrading the tank farm infrastructure; waste characterization; storage of wastes generated from Hanford cleanup activities; tank farm waste retrieval, conditioning (e.g., evaporation/ dilution), pretreatment (e.g., radionuclide separation), and immobilization (e.g., vitrification); construction of new high-level waste tanks; storage of immobilized high-activity waste; storage/disposal of immobilized low-activity waste; management of encapsulated strontium and cesium; and technology development. DOE has identified the immediate need for additional interim high-level waste storage capacity to support the resolution of safety issues associated with ``Watchlist'' tanks as identified pursuant to ``Safety Measures for Waste Tanks at Hanford Nuclear Reservation,'' section 3137 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991, P.L. 101&hyph;510. As an interim action to the TWRS EIS, the new tanks EIS will address the proposed construction and operation of six new underground storage tanks to support the resolution of safety issues concerning the high-level waste in existing tanks. In March 1993, DOE completed a rebaselining of the TWRS program to ensure that the program to remediate Hanford tank wastes is comprehensive, integrated and technically sound. Subsequently, the TPA was renegotiated and revised. Public meetings on the revised TPA were held in several locations statewide during November 1993. The revised TPA is expected to be signed by all parties on January 25, 1994. The proposed TWRS program actions constitute a major Federal action significantly affecting the environment and, accordingly, DOE has developed a strategy for providing the appropriate NEPA reviews for the actions. The strategy consists of a TWRS EIS for the overall proposed action to treat, store, and dispose of Hanford's stored high-level tank waste, and an EIS for the new tanks as an interim action. In addition, separate NEPA reviews for other interim actions may need to be initiated during preparation of the TWRS EIS and the new tanks EIS. Such interim actions would include activities needed to maintain the current waste management system; collect data and resolve urgent pretreatment issues; and protect both the workers, the public and the environment. The TWRS EIS will address the cumulative impacts of the TWRS program including the new tanks and other interim actions. In December 1987 the DOE completed the ``Final Environmental Impact Statement on the Disposal of Hanford Defense High-Level, Transuranic and Tank Wastes'' (HDW EIS), which addressed the environmental consequences of alternatives for disposal of wastes generated during national defense activities and stored at the Hanford site. A Record of Decision (ROD) issued in April 1988 has formed the basis for DOE's programs to manage these wastes at the Hanford site.
