FR941028-1-00028 FR941028-1-00004 (2) The information contained in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section must be filed daily when the data are first available, but not later than 3:00 p.m. on the business day following the day to which the information pertains. The information contained in paragraph (c)(3) must be filed on call by the Commission or its designee, at such times as specified in the call. (3) Except for dial-up transmissions, at the regional office of the Commission having local jurisdiction with respect to such contract market. (e) Reports by contract markets to the public. Each contract market operating pursuant to this part shall publish for each business day the following information for section 4(c) contract market transactions by commodity or type of contract as specified by the Commission: (1) The total gross open contracts; (2) The total number of transactions by transaction type as specified by the Commission; and (3) Prices, as specified by the Commission. (f) Reports and maintenance of books and records by traders. Every trader who owns, holds, or controls, or has held, owned, or controlled a reportable position, as defined by contract market rules, in contracts traded as section 4(c) market transactions shall: (1) Keep books and records showing all details concerning all positions and transactions with respect to section 4(c) market transactions, all positions and transactions in any options traded thereon, and all positions and transactions in the underlying commodity, its products, and by-products and, in addition, commercial activities that the trader hedges in the underlying commodity, and shall upon request furnish to the Commission or the U.S. Department of Justice any pertinent information concerning such positions, transactions, or activities. (2) File within one business day after a special call upon such trader by the Commission or its designee the following: (i) Reports showing positions and transactions on such contract markets for the period of time that the trader held or controlled a reportable position, and in a form and manner as instructed in the call; and (ii) The information specified in §18.04 of this chapter as though it pertains to section 4(c) market transactions. §36.6 Special procedures relating to temporary licensing, registration, and listing of principals. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any person associated with a futures commission merchant or an introducing broker shall be granted a temporary license to act in the capacity of an associated person of such sponsor or listed as a principal of such futures commission merchant or introducing broker if such person certifies that he is licensed, or otherwise authorized to do business and in good standing with another federal financial regulatory authority, or a foreign financial regulatory authority with which the Commission has comparability arrangements under part 30 of this chapter, is not subject to a statutory disqualification from registration under Section 8a(2) of the Act and restricts his activities to section 4(c) market transactions, and if such person and his sponsor comply with special temporary license, registration, or principal listing procedures applicable to persons involved solely with such transactions that have been adopted by the National Futures Association and approved by the Commission. §36.7 Risk disclosure. (a) A futures commission merchant or, in the case of an introduced account, an introducing broker, may open an account for a customer with respect to an instrument governed by this part without furnishing such customer the disclosure statements required under §§1.55, 1.65, 33.7, and 190.10 of this chapter: Provided, however, that the futures commission merchant or, in the case of an introduced account, the introducing broker, does furnish the customer, prior to the customer's entry into the first section 4(c) contract market transaction with respect to a particular instrument, with disclosure appropriate to the particular instrument and the customer. (b) This section does not relieve a futures commission merchant or introducing broker from any other disclosure obligation it may have under applicable law.
