FR940617-2-00036 FR940617-2-00017 When the determination on a waiver applies to the procurement of equipment and/or services, a notice of the waiver determination must be published in the Commerce Business Daily as a part of the notice of solicitation for offers of an acquisition or, if the waiver determination is made after that notice is published, by amendment to such notice. A copy of the waiver, any supporting documents, the document approving the waiver and any supporting and accompanying documents, with such deletions as the agency is authorized and decides to make under 5 U.S.C. Sec. 552(b), shall be part of the procurement documentation and retained by the agency. 13. Where to Obtain Copies. Copies of this publication are for sale by the National Technical Information Service, U.S. Department of Commerce, Springfield, VA 22161. (Sale of the included specifications document is by arrangement with the American National Standards Institute.) When ordering, refer to Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 153&hyph;1 (FIPSPUB153&hyph;1) and title. Payment may be made by check, money order, or deposit account. Appendix A The Family of Graphics Standards The following computer graphics standards are now available to address the needs of government applications in creating, modifying, manipulating, and exchanging computer-generated pictures: •FIPS PUB 120&hyph;1, the Graphical Kernel System (GKS), which adopts ANSI X3.124&hyph;1985; •FIPS PUB 153&hyph;1, the Programmer's Hierarchical Interactive Graphics System (PHIGS), which adopts ANSI/ISO 9592&hyph;1989; •FIPS PUB 128&hyph;1, the Computer Graphics Metafile (CGM), which adopts ANSI/ISO 8632&hyph;1992 and •FIPS PUB 177, the Initial Graphics Exchange Specification (IGES), which adopts ASME/ANSI Y14.24M&hyph;1989. In addition, the Computer Graphics Interface (CGI) has recently become an International standard, and is expected to be issued as a FIPs. These standards fall into two categories: Application Programmer's Interface (API) standards, and Interoperability standards. The goal of API standards is to enhance the portability of graphics programs (and programmers) between installations and environments. The goal of Interoperability standards is to enable graphics data to be exchanged successfully between graphics systems and devices. Figure 1 is a very simple reference model of a computer graphics operating environment. The model emphasizes that a graphics application program interacts with physical devices and human operators via a computer graphics environment. Figure 1 also shows that the application may receive information from an external database. The output of the graphics program, as shown in Figure 1, is directed to a virtual graphics device (i.e., Virtual Device Interface or VDI) rather than directly to a physical device. A Device Driver provides an interface, implemented in either hardware or software, for translating virtual device commands to commands understood by a particular physical device. By substituting one device driver for another, an application can run on a different physical device. This device independent is a central concept of this graphics reference model. In Figure 1, the API standards reside in the box labelled the Device Independent Graphics Package. Interoperability standards are related to the boxes in Figure labelled Metafile, Database and Virtual Device Interface. Figure 2 depicts the various graphics standards associated with the general model shown in Figure 1. These are discussed below. BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;CN&hyph;M E:GRAPHICSEN17JN94.055 BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;CN&hyph;C
