FR941222-1-00070 FR941222-1-00008 C. Specific Approaches to Waste Minimization The Agency can and has used different regulatory mechanisms to promote waste minimization in the listing program. The discussion below will describe several options the Agency has identified as an approach to tailoring listings that encourages generators to use waste minimization practices. This approach could apply to any listing determination. Also included in this discussion are specific references to today's proposed listing determination for dyes and pigments. Quantity-Based Listings A potential method of structuring a waste listing to promote waste minimization would be to establish a quantity-based exemption for the wastes listed. Under such an approach, the listing of a specific wastestream would be accompanied by a quantity-based exemption for the specific wastestream involved. Quantity can refer to either a concentration of constituents in a waste (measured or calculated) or the mass of constituents released to the environment. The Agency believes that this approach would encourage waste minimization because a facility would have to meet a risk-based quantitation target for a wastestream in order to qualify for the exemption, thereby requiring reductions in the mass or concentration (or both) of the constituents of concern. In reducing mass loading or concentration (or both) of the wastes, the Agency's waste minimization goals are achieved. A concentration basis is easier to measure and track than a limit based on loading or mass. Setting a limit based on loadings or mass addresses total loadings to the environment and recognizes waste minimization efforts that result in reductions in both mass of pollutant and volume of total wastestream. However, a mass loading approach poses significantly more burden in terms of monitoring and compliance and may not take into account concentrations of constituents in a waste. The Agency requests comment on the use of production or mass-based limits, and on possible monitoring approaches. A variation on this approach is an adaptation of the ``headworks rule'' (40 CFR 261.3(a)(2)(iv)(A)&hyph;(E)) to a listing. The original rule, promulgated on November 17, 1981 (46 FR 56582) allows for calculated amounts of certain spent solvents, commercial chemical products, petroleum refining wastes, and laboratory residuals to be sent to a facility's wastewater treatment plant, and for the wastewaters and sludges (beyond the headworks) to be exempted from the mixture rule. The Agency also proposed in the March 1, 1994 carbamates listing proposal (59 FR 9808&hyph;9864) to provide a similar exemption to a wastewater proposed for listing in the same notice. Under the ``headworks'' exemption approach ( e.g., 40 CFR 261.3(a)(2)(iv)(H)), the wastewaters and treatment sludges would be exempt from the listing as long as the industry could show that the total quantity of hazardous constituents that pose risk in a wastestream, divided by the undiluted wastewater flow for wastewaters on an average weekly basis from the particular product process subject to the listing was less than a calculated quantity. The calculated quantity would be based on a risk assessment. The Agency would have to be able to determine the relationship between the amount of raw material used and the presence of particular constituents in the wastestream. The Agency requests comment on whether determining such a relationship is feasible for the dye and pigment industries. To qualify for such an exemption, the facility would have to use existing inventory records of raw materials that go into the process. The facility can subtract the quantity of materials that, in fact, do not go into the wastewater treatment system, either by chemical reaction or material recovery techniques ( i.e., distillation, reuse, reverse osmosis, etc.). The facility may not subtract any quantity assumed to volatilize. The quantity of material left then would be converted to resulting levels of constituents expected to be generated based on quantity of raw material used. The levels of constituents then would be divided by the average weekly flow of the wastewaters into the headworks of the wastewater treatment system at the time the process is being run to determine total concentrations of constituents in wastewater. If the total concentration of constituents of concern is less than the amount calculated based on the risk assessment, the wastewaters and treatment sludges would qualify for the exemption. This approach has the advantage of determining concentrations in a mathematical, rather than an analytical way. The disadvantage is that it requires collection of process flow data and specific plant chemistry information. The Agency realizes that constituent loading into the wastewater treatment system may have to be reduced significantly (up to two to three orders of magnitude in many cases) in order to qualify for an exemption of this sort. Therefore, the Agency solicits comment on whether such levels are achievable, and what other calculation methods may exist (such as one based on production mass). Such an exemption would apply only after the wastewaters have arrived at the headworks of a facility's wastewater treatment system. The Agency would not allow it to apply to wastewaters before they reach the headworks. Generators who wish to qualify for such an exemption would be required to use flow statistics for the period in which the processes generating the wastewaters are being run. Finally, such an exemption would apply only to wastewater flow for that wastestream, not to flow figures from unrelated processes that serve only to dilute the wastewaters. In addition, generators would be required to keep records of average weekly flow in the production processes, especially when the processes generating the listed wastewaters are run. When land disposal restrictions are applied to a waste subject to such an exemption, generators would need to comply with 40 CFR 268.7(a)(6), which states that the generator who has produced a waste subject to an exemption in 40 CFR 261.2&hyph;261.6 must keep a notification in the facility's file stating that such a waste has been generated, the fact that it is restricted, and the disposition of the waste.
