FR941116-0-00092 FR941116-0-00019 The Japan Conferences' opposition to the fee increase for special permission applications is based on the fact that the fee was recently increased and that these requests benefit shippers and consignees, not carriers. It is immaterial whether or not this application fee was recently increased; the fact remains that the proposed fee reflects the current cost to the Commission for processing these applications. Although there is a benefit for shippers, we find this benefit incidental to the direct benefit a carrier derives for being allowed to deviate from statutory notice requirements. Lykes' concerns about the increased fees for ATFI registration are unfounded. The proposed fees simply reflect the Commission's costs in processing and verifying the validity of registration requests as well as creating an organizational record for the registrant in the ATFI system. The other proposed increased fees in this proceeding, for example applications for freight forwarder licenses and passenger vessel certifications, elicited no direct comment and are adopted as final. Appendix B to this document contains a summary list of the revised fees. Lastly, Lykes raises an additional issue regarding the proposed ATFI fees that deserves comment. Lykes suggests that the Commission set aside a certain percentage of its ATFI user fees for system enhancements. Whatever the merits of this proposal otherwise, the IOAA and OMB Circular A&hyph;25 do not permit user fee collections to be used to offset costs of activities that are not related to the specific service the Commission is performing for an identifiable recipient. In keeping with OMB guidelines, the Commission intends to update its fees on an annual basis. In updating its fees, the Commission will incorporate changes in the wages and salaries of its employees into direct labor costs associated with its services, and recalculate its indirect costs (overhead) based on current level costs. The Commission, in its latest amendment to 46 CFR Part 502, omitted a reference to ``Pub. L. 88&hyph;777'' in its Authority statement (58 FR 36848, July 19, 1993). This omission is corrected in this document. The Commission again certifies pursuant to section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 605(b), that this Final Rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, including small businesses, small organizational units, and small governmental jurisdictions. The Commission recognizes that these revised fees may have an impact on the shipping industry, but not of the magnitude that would be contrary to the requirements of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. For the most part, entities impacted by the revised fees are ocean common carriers, who traditionally have not been viewed as small entities. Fees collected from the general public for Commission information recover the total cost to the Commission for providing specific services. Fees for filing petitions, and formal and informal complaints do not impose an undue burden nor have a chilling effect on filers. Furthermore, Commission regulations provide for waiver of fees for those entities that can make the required showing of undue hardship. This Final Rule does not contain any collection of information requirements as defined by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, as amended. Therefore, OMB review is not required. List of Subjects 46 CFR Part 502 Administrative practice and procedure, Claims, Equal access to justice, Investigations, Lawyers, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 46 CFR Part 503 Classified information, Freedom of information, Privacy, Sunshine Act. 46 CFR Part 510 Freight forwarders, Maritime carriers, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Surety bonds. 46 CFR Part 514 Freight, Harbors, Maritime carriers, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 46 CFR Part 540 Insurance, Maritime carriers, Penalties, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Surety bonds. 46 CFR Part 583 Freight, Maritime carriers, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Surety bonds.
