FR940111-2-00027 FR940111-2-00017 [FRL&hyph;4823&hyph;8] Water Pollution Control; Approval of Application by South Dakota To Administer the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Program AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Approval of application. SUMMARY: On December 30, 1993, the Acting Regional Administrator for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Region VIII, approved the application by the State of South Dakota to administer and enforce the national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) program for regulating discharges of pollutants into waters within the State. EFFECTIVE DATE: December 30, 1993. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Janet LaCombe at (303) 293&hyph;1593, NPDES Branch, (8WM&hyph;C); U.S.E.P.A., Region VIII; Denver Place, 999 18th Street, suite 500; Denver, CO 80202&hyph;2466. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The application of the South Dakota Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) was received by EPA on April 28, 1993. Several modifications were made to the application package, based on discussions between the EPA, the DENR, and the Office of the Attorney General. The final changes, including the signing of the Memorandum of Agreement by the Governor, were completed on August 30, 1993. South Dakota's application was described in Federal Register notices dated September 1 and 9, 1993, at 58 FR 46145 and 47417, and in notices published in the Rapid City Journal and the Sioux Falls Argus-Leader on August 27 and September 10, 1993. In the September 1, 1993 Federal Register notice and the August 27, 1993 newspaper notices, EPA highlighted three issues upon which it specifically requested public comment. These issues concerned unsigned complaints from the general public, penalty authority, and citizen intervention in enforcement actions. Copies of South Dakota's application package were available for public review at the EPA Region VIII office and at the DENR office in Pierre, South Dakota. Copies also could be purchased from the DENR at a cost of $10.00. EPA provided copies of South Dakota's public notices to permitted facilities, tribal councils and tribal environmental agencies, and environmental groups in South Dakota. The mailing list used is part of the record of the program application and review process. By letter dated August 25, 1993, EPA provided copies of South Dakota's application to the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service, and to the South Dakota State Historic Preservation Officer. As part of the public comment process, EPA conducted two public hearings on South Dakota's application. The hearings occurred on October 14, 1993 at the Matthew Training Center, Joe Foss Building, 523 East Capitol, Pierre, South Dakota, beginning at 3 and 7 p.m. The first hearing lasted approximately one hour, and the second lasted about 45 minutes. The register of those attending is contained in the administrative record. In addition, until October 22, 1993, EPA accepted written comments from the public. All comments or objections presented at either public hearing or received in writing by EPA Region VIII by October 22, 1993, were considered by EPA. Comments were received regarding the following issues: (1) Unsigned complaints, (2) penalty authority, (3) citizen intervention, (4) jurisdiction over Indian Country, (5) pretreatment program, (6) mechanisms for ensuring protection of endangered and threatened species, and (7) overall benefits or lack of benefits resulting from authorization. EPA response to all comments are contained in this notice. Summaries of the comments and EPA's responses follow. The comments and hearing record are contained in the administrative record supporting this notice. I. Unsigned Complaints Federal regulations at 40 CFR 123.26(b)(3) and (4) require a State approved to administer the NPDES program to maintain a program for investigating information regarding violations of applicable program and permit requirements, to maintain procedures for receiving and ensuring proper consideration of information submitted by the public about violations of applicable program and permit requirements, to encourage public efforts in reporting violations, and to make available information on reporting procedures. As outlined in EPA's September 1, 1993 Federal Register notice and August 27, 1993 newspaper notices, Section 34A&hyph;2&hyph;111 of the South Dakota Codified Laws (SDCL) prohibits the DENR from performing inspections or conducting other investigatory activities pursuant to SDCL Sections 34A&hyph;2&hyph;40, 34A&hyph;2&hyph;44, and 34A&hyph;2&hyph;45 based on, or as a result of, information received from the general public unless the person providing the information signs a complaint, which is to remain confidential with the DENR. The statement by the South Dakota Attorney General notes that information in complaints from the general public made to another agency or DENR program and then referred to the DENR NPDES program is not considered ``as a result of'' a complaint from the general public. The State has described the means by which it will consider and respond to NPDES-related information from the general public and from other state governmental agencies. The DENR will investigate and respond to all citizen complaints where a signed complaint form has been received and will investigate all complaints received from other government agencies. At the time an unsigned complaint is received, DENR will determine whether appropriate department authorities exist under any state environmental statute to handle the unsigned complaint. If not, the citizen shall be referred to the South Dakota Department of Emergency and Disaster Services, the South Dakota Department of Game, Fish & Parks, or another appropriate State agency. The appropriate State agencies shall receive anonymous complaints and either investigate under their authorities or sign and refer the complaint to DENR. The process used for investigating and responding to unsigned complaints will be published in major newspapers in South Dakota and will be prominently posted in the main office and the field offices of the DENR. In its oversight role, EPA has established a ``hotline'' (1&hyph;800&hyph;227&hyph;8917) to receive complaints, both identified and anonymous, regarding NPDES-related activities in South Dakota. To communicate this fact to the general public, EPA will publish the hotline number in the Rapid City ``Journal'' and the Sioux Falls ``Argus-Leader'', as well as sending a notice to public interest groups and permitted facilities. The hotline number may be used by callers who have information concerning a possible violation of an NPDES permit or program requirement. The caller will be referred to a staff member of the EPA Region VIII NPDES Branch. This staff person will record the information received and make a decision whether or not an investigation is needed. EPA may conduct the investigation or request that the DENR investigate.
