FR940128-1-00056 FR940128-1-00006 A process authority could be a private individual, a member of academia, or an agency of government. Processors can find competent process authorities through their trade associations, local Sea Grant extension offices, or State universities. The procedures that are used in establishing a cooking or pasteurization process should be generally recognized and accepted. Such procedures may include thermal death time, heat penetration, and inoculated pack studies, as necessary, to establish the minimum process necessary to destroy pathogens. In cases where the cooking process or pasteurization process is standardized and not unique to a specific processor, articles in journals; Federal, State, or local regulations and guidelines; or other appropriate vehicles could provide process parameters (Ref. 52). Whatever the source, processors must retain the documentation from the process authority that the process will be effective as part of their HACCP records, in accordance with proposed ยง123.8(c). The process established by a process authority should include values for those aspects of the process that can affect the destruction of pathogens. The most notable of these are cooking times and temperatures. Others may include the initial internal temperature of the cooking medium before the cooking, the product size and species, and the viscosity of formulated products such as soups. FDA is already aware that the cooking processes necessary to create a marketable product for several types of cooked, ready- to-eat products are many times more lethal than necessary to inactivate pathogens (Ref. 114). The products are the several types of crabs listed in the guidelines at proposed Appendix A, section 4.a.4. FDA has tentatively concluded that, for these products, the adequacy of both the cooking process and cooking equipment can be assumed. It is likely that other products could be added to this list. The agency invites comments on this point. Comments should be accompanied by data that will enable the agency to determine that the minimum cooking process necessary to achieve a marketable product, e.g., heat penetration data and data on the range of cooking processes (times and temperatures) applied to that product, will produce a safe product. The same general principles also apply to the design of the cooking and pasteurization equipment. It is necessary that this equipment be designed and operated so that every unit of product receives the established minimum cooking or pasteurization process proposed (Appendix A, section 4. a.2. and b.2.) (Ref. 85). FDA recommends that the equipment be evaluated for design and operation by a process authority who is familiar with the dynamics of temperature distribution in processing equipment. In some instances, temperature distribution studies may be necessary to establish the adequacy of the equipment. In other instances, existing literature should be sufficient. Processors must obtain and retain documentation that the equipment will provide the minimum process as part of their HACCP records in accordance with ยง123.8. 2. Container Integrity The proposed guidelines advise in Appendix A, section 3. c. and d. that HACCP plans prepared in accordance with part 123, subpart A will normally identify finished product container sealing for pasteurized products and postpasteurizing cooling as critical control points. Contamination with C. botulinum type E during the postpasteurization cooling step is a special food safety hazard that must be controlled for pasteurized products. Two potential causes of recontamination are poor container seams and contaminated cooling water. Consequently, the guidelines, at Appendix A, section 5, recommend controls that processors can utilize that are likely to meet the requirements of subpart A. Appendix A, section 5.a. advises processors how to inspect finished product containers of pasteurized products for container integrity to ensure a consistently reliable hermetic seal. At proposed Appendix A, section 5.b., the guidelines advise about testing for the presence of sanitizer in cooling water. Seam inspections should determine whether the seams conform to the manufacturer's guidelines. Additionally, because of variations from seaming head to seaming head, from closing machine to closing machine, and over time for any one machine or head, FDA recommends that processors conduct inspections for each machine and head at least every 4 hours. Visual seam inspections are not adequate to fully assess the integrity of the seam. Physical testing and, in the case of double seams, seam teardown and measurement, are necessary parts of the inspection, as presently required for low acid canned foods in part 113. The presence of sanitizer in cooling water provides a control for the risk of microbiologically contaminated water being drawn into the can. A vacuum created by a collapse in the cooling vat of the steam head in the container, generated during the heating step, can draw in a minute amount of cooling water and any pathogens contained in that cooling water. Seams are in a particularly stressed condition at that time. Sanitizer strength levels should be checked periodically because there is a tendency for variation in strength to occur, particularly in batch-type systems.
