FR940816-1-00035 FR940816-1-00007 D. Procedures for Determining Best Available Control Measures 1. Inventory Sources of PM&hyph;10 and PM&hyph;10 Precursors The BACM (including BACT) applicable in a nonattainment area must be determined on a case-by-case basis since the nature and extent of a nonattainment problem may vary within the area and from one area to another. Nonattainment problems range from reasonably well-defined areas of violation caused by a specific source or group of sources to violations over relatively broad geographical areas due predominantly to large numbers of small sources widely-distributed over the area. The BACM are required for all source categories for which the State cannot conclusively demonstrate that their impact is de minimis. As stated above, the EPA will generally presume the contribution to nonattainment of any source category to be de minimis if the source category causes a PM&hyph;10 impact in the area of less than 5 μg/m3 for a 24-hour average and less than 1 μg/m3 annual mean concentration. The starting point for making a BACM determination would be to reevaluate the emission inventory submitted with the moderate area SIP. Section 172(c)(3) of the Act calls for all nonattainment areas to submit comprehensive, accurate, and current emissions inventories and provides for such periodic revisions as may be necessary to assure that the nonattainment planning requirements are met. If there have been any significant changes in PM&hyph;10 sources in the area since the inventory was first compiled (i.e., sources permanently shut down or new or modified sources constructed) or if the inventory is not adequate to support the more rigorous analysis required for serious area SIP demonstrations, it should be revised. All anthropogenic sources of PM&hyph;10 emissions and PM&hyph;10 precursors (if applicable) 37 and nonanthropogenic sources in a nonattainment area must be included in the emission inventory. 37 Ambient filter analysis and inventory information may have been presented in certain moderate area SIP to indicate the insignificance of secondary particles (see 57 FR 13541&hyph;42). Because of its importance in identifying anthropogenic and nonanthropogenic sources and the applicability of BACM requirements, the breakdown of sources to consider when compiling an emissions inventory are as follows: a. Major point sources (i.e., sources with the potential to emit at least 70 tons per year of PM&hyph;10 (or PM&hyph;10 precursors) as required in sections 189(b)(3) and 189(e) of the Act). b. Minor point source categories. c. Area source categories such as fugitive dust from anthropogenic sources (e.g., construction activities, paved and unpaved roads, agricultural activities, etc.), residential wood combustion, prescribed burning, and commercial/institutional fuel combustion. d. Nonanthropogenic sources. 2. Evaluate Source Category Impact The second step in determining BACM for an area is to identify those source categories having a greater than de minimis impact on PM&hyph;10 concentrations. The potential maximum impact of various source categories may have been determined with receptor or dispersion modeling performed for the attainment demonstration submitted with the moderate area SIP. In addition, the impact of some source categories may be apparent from analysis of ambient sampling filters from days when the standards are exceeded. If modeling was not performed during development of the moderate area SIP, receptor modeling, screening modeling or, preferably, refined dispersion modeling will generally be necessary at this time to identify key source categories. 3. Evaluate Alternative Control Techniques In developing a fully adequate BACM SIP, the State is expected to evaluate the technological and economic feasibility of the control measures discussed in the BACM guidance documents 38 and other relevant materials for all source categories impacting the nonattainment area except those with a de minimis impact considering emission reductions achieved with RACM. 38 See ``Technical Information Document for Residential Wood Combustion Best Available Control Measures,'' EPA&hyph;450/2&hyph;92&hyph;002, September 1992; ``Prescribed Burning Background and Technical Information Document for Best Available Control Measures,'' EPA&hyph;450/2&hyph;92&hyph;003, September 1992; and, ``Fugitive Dust Background Document and Technical Information Document for Best Available Control Measures,'' EPA&hyph;450/2&hyph;92&hyph;004, September 1992. Energy and environmental impacts of the control measures and the cost of control should be considered in determining BACM. In general, for the reasons stated above, the test of economic and technological feasibility will be higher for source categories in serious areas than for source categories in moderate areas because of the greater need for emission reductions to attain the NAAQS. As noted earlier, this interpretation is consistent with the overall statutory scheme which requires that as an area's air quality worsens, increasingly stringent control measures are to be adopted in conjunction with the area receiving more time to attain the NAAQS. Thus, measures that were not considered reasonable to implement by the moderate area attainment date may be BACM for serious areas because of the additional time available for implementing them 39 and because of the higher degree of stringency implied by the statutory scheme and the term ``best.'' Therefore, BACM could include, though it is not limited to, expanded use of some of the same types of control measures as those included as RACM in the moderate area SIP. 39 The statutory attainment date for initial moderate PM&hyph;10 nonattainment areas reclassified as serious will be December 31, 2001. For areas designated nonattainment subsequent to enactment of the 1990 Amendments that become serious, the attainment date will be before the end of the tenth year beginning after the area's designation as nonattainment (see section 188(c)). It does not currently appear that mobile sources, as distinct from the surfaces on which they travel, contribute significantly to the PM&hyph;10 air quality problem in a sufficient number of areas to warrant issuing national guidance on best available transportation control measures for PM&hyph;10 under section 190 of the Act. However, in those areas where mobile sources do contribute significantly to PM&hyph;10 violations, the State must, at a minimum, address the transportation control measures listed in section 108(f) to determine whether such measures are achievable in the area considering energy, environmental and economic impacts and other costs.
