FR940725-0-00018 FR940725-0-00004 (a) For blades that have less than 500 hours time-in-service (TIS) and have been installed on a helicopter for less than 1 year, visually inspect the blades' top and bottom skins for corrosion or cracks using a 5-power or higher magnifying glass in accordance with the applicable maintenance manual. Conduct this visual inspection upon or prior to the accumulation of 525 hours TIS or upon or prior to the blades being installed for 1 year, whichever occurs first. (b) For blades that have 500 or more hours TIS or have been installed on a helicopter for 1 year or more, within the next 25 hours TIS visually inspect the blades' top and bottom skins for corrosion or cracks using a 5-power or higher magnifying glass in accordance with the applicable maintenance manual. (c) After the initial visual inspection required by paragraph (a) or (b), conduct the following inspections and checks: (1) Visually inspect the blades' top and bottom skins for corrosion or cracks using a 5-power or higher magnifying glass at intervals not to exceed 100 hours TIS from the last inspection required by this AD. (2) Visually check the blades' top and bottom skins for corrosion or cracks at intervals not to exceed 25 hours TIS from the last check or inspection required by this AD. The visual checks required by this AD may be performed by an owner/operator holding at least a private pilot certificate, and must be documented in the aircraft records showing compliance with this AD, in accordance with sections 43.11 and 91.417(a)(2)(v) of the Federal Aviation Regulations. (d) Before further flight after the onset of abnormal vibrations of the main rotor system, visually inspect the blades' top and bottom skins for corrosion or cracks using a 5-power or higher magnifying glass. (e) If a suspected crack is found in a blade during the inspections or checks required by this AD, conduct a dye penetrant or equivalent FAA-approved inspection for crack verification. (f) If any crack is found in the blade skins, replace the blade with an airworthy blade before further flight. (g) If any corrosion is found in the blade skins, repair or replace the blade with an airworthy blade in accordance with the provisions of the maintenance manual. Note: Robinson Helicopter Company Service Bulletin # 72, dated March 29, 1993, pertains to this AD. (h) An alternative method of compliance or adjustment of the compliance time that provides an acceptable level of safety may be used when approved by the Manager, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office, FAA. Operators shall submit their requests through an FAA Principal Maintenance Inspector, who may concur or comment and then send it to the Manager, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office. Note: Information concerning the existence of approved alternative methods of compliance with this AD, if any, may be obtained from Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office. (i) Special flight permits to comply with this AD will not be issued. (j) This amendment becomes effective on August 9, 1994. Issued in Fort Worth, Texas, on July 14, 1994. James D. Erickson, Manager, Rotorcraft Directorate, Aircraft Certification Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17996 Filed 7&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
