FR940906-2-00118 FR940906-2-00083 (b) Assist in providing crisis counseling to victims in affected geographic areas. (c) Provide guidance to State and local health officials on disease control measures and epidemiological surveillance and study of exposed populations. (d) Provide advice on proper medical treatment of personnel exposed to or contaminated by radioactive materials. (e) Provide advice and guidance in assessing the impact of the effects of radiological incidents on the health of persons in the affected area. (6) Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). (a) Review and report on available housing for disaster victims and displaced persons. (b) Assist in planning for and placing homeless victims in available housing. (c) Provide staff to support emergency housing within available resources. (d) Provide housing assistance and advisory personnel. (7) Department of the Interior (DOI). Advise and assist in assessing impacts to economic, social, and political issues relating to natural resources, including fish and wildlife, public lands, land reclamation, mining, minerals, and water resources. (8) Department of Transportation (DOT). (a) Support State and local governments by identifying sources of civil transportation on request and when consistent with statutory responsibilities. (b) Coordinate the Federal civil transportation response in support of emergency transportation plans and actions with State and local governments. (This may include provision of Federally controlled transportation assets and the controlling of airspace or transportation routes to protect commercial transportation and to facilitate the movement of response resources to the scene.) (c) Provide Regional Emergency Transportation Coordinators and staff to assist State and local authorities in planning and response. (d) Provide technical advice and assistance on the transportation of radiological materials and the impact of the incident on the transportation system. (9) Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). (a) Provide medical assistance using Medical Emergency Radiological Response Teams (MERRTs). (b) Provide temporary housing. (10) General Services Administration (GSA). (a) Provide acquisition and procurement of floor space, telecommunications and automated data processing services, supplies, services, transportation, computers, contracting, equipment, and material; as well as specified logistical services which exceed the capabilities of other Federal agencies. (b) Activate the Regional Emergency Communications Planner (RECP) and a Federal Emergency Communications Coordinator (FECC). RECP will provide technical support and accept guidance from the FEMA Regional Director during the pre-deployment phase of a telecommunications emergency. (c) Upon request, will dispatch the FECC to the scene to expedite the provision of the telecommunications services. (11) National Communications System (NCS). Coordinate the communications for the Federal response and assist appropriate State agencies in meeting their communications requirements. 6. Public Information Coordination Public information coordination is most effective when the owner/operator, Federal, State, local, and other relevant information sources participate jointly. The primary location for linking these sources is the Joint Information Center (JIC). Prior to the establishment of Federal operations at the JIC, it may be necessary to release Federal information regarding public health and safety. In these instances, Federal agencies will coordinate with the LFA in advance or as soon as possible after the information has been released. This coordination will accomplish the following: (1) Compile information about the status of the emergency, response actions, and instructions for the affected population; (2) Coordinate all information from various sources with the other Federal, State, local, and non-governmental response organizations; (3) Allow various sources to work cooperatively, yet maintain their independence in disseminating information;
