FR940505-1-00353 FR940505-1-00012 Concrete-curing compounds are coatings applied to freshly poured concrete to retard the evaporation of water. Dry-fog coatings are coatings which are formulated only for spray application so that when sprayed, overspray droplets dry before falling on floors and other surfaces. Fire retardant coatings are coatings which have a flame spread index of less than 25 when tested in accordance with ASTM Designation E&hyph;84&hyph;87, ``Standard Test Method for Surface Burning Characteristics of Building Material,'' after application to Douglas fir according to the manufacturer's recommendations. Flat coatings are coatings which register gloss less than 15 on an 85 ○ meter or less than five on a 60 ○ meter, or which is labeled as a flat coating. Form-release compounds are coatings applied to a concrete form to prevent the freshly poured concrete from bonding to the form. The form may consist of wood, metal, or some material other than concrete. Grams of VOC per liter of coating, less water and less exempt compounds is the weight of VOC per combined volume of VOC and coating solids and can be calculated by the following equation: E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.118 Grams of VOC per Liter of Coating Less Water and Less Exempt Where: W s =weight of volatile compounds in grams W w =weight of water in grams W es =weight of exempt compounds in grams V m =volume of material in liters V w =volume of water in liters V es =volume of exempt compounds in liters Graphic arts coatings (Sign Paints) are coatings formulated for and hand-applied by artists using brush or roller techniques to indoor and outdoor signs (excluding structural components) and murals, including lettering enamels, poster colors, copy blockers, and bulletin enamels. High-temperature industrial maintenance coatings are industrial maintenance coatings formulated for and applied to substrates exposed continuously or intermittently to temperatures above 400 degrees Fahrenheit. Impact immersion coatings are an industrial maintenance, vinyl chloride based multicoat system formulated and recommended for application to submerged surfaces of locks, dams and other steel structures subjected to frequent severe abrasion. Industrial maintenance anti-graffiti coatings are two-component clear industrial maintenance coatings formulated for and applied to exterior walls and murals to resist repeated scrubbing and exposure to harsh solvents. Industrial maintenance coatings are high performance coatings formulated for and applied to substrates in industrial, commercial, or institutional situations that are exposed to one or more of the following extreme environmental conditions: (1) immersion in water, wastewater, or chemical solutions (aqueous and non-aqueous solutions), or chronic exposure of interior surfaces to moisture condensation; (2) acute or chronic exposure to corrosive, caustic or acidic agents, or to chemicals, chemical fumes, chemical mixtures, or solutions; (3) repeated exposure to temperatures in excess of 250 degrees Fahrenheit; (4) repeated heavy abrasion, including mechanical wear and repeated scrubbing with industrial solvents, cleaners, or scouring agents; or (5) exterior exposure of metal structures. Industrial maintenance coatings are not for residential use or for use in areas of industrial, commercial, or institutional facilities such as office space and meeting rooms. Lacquers are clear wood finishes, including clear lacquer sanding sealers, formulated with nitrocellulose or synthetic resins to dry by evaporation without chemical reaction. Low-solids stain means a wood stain containing 1 pound or less of solids per gallon of material. Magnesite cement coatings are coatings formulated for and applied to magnesite cement decking to protect the magnesite cement substrate from erosion by water.
