FR940706-0-00086 FR940706-0-00015 (b) The cost principles applicable to a State, a local government, or Federally recognized Indian tribal government are specified at 34 CFR §80.22. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110) §74.28 Period of availability of funds. Where a funding period is specified, a recipient may charge to the grant only allowable costs resulting from obligations incurred during the funding period and any pre-award costs authorized by the Secretary. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110) Property Standards §74.30 Purpose of property standards. Sections 74.31 through 74.37 establish uniform standards governing management and disposition of property furnished by ED whose cost was charged to a project supported by a Federal award. Recipients shall observe these standards under awards. The Secretary does not impose additional requirements, unless specifically required by Federal statute. The recipient may use its own property management standards and procedures provided it observes the provisions of §§74.31 through 74.37. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110) §74.31 Insurance coverage. Recipients shall, at a minimum, provide the equivalent insurance coverage for real property and equipment acquired with Federal funds as provided to property owned by the recipient. Federally-owned property need not be insured unless required by the terms and conditions of the award. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110) §74.32 Real property. The Secretary prescribes requirements for recipients concerning the use and disposition of real property acquired in whole or in part under awards. Unless otherwise provided by statute, the minimum requirements provide the following: (a) Title to real property must vest in the recipient subject to the condition that the recipient shall use the real property for the authorized purpose of the project as long as it is needed and shall not encumber the property without approval of the Secretary. (b) The recipient shall obtain written approval by the Secretary for the use of real property in other federally-sponsored projects when the recipient determines that the property is no longer needed for the purpose of the original project. Use in other projects shall be limited to those under federally-sponsored projects (i.e., awards) that have purposes consistent with those authorized for support by the Secretary. (c) When the real property is no longer needed as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the recipient shall request disposition instructions from ED or its successor Federal awarding agency. The Secretary observes one or more of the following disposition instructions: (1) The recipient may be permitted to retain title without further obligation to the Federal Government after it compensates the Federal Government for that percentage of the current fair market value of the property attributable to the Federal participation in the project. (2) The recipient may be directed to sell the property under guidelines provided by the Secretary and pay the Federal Government for that percentage of the current fair market value of the property attributable to the Federal participation in the project (after deducting actual and reasonable selling and fix-up expenses, if any, from the sales proceeds). When the recipient is authorized or required to sell the property, proper sales procedures must be established that provide for competition to the extent practicable and result in the highest possible return. (3) The recipient may be directed to transfer title to the property to the Federal Government or to an eligible third party. The recipient is entitled to compensation for its attributable percentage of the current fair market value of the property. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110) §74.33 Federally-owned and exempt property. (a) Federally-owned property. (1) Title to federally-owned property remains vested in the Federal Government. Recipients shall submit annually an inventory listing of federally-owned property in their custody to the Secretary. Upon completion of the award or when the property is no longer needed, the recipient shall report the property to the Secretary for further ED utilization. (2) If ED has no further need for the property, it shall be declared excess and reported to the General Services Administration, unless the Secretary has statutory authority to dispose of the property by alternative methods (e.g., the authority provided by the Federal Technology Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 3710 (I)) to donate research equipment to educational and non-profit organizations in accordance with E.O. 12821_Improving Mathematics and Science Education in Support of the National Education Goals. Appropriate instructions shall be issued to the recipient by the Secretary. (b) Exempt property. When statutory authority exists, the Secretary may vest title to property acquired with Federal funds in the recipient without further obligation to the Federal Government and under conditions the Secretary considers appropriate. This property is ``exempt property.'' Should the Secretary not establish conditions, title to exempt property upon acquisition vests in the recipient without further obligation to the Federal Government. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110) §74.34 Equipment. (a) Title to equipment acquired by a recipient with Federal funds shall vest in the recipient, subject to conditions of this section.
