FR940127-2-00170 FR940127-2-00097 UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY Citizen Action Groups Project for Mongolia AGENCY: United States Information Agency. ACTION: Notice_request for proposals. SUMMARY: The Office of Citizen Exchanges (E/P) announces a competitive grants program for private, non-profit organizations to develop indigenous, non-governmental, professional, civic, philanthropic, or issue-oriented institutions and citizen exchange organizations. These projects should link the U.S. organization's exchange interests with counterpart organizations and groups in Mongolia. Interested applicants are urged to read the complete Federal Register announcement before addressing inquiries to the Office or submitting their proposals. After the deadline for submitting proposals, USIA officers may not discuss this competition in any way with applicants until final decisions are made. ANNOUNCEMENT NAME AND NUMBER: All communications concerning this announcement should refer to the Mongolian Citizen Action Groups Project. This announcement number is E/P&hyph;94&hyph;19. Please refer to this title and number in all correspondence or telephone calls to USIA. DATES: Deadline for Proposals: All copies must be received at the U.S. Information Agency by 5 p.m. Washington, DC time on March 11, 1994. Faxed documents will not be accepted, nor will documents postmarked March 11, 1994, but received at a later date. It is the responsibility of each grant applicant to ensure that proposals are received by the above deadline. The grant project activity should begin after June 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: The original and 14 copies of the completed application and required forms should be submitted by the deadline to: U.S. Information Agency, Ref: Mongolia Citizen Action Groups (E/P&hyph;94&hyph;19), Office of Grants Management (E/XE), 301 4th Street, SW., room 336, Washington, DC 20547. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Interested organizations, institutions should contact: Elroy Carlson, American Republics and East Asia and Pacific Division, Office of Citizen Exchanges (E/P), room 216, U.S. Information Agency, 301 4th Street SW., Washington, DC 20547, telephone 202/619&hyph;5326, fax 202/260&hyph;0437 to request detailed application packets, which include award criteria, all necessary forms, and guidelines for preparing proposals, including specific budget preparation. Objectives of the Mongolian Citizen Action Groups Project Overview While Mongolia's formal governmental institutions continue their transition to democracy, its private sector is moving at a slower pace. Community action groups and arts councils are in a formative stage, with little understanding of their potential roles and opportunities in a democratic society. Fund-raising and techniques advocating change outside governmental channels are almost unknown. This project focuses on facilitating the development of new citizen groups and associations, providing information to leaders who are eager to create these institutions and consortia. The development of citizen action groups should respond to the needs and interests of the people of Mongolia. U.S. support is designed to provide an array of information or models from which Mongolian citizen activists may wish to choose. USIA encourages proposals that feature ``train and trainers'' models; the creation of indigenous training centers; schemes to create professional networks or professional associations to disseminate information; and other enduring aspects. Projects may include: study tours in the U.S. for small groups; short-term, non-technical workshops conducted in Mongolia; four- to ten-week internships in the U.S.; planning trips or consultations in Mongolia; and the development of specialized training materials. Programmatic Considerations Pursuant to the Bureau's authorizing legislation, grant programs must maintain a non-political character and should be balanced and representative of the diversity of American political, social and cultural life. Proposals must be for projects that enhance the growth of indigenous, non-governmental, professional, civic, philanthropic, or issue-oriented institutions and citizen exchange organizations. They should serve as an important avenue for community participation in problem solving, quality of life enhancement, and professional development. All proposals should demonstrate: (1) In-depth, substantive knowledge of the relevant issues; (2) Established connections with partner institutions;
