FR940613-2-00070 FR940613-2-00044 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Office of the Secretary RIN 1094&hyph;AA45 Use of Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) AGENCY: Office of the Secretary. ACTION: Notice of interim ADR policy and opportunity for comment. SUMMARY: The Department of the Interior (Department) has developed this two-year interim policy to implement the requirements of the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act (ADR Act), Public Law No. 101&hyph;552. This interim policy also addresses the Negotiated Rulemaking Act, Public Law No. 101&hyph;648. The Department is adopting this interim policy to allow time to acquire data on the applicability of ADR techniques to selected program disputes. During this interim period, the Department through its bureaus and offices will implement ADR pilot programs and other program initiatives in an effort to establish a baseline of experience in the practical uses of ADR. At the conclusion of this interim phase, the Department will assess the results of the ADR initiatives in conjunction with both external and internal comments received, develop a proposed final policy, allow for public comment, and publish a final ADR policy in the Federal Register . The Department seeks comments from the public, including, among others, those persons whose activities the Department regulates, on any aspect of this interim policy and its implementation, and those persons who have engaged in or may in the future engage in ADR processes with the Department. At the end of the 60 day comment period the Department will consider issues raised by interested persons and may modify the interim policy based on public comment. DATES: Comments must be received on or before August 12, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be mailed or delivered to Philip G. Kiko, Deputy Director, Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA), U.S. Department of the Interior, 4015 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22203. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Philip G. Kiko, Deputy Director and the Alternate Dispute Resolution Specialist, OHA (703) 235&hyph;3810. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Administrative Dispute Resolution Act The Administrative Dispute Resolution Act (ADR Act), Public Law No. 101&hyph;552, 5 U.S.C. 581&hyph;583, enacted November 15, 1990, authorizes and encourages federal agencies to employ consensual methods of dispute resolution as alternatives to litigation. Under the ADR Act, a federal agency is required: (1) To designate a senior official as a dispute resolution specialist; (2) to establish training programs in the use of dispute resolution methods; (3) to adopt a policy on the use of ADR techniques; and (4) to review the standard language in agency contracts, grants or other agreements, to determine whether to include a provision on ADR. Federal agencies are also required to consult with the Administrative Conference of the United States (ACUS) and the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (FMCS) on the development of their ADR policies. Additionally, section 3(a) of the ADA Act requires the Department to adopt a formal policy as to how it intends to implement the ADR Act in each of the following areas: (a) Formal and informal adjudications; (b) rulemakings; (c) enforcement actions; (d) issuing and revoking licenses or permits; (e) contract administration; (f) litigation brought by or against the Department; and (g) other departmental action. Congress enacted the ADR Act to reduce the time, cost, inefficiencies and contentiousness that are too often associated with litigation and other adversarial dispute mechanisms. Moreover, experience at other federal agencies shows that ADR can help achieve mutually acceptable solutions to disputes more effectively than either litigation or administrative adjudication. In fact, Vice President Gore recommended in September 1993 that federal agencies ``increase the use of alternative means of dispute resolution.'' National Performance Review, Recommendation REG06 (September 7, 1993).
