FR940526-2-00003 FR940526-2-00001 5. Revise the ``Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operation'' in NFE's Export Trade Certificate of Review. The revised ``Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operation'' should read as follows: 1. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members advise and cooperate with the United States Government in establishing procedures regulating the export of the Products, and fulfilling the requirement(s) imposed by foreign governments for export of the Products; 2. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members participate in negotiations and enter into agreements with foreign governments and private persons regarding: (a) Fumigating, packing and other quality control and/or phytosanitary procedures to be followed in the export of the Products. Such procedures may include activities related to insect and disease detection, certification, inspection, storage and treatment protocols required to qualify goods for export shipment and to meet the import requirements of the foreign government; (b) The quantities, time periods, prices and terms and conditions upon which NFE's Members will export the Products; 3. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members, establish and operate fumigation facilities for use in the export of the Products; 4. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members establish export prices and quotas and allocate export quotas among growing regions and its Members. In allocating export quotas among growing regions and its Members, NFE, through employees or agents of NFE who are not also employees of a Member, may receive, and each Member may supply to such employees or agents of NFE, information as to such Member's actual total shipments of the Products in any previous growing season or seasons, provided that such information is not disclosed by NFE to any other Member; 5. NFE may on behalf and with advice of its Members establish and administer phytosanitary protocols for the purpose of qualifying the Products for Export Markets; 6. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members provide market entry and development assistance, including related administrative and promotional services, to its Members; 7. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members negotiate and enter into agreements with providers of transportation services for export of the Products; 8. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members establish methods and/or rates of fees and assessments to its membership to recover administrative expenses and costs related to qualifying and preparing the Products for export; 9. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members develop internal procedures and disseminate information to Members to assist the membership in meeting the criteria established for exportation of the Products; 10. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members coordinate activities of growers and packers in the process of qualifying their goods throughout the various stages of growing, harvesting, grading, packing, packaging, labeling, storage, and treatment in readying the goods for export shipment; 11. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members allocate volume shares amongst Members for shipment of goods, use of facilities, use of time of domestic and foreign inspection personnel, and other resources of the applicant; 12. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members conduct quality control studies and inspections of goods at point of shipment, point of arrival, and through retail level.
