FR940610-1-00014 FR940610-1-00002 (a) Required_ (1) In general. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each insured depository institution shall pay to the Corporation, in two quarterly payments, a semiannual assessment determined in accordance with this part 327. (2) Notice of designated deposit account. For the purpose of making such payments, each insured depository institution shall designate a deposit account for direct debit by the Corporation. No later than 30 days prior to the next payment date specified in paragraphs (c)(2) and (d)(2) of this section, each institution shall provide written notice to the Corporation of the account designated, including all information and authorizations needed by the Corporation for direct debit of the account. After the initial notice of the designated account, no further notice is required unless the institution designates a different account for assessment debit by the Corporation, in which case the requirements of the preceding sentence apply. (b) Newly insured institutions. A newly insured institution shall not be required to pay an assessment for the semiannual period during which it becomes an insured institution. For the semiannual period following the period during which it becomes an insured institution, it shall pay its full semiannual assessment at the time and in the manner provided for in paragraph (d) of this section, in an amount that is the product of its assessment base for the prior semiannual period, as provided for in §327.5(c), multiplied by one-half of the annual assessment rate corresponding to the assessment risk classification assigned to the institution pursuant to §327.4(a). For the purpose of making such payment, the institution shall provide to the Corporation no later than the payment date specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section the notice required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section. (c) First-quarterly payment_ (1) Invoice. No later than 30 days prior to the payment date specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the Corporation will provide to each insured depository institution an invoice showing the amount of the assessment payment due from the institution for the first quarter of the upcoming semiannual period, and the computation of that amount. Subject to paragraph (g) of this section and to subpart B of this part, the invoiced amount shall be the product of the following: The assessment base of the institution for the preceding September 30 (for the semiannual period beginning the following January 1) or March 31 (for the semiannual period beginning the following July 1) computed in accordance with §327.5; multiplied by one-quarter of the annual assessment rate corresponding to the assessment risk classification assigned to the institution pursuant to §327.4(a). (2) Payment date and manner. On December 30 (for the semiannual period beginning the following January 1) and on June 30 (for the semiannual period beginning the following July 1), the Corporation will cause the amount stated in the applicable invoice to be directly debited from the deposit account designated by the insured depository institution for that purpose. (d) Second-quarterly payment_ (1) Invoice. No later than 30 days prior to the payment date specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the Corporation will provide to each insured depository institution an invoice showing the amount of the assessment payment due from the institution for the second quarter of that semiannual period, and the computation of that amount. Subject to paragraph (g) of this section and to subpart B of this part, the invoiced amount shall be the product of the following: The assessment base of the institution for the preceding December 31 (for the semiannual period beginning the following January 1) or June 30 (for the semiannual period beginning the following July 1) computed in accordance with §327.5; multiplied by one-quarter of the annual assessment rate corresponding to the assessment risk classification assigned to the institution pursuant to §327.4(a). (2) Payment date and manner. On March 30 (for the semiannual period beginning the preceding January 1) and on September 30 (for the semiannual period beginning the preceding July 1), the Corporation will cause the amount stated in the applicable invoice to be directly debited from the deposit account designated by the insured depository institution for that purpose. (e) Necessary action, sufficient funding by institution. Each insured depository institution shall take all actions necessary to allow the Corporation to debit assessments from the institution's designated deposit account and, prior to each payment date indicated in paragraphs (c)(2) and (d)(2) of this section, shall ensure that funds in an amount at least equal to the invoiced amount are available in the designated account for direct debit by the Corporation. Failure to take any such action or to provide such funding of the account shall be deemed to constitute nonpayment of the assessment. (f) Business days. If a payment date specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section falls on a day that is not a business day, the applicable date shall be the previous business day. (g) Payment adjustments in succeeding quarters. The quarterly assessment invoices provided by the Corporation may reflect adjustments resulting from such factors as amendments to prior quarterly reports of condition, retroactive revision of an institution's assessment risk classification, and revisions of assessment computations for prior quarters. (h) Request for revision of computation of quarterly assessment payment_ (1) In general. An institution may submit a request for revision of the computation of the institution's quarterly assessment payment as shown on the quarterly invoice. Such revision may be requested in the following circumstances: (i) The institution disagrees with the computation of the assessment base as stated on the invoice; (ii) The institution determines that the rate multiplier applied by the Corporation is inconsistent with the assessment risk classification assigned to the institution in writing by the Corporation for the semiannual period for which the payment is due; or
