FR940816-1-00030 FR940816-1-00007 6. Can the area attain at any time after the extension deadline if emissions within the area are reduced annually by not less than 5 percent? 27 27 If an area fails to attain the NAAQS by the end of the extension period, then the State must plan to achieve annual reductions of not less than 5 percent of PM&hyph;10 and PM&hyph;10 precursor emissions within the area, as reported in the most recent inventory (see section 189(d)). To answer this question, the State must determine if the implementation of additional control measures, annually, would eventually bring the area into attainment. Sufficient additional control measures would need to be implemented to achieve at least 5 percent annual reductions in the inventory of PM&hyph;10 emissions from anthropogenic sources. If EPA believes that it is practicable for an area, where both anthropogenic and nonanthropogenic sources contribute to violations, to attain the NAAQS at any time in the future, a specific attainment date would not be waived. Rather, as discussed previously, the State would be expected to follow the provisions in sections 188 and 189 for attainment date extensions and continued emission reductions until the NAAQS are attained. However, if emissions from anthropogenic sources are reduced to the point that it is no longer technologically or economically feasible to reduce those emissions further, and the area still cannot attain the NAAQS, then EPA may consider waiving the serious area attainment date and appropriate serious area requirements. VI. Best Available Control Measures A. Requirement for BACM There are two circumstances, as discussed earlier, under which a moderate PM&hyph;10 nonattainment area may be reclassified as serious. First, an area may be reclassified whenever EPA determines that the PM&hyph;10 NAAQS cannot practicably be attained by the statutory attainment date. 28 Such a determination may be made before the attainment date if a review of the SIP for an area shows that RACM, including RACT, will not practicably bring the area into attainment or if delays in adopting, submitting, and implementing SIP requirements form a basis for EPA to conclude that an area cannot practicably attain the NAAQS by the statutory attainment date. The second circumstance is when the area is reclassified by operation of law upon a determination by EPA that the area has failed to attain the NAAQS on schedule (see section 188(b)). 28 The statutory attainment date for the initial group of areas designated nonattainment by operation of law upon enactment of the 1990 Amendments, under section 107(d)(4), is December 31, 1994. Section 189(b) establishes additional control requirements for PM&hyph;10 nonattainment areas that are reclassified as serious by EPA. Under section 189(b)(1)(B), States must submit SIP revisions which provide for implementation of the BACM for PM&hyph;10 emissions in such areas. These SIP revisions must be submitted to EPA within 18 months after an area is reclassified and must assure that the measures are implemented no later than 4 years after the area is reclassified as serious (see section 189(b) (1) and (2)). The EPA believes the requirement to implement BACM in serious PM&hyph;10 nonattainment areas should, in one respect, be interpreted similarly to the comparable requirement to implement RACM in moderate PM&hyph;10 nonattainment areas. Section 172(c)(1), which applies to all nonattainment areas, states that part D RACM shall include ``such reductions in emissions from existing sources in the area as may be obtained through the adoption, at a minimum, of reasonably available control technology␣*␣*␣*.'' Thus, moderate PM&hyph;10 nonattainment area RACM plans, which are submitted to meet the requirements of section 189(a)(1)(C), must include provisions ensuring the adoption of RACT (see 57 FR 13540, column 1). For moderate PM&hyph;10 areas reclassified as serious, the nonattainment control requirements (i.e., RACM) are carried over and elevated to a higher level of stringency (i.e., BACM). So, by analogy, just as RACM includes RACT, in the same way, BACM includes BACT. 29 Thus, just as moderate PM&hyph;10 SIP revisions when implementing RACM under section 189(a)(1)(C) must provide for the adoption of RACT, similarly, PM&hyph;10 SIP revisions under section 189(b)(1)(B), implementing BACM in serious PM&hyph;10 nonattainment areas, must include provisions ensuring the adoption of BACT. This point was explicitly addressed in the House Committee Report: ``Serious areas must include in their submission provisions to require that the best available control measures for the control of PM&hyph;10 emissions are implemented no later than 4 years after the area is classified or reclassified as serious. Such provisions must include the application of the best available control technology to existing stationary sources'' (H.R. Rep. No. 490, 101st Cong., 2nd Sess. 266&hyph;67 (1990)). 29 Even without the RACM analogy, the best available technological control measures by their plain terms are a subset of the universe of best available control measures. Although section 189(b)(1)(B) requires BACM (including BACT) to be implemented in serious PM&hyph;10 nonattainment areas, the Act does not define either BACM or BACT for PM&hyph;10 nonattainment purposes. Where a statute is silent or ambiguous with respect to the meaning of a statutory term, the agency is authorized to adopt an interpretation reasonably accommodated to the purpose of the statutory provisions. 30 In considering how to interpret the provisions requiring BACM (including BACT) for serious PM&hyph;10 nonattainment areas, EPA has looked at several factors: The way in which similar terms have been historically interpreted in other sections or titles of the Act, the ordinary grammatical usage associated with the word ``best,'' and the overall structure and purpose of title I of the statute. 30 Chevron, U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U.S. 837, 843&hyph;44 (1984).
