FR940204-2-00127 FR940204-2-00091 6. Surveillance To protect against any potentially manipulative activity, the Exchange will monitor quote changes prior to the match and shortly thereafter to identify unusual trading activity. 7. ``Near Match Orders'' and Floor Broker Participation Because of the possibility that the match rate will be below 100%, the MMX facility will allow users to send orders that are not crossed in the match to a broker in the event of a ``near match.'' A near match is the presence of a buyer and seller in the MMX facility who did not match merely because the liquidity fees and credits that they required, differed. For example, a seller may be willing to sell and pay a 6 cent per share liquidity fee, but the buyer wants to be paid 7 cents per share for providing liquidity. If a near match occurs users will get administrative messages stating that a near match occurred. Each user would then have the option of indicating that it would like a pre-determined broker to call to negotiate that order. If both parties to the near match wish to negotiate, then the broker (or brokers) will receive a negotiate message. Because the broker or brokers do not learn anything about the order unless both parties to the near match have given their approval, the users of the MMX facility retain complete control during this process. Similar to the ``near match'' function described above, floor brokers can enter a message that, after the match, will tell the users entering orders in a particular stock of an indication of interest in that stock (even when there is not an actual order). The user would then be free to contact the floor broker to negotiate a trade. The MMX facility will give users the ability to screen out indications if they become dissatisfied with the quality of the information. 8. Execution Reports Execution reports will be sent after any execution occurs. For customers using DTC's ID system, information will be forwarded to the clearing broker who will then submit the information to the ID system. 9. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade and to protect investors and the public interest, and is not designed to permit unfair discrimination between customers, issuers, brokers or dealers. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition. The Exchange believes that no burden will be placed on competition as a result of the proposed rule change. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No comments were received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submissions, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the CHX. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;CHX&hyph;93&hyph;19 and should be submitted by February 25, 1994. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2579 Filed 2&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
