FR940706-2-00035 FR940706-2-00022 All items of information in the APD should be answered as if prepared by the organization seeking the Allocation. The application package shall consist of the following: (i) Applicant. (A) Applicant's name and address. (B) Person(s) representing applicant: Please provide the name, address, title, and telephone number of such person(s). (C) Type of organization: For example, municipality, rural electric cooperative, irrigation district, State agency, or Federal agency. (D) Parent organization. (E) Names of members. (F) Applicable law under which organization was established. (ii) The proposed economic development project plan, including the name of the military installation on which the economic development project is proposed. (iii) Documentation certifying that the entity operating the economic development project is eligible to exist and operate at the Closed Military Installation. (iv) Service Requested: The amount of electrical service requested. (v) Loads: Projected maximum demand (kilowatts (kW)) and energy use (kilowatthours (kWh)) for each month for a period of 5 calendar years, beginning on the proposed date that the economic development project begins operating. (vi) Transmission: (A) Points of delivery: Provide the preferred point(s) of delivery on Western's system or a third-party's system, the required voltage of service, and the capacity desired at each point of delivery. (B) Transmission arrangements: Describe the transmission arrangements necessary to deliver Power to the requested points of delivery. (vii) Other Information: The applicant is welcome to provide any other information pertinent to receiving an Allocation. (viii) Signature: The signature and title of an appropriate official who is able to attest to the validity of the information submitted and who is authorized to submit the application is required. 3. Western's Consideration of Applications (i) When the application package is received by Western, Western will verify that the general eligibility criteria set forth in Section E. have been met, and that all items requested in the APD have been provided. (A) Western will request in writing additional information from any applicant whose application package is determined to be deficient. The applicant shall have 60 days from the postmark date on Western's request to provide the information. (B) If Western determines that the applicant does not meet the general eligibility criteria, Western will send (within 60 days of Western's receipt of the application package) a letter explaining why the applicant did not qualify. (C) If the applicant has met the general eligibility criteria, Western will determine the amount of Power to be allocated pursuant to the general allocation and contract principles set forth in Section G. Western will send a draft contract to the applicant for review which identifies the terms and conditions of the offer and the amounts and types of available Power. (ii) All NDA Act Power shall be allocated according to the procedures set forth in the general allocation and contract principles. (iii) If Western determines that reallocations are necessary to fulfill the applicant's request, Western will initiate the reallocation procedures set forth in the general allocation and contract principles. (iv) In the event that two or more applicants are requesting NDA Act Power and Western does not have enough NDA Act Power available to meet those requests, Western shall use its discretion to determine the amounts of NDA Act Power to be allocated. Western shall use information contained in the application package, including, if applicable, the economic development project plan to make its decision. (v) Western reserves the right to determine the amount of NDA Act Power to allocate to an applicant, as justified by the applicant in its application package, including, if applicable, the economic development project plan. As loads increase at a Priority-One Base, the Allottee may request and Western may allocate any amount of NDA Act Power up to the Priority-One Base's NDA Act Power Entitlement to meet such increase in loads. If necessary, Western may recall NDA Act Power under the general allocation and contract principles to allocate to the Priority-One Base. G. General Allocation and Contract Principles The general allocation criteria and contract principles established in the Marketing Plan shall apply to Allocations of NDA Act Power. To meet the specific requirements of the NDA Act, Western shall also apply the following allocation criteria to all applicants seeking an Allocation of NDA Act Power. All Allocations of NDA Act Power shall be at the sole discretion of Western and shall be determined on a case-by-case basis. Allocations of NDA Act Power will be made in amounts solely determined by Western, subject to the final NDA Act Procedures. 1. Allocation Rights: Western will allocate NDA Act Power to qualified applicants based on the following hierarchy: (i) First, for a military load at a Priority-One Base, or to qualified Preference Entities promoting economic development at a Priority-One Base. Such first right to NDA Act Power will be limited to the NDA Act Power Entitlement designated for a Priority-One Base.
