FR940325-2-00141 FR940325-2-00057 III Explanation of the Proposed Final Judgments The United States and the defendants have stipulated that the Court may enter the proposed Final Judgments after compliance with the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. 16 (b)&hyph;(h). Under the provisions of section 2(e) of the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. 16(e), the proposed Final Judgments may not be entered unless the Court finds that entry is in the public interest. Section X of each of the three proposed Final Judgments sets forth such a finding. The proposed Final Judgments are intended to ensure that the hospital defendants reach independent decisions about the wages they pay registered nurses by prohibiting agreements, discussions, or other communications among competing hospitals of current and prospective registered nursing wages, and to ensure that USHHRA and the UHA are not used as forums or means for hospitals to exchange nonpublic prospective and current wage and budget information about registered nursing wages. A. Prohibitions and Obligations The Hospital Defendants' Final Judgment enjoins the hospital defendants from entering into any agreement with any other health care facility to fix nursing wages. It also prohibits them from discussing with any health care facility in Utah or with any third party, prospective or current budget or nursing wage information, or the timing of wage increases, except in very limited circumstances when the communications are solely for the purpose of recruiting or hiring a nurse. The Hospital Defendants' Final Judgment further prohibits the hospital defendants from developing, supervising, or participating in a salary survey asking for current or prospective wage information concerning nurses or in which the wage information is presented in a manner that would allow participants to determine what another health care facility in Utah is, has been, or will be paying its nurses. The Hospital Defendants' Final Judgment obligates each hospital defendant to file with plaintiff, on or before each anniversary date of the Final Judgment, a statement that the defendant has complied with the terms of the Final Judgment and has had no communications of the type prohibited under the Final Judgment. The Hospital Defendants' Final Judgment also provides that an authorized representative of the Department of Justice may visit the defendants' offices, after providing reasonable notice, to review their records and to conduct interviews regarding any matters contained in the Final Judgment. The defendants may also be required to submit written reports, under oath, pertaining to the Final Judgment. The USHHRA Final Judgment prohibits USHHRA from conducting or facilitating any exchange or discussion by or between any health care facility employees of information concerning the current or prospective compensation paid to nurses. It also prohibits USHHRA from conducting or facilitating any exchange or discussion of information concerning compensation previously paid to nurses unless a written log or audio or audio/visual recording of such exchange or discussion is made. The UHA Final Judgment prohibits the UHA from sponsoring or facilitating any exchange or discussion by or between any health care facilities of information concerning the compensation paid to nurses. The UHA Final Judgment does not, however, prohibit the UHA from sponsoring or publishing a survey of information concerning the compensation paid to nurses if, among other things: (1) Any request for and dissemination of information is in writing, (2) the survey includes only historic or current compensation information and does not request or disseminate prospective compensation information, (3) the survey only disseminates aggregate data that is presented in a manner that would not allow participants to determine what another health care facility in Utah is, has been, or will be paying its nurses, and (4) health care facilities in Utah do not have access to unaggregated data produced in response to the survey. The USHHRA and UHA Final Judgments have reporting and visitation provisions similar to the Hospital Defendants' Final Judgment.
