FR940527-1-00215 FR940527-1-00014 Current depreciation expenses represent the summed depreciation charges for all past purchases of fixed capital assets that are still depreciable in the current period. The input prices associated with these depreciation expenses are the purchase prices attached to all past and current capital purchases for capital still depreciable in the current period. A weighted average of these purchase prices thus represents the input price associated with depreciation expenses in the current period. Thus, the depreciation input price for the current period measures price aspects of current depreciation expenses for capital just as the operating input price index for the current period measures price aspects of current operating expenses for labor and non-capital goods and services. The depreciation input price differs from the operating input price in that the depreciation input price is a composite of all past capital purchase prices while the operating index input price measures purchase prices for current periods only. Current interest expenses represent the total interest charges for all still-active past debt instruments associated with the purchase of fixed capital assets. The input prices associated with these interest expenses are the interest rates attached to all past debt instruments that are still active in the current period. A weighted average of these interest rates thus represents the input price associated with interest expenses in the current period. Thus, the interest input price for the current period measures price aspects of current interest expenses just as the operating input price index for the current period measures price aspects of current operating expenses for labor and non-capital goods and services. The interest input price differs from the operating input price in that the depreciation input price is a composite of all past interest rates for debt instruments still active while the operating index input price measures purchase prices for current periods only. Current year capital-related expenses for taxes and insurance have an annual time dimension and, therefore, prices associated with these expenses are, like operating input prices, current year prices only. C. Revisions to the Depreciation Component of the CIPI A commenter on a previous version of the CIPI recommended that constant annual weights for capital price proxies be replaced by variable annual weights that reflect the vintage purchases of capital. The commenter pointed out that annual purchases of real capital tend to increase over time. As annual purchases of capital increase, the later years in the moving average of depreciation costs should be weighted more heavily than the earlier years. We agree with this comment. Accordingly, a special data base was prepared to provide appropriate historical weights for depreciation and interest input prices. The data base starts with financial variables from the American Hospital Association (AHA) Panel Survey. These are enhanced with data from Medicare cost reports and from the Department of Commerce Capital Expenditure Survey. The data base provides annual estimates of nominal purchases for building and fixed equipment and for movable equipment. Leasing amounts were converted to nominal purchases using the same relationships as appear for owner-operated capital. Nominal purchases were then converted to annual real (that is, constant dollar) purchases by dividing nominal expenditures by an appropriate purchase price proxy. Expected life for building and fixed equipment and for movable equipment were derived from Medicare cost reports by dividing book value of assets by current year depreciation amounts. The relative distribution of real capital purchases within the respective life for building and fixed equipment (25 years) and for movable equipment (10 years) were derived from the special data base. These relative distributions are shown in Table 1. Relative distributions for a number of different time periods were averaged to obtain the distributions in Table 1. These distributions were all very similar regardless of the periods chosen and, therefore, we selected an average of the distributions in order to simplify the calculations.
