FR941202-2-00211 FR941202-2-00098 Holding Times (Maximum Allowable Holding Times): The maximum times that samples may be held prior to analysis and still be considered valid. (40 CFR Part 136). Initial Demonstration of Analytical Capability: Procedure to establish the ability to generate acceptable accuracy and precision which is included in many of the EPA's analytical methods. In general the procedure includes the addition of a specified concentration of each analyte (using a QC check sample) in each of four separate aliquots of laboratory pure water. These are carried through the entire analytical procedure and the percentage recovery and the standard deviation are determined and compared to specified limits. (40 CFR Part 136). Inspection Report: The written results listing specific deficiencies and levels of performance that result from a laboratory assessment. This is a public record document prepared by the inspector. Inspector: The authorized representative of the appropriate department within a state who directly conducts the laboratory assessment of inspection. This representative may be a third party contractor to the state who inspects and acts under the authority of the state. All actions and requests made by such a third party are made under the regulatory authority of the state. Instrument Blank: A clean sample (e.g., distilled water) processed through the instrumental steps of the measurement process; used to determine instrument contamination. (Glossary of Quality Assurance Terms, QAMS, 8/31/92). Laboratory: A facility engaged in the collection or analysis and reporting of environmental samples, whether fixed or mobile. Laboratory Control Sample (quality control sample): An uncontaminated sample matrix spiked with known amounts of analytes from a source independent of the calibration standards. It is generally used to establish intra-laboratory or analyst specific precision and bias or to assess the performance of all or a portion of the measurement system. (Glossary of Quality Assurance Terms, QAMS, 8/31/92). Legal Chain of Custody (COC): An unbroken trail of accountability that ensures the physical security of samples, data and records. (Glossary of Quality Assurance Terms, QAMS, 8/31/92). Local: An individual state. Manager: The individual designated as being responsible for the overall operation, all personnel, and the physical plant of the environmental laboratory. A supervisor may report to the manager. In some cases, the supervisor and the manager may be the same individual. Matrix Spike (spiked sample, fortified sample): Prepared by adding a known mass of target analyte to a specified amount of matrix sample for which an independent estimate of target analyte concentration is available. Matrix spikes are used, for example, to determine the effect of the matrix on a method's recovery efficiency. (Glossary of Quality Assurance Terms, QAMS, 8/31/92). Matrix Spike Duplicate (spiked sample/fortified sample duplicate): A second replicate matrix spike is prepared and analyzed to obtain a measure of the precision of the recovery for each analyte. (Glossary of Quality Assurance Terms, QAMS, 8/31/92). Member (or active member): A state or federal official engaged in setting regulatory standards or accreditation of environmental laboratories, eligible for committee assignment and having voting privileges in the NELAC.
