FR941027-1-00006 FR941027-1-00001 12. Comment Summary: The rule is not clear on Plan Developer eligibility as related to time. The law says the one year period starts after publication of the final rule. Can Borrowers submit a Modernization Plan before the end of the year if the PUC or State Legislature does not intend to? What if a PUC or State Legislature submits a Modernization Plan on the last day? Won't loans be delayed if a PUC or State Legislature does not develop a plan and an REA Borrower-developed one has not been approved? Response: RELRA sets forth the method of determining Plan Developer eligibility. With regard to the specific points mentioned above: a. The one year period starts with publication of the final rule developed in response to comments on this proposed rule. b. Modernization Plans developed by REA Borrowers will not be accepted until a PUC's and State Legislature's eligibility has expired, unless the PUC and State Legislature officially reject eligibility. c. A Modernization Plan submitted on the last day will be approved by REA if it meets the minimum requirements without alteration. The proposed rule includes language which recommends that to ensure a PUC or a State Legislature has sufficient time to respond to any REA comments on its proposed Modernization Plan, the PUC or State Legislature should submit its plan at least 90 days in advance of the expiration of its eligibility. See §1751.104(b)(2). d. Loans will not be made between the end of a PUC's and State Legislature's eligibility and the approval of a Borrower-developed Modernization Plan. 13. Comment Summary: The regulation should allow for waivers to a Modernization Plan. Response: REA has changed the regulation to allow the Modernization Plan developer the authority to grant time extensions necessitated by the state of technology as long as the extensions are granted on a case-by-case basis, do not exceed five years, and the circumstances for which extensions are granted are spelled out in the Modernization Plan. See §1751.106(b). 14. Comment Summary: What is a generic design for Broadband service? How can this be done without local power? Response: REA believes that the lack of consensus on how to bring wider band switched service to the home and small business, particularly in rural areas, means that Telecommunications Providers continue to build and rebuild their systems essentially for traditional voiceband service. In many cases this plant can not be adapted to wider band services. In the interim rule (dated December 20, 1993) REA had required a ``generic design'' for broadband service. Since REA is no longer including non-binding goals in the proposed regulation, the requirement for a generic design has been changed to a requirement for the developer to provide a strategic development proposal which provides the Plan Developer's vision of a State telecommunications structure for the future. With regard to local power, REA retains a concern over system reliability. The proposed rule requires that no matter what level of service is being offered, sufficient system power must be available to provide voice service during electric utility outages. See §1751.106(h)(2)(ii) and (i)(2)(iv). General Summary: It is REA's belief that national telecommunications ``highways'' will not and cannot be fully utilized unless improvements are made to what might be called the telecommunications ``driveways'', the local loops. Most loops cannot transmit information over 9600 bits per second (b/s). Consequently, many advanced telecommunications services are not available on the Public Switched Network or, where available, operate only on short loops. This limits use of these advanced services to densely populated areas. RELRA requires that telephone lines be capable of transmitting: (1) Information at no less than 1,000,000 bits per second (1Mb/s) and (2) video images. REA believes both requirements can be satisfied by telephone lines which can transmit and receive 1.544 Mb/s, the North American standard digital transmission rate. This rate is sufficient to carry both 1 million bits per second and highly compressed, modest quality video. To carry 1.544 Mb/sec, the capacity of ordinary telephone loops must be increased by several orders of magnitude. The other requirements in the law are more easily met. Therefore, improving the loop has been REA's focus in preparing minimum Modernization Plan requirements. REA believes that the requirements and time limits set forth in this section will achieve the service standards of RELRA. However, REA is concerned about coordination between States. REA recommends that Modernization Plan Developers should work with Plan Developers in other States both before and after their Modernization Plans are approved to coordinate proposed improvements. REA recommends that Modernization Plan Developers give consideration to planning for outside plant which can ultimately provide future broadband Wireline Service with a bandwidth equivalent to a digital rate on the order of 150 Mb/sec. Such facilities could carry one or more channels of conventional video with the quality depending on the modulation technique. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 1751 Loan programs_communications, Telecommunications, Telephone. For reasons set forth in the preamble, chapter XVII of Title 7 of the Code of Federal Regulations is proposed to be amended by revising part 1751 to read as follows: PART 1751_TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM PLANNING AND DESIGN CRITERIA, AND PROCEDURES Subpart A_[Reserved] Sec. 1751.1&hyph;1751.99␣[Reserved]
