FR940426-1-00096 FR940426-1-00008 [The OTC has] recommended regulation of passenger cars and light-duty trucks up to 5750 lbs. loaded vehicle weight, not medium duty vehicles. Our intention is to maintain identicality with California as required by the Clean Air Act. Our recommendation includes a fleet average for both classes of light-duty vehicles (0&hyph;3750 and 3751&hyph;5750 lbs.); hybrid electric vehicles, in as far as California has classified and certified such vehicles; banking and trading provisions for purpose of the fleet average; the same extensions and exemptions for intermediate and small manufacturers; and RAFs as necessary for certification by California. Many of the details of the above and any other issues can be worked out through the consultation process as required by section 184 of the Clean Air Act. EPA requests comment on whether there are other concerns regarding the identicality of the OTC-LEV program with the California LEV program. EPA also requests comment on whether EPA can assume that, on provisions on which OTC is silent, OTC means to require all provisions that are necessary to ensure identicality and that such provisions must be adopted. Another issue in this rulemaking is whether the OTC's incorporation of California's NMOG fleet average provisions violates any portion of section 177. In their response to OTC's stated intention to include the NMOG fleet average program in the OTC-LEV program, some manufacturers claimed that the incorporation of the NMOG standard would violate section 177. The OTC found that the NMOG fleet average did not violate section 177 and that States may enforce these standards, consistent with California protocols and testing requirements. EPA believes, for the reasons given by the Second Circuit in the MVMA case in the context of the ZEV sales mandate, that the fleet average requirement does not violate the requirement of section 177 that States shall not prohibit the sale of California cars. In addition, EPA has no evidence contrary to the OTC's determination that the fleet average requirement does not violate the ``third vehicle'' prohibition of section 177. EPA also agrees that States are permitted to enforce this requirement, consistent with California protocols and requirements. EPA believes that the NMOG fleet average requirement is the heart of the California LEV program and is the central mechanism for ensuring reductions from the program, and that any State program implementing the LEV program should, and is probably compelled to, include enforceable NMOG fleet average requirements. EPA requests comment on these issues. EPA also requests comment regarding whether the NMOG fleet average requirement must be met statewide or whether it can be met regionwide. Finally, EPA requests comment on the OTC statement that section 177 does not require a State to adopt the California LEV program in all areas of a State. OTC's statement is consistent with EPA's interpretation of section 177, as illustrated in Administrator Reilly's response to Elizabeth Haskell, Virginia's Secretary of Natural Resources, in which the Administrator noted that adoption of California emission standards in part of a State is consistent with section 177's title, ``New Motor Vehicle Standards in Nonattainment Areas.'' EPA does not at this time have any questions regarding the OTC recommendation's consistency with any other sections of the Clean Air Act. EPA requests comment on whether the recommendation may be inconsistent with any other section of the Act. IV. Statutory Authority Authority for the action described in this notice is in sections 184, 176(a), 110, 307(d) and 301 of the Clean Air Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 7511a, 7506a, 7410, 7607(d) and 7601. V. Administrative Designation and Regulatory Analysis Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866, 58 FR 51735 (October 4, 1993) the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to OMB review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or
