FR940603-1-00139 FR940603-1-00009 The Contractor further agrees to furnish and use guy wire with ASTM Class XXXX (Owner to insert A or B) zinc coating. All leads on equipment such as transformers, reclosers, etc., shall be of # 6 minimum copper conductivity using XXXX (Owner to insert stranded soft drawn copper or aluminum alloy) conductor. All conductor ties on insulators shall be of the materials and methods shown in the following Type Guide Drawings: XXXX (Owner to insert appropriate drawing numbers.) Ground rods and butt-type grounding plates shall be XXXX . (Owner to insert galvanized steel or copper.) Underground primary cables shall have XXXX coated copper neutral (Owner to insert round or flat.) The Contractor further agrees to furnish poles, crossarms, and other timber products, of which the physical characteristics, method of treatment, type of preservative, instructions on inspection and general procedure shall be in accordance with REA standards and requirements. Crossarms shall be XXXX (Owner to insert Douglas Fir or Southern Yellow Pine), treated with XXXX (Owner to insert type of preservative.) The Contractor agrees that the prices for poles, crossarms, and other timber products set forth herein shall include the cost of preservative treatment and inspection or insured warranty. The Contractor further agrees to obtain from the supplier inspection and treatment reports or insured warranties, for checking against the delivery timber, and to submit such reports or warranties to the Owner as one of the prerequisites to monthly and final payments. Section 10_Owner-Furnished Materials. a. The Contractor understands and agrees that the Owner may, with approval of the Contractor, furnish to the Contractor some of the materials and equipment required for construction of the Project, (hereinafter called ``Owner-Furnished Materials''). The quantity, type, and value of Owner-Furnished Materials for each Section shall be as agreed upon by the Contractor and Owner prior to the start of construction of each Section of the Project. The Owner shall make such materials and equipment available to the Contractor as provided in Article II, Section 1, b, and the Contractor will give to the Owner a receipt in such form as the Owner shall approve. b. The value of the completed Construction Units certified to by the Contractor each month pursuant to Article III, Section 1, a, of this Proposal shall be reduced by an amount equal to the value of the Owner-Furnished Materials installed by the Contractor during the preceding month. Only ninety percent (90%) of the remainder shall be paid prior to the Completion of the Section. Owner-Furnished Materials, if any, not required for the Section, shall be returned to the Owner by the Contractor upon Completion of Construction of the Section. The value of all Owner-Furnished Materials not installed in the Section of the Project or returned to the Owner shall be deducted from the final payment to the Contractor for the Section. Section 11_References to Materials. The references in this Proposal to ``Materials'', except in Article IV, Section 1.f, shall be understood to mean only materials to be furnished by the Contractor.
