FR940302-2-00022 FR940302-2-00009 Analysis of Comments Received We gave interested parties an opportunity to comment on the preliminary results. We received a written comment from the respondent, Showa. Comment 1: Respondent argues that the Department should use Showa's reported general and administrative (G&A) expenses in its calculation of constructed value. Instead, in its preliminary results of review, the Department allocated Showa's, the parent company, G&A costs to Showa Titanium (STIC) based on the ratio of Showa's equity ownership in STIC to Showa's total equity. The respondent maintains that its methodology for calculating G&A expense in this review is in accordance with its books and records, and is consistent with Showa's reporting in previous review periods. Moreover, in both the fourth and fifth reviews, the Department specifically rejected petitioner's arguments that Showa's reported G&A expense should be recalculated. However, should the Department choose to reverse its position and reject Showa's internal allocation methodology, it should allocate Showa's headquarters G&A based on cost of goods sold, following the Department's established allocation methodology. Department's Position: The respondent's submitted G&A costs included STIC's G&A expenses and a portion of Showa parent company G&A expenses allocated to STIC based on a formula used in its ordinary course of business. As a result, we recalculated constructed value utilizing Showa's submitted G&A allocation methodology, which had no effect on the margin. Final Results of Review As a result of our comparison of United States price to foreign market value, as discussed in the preliminary results of this review, we determine the dumping margin to be: ␣ 1Manufacturer/exporter 1Time period 1Margin (percent) Showa Denko K.K 11/1/91&hyph;10/31/92 Zero (0). Based on information submitted by Showa during this and two previous reviews ( See Final Results of Antidumping Duty Administrative Review on Titanium Sponge from Japan (58 FR 18,202; April 8, 1993), and Final Results of Antidumping Duty Administrative Review on Titanium Sponge from Japan (57 FR 9,688; March 20, 1992)), we further determine that Showa has met the requirements for revocation set forth in sections 353.25(a) and 353.25(b) of the Department's regulations. Showa has demonstrated three consecutive years of sales at not less than foreign market value and has submitted the required certifications. On the basis of no sales at less than foreign market value for a period of three consecutive years, an agreement by Showa to immediate reinstatement of the order if it should make such sales in the future, and the lack of any indication to the contrary, the Department concludes that Showa is not likely to sell subject merchandise at less than foreign market value in the future. Therefore, the Department is revoking the order with respect to Showa. The Department will instruct the Customs Service to liquidate, without regard to antidumping duties, all shipments of this merchandise entered by Showa on or after November 1, 1991 and on or before October 31, 1992. The Department also will instruct Customs to terminate suspension of liquidation and to cease collecting cash deposits with regard to Showa.
