FR940413-2-00050 FR940413-2-00030 I. Open Session A. Approval of Minutes B. Reports C. Special Orders D. Unfinished Business and General Orders 1. Policy Statements 2. Regulations 3. Other E. New Business 1. Policy Statements 2. Regulations 3. Other II. Closed Session A. Reports B. Special Orders C. Unfinished Business and General Orders D. New Business III. Adjournment Section 3. Calls and Agenda (a) Regular meeting. The Secretary, at the direction of the Chairman, shall issue a call for items for the agenda to each Member, the Chief Operating Officer, and the Office Directors of FCA. The Secretary shall provide to the Chairman a list of all the items submitted, including a list of outstanding notational votes and matters voted ``not appropriate for notational vote''; the Chairman shall then establish the agenda to be published in the Federal Register . (b) Special meeting. Special Meetings of the Board may be called: (1) By the Chairman; or (2) By any two Members; or (3) If there is at the time a vacancy on the Board, by any Member. Any call for a Special Meeting shall set forth the business to be transacted and shall state the place and time of such meeting. Except with the unanimous consent of all Members, no business shall be brought before a Special Meeting that has not been specified in the notice of call of such meeting. (c) Notice. The Secretary shall give appropriate notice on any and all meetings and make the call for Special Meetings. Reasonable efforts to provide such notice to Members shall be made for all meetings of the Board, but failure of notice shall in no case invalidate a meeting. Section 4. Board Materials Complete Board Briefing Books shall be distributed to each member at least two (2) full business days prior to any regular meeting. Unless agreed to by all Members, no vote may be taken on an issue unless the necessary material has been provided to the Members not less than twenty-four (24) hours prior to the Board Meeting to consider such issue. Section 5. Parliamentary Rules Unless otherwise stated in these Rules, or relevant statutes or regulations, the meetings of this Board shall be conducted in accordance with Robert's Rules of Order (Newly Revised) (9th Edition). Article VI Public Appearances and Attendance Section 1. Attendance Members of the public may attend all meetings of the Board except those meetings or portions of meetings which are closed as directed by the Board, consistent with the Government in the Sunshine Act. Members of the public may speak or make presentations to the Board under the rules outlined under this article. Section 2. Presentations to the Board Members of the public may make a presentation to the Board only on the basis of a written request and statement covering the subject matter received at least five (5) days prior to the meeting, which is approved by a majority of the Board. Section 3. Limitations Public presentations may not conflict with the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act and other Board policies on the handling of public comments. In the event that a presentation is made concerning a regulation during the comment period, the presenter must submit a summary or a text of their comments to be filed along with other comments received. Article VII Board Operational Responsibilities
