FR940503-1-00056 FR940503-1-00011 F. Criteria for Awards Under the Act, the Administrator has discretionary authority whether to pay an award and to determine the amount of an award. The proposed regulation does not constrain this discretion. Although the proposed rule permits petitions for consideration for an award, whether an award is ultimately granted will turn on the exercise of the Administrator s unfettered discretion, including the application of factors described in this proposed regulation. These factors include whether the information or services constituted the initial, unsolicited notice of the violation to the government, whether the government would have obtained knowledge of the violation in a timely manner absent the information or services, the importance of the case, the severity of the violation, the potential for or existence of actual or threatened harm to persons or the environment, the willingness to assist in the government s enforcement action(s) regarding the violation(s), the value of the assistance in comparison to that given by any other persons or sources of information or services and, in part, the amount of money available to the EPA through appropriations. Furthermore, the rule is not intended to discourage self-auditing within facilities nor is it intended to encourage concealment of information about violations or problems within a facility by an employee from an employer. Thus, the regulation sets forth the additional criterion of whether payment of the award would improperly create incentives against the timely and appropriate identification of such a violation to either the employer or the government. G. Timing of Award Consideration As mandated by section 113(f), persons may not be considered for an award unless and until such time as the information or services provided leads to a judicial or administrative civil penalty or a criminal conviction under section 113 of the Act. H. Prepayment Offers The proposed regulation makes clear the distinction between the Awards program and paid informant programs or contractual relationships that may be created by the Agency. The EPA's employees do not have the authority under this proposal or this statutory provision to promise that an award will be paid nor to promise consideration or recommendation for an award. I. Request for Public Comment The EPA is interested in public comment on all aspects of this proposed rule. The EPA is particularly interested in comments on: (1) The provision for confidentiality of identity for persons who provide information or services; (2) the eligibility exclusions and eligibility criteria for an award; (3) petitions for consideration; and (4) the criteria for awards determinations. III. Administrative Requirements A. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866, (58 FR 51735 (October 4, 1993)) the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to OMB review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. Pursuant to the terms of Executive Order 12866, it has been determined that this rule is a ``significant regulatory action''. As such, this action was submitted to OMB for review. Changes made in response to OMB suggestions or recommendations will be documented in public record. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act Compliance Pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 605(b), I hereby certify that this attached rule, if promulgated, will not have an economic impact on small entities because no additional costs will be incurred. C. Paperwork Reduction Act Since this proposed rule does not create any new information requirements or contain any new information collection activities, no clearance is necessary from OMB under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 65 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Awards, Confidentiality, Enforcement, Natural resources. Dated: April 15, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
