FR940404-2-00201 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the International Natural Rubber Council, Twenty-Eighth Session, and Committees on Administration, Buffer Stock Operations, and Other Measures and Statistics, International Natural Rubber Organization (INRO), Kuala Lumpur, November 22&hyph;30, 1993 Representative Duane E. Sams, Director of Commodity Policy, Office of the United States Trade Representative, Executive Office of the President Alternate Representative William M. Kendall-Johnston, International Economist, Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, Department of State Adviser Daniel Martinez, Economic Officer, United States Embassy, Kuala Lumpur Private Sector Advisers Edward Davis, Senior Merchant, Cargill, Inc., New York, New York H. Ross Miller, Managing Director-Secretary, Goodrich Company Private, Ltd., Singapore, Singapore Stanley M. Schultz, Operations Director, Bridgestone/Firestone Singapore, PTD, Ltd., Singapore, Singapore United States Delegation to the Ad Hoc Working Group on Comparative Experiences With Privatization, Third Session, Trade and Development Board, United Nations Conference for Trade and Development (UNCTAD), Geneva, November 29&hyph;December 3, 1993 Representative Monica McKnight, Director, Office of Emerging Markets, Bureau for Private Enterprise, Agency for International Development Advisers Penny Farley, Privatization Project Manager, Office of Emerging Markets, Bureau for Private Enterprise, Agency for International Development Steven Schlaikjer, Economic Counselor, United States Mission, Geneva Private Sector Adviser James A. Waddell, Executive Director, International Privatization Group, Price Waterhouse, Washington, DC United States Delegation to the 39th Session of the Subcommittee on Radiocommunications, International Maritime Organization, London, November 29&hyph;December 3, 1993 Representative Benjamin M. Chiswell III, Captain, Chief, Telecommunications Management Division, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Alternate Representative Joseph D. Hersey, Jr., United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Advisers Kathryn S. Hosford, Private Radio Bureau, Federal Communications Commission Dan Lemon, Chief, SAR Coordination Branch, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Roy Soluri, Hydrographic/Topographic Center, Defense Mapping Agency, Department of Defense Richard Swanson, Private Radio Bureau, Federal Communications Commission Private Sector Advisers John C. Fuechsel, Captain, USCG, Retired, Consultant, COMSAT Corporation, Washington, DC Marshall E. Gilbert, Rear Admiral, USCG, Retired, Gilbert and Associates, Springfield, Virginia Jack Oslund, Director of External Affairs, COMSAT Maritime Services, Clarksburg, Maryland Michael K. Ward, American Mobile Satellite Corporation, Reston, Virginia United States Delegation to the Second Meeting of the Telecommunications Standardization Sector, Study Group II, International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Geneva, November 29 to December 17, 1993 Representative Otto J. Gusella, Executive Director, Exchange Carrier Standards Association, Washington, D.C. Alternate Representative Kathryn A. Martin, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Advisers Donald Choi, Defense Information Systems Agency, Department of Defense, Reston, Virginia Leslie A. Collica, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce, Gaithersburg, Maryland Private Sector Advisers Ed Chien, President, Personal Telecommunication Technologies, Inc., San Jose, California
