FR940621-0-00039 FR940621-0-00017 FAA Response: The FAA agrees with the intent of both of these comments. Working with organizations such as the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association, the FAA has been actively promoting the public's awareness of potential problems with ELT's. A pamphlet entitled, ``Attention to ELT's: Insurance To Life'' has been distributed to all active U.S. pilots. This pamphlet addresses the ELT false alarm problem and recommends that a pilot-in-command monitor the 121.5 Mhz frequency prior to engine shutdown. This information contained in the pamphlet and ELT inspection procedures are discussed at pilot safety seminars and have been incorporated in the FAA Back-To-Basics program. The NASA report suggested that the pilot be required to check the 121.5 Mhz frequency before leaving the airplane. One commenter requests that tow planes be excepted from the requirements because they often are operated under harsh conditions that could trigger false alarms. FAA Response: The FAA agrees and the final rule does not change the ELT requirements for tow planes. Those airplanes that are currently excepted may continue operations without an ELT. The ATA concludes, given the operating procedures of transport category aircraft, that benefits to the travelling public from automatic ELT's would be very limited. A complete replacement of its members' fleets by 1995 would cost $14 million. FAA Response: Survival ELT's, rather than automatic ELT's, are required in transport category aircraft. Currently, automatic ELT's are not required on transport category aircraft. One commenter suggests that a fine be used as a penalty for an ELT false alarm resulting from the pilot's failure to maintain the ELT. FAA Response: The suggestion is beyond the scope of this rulemaking. Another commenter suggests that insurance considerations should be the driving force to motivate aircraft owners to install ELT's, rather than the FAA mandating ELT's. FAA Response: The FAA disagrees and is not convinced that insurance considerations alone would assure a 100-percent installation rate. Moreover, in 1971, Congress passed a law that requires the installation and use of ELT's on most aircraft. Finally, one commenter interprets the language ``unusable or unserviceable'' in Notice No. 90&hyph;11 to mean that replacement would be required for a TSO&hyph;C91 ELT when it needed a battery change or was removed for routine scheduled maintenance. FAA Response: The FAA intends that the term ``unusable or unserviceable'' be given its everyday meaning so as to require replacement only when the ELT cannot be repaired. Thus, the TSO&hyph;C91 ELT would not need replacement when it can be serviced with routine maintenance. Impact of the Rule Summary of the Amendments In summary, effective six months after publication of this Final Rule, the FAA is withdrawing TSO&hyph;C91 authorizations for automatic ELT's; therefore, the TSO&hyph;C91 model ELT's may not be manufactured after that date. Current production of unsold TSO&hyph;C91 ELT's for general aviation airplanes is sufficiently small so that accumulation of inventories is unlikely. This inventory is expected to be depleted by the time this rule becomes effective. The preamble to Notice No. 90&hyph;11 specifically stated that the FAA proposed to require installation of an improved ELT that meets the requirements of a revised TSO, and to terminate approval to use ELT's authorized under the original TSO&hyph;C91. Although the notice stated that the new equipment would be required for future installations, language to that effect did not appear in the proposed amendment. To carry out this intent, ยง91.207(a)(1) and (a)(2) are revised to state that ELT's meeting the applicable requirements of TSO&hyph;C91 may no longer be installed.
