FR940620-0-00053 FR940620-0-00018 33 CFR Part 165 [COTP Baltimore 94&hyph;013] RIN 2115&hyph;AA97 Safety Zone Regulation; South County Fireworks Display, Mouth of Parish Creek and the West River, Galesville, MD AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Temporary rule. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard Marine Safety Office Baltimore is establishing a temporary safety zone for the South County fireworks display. This safety zone is necessary to control spectator craft and to provide for the safety of life and property on U.S. navigable waters during this event. Entry into this zone is prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port. EFFECTIVE DATE: This regulation will be effective from 8:30 p.m. until 10 p.m. July 4, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Chief Warrant Officer Timothy P. Ryan, U.S. Coast Guard Marine Safety Office Baltimore, Custom House, 40 South Gay Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202&hyph;4022, (410) 962&hyph;2651. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553, a Notice of proposed rulemaking has not been published for this regulation and good cause exists for making it effective in less than 30 days from the date of publication. The application to hold this event was not submitted until April 30, 1994 to Coast Guard Group Baltimore and there was not sufficient time remaining to publish proposed rules in advance of the event or to provide for a delayed effective date. Background and Purpose The Galesville Heritage Society filed an application with U.S. Coast Guard Group Baltimore requesting a safety zone for the South County fireworks display to take place July 4, 1994. A safety zone has been determined to be necessary to control spectator craft during this event. Discussion of Regulations The Coast Guard Marine Safety Office Baltimore is establishing a safety zone for the Galesville Heritage Society, Galesville, Maryland fireworks display. The fireworks will be launched from a barge that will be anchored in the mouth of Parish Creek out over Parish Creek and the West River. The safety zone will encompass all waters of Parish Creek and the West River which fall within a 500 yard diameter circle with the center of the circle being the anchored fireworks barge. Since the main navigable channel of the West River will not be closed during this safety zone, vessel traffic should not be severely disrupted. Spectator vessels that wish to watch the fireworks display may anchor outside of the safety zone, but they may not anchor in or block a navigable channel. Drafting Information The drafters of this regulation are Chief Warrant Officer Timothy P. Ryan, project officer for the Captain of the Port, Baltimore, Maryland and Lieutenant Monica Lombardi, project attorney Fifth Coast Guard District Legal Staff. Regulatory Evaluation This rule is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this rule to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary. Small Entities Because it expects the impact of this rule to be minimal, the Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Environmental Assessment The Coast Guard has considered the environmental impact of this proposal consistent with Section 2.B.2.C. of Commandant Instruction M16475.1B, and actions to protect public safety have been determined to be categorically excluded from further environmental documentation. Federalism Assessment This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that this rule will not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant preparation of a Federalism Assessment.
