FR940429-0-00310 FR940429-0-00016 (4) Once the lender has determined under paragraph (b)(2) of this section that the borrower (or student) has died, the lender may not attempt to collect on the loan from the borrower's estate or from any endorser. (5) The lender shall return to the sender any payments received from the estate or paid on behalf of the borrower after the date of the borrower's (or student's) death. (c) Total and permanent disability. (1) If the lender determines that an individual borrower is totally and permanently disabled, the obligation of the borrower and any endorser to make any further payments on the loan is discharged. A borrower is not considered totally and permanently disabled on the basis of a condition that existed at the time he or she applied for the loan, unless the borrower's condition has substantially deteriorated later, so as to render the borrower totally and permanently disabled. In the case of a Consolidation loan, the borrower must certify that the condition did not exist prior to the time the borrower applied for each of the underlying loans, unless the condition has substantially deteriorated, so as to render the borrower totally and permanently disabled. If the condition existed prior to the date the Consolidation loan was made, the borrower must provide the lender with the disbursement dates of the underlying loans if the information does not already appear in the borrower's loan file possessed by the lender. * * * * * (d) Closed school ._(1) General . (i) The Secretary reimburses the holder of a loan received by a borrower on or after January 1, 1986, and discharges the borrower's obligation with respect to the loan in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section, if the borrower (or the student for whom a parent received a PLUS loan) could not complete the program of study for which the loan was intended because the school at which the borrower (or student) was enrolled, closed, or the borrower (or student) withdrew from the school not more than 90 days prior to the date the school closed. This 90-day period may be extended if the Secretary determines that exceptional circumstances related to a school's closing would justify an extension. (ii) For purposes of the closed school discharge authorized by this section_ (A) A school's closure date is the date that the school ceases to provide educational instruction in all programs, as determined by the Secretary; (B) The term ``borrower'' includes all endorsers on a loan; and (C) A ``school'' means a school's main campus or any location or branch of the main campus, regardless of whether the school or its location or branch is considered eligible. (2) Relief available pursuant to discharge. (i) Discharge under paragraph (d) of this section relieves the borrower of an existing or past obligation to repay the loan and any charges imposed or costs incurred by the holder with respect to the loan that the borrower is, or was otherwise obligated to pay. (ii) A discharge of a loan under paragraph (d) of this section qualifies the borrower for reimbursement of amounts paid voluntarily or through enforced collection on a loan obligation discharged under paragraph (d) of this section. (iii) A borrower who has defaulted on a loan discharged under paragraph (d) of this section is not regarded as in default on the loan after discharge, and is eligible to receive assistance under the Title IV, HEA programs. (iv) A discharge of a loan under paragraph (d) of this section must be reported by the loan holder to all credit reporting agencies to which the holder previously reported the status of the loan, so as to delete all adverse credit history assigned to the loan. (3) Borrower qualification for discharge. In order to qualify for discharge of a loan under paragraph (d) of this section a borrower shall submit to the holder of the loan a written request and sworn statement. The statement need not be notarized, but must be made by the borrower under penalty of perjury, and, in the statement, the borrower shall state_ (i) Whether the student has made a claim with respect to the school's closing with any third party, such as the holder of a performance bond or a tuition recovery program, and if so, the amount of any payment received by the borrower (or student) or credited to the borrower's loan obligation;
