FR940304-2-00090 FR940304-2-00040 Notification procedure: Contact individual listed above, or Vice President, Learning and Dissemination. Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart Street, Arlington, VA 22203. Record access procedures: IAF access procedures are contained in Rules Safeguarding Personal Information in IAF Records. Contesting records procedures: Contesting Record Procedures are contained in Rules Safeguarding Personal Information. Record source categories: Individual her/himself; educational institutions attended; letters of recommendation by people identified by individual; Foundation staff; contracted evaluators. IAF&hyph;3 System name: Foundation Fellowship Grant Files_IAF. System location: Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart Street, Arlington, VA 22203. Categories of Individuals covered by the system: Successful Candidates (``Fellows'') who submitted applications and received fellowship grants. Categories of records in the system: In addition to all information from the individual's application file, the grant file contains such documents as the grant agreement and amendments, financial and disbursement records, correspondence, grade transcripts, programmatic and financial reports, research reports, staff memoranda, and comments by contracted evaluators. Authority for maintenance of the system: 44 U.S.C. 3101. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Information is used by contracted specialists for evaluating grant progress and Foundation staff for managing the individual's grant. Notwithstanding the above, access may also be gained to these records under the following conditions: (a) In the event that a system of records maintained by this agency to carry out its functions indicates a violation or potential violation of law, whether civil, criminal or regulatory in nature, and whether arising by general statute or particular program statute, or by regulation, rule or order issued pursuant thereto, the relevant records in the system of records may be referred, as a routine use, to the appropriate agency, whether federal, state, local or foreign, charged with the responsibility of investigating or prosecuting such violation or charged with enforcing or implementing the statutes, or rule, regulation or order issued pursuant thereto. (b) A record from the system of records may be disclosed as a ``routine use'' to a federal, state or local agency maintaining civil, criminal or other relevant enforcement information or other pertinent information, such as current licenses, if necessary to obtain information relevant to an agency decision concerning the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant or other benefit. (c) A record from this system of records may be disclosed to a federal agency, in response to this request, in connection with the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the reporting of an investigation of an employee, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant or other benefits by the requesting agency, to the extent that the information is relevant and necessary to the requesting agency's decision on the matter. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Paper files. Retrievability: Manual. Identifier_Name, Grant Number, and Program. Safeguards: Filed in locked, steel cabinets; records available to authorized persons only. Retention and disposal: Disposed of in accordance with the General Records Schedule issued by the Archivist of the United States.
