FR940208-2-00150 FR940208-2-00092 (b) return the document to the person who filed the document, without prejudice to a motion for leave to file the document. 11. The responsible Secretary shall forward to the other Secretary a copy of all documents filed in the office of the responsible Secretary in a panel review and of all orders and decisions issued by the panel. 12. Where under these rules a responsible Secretary is required to cause a notice or other document to be published in the Canada Gazette and the Federal Register , the responsible Secretary and the other Secretary shall each cause the document to be published in the publication of the country in which that section of the Secretariat is located. 13. (1) Each Secretary and every member of the staff of the Secretariat shall, before taking up duties, file (a) a Disclosure Undertaking with the Deputy Minister and the Tribunal; and (b) a Protective Order Application with the International Trade Administration of the United States Department of Commerce and the United States International Trade Commission. (2) Where a Secretary or a member of the staff of the Secretariat files a Disclosure Undertaking or Protective Order Application in accordance with subrule (1), the appropriate investigating authority shall issue to the Secretary or to the member a Disclosure Order or a Protective Order. 14. (1) The responsible Secretary shall file with the investigating authority one original and any additional copies that the investigating authority requires of any Disclosure Undertaking or Protective Order Application, and any amendments or modifications thereto, filed by a panelist, assistant to a panelist, court reporter or translator pursuant to rule 49. (2) The responsible Secretary shall ensure that every panelist, assistant to a panelist, court reporter and translator, before taking up duties in a panel review, files with the responsible Secretariat (a) in the case of a panelist, a copy of a Disclosure Order or Protective Order, signed by the panelist; and (b) in any other case, a copy of a Disclosure Order or Protective Order. (3) The responsible Secretary shall ensure that every panelist, assistant to a panelist, court reporter and translator files with the responsible Secretariat any amendment or modification to, or revocation of, a Disclosure Order or Protective Order issued by the investigating authority. 15. Where a document containing proprietary information or privileged information is filed with the responsible Secretariat, each Secretary shall ensure that (a) the document is stored, maintained, handled, and distributed in accordance with the terms of an applicable Disclosure Order or Protective Order; (b) the wrapper of the document is clearly marked to indicate that it contains proprietary information or privileged information; and (c) access to the document is limited to officials of, and counsel for, the investigating authority whose final determination is under review and (i) in the case of proprietary information, the person who submitted the proprietary information to the investigating authority or counsel for that person and any persons who have been granted access to the information under a Disclosure Order or Protective Order with respect to the document, and (ii) in the case of privileged information filed in a panel review of a final determination made in the United States, persons with respect to whom the panel has ordered disclosure of the privileged information under rule 55, if the persons have filed with the responsible Secretariat a Protective Order with respect to the document. 16. (1) Each Secretary shall permit access by any person to the information in the file in a panel review that is not proprietary information or privileged information and shall provide copies of that information on request and payment of an appropriate fee. (2) Each Secretary shall, in accordance with subrule 15(c) and the terms of the applicable Disclosure Order, Protective Order or order of the panel,
