FR941122-2-00107 FR941122-2-00079 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20707; 812&hyph;9298] Cash Assets Trust, et al.; Notice of Application November 16, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANTS: Cash Assets Trust (the ``Trust''), Hawaiian Trust Company, Limited (the ``Adviser''), and Aquila Distributors, Inc. (the ``Distributor''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under section 6(c) of the Act for an exemption from sections 18(f), 18(g), and 18(i) of the Act. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants request an order to permit the Trust to offer two classes of shares representing interests in the same investment portfolio. FILING DATE: The application was filed on October 21, 1994. Applicants agree to file an additional amendment, the substance of which is incorporated herein, during the notice period. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on December 12, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on the applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Applicants: Cash Assets Trust, Hawaiian Trust Company, Limited, and Aquila Distributors, Inc., 380 Madison Avenue, Suite 2300, New York, New York 10017. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sarah A. Buescher, Law Clerk, at (202) 942&hyph;0573, or Robert A. Robertson, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. The Trust is a Massachusetts business trust registered under the Act as an open-end management investment company. Currently, the Trust is authorized to offer three separate investment portfolios (the ``Portfolios''): Pacific Capital Cash Assets Trust, Pacific Capital Tax-Free Cash Assets Trust, and Pacific Capital U.S. Treasuries Cash Assets Trust. Each Portfolio holds itself out as a ``money market fund'' and therefore seeks to maintain a stable net asset value of $1.00 per share pursuant to rule 2a&hyph;7 under the Act. Aquila Distributors, Inc., a registered broker-dealer, serves as the distributor of the Trust's shares. Hawaiian Trust Company, Limited serves as investment adviser to the Trust. Applicants request that relief extend to any future trust, series or portfolio of a Trust that is advised by the Adviser or whose shares are distributed by the Distributor. 2. The Trust proposes to offer two classes of shares of each of its Portfolios: Original Shares and Service Shares (the ``Dual Class System''). The currently outstanding shares of each Portfolio will be classified as Original Shares. If exemptive relief is granted, Original Shares will be sold solely to (1) financial institutions for the investment of funds for which they act in a fiduciary, agency, investment advisory or custodial capacity; (2) persons entitled to exchange into Original Shares under the exchange privileges of the Trust; and (3) shareholders owning shares of the Trust of record on the date that both classes of shares are first made available. Original Shares will be sold without the imposition of any sales charges and will not be subject to any asset-based distribution charges permitted by rule 12b&hyph;1 under the Act. However, Original Shares will continue to be subject to the normal and customary expenses of the Trust such as advisory and administrative fees and other normal operating expenses. 3. Service Shares will be offered to customers of banks and other financial institutions (``Service Organizations'') that typically are compensated by service or distribution fees paid by the mutual funds offered to their customers rather than by transactions or other fees paid directly by such customers. The fees paid by this class could be in the nature of (1) a distribution fee payable in connection with a plan adopted pursuant to rule 12b&hyph;1 under the Act (a ``Rule 12b&hyph;1 Plan''); (2) an administrative services fee payable pursuant to a non-rule 12b&hyph;1 administrative services plan (an ``Administrative Services Plan''); or (3) a distribution fee and an administrative fee as a result of a combination of the two types of plans. 4. Each of the Portfolios has adopted a currently effective distribution plan under rule 12b&hyph;1, but neither the Trust nor the Portfolios make payments under this plan. 5. Under amended Rule 12b&hyph;1 Plans to be implemented with the Dual Class System, the Trust or each Portfolio, on behalf of the Services Shares, would typically enter into agreements with and pay the Distributor or the Service Organization for performing certain services, some of which could be construed as distribution assistance. The expenses of such payments would be borne entirely by the Service Shares shareholders. Services provided in accordance with the terms of the Rule 12b&hyph;1 Plan would not be duplicative of any services to be provided to the Trust or its Portfolios by the administrator, distributor or transfer agent. 6. Under an Administrative Services Plan, the Trust or the Portfolios, on behalf of the Service Shares, would have the ability to enter into agreements with Service Organizations in which each organization will agree to provide certain services to its clients, members or customers, who purchase shares. The provision of services under the Administrative Services Plan would not be duplicative of any services to be provided to the Trust or a Protfolio by its administrator, distributor, or transfer agent. Each Portfolio would pay a Service Organization for its service in accordance with the terms of its particular Administrative Services Plan, and the expense of such payment will be borne entirely by the beneficial owners of the Service Shares.
