FR940111-0-00050 FR940111-0-00015 5. Has failed to perform the required activity. If one or more political subdivisions each meet all five of the criteria, EPA will consider those subdivisions principally responsible, and EPA may impose sanctions only on those political subdivisions and on other areas (short of the entire State) for which the Agency determines reasonable and appropriate. The EPA would not impose sanctions statewide. However, if all of the criteria have not been met by at least one political subdivision, EPA will use its discretion to determine whether to apply sanctions on a statewide basis. These five criteria are intended to be applicable to SIP failures relating to stationary, area, and mobile sources. The EPA believes that the criteria developed here will enable it to successfully determine when a political subdivision is principally responsible for a deficiency. IV. Limits of This Rulemaking Nothing in the Act precludes EPA from applying sanctions pursuant to section 110(m), without examining the criteria, if the Agency elects to impose a sanction on a less-than-statewide basis or where EPA imposes statewide sanctions more than 24 months after a finding. Furthermore, this rulemaking does not affect the situation where each of a group of political subdivisions, whose combined area comprises the entire State, suffer a deficiency. The EPA could impose a sanction on each of those political subdivisions as an independent area without applying the criteria, even though this may appear to be a statewide sanction. All decisions to impose section 110(m) sanctions will be made on a case-by-case basis, and will be subject to notice-and-comment rulemaking. This rule is not intended to identify which sanction EPA will apply in a particular circumstance, nor the type of deficiency for which EPA might use its discretion to apply sanctions. Furthermore, it is not intended to describe the notice and comment procedures EPA will ultimately use to impose a sanction pursuant to section 110(m). V. Response to Comments The EPA received comments from 15 sources including business associations, and Federal, State and local government entities. The following section provides a summary of the responses to major comments. A. The EPA's Interpretation of the Statutory Requirements of Section 110(m) Under this category, the commenters expressed concern with respect to the timing of sanctions and the application of sanctions beyond a nonattainment area. Although, as stated before, these issues are not central to the criteria being promulgated, EPA has responded to these comments below. 1. Imposition of Sanctions Earlier Than 18 Months Comment. The Illinois EPA (IEPA) and the Virginia Department of Transportation (DOT) believe section 110(m) does not give EPA the authority to impose sanctions earlier than 18 months after a finding under section 179. These commenters believe it is incorrect to impose any sanctions during the 18-month period immediately following a finding because section 179 clearly states that EPA may not impose sanctions if the deficiency is corrected within 18 months. The IEPA believes Congress included this 18-month period in recognition of the magnitude of the State's responsibilities under the Act as well as the time involved in the legislative and rulemaking processes. Also, the Illinois DOT states that because section 179 is the more detailed sanctions provision, under established principles of statutory construction and interpretation, it must prevail over section 110(m). The IEPA suggests that if EPA determined to impose sanctions earlier than the 18-month period specified in section 179, EPA should develop specific criteria for when these early sanctions will be imposed, and provide notice and opportunity for potentially affected parties to comment prior to imposing sanctions. The IEPA also indicates that these criteria are necessary to avoid placing industries that are located in States that meet deadlines in a timely manner at a competitive disadvantage.
