FR940323-0-00045 FR940323-0-00020 Accordingly, the Corporation amends title 45, chapter XXV of the Code of Federal Regulations by adding parts 2510, 2513, 2515 through 2524, 2530 through 2533, and 2540 to read as follows: PART 2510_OVERALL PURPOSES AND DEFINITIONS Sec. 2510.10␣What are the purposes of the programs and activities of the Corporation for National and Community Service? 2510.20␣Definitions. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq. §2510.10 What are the purposes of the programs and activities of the Corporation for National and Community Service? The National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993 established the Corporation for National and Community Service (the Corporation). The Corporation's mission is to engage Americans of all ages and backgrounds in community-based service. This service will address the Nations educational, public safety, human, and environmental needs to achieve direct and demonstrable results. In doing so, the Corporation will foster civic responsibility, strengthen the ties that bind us together as a people, and provide educational opportunity for those who make a substantial commitment to service. The Corporation will undertake activities and provide assistance to States and other eligible entities to support national and community service programs and to achieve other purposes consistent with its mission. §2510.20 Definitions. The following definitions apply to terms used in 45 CFR parts 2510 through 2550: Act. The term Act means the National and Community Service Act of 1990, as amended (42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq. ). Administrative costs. The term administrative costs means expenses associated with the overall administration of a Corporation funded program. These costs relate to the support of a programs general operations and not to expenses identified with a specific program or project. (1) Administrative costs include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) Indirect costs (i.e., costs identified with two or more cost objectives but not identified with a particular cost objective) as described in Office of Management and Budget Circulars A&hyph;21 (Cost Principles for Educational Institutions), A&hyph;87 (Cost Principles for State and local Governments), and A&hyph;122 (Cost Principles for Nonprofit Organizations) that provide guidance on indirect costs to Federal agencies. Copies of Office of Management and Budget Circulars are available from the Executive Office of the President Publications, 725 17th Street, NW., room 2200, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503. (ii) Costs for financial, accounting, auditing, internal evaluations (except as in paragraph (2)(iii) of this definition), and contracting functions. (iii) Costs for insurance that protects the entity that operates the program. (iv) The portion of the salaries and benefits of the director and any other program administrative staff equal to the portion of time that is not spent in support of specific project objectives. Specific project objectives means recruiting, training, placing, or supervising participants. (2) Administrative costs do not include allowable costs directly related to program or project operations. These program costs include the following: (i) Costs for participants, including living allowances, insurance payments, and expense for training and travel. (ii) Costs for staff who recruit, train, place, or supervise participants, including costs for staff salaries, benefits, training, and travel, if the purpose is for a specific program or project objective. (iii) Costs for independent evaluations and internal evaluations_the latter to the extent that the evaluations cover only the funded program or project and are specifically related to creative methods of quality improvement. (Overall organizational management improvement costs are administrative costs.) (See §2516.810 and §2522.510 for definition of independent and internal evaluations.) (3) Particular costs, such as those associated with staff who perform both administrative and program functions, may be prorated between administrative and program costs if included in the budget and approved by the Corporation grants officer. Adult Volunteer. (1) The term adult volunteer means an individual, such as an older adult, an individual with disability, a parent, or an employee of a business of public or private nonprofit organization, who_ (i) Works without financial remuneration in an educational institution to assist students of out-of-school youth; and (2) Is beyond the age of compulsory school attendance in the State in which the educational institution is located. AmeriCorps. The term AmeriCorps means the combination of all AmeriCorps programs and participants. AmeriCorps educational award. The term AmeriCorps educational award means a national service educational award described in section 147 of the Act. AmeriCorps participant. The term AmeriCorps participant means any individual who is serving in_ (1) An AmeriCorps program; (2) An approved AmeriCorps position; or (3) Both. AmeriCorps program. The term AmeriCorps program means_ (1) Any program that receives approved AmeriCorps positions; (2) Any program that receives Corporation funds under section 121 of the Act; or
