FR940414-2-00102 FR940414-2-00072 [Rel, No. IC&hyph;20207; 812&hyph;8704] Hartford Life Insurance Company, et al. April 8, 1994. AGENCY: The Securities and Exchange Commission (the ``SEC'' or the ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``1940 Act''). APPLICANTS: Hartford Life Insurance Company (``Hartford Life''), Hartford Life Insurance Company-Separate Account Two (the ``Account'') and Hartford Equity Sales Company, Inc. (``HESCO'') (collectively, ``Applicants''). RELEVANT 1940 ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under section 6(c) of the 1940 Act for exemptions from sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order permitting the deduction of a mortality and expense risk charge from the assets of the Account which serves as the funding medium for certain flexible premium deferred variable annuity contracts issued by Hartford Life (the ``Contracts''). FILING DATE: The application was filed on February 7, 1994. Amendment number one to the application was filed on March 28, 1994 and amendment number two to the application was filed on April 4, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing on the application by writing to the Secretary of the Commission and serving the Applicants with a copy of the request, either personally or by mail. Hearing requests must be received by the Commission by 5:30 p.m. on May 3, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on the Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, by certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of the date of a hearing by writing to the Secretary of the Commission. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 5th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, c/o Kathleen A. McGah, Counsel, Hartford Life Insurance Company, 200 Hopmeadow Street, Simsbury, CT 06070. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Barbara J. Whisler, Senior Attorney, or Michael V. Wible, Special Counsel, Office of Insurance Products, Division of Investment Management, both at (202) 272&hyph;2060. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application is available for a fee from the Public Reference Branch of the Commission. Applicants' Representations 1. Hartford Life is a stock life insurance company originally incorporated under Massachusetts law and redomiciled in Connecticut. On June 2, 1986, the board of directors of Hartford Life established the Account. The Account serves as the funding medium for the Contracts and consists of several subaccounts (the ``Subaccounts''), each of which invests in certain underlying registered investment companies. 1 1 In December of 1993, a registration statement on Form N&hyph;4 was filed with the Commission to register the Contracts. As of the date of this notice, the registration statement had not yet been declared effective. 2. HESCO, the principal underwriter for the Contracts, is registered with the Commission as a broker dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers. 3. Owners of the Contracts may allocate purchase payments to one or more of the Subaccounts, to the fixed account (the ``Fixed Account'') which is part of the general account of Hartford Life, or to a combination of the Subaccounts and the Fixed Account. 4. A Contract owner may select an annuity option on either a fixed or variable basis and may select one of four annuity options: Life annuity; life annuity with 120, 180 or 240 monthly payments certain; joint and last survivor annuity; and payments for a designated period. Each annuity option provides for a series of annuity payments beginning on the annuity commencement date. 5. If upon death, prior to the annuity commencement date, the annuitant or the Contract owner, as applicable, had not attained his or her 90th birthday, the beneficiary of the Contract will receive the greatest of: (a) The Contract value determined as of the day written proof of death of such person is received by Hartford Life; (b) 100% of the total purchase payments made to such Contract; or (c) The maximum anniversary value 2 increased by the dollar amount of any purchase payments made and reduced by the dollar amount of any partial surrenders (commonly referred to as a ``stepped up'' death benefit). If the deceased, the annuitant or the Contract owner, as applicable, had attained age 90, the death benefit will equal the Contract value. 2 The maximum anniversary value is equal to the greatest anniversary value attained as follows. The anniversary value is equal to the Contract value on a Contract anniversary (anniversary of the effective date of the Contract), increased by the dollar amount of any premium payments made since that anniversary and reduced by the dollar amount of any partial surrenders since that anniversary. As of the date of death, Hartford Life will calculate an anniversary value for each Contract anniversary prior to the deceased's attained age 81.
