FR940817-1-00034 FR940817-1-00013 Wednesday August 17, 1994 Part VI Department of Transportation Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Parts 65 and 66 Revision of Certification Requirements: Mechanics and Repairmen; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 158␣/␣Wednesday, August 17, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Parts 65, and 66 [Docket No. 27863; Notice No. 94&hyph;27] RIN 2120&hyph;AF22 Revision of Certification Requirements: Mechanics and Repairmen AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This notice proposes to amend the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) that prescribe the certification and training requirements for mechanics and repairmen. Current regulations prescribing these certification requirements do not reflect the significant technological advances that have occurred in the aviation industry and the enhancements in training and instructional methods that have affected all aviation maintenance personnel. The proposed rule would consolidate and clarify all certification, training, experience, and currency requirements for aviation maintenance personnel in a newly established Part 66 of the FAR. The proposal would enhance aviation safety by establishing new training programs for aviation maintenance personnel and would decrease the regulatory burden on these personnel by providing alternatives for meeting experience and currency requirements. The proposed rule would enhance the technical capabilities and increase the level of professionalism among aviation maintenance personnel. All proposals are based on recommendations developed by the Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee (ARAC). DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before October 17, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments on this notice should be mailed, in triplicate, to: Federal Aviation Administration, Office of the Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket (AGC&hyph;10), Docket No. 27863, 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591. Comments delivered must be marked Docket No. 27863. Comments may be examined in Room 915G weekdays between 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m., except on Federal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Leslie K. Vipond, AFS&hyph;302, Aircraft Maintenance Division, Flight Standards Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591, telephone (202) 267&hyph;3269. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Comments relating to the environmental, energy, federalism, or economic impact that might result from adopting the proposals in this notice are also invited. Substantive comments should be accompanied by cost estimates, if appropriate. Comments should identify the regulatory docket or notice number and should be submitted in triplicate to the Rules Docket address specified above. All comments received on or before the closing date for comments specified will be considered by the Administrator before action is taken on this proposed rulemaking. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of comments received. All comments received will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each substantive public contact with FAA personnel concerned with this rulemaking will be filed in the docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must include a preaddressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket No. 27863.'' The postcard will be date stamped and mailed to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the Federal Aviation Administration, Office of Public Affairs, Attention: Public Inquiry Center, APA&hyph;220, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591, or by calling (202) 267&hyph;3484. Communications must identify the notice number of this NPRM. Persons interested in being placed on the mailing list for future NPRMs should request from the above office a copy of Advisory Circular (AC) No. 11&hyph;2A, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Distribution System, which describes the application procedure.
