FR941028-0-00058 FR941028-0-00009 For the above reasons, the commenter's position is rejected. OSM has decided to adopt the proposed changes as part of the final rules. In adopting the proposal, OSM has modified the provisions at paragraph (a) of 30 CFR 773.21 to make the provisions of §773.25, standards for challenging ownership or control links and the status of violation, applicable when a regulatory authority invokes the automatic suspension and rescission procedures of 30 CFR 773.21. The proposed rule contained a reference to §773.26. This change reflects that proposed §773.26 has been renumbered as final §773.25. OSM has made an additional non-substantive change to the introductory paragraph of §773.21 to reflect that §773.20(c)(4) has been renumbered to be §773.20(c)(1)(iv). Further, OSM deletes former paragraph (c) of 30 CFR 773.21 which provides for appeals of rescission notices. As discussed above, rescission appeal procedures are incorporated in 30 CFR 773.20. Section 773.22_Verification of ownership or control application information. OSM proposed §773.22 to mandate an inquiry whose focus was to assure that the regulatory authority develops complete and accurate information as to the identification of the applicant and all owners or controllers of the applicant prior to making a determination on a permit application. Accordingly, the proposed section focused on verification of ownership or control application information. Such accurate and complete information would enable the regulatory authority to make an informed decision as to whether the applicant was linked to a surface coal mining and reclamation operation in violation of the Act or of any other environmental laws within the terms of 30 CFR 773.15(b)(1). Paragraph (a) of proposed §773.22 would have imposed a duty upon a regulatory authority to review the information provided in the permit application, pursuant to 30 CFR 778.13(c) and 778.13(d), to determine whether the information provided, including the identification of the operator and all owners and controllers of the operator, was complete and accurate. In making such determination, the regulatory authority would have been required to compare information provided in the application with information contained in manual and automated data sources. Manual sources for review would have included the regulatory authority's own enforcement and inspection records and State corporation commission or tax records, to the extent they contain information concerning ownership or control links. Automated data sources would have included the regulatory authority's own computer systems, if any, and the AVS. Paragraph (b) of proposed §773.22 would have provided that, if it appeared from information provided in the application pursuant to paragraphs (c) and (d) of §778.13 that none of the persons identified in the application had had any previous mining experience, the regulatory authority would have been required to inquire of the applicant whether anyone other than those persons identified in the application would own or control the mining operation as either an operator or as another type of owner or controller. The proposed rule assumed that, given the complexity of modern coal mining operations, it was likely that most applicants would have at least someone in an ownership or control capacity who had had previous mining experience. If it appeared from the face of an application that that was not the case, the regulatory authority would have been required to contact the applicant to verify that the applicant had not omitted from the application an operator or other owner or controller who had such experience. The intent of this proposal was to ensure that the regulatory authority obtains information on other, experienced persons who may actually be running the operation and should therefore have been disclosed as part of the ownership and control data in a permit application, but were not. Paragraph (c) of proposed §773.22 provided that if, after conducting the information review described above, the regulatory authority identified any potential omission, inaccuracy, or inconsistency in the ownership or control information provided in the application, it would be required to contact the applicant prior to making a final determination with respect to the application. The applicant would then be required to resolve the potential omission, inaccuracy, or inconsistency through submission of an amendment to the application or a satisfactory explanation which includes credible information sufficient to demonstrate that no actual omission, inaccuracy, or inconsistency existed. The regulatory authority was also required to take action in accordance with the provisions of proposed §843.23, sanctions for knowing omissions or inaccuracies in ownership or control and violation information, or the State program equivalent, where appropriate. Paragraph (d) of proposed §773.22 would have required that, upon completion of the information review mandated by §773.22, the regulatory authority promptly enter all ownership or control information into AVS. Industry commenters objected to the provision of the proposed rule requiring that the regulatory authority compare information provided in the permit application with sources such as State corporation commission or tax records. They asserted that such records are typically updated only on an annual basis and may be obviously inaccurate. They further asserted that requiring the applicant to explain discrepancies between information contained in the application and the State corporation commission or tax records will lead to inappropriate delays in the permit process. OSM disagrees with the commenters' criticisms of the proposed requirement. The proposed requirement was designed to assure that the regulatory authority reviewing an application has complete ownership and control information. Such information is necessary to enable the regulatory authority to determine whether the application should be issued in accordance with the provisions of section 510(c) of the Act and 30 CFR 773.15(b)(1).
