FR941219-1-00035 FR941219-1-00015 NHTSA is also proposing relative humidity conditions during the environmental cycling test. Specifically, under the proposal, S8.5.2.2 would specify ``Condition the container for 48 hours at zero pressure, 60 ○ C (140 ○ F) and 95 percent relative humidity. To obtain the specified temperature and relative humidity, spray with a fine spray or mist of water at 60 ○ C (140 ○ F) in a chamber held at 60 ○ C (140 ○ F).'' NHTSA requests comments on how the phrase ``fine spray or mist of water'' could be made more objective, since different rates of spray might influence the humidity level. As an alternative, the agency is considering a rate of spray consistent with ANSI standard Z26.1&hyph;1977, which is referenced in FMVSS NO. 205, Glazing Materials . That provision specifies that ``The fine spray of water shall be under a pressure of 172 to 207 kPa (25 to 30 psi) at the nozzle and in sufficient volume to wet the container immediately upon impact.'' Another alternative would be to specify a relative humidity level of 95 percent. This would allow manufacturers and test facilities the flexibility to determine how that level is achieved. The agency requests comments on how best to specify relative humidity in the environmental cycling test. In comments to the NPRM, Norris and NGV Systems supported an alternative corrosion test issued by the National Association of Corrosion Engineers (NACE), NACE Standard TM0177&hyph;90. The NACE voluntary standard includes several test methods for determining the sulfide stress cracking resistance of steels. Sulfide stress cracking corrosion can result from the presence of too much hydrogen sulfide in natural gas. NHTSA requests comments on the appropriateness of using the NACE test either in conjunction with or in lieu of NGV2's environmental cycling test. The NACE test provides a laboratory method but does not specify acceptable results. If the agency were to incorporate the NACE test in an FMVSS, it would be necessary to specify performance requirements. The agency believes that this could be done by making the performance requirements consistent with the ones already contained in the draft International Standards Organization (ISO) standard for CNG containers (Section A13). If the agency decides to adopt the NACE test, the NACE Standard Tensile Test method would be used and subsized tensile specimens (gauge diameter 2.54 mm) would be machined from the wall of a finished container, placed under constant tensile load, and immersed in the NACE test solution. Tests would be conducted to demonstrate that the threshold stress exceeds 20 percent of the specified minimum yield strength of the steel, where threshold stress is the maximum stress at or below which no specimen fails the test for a period of 720 hours. NHTSA requests comments on the need for the NACE test and various aspects of the test, including the appropriateness of setting threshold stress at 20 percent above the yield strength and the number of tests which should be conducted to demonstrate this. C. Road Salt Environmental Test NHTSA has decided to propose a road salt environmental test for CNG fuel containers to address the potential for container degradation due to road salt and other acidic chemicals. The proposed test is in addition to the environmental cycling test already discussed. NHTSA has decided to propose this requirement after learning of two CNG fiberglass fuel container failures which occurred in early 1994. NHTSA is concerned about the exposure of container exterior surfaces to acidic fluids, which may lead to stress corrosion cracking and container failure. Depending on the environmental conditions present, road salt or salt spray while driving in wet conditions, can be acidic in nature. Therefore, the agency proposes this road salt environmental test to address these potential safety problems. The number of test cycles and the pass/fail criterion are the same as those proposed for the environmental cycling test discussed earlier. However, prior to cycling, the fuel container would be exposed to salt spray in accordance with American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) B117&hyph;73, ``Method of Salt Spray (Fog) Testing.'' This method of salt spray testing is used in FMVSS NO. 108, Lamps, Reflective Devices, and Associated Equipment for testing the corrosion resistance of headlamps. Under the proposal, a CNG fuel container would be exposed to the salt spray for 240 hours, consisting of ten successive 24 hours periods. Within each period, the container would be exposed to the spray for 23 hours. During the 24th hour, the salt spray would not be activated. Following the 240 hours of salt spray exposure, the container would then be cycled for 5,000 cycles, through hydrostatic pressurization, from not more than 10 percent of service pressure to service pressure. Then it would be hydrostatically pressure cycled for another 5,000 cycles from not more than 10 percent of the service pressure to 125 percent of the service pressure. When tested in this way, the container would be prohibited from leaking or permanently changing in external configuration or dimensions. NHTSA requests comments on the appropriateness of using this test to address exterior environmental degradation of CNG fuel containers due to road salt and other acidic chemicals. The agency specifically requests comments on whether the proposed test would adequately address the potential for stress corrosion cracking of fiberglass overwrap in CNG fuel containers, and whether it should be applied to all types of CNG fuel containers, including all metal, hoop wrapped with metal liner, full wrapped with metal liner, and all composite for both fiberglass and carbon fiber. NHTSA also requests comments on whether the 240 hours of salt spray exposure appropriately reflects the amount of exposure which can reasonable be expected during the life of a CNG fuel container. In addition, NHTSA requests comments on the pH level of the salt solution used in the proposed test method. Under ASTM B&hyph;117, the pH level of the salt solution is in the range of 6.5 to 7.2 at 35 ○C, although the method provides for an upward or downward adjustment in pH. A downward adjustment of pH level would make the solution more acidic, thereby representing more severe road chemicals which CNG containers may encounter. It appears possible that stress corrosion cracking of fiberglass may be accelerated with decreasing pH. Therefore, the agency requests comments on whether a lower pH range for the salt solution should be specified in the test method, such as three to four.
