FR941012-0-00066 FR941012-0-00011 Clause (e)(1)(ii) should allow exceptions to the wearing of leg protectors for all circumstances (not just climbers) in which there is a greater hazard than working without them (for instance, fatigue from heat and humidity or loss of mobility in heavy undergrowth etc.). It would be even more appropriate if the wearing of ``leg protectors'' were made optional, depending on the individual work circumstances. One study, (The Role of Personal Protection in the Prevention of Accidental Injuries in Logging Work, T. Klen and S. Vayrynen, Journal of Occupational Accidents, 1984) concluded that personal protectors have not been very effective and that this was a result of a phenomena known as ``risk compensation'', the tendency of workers to be more careless when they believe that personal protectors will prevent injury (Ex. 5&hyph;59). OSHA has carefully reviewed the record on this issue and, for several reasons, has decided in the final rule to retain the requirement that leg protection cover the upper thigh to the boot top. The record clearly shows that chain-saw operators face a significant risk of injury due to kickback. The WIR survey indicates that 64 percent of all chain-saw injuries reported were the result of kickback (Ex. 2&hyph;1). Further, the WIR survey shows that almost 30 percent of all injured employees were not wearing leg protection at the time. Also, almost one-fourth of all injuries reported were to the leg. According to the Maine BLS survey, chain-saw accidents accounted for 26 percent of all reported injuries and more than half of those accidents involved chain-saw kickback. OSHA does not believe the record supports the commenters' claims that chain-saw injuries only occur to the area around the knee. Injuries to the lower leg as well as the knee are significant. The WIR survey indicated that nine percent of all employees reporting injuries were hurt in the lower leg or ankle, while 11 percent were injured in the knee. The available accident and injury data also do not support the commenters' argument that lack of mobility is a greater hazard to chain-saw operators than lack of leg protection. To the contrary, the data clearly show that the risk of chain-saw kickback is far more serious than any of the potential dangers that have been suggested with regard to leg protection (Ex. 2&hyph;1). For example, according to the WIR survey, none of the chain-saw operators said they had been injured because they did not have enough time to retreat from the falling tree. On the other hand, almost two-thirds of the chain-saw operators were injured because the chain saw kicked back. In any event, OSHA believes that other provisions in the proposed and final rule will adequately address concerns about mobility. For example, the requirement to plan and clear retreat paths before commencing cutting will protect employees who would be at risk from decreased mobility. Finally, OSHA believes the new innovations in leg protection technology address the commenters' concerns about costs, mobility, fatigue and heat stress. First, the record shows that full-leg protection now being manufactured is light-weight and relatively cool (Ex. 5&hyph;68, 9&hyph;4). The record also shows that light-weight leg protection that is inserted or sewn into logging pants is now available. According to one commenter, these new innovations make leg protection tolerable even in the hot and humid southern logging regions. OSHA believes these innovations will reduce fatigue and heat stress and will prevent mobility from being impeded. Second, the record shows that foot coverings are available that can supplement protection in those instances where leg protection may not fully cover the logger's lower leg. These devices will provide adequate protection in those isolated instances where leg protection may not be long enough without requiring the employer to purchase leg protection in many different sizes. 4. First aid. The hearing notice raised two issues about first aid: the number of employees who must have first-aid training, and the elements required as part of that training, such as cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). a. Number of employees trained. The proposed standard specified that all supervisors and all fellers be adequately trained in first aid methods as prescribed by the American Red Cross, the Mine Safety and Health Administration or an equivalent training program. In addition, the proposed rule included a provision that at least one person in the ``operating area'' have first-aid training.
