FR940830-0-00044 FR940830-0-00009 c. Definition of ``Philanthropy'' Consistent with the elimination of the restriction of the compliance alternative to private facilities, the Department has also broadened the examples of ``philanthropy'' in the new §124.516(b)(2)(i). As revised, the term ``philanthropy'' includes state and/or local funding, as it is anticipated that most philanthropic funding for public facilities will originate from such sources. The term ``philanthropy'' has also been clarified by the addition of the phrase ``to cover operating deficits attributable to the provision of discounted services.'' The added words, among other things, make clear that philanthropic state or local funding within the scope of this section is different than state or local funds received under entitlement programs, which have long been considered not to be ``uncompensated services''; see §124.505(a). The additional language imposes a similar restriction on other forms of philanthropy. Several commenters suggested that the term ``philanthropy'' be further revised to include interest earned on donated funds. However, since it is the Department's view that interest on donated funds is clearly from a ``philanthropic source,'' further clarification of the regulation in this respect is not needed. d. Program of Discounted Services One provider group opposed the eligibility criterion permitting certification where a facility has a ``program of discounted services.'' The group argued that this provision would create a problem under Medicaid and Medicare, the rules of which prohibit those programs from subsidizing other patients. The Department does not believe that this is a problem, since the discounts made to patients under a facility's discounted health services program are not required to be reflected in charges to those programs. Certainly, this has not proved to be a problem with facilities operating under the general compliance requirements or with facilities certified under the public facility compliance alternative, which contains the same eligibility criterion. The definition of ``program of discounted health services'' has been revised, however, by the addition of language making clear that charges may be made under such a program for the purpose of obtaining third party reimbursements. This policy was discussed in the preamble to the proposed rule, but was omitted from the proposed rule itself. The change simply makes the policy of this section consistent with the policy throughout the remainder of the subpart that third party collections are to be encouraged. See §124.505(a). e. No or Nominal Charge Policies This section has likewise been revised by the addition of the language discussed in the preceding paragraph. One comment questioned the criterion set out in the proposed rules pertaining to making ``all services of the facility available to all persons at no or a nominal charge.'' It expressed the concern that a hospital could qualify for the compliance alternative under this criterion simply by designating some narrow group of services, then making them available for free or at a nominal charge, while continuing to charge everyone fully for the facility's other services. We do not share the commenter's concern, as the rule below expressly states that, in order to come within this criterion, the facility must ``make[ ] all services of the facility available to all persons *␣*␣*'' See §124.516(b)(2)(ii)(B) below. f. Other Eligibility Criteria Other proposals for eligibility criteria were received. Several commenters suggested that a facility's Medicaid census be a basis for eligibility; these commenters suggested that facilities with a 70 percent or greater Medicaid census be eligible for the compliance alternative. One commenter suggested that long-term care facilities with characteristics ``similar'' to the proposed eligibility criteria likewise be considered to be eligible for the compliance alternative. The Department is not persuaded that it should create a special eligibility criterion based on a facility's Medicaid/Medicare census. Clearly, those facilities that serve large numbers of Medicaid or Medicare recipients are not precluded from qualifying under one of the criteria below, if they in fact meet those criteria. Indeed, we do not think it would be consistent with the theory underlying the compliance alternative to craft such an eligibility criterion. The theory of the compliance alternative is that the facilities who come within it need the alternative because compliance with the general compliance standards is difficult, if not impossible, for them because of their operational characteristics, even though they are clearly providing free or below cost services to ``persons unable to pay.'' However, compliance with the general compliance standards is not impossible for a facility with a 70 percent Medicaid/Medicare census which charges the remaining 30 percent of its patient population. After all, if none of the remaining 30 percent of the facility's patient population meets the eligibility criteria of §124.505, the facility will qualify for the compliance alternative under §124.516(b)(1) below. Thus, it must be assumed that the intent of the proposed revision would be to permit facilities to qualify for the compliance alternative even though they charge patients who meet the Hill-Burton eligibility criteria and who thus could be provided uncompensated services.
