FR940118-0-00073 FR940118-0-00015 §597.5 Waivers. The Secretary of HUD may waive for good cause any provision of this part not required by statute, where it is determined that application of the requirement would produce a result adverse to the purpose and objectives of this part. Subpart B_Area Requirements §597.100 Eligibility requirements and data usage. A nominated urban area may be eligible for designation pursuant to this part only if the area: (a) Has a maximum population which is the lesser of: (1) 200,000, or (2) The greater of 50,000 or ten percent of the population of the most populous city located within the nominated area; (b) Is one of pervasive poverty, unemployment and general distress, as described in §597.102 of this part; (c) Does not exceed twenty square miles in total land area; (d) Has a continuous boundary, or consists of not more than three noncontiguous parcels; (e) Is located entirely within the jurisdiction of the unit or units of general local government making the nomination, and is located in no more than two contiguous States; and (f) Does not include any portion of a central business district, as this term is used in the most recent Census of Retail Trade, unless the poverty rate for each population census tract in the district is not less than 35 percent for an Empowerment Zone and 30 percent for an Enterprise Community. §597.101 Data utilized for eligibility determinations. (a) Source of data. The data to be employed in determining eligibility pursuant to the criteria set forth at §597.102 shall be based upon the 1990 Decennial Census, and from information published by the Bureau of the Census and the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The data shall be comparable as to point or period of time and methodology employed. Specific information on appropriate data to be submitted will be provided in the application. (b) Use of statistics on boundaries. The boundary of an urban area nominated for designation as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community must coincide with the boundaries of census tracts, or, where tracts are not defined, with block numbering areas. §597.102 Tests of pervasive poverty, unemployment and general distress. (a) Pervasive poverty. Pervasive poverty shall be demonstrated by the nominating entities by providing evidence that: (1) Poverty is widespread throughout the nominated area; or (2) Poverty has become entrenched or intractable over time (through comparison of 1980 and 1990 census data or other relevant evidence); or (3) That no portion of the nominated area contains any component areas of an affluent character. (b) Unemployment. Unemployment shall be demonstrated by: (1) Data indicating that the weighted average rate of unemployment for the nominated area is not less than the national average rate of unemployment; or (2) Evidence of especially severe economic conditions, such as military base or plant closings or other conditions which have brought about significant job dislocation within the nominated area. (c) General distress. General distress shall be evidenced by describing adverse conditions within the nominated urban area other than those of pervasive poverty and unemployment. A high incidence of crime, narcotics use, homelessness, abandoned housing, and deteriorated infrastructure or substantial population decline, are examples of appropriate indicators of general distress.
