FR941121-0-00107 FR941121-0-00011 (b) Filing groups. Pending mutually exclusive applications are processed in filing groups. Mutually exclusive applications in a filing group are given concurrent consideration. The Commission may dismiss as defective (pursuant to ยง22.128) any mutually exclusive application(s) whose filing date is outside of the date range for inclusion in the filing group. The types of filing groups used in day-to-day application processing are specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. A filing group is one of the following types: (1) Renewal filing group. A renewal filing group comprises a timely-filed application for renewal of an authorization and all timely-filed mutually exclusive competing applications (see ยง22.145). (2) Same-day filing group. A same-day filing group comprises all mutually exclusive applications whose filing date is the same day, which is normally the filing date of the first-filed application(s). (3) Thirty-day notice and cut-off filing group. A 30-day notice and cut-off filing group comprises mutually exclusive applications whose filing date is no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the Public Notice listing the first-filed application(s) (according to the filing dates) as acceptable for filing. (4) Window filing group. A window filing group comprises mutually exclusive applications whose filing date is within an announced filing window. An announced filing window is a period of time between and including two specific dates, which are the first and last dates on which applications (or amendments) for a particular purpose may be accepted for filing. In the case of a one-day window, the two dates are the same. The dates are made known to the public in advance. (c) Procedures. Generally, the Commission may grant one application in a filing group of mutually exclusive applications and dismiss the other application(s) in the filing group that are excluded by that grant, pursuant to ยง22.128. (1) Selection methods. In selecting the application to grant, the Commission may use competitive bidding, random selection, or comparative hearings, depending upon the type of applications involved. (2) Dismissal of applications. The Commission may dismiss any application in a filing group that is defective or otherwise subject to dismissal under ยง22.128, either before or after employing selection procedures. (3) Type of filing group used. Except as otherwise provided in this part, the type of filing group used in the processing of two or more mutually exclusive applications depends upon the purpose(s) of the applications. (i) If one of the mutually exclusive applications is a timely-filed application for renewal of an authorization, a renewal filing group is used.
