FR941007-0-00086 FR941007-0-00024 (4) The procedures and point of contact on the ship for coordinating shipboard activities with national and local authorities in responding to the pollution. The Regulation 26 guidelines expand on the four mandatory provisions of Regulation 26, and also address the following non-mandatory provisions: plans and diagrams, ship-carried response equipment, public affairs, recordkeeping, plan review, and plan testing. Discussion of Comments and Changes Thirty-six public comments were received in response to the NPRM. The Coast Guard has reviewed all of the comments and, in some instances, revised the rule as appropriate. The comments have been grouped by issue, and are discussed as follows. 1. Definitions One comment stated that the term ``oil pollution emergency plan'' should be defined in the rule to include the response plans required by other Federal agencies under OPA 90. The Coast Guard disagrees that this rulemaking should address response plans required by other Federal agencies. However, this rule does not prohibit addressing other Federal, State, or local requirements within the required plan. 2. Applicability Four comments addressed the issue of applying Regulation 26 provisions to ships operating exclusively on the Great Lakes or their connecting and tributary waters, or exclusively on the internal waters of the U.S. Three comments stated that the requirements of Regulation 26 of MARPOL 73/78 should apply to vessels operating exclusively in the Great Lakes. Because Canada will be requiring an oil pollution emergency plan within all waters under Canadian jurisdiction, these comments encouraged the U.S. Coast Guard to implement consistent requirements to ensure a comparable level of environmental protection throughout the Great Lakes. Another comment opposed applying Annexes I and II of MARPOL 73/78 to the Great Lakes arguing that the legislative history clearly indicates that Annexes I and II were intended to apply to seagoing vessels only and not to vessels operating in internal waters. The legislative history of the Act demonstrates congressional intent that Annexes I and II not apply to ships operating exclusively on the Great Lakes. Therefore, the Coast Guard will not apply the requirements to ships operating exclusively in these waters in this rule. The Coast Guard is still considering all comments received on this issue and is working with the Canadian government to determine the best approach to resolve inconsistent requirements for ships operating exclusively on the Great Lakes. Three comments agreed with the applicability of this rule as it relates to mobile offshore drilling units (MODU's) and fixed or floating drilling rigs or other platforms. All comments suggested revising the language of this section to avoid misinterpretations. One suggested changing the format of the applicability section to describe which facilities are covered rather than those that are exempt from the requirements. Another recommended distinguishing MODUs from other types of floating rigs. The final comment wanted the Coast Guard to include information concerning other Federal or State regulations that may be applicable. In order to remain consistent with IMO Guidelines the Coast Guard will not revise the language of the text. The format of the applicability section remains consistent with IMO Guidelines (Resolution MEPC.54(32)). However, for clarification, Regulation 26 requirements apply to MODUs not engaged in their primary mode of operation, and apply to all MODUs while in transit. In addition, this rulemaking was not intended to include other Federal or State requirements. Rather, the Coast Guard encourages shipowners to consult other Federal, State, or local laws for additional requirements.
