FR941006-1-00008 FR941006-1-00002 2. the projected cost versus benefits (e.g. decreased incidence of animal rabies, better recordkeeping, or fewer human rabies prophylaxes being sought) of a regulatory requirement that animal rabies vaccines be distributed and used only by or under the direct supervision of a licensed veterinarian, based on the experience of States that have passed such legislation; 3. the number of persons seeking post-exposure rabies prophylaxis in situations in which a current animal vaccination could not be confirmed by a veterinarian; 4. information indicating that 98.4 percent of the 25,000,000 doses of animal rabies vaccines that are distributed in the United States each year are sold directly to licensed veterinarians only; 5. the number of doses, if any, of animal rabies vaccine that are distributed or sold to nonveterinarians for administration by nonveterinarians that are not under the supervision of a veterinarian; 6. the impact of a Federal restriction concerning the distribution and use of animal rabies vaccines by or under the direct supervision of a licensed veterinarian on metropolitan animal shelters and other organizations that currently vaccinate their own animals; 7. the availability of low-cost rabies clinics nationwide and particularly in rural areas to accommodate those individuals who currently vaccinate their own animals because of cost; 8. the effect, if any, of such a Federal rabies restriction on animal rabies vaccines on the number of animals that are vaccinated based on the experience of States that have passed such restrictions; and 9. the impact, if any, on the number of companion animals versus farm animals that are vaccinated, of such a Federal restriction on animal rabies vaccines; and 10. less restrictive, alternative approaches to animal rabies control such as a Federal requirement that distribution of animal rabies vaccines be restricted to licensed veterinarians only; or that distribution and use of animal rabies vaccines be by or under the direction of a licensed veterinarian only, or other options. Factual data supported by verifiable sources (published reports in peer-reviewed journals, university-sponsored studies, objective scientific data, etc.) will be given greater weight by the Agency than anecdotal information in arriving at its decision whether or not to proceed with a proposed rulemaking. Any projections provided to APHIS should indicate data sources and the assumptions made in reaching whatever conclusions obtained. For those questions for which data are not available, APHIS also requests comments on the most cost-effective means to obtain such data. References Many of the factual statements in this notice are based on the following references: 1. Eng, T.R., D.B. Fishbein, and the National Study Group on Rabies, J. Amer. Vet. Med. Assoc. 197: 201&hyph;209, (1990). 2. Reid-Sanden. J.B. Dobbins, J.S. Smith, and D.B. Fishbein, J. Amer. Vet. Med. Assoc. 197: 1571&hyph;1583, (1990). Public Participation Interested parties are invited to submit comments on these and other pertinent issues related to the need for a Federal restriction that animal rabies vaccines be distributed and used only by or under the direct supervision of a licensed veterinarian. Written comments should be submitted within the 90-day comment period specified in this notice under the section entitled `` DATES '' to the person listed under the section entitled `` ADDRESSES ''. All comments received on or before the close of the comment period will be considered in determining the appropriate course of action. Authority: 21 U.S.C. 151&hyph;159; 7 CFR 2.17, 2.51, and 371.2(d). Done in Washington, DC, this 3rd day of October 1994. Lonnie J. King, Acting Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24781 Filed 10&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;34&hyph;M
