FR940713-2-00174 FR940713-2-00097 Comment: One commenter suggested revising the priority to clarify whether the primary purpose of the project is to acquire knowledge which can be applied to the U.S., and not to disseminate knowledge from the U.S. to other countries. Discussion: The Secretary points out that the Background statement indicates that the purpose of this project is to ``assist U.S. rehabilitation practioners to improve the effectiveness of the services they provide␣*␣*␣*'' and ``enhance the impact of international activities on the rehabilitation field.'' The Secretary agrees there is a need to clarify that the reference to the rehabilitation field is to the U.S. Changes: The Background statement has been revised to clarify that the purpose of the project is to enhance the impact of international activities on the U.S. rehabilitation field. Comment: One commenter suggested that the project should use the potential for continued relationships at the institutional level as a criterion for selecting individuals for an exchange. The same commenter suggested that ``provision should be made'' for funding joint projects of mutual benefit to U.S. and foreign institutions, ``taking advantage of previous contacts made through earlier study visits.'' Discussion: The Secretary believes that on-going relationships at the institutional level and joint projects would be desirable outcomes. However, the Secretary believes that applicants should be given the discretion to propose the process and the criteria that will be used to select projects and individuals for an exchange. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter suggested revising the priority to encourage ``greater integration of the international program with NIDRR's domestic program.'' Discussion: The Secretary believes that the project should make its database available to domestic research projects and training projects, including those supported by NIDRR, OSEP, and RSA. Changes: The priority has been revised to require the project to make its database on international rehabilitation issues, legislation, and programs available to relevant research projects and training projects, including those supported by NIDRR, the Office of Special Education Programs (OSEP), and the Rehabilitation Services Administration (RSA). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16905 Filed 7&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
