FR940706-2-00078 FR940706-2-00044 4. Periodically send the developed questionnaires to network participants for them to gather and submit the response data back. The network manager will then enter, analyze, and summarize the data for the participants in a statistically valid manner. 5. Prepare manuscripts for peer-review publications, as appropriate, that describe the results of one or more of the activities listed above. Manuscripts should benefit the public good. All manuscripts would note the nature of the funding for the project. B. CDC Activities 1. Collaborate with the network in identifying those areas of Laboratory Medicine that have Public Health concerns. 2. Provide technical assistance with questionnaire development, data gathering devices, statistical analysis, and writing summaries of the results. 3. Collaborate in the development of a mutually defined data set standard for transmission of raw data. 4. Assist with presentations (including visuals, materials, etc.,) of any delivered data at professional forums. CDC staff may also assist in the presentation of material derived from these cooperative agreements. 5. Provide technical assistance in the preparation of manuscripts related to the activities in this project. Evaluation Criteria Applications will be reviewed and evaluated according to the following criteria: 1. Responsiveness to the objectives of the cooperative agreement including: a) applicant's understanding of the objectives of the proposed cooperative agreement; and b) the relevance of the proposal to the stated objectives. (20 points) 2. Ability to provide staff, knowledge, and other resources required to perform the applicant's responsibilities in this project. The qualifications and time allocations of key personnel to be assigned to this project and the facilities, equipment, and other resources available for performance of this project. (30 points) 3. The methods to be used in carrying out the responsibilities of this project, including the ability to provide the representative participants in the laboratory group or groups they will monitor. Steps to be taken in the planning and implementation of this project. (30 points) 4. Schedule for accomplishing the activities to be carried out in this project and methods for evaluating the accomplishments. (20 points) 5. The budget will be evaluated to the extent that it is reasonable, clearly justified, and consistent with the intended use of funds. (Not Scored) Executive Order 12372 Review This program is not subject to the Executive Order 12372 review. Public Health System Reporting Requirements This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number is 93.283.
