FR940630-2-00181 FR940630-2-00128 (c) Eligible Applicants. Eligible applicants for award of technical assistance funding are: (1) States, units of general local government, APOs, and Indian Tribes; and (2) Public and private non-profit or for-profit groups, including educational institutions, qualified to provide technical assistance to assist such governmental units to carry out the Title I or Urban Homesteading programs. An applicant group must be designated as a technical assistance provider to a unit of government's Title I program or Urban Homesteading program by the chief executive officer of each unit to be assisted, unless the assistance is limited to conferences/workshops attended by more than one unit of government. (d) Eligible Activities. Activities eligible for technical assistance funding include: (1) The provision of technical or advisory services; (2) The design and operation of training projects, such as workshops, seminars, or conferences; (3) The development and distribution of technical materials and information; and (4) Other methods of demonstrating and making available skills, information and knowledge to assist States, units of general local government, or Indian Tribes in planning, developing, administering or assessing assistance under Title I and Urban Homesteading programs in which they are participating or seeking to participate. (e) Ineligible Activities. Activities for which costs are ineligible under this section include: (1) In the case of technical assistance for States, the cost of carrying out the administration of the State CDBG program for non-entitlement communities; (2) The cost of carrying out the activities authorized under the Title I and Urban Homesteading programs, such as the provision of public services, construction, rehabilitation, planning and administration, for which the technical assistance is to be provided; (3) The cost of acquiring or developing the specialized skills or knowledge to be provided by a group funded under this section; (4) Research activities; (5) The cost of identifying units of governments needing assistance (except that the cost of selecting recipients of technical assistance under the provisions of paragraph (k) is eligible); or (6) Activities designed primarily to benefit HUD, or to assist HUD in carrying out the Department's responsibilities; such as research, policy analysis of proposed legislation, training or travel of HUD staff, or development and review of reports to the Congress. (f) Criteria for Competitive Selection. In determining whether to fund competitive applications or proposals under this section, the Department will use the following criteria: (1) For solicited assistance applications. The Department will use two types of criteria for reviewing and selecting competitive assistance applications solicited by HUD: (i) Evaluation Criteria: These criteria will be used to rank applications according to weights which may vary with each competition: (A) Probable effectiveness of the application in meeting needs of localities and accomplishing project objectives; (B) Soundness and cost-effectiveness of the proposed approach; (C) Capacity of the applicant to carry out the proposed activities in a timely and effective fashion; (D) The extent to which the results may be transferable or applicable to other title I or Urban Homesteading program participants. (ii) Program Policy Criteria: These factors may be used by the selecting official to select a range of projects that would best serve program objectives for a particular competition: (A) Geographic distribution; (B) Diversity of types and sizes of applicant entities; and (C) Diversity of methods, approaches, or kinds of projects. The Department will publish a Notice of Fund Availability (NOFA) in the Federal Register for each competition indicating the objective of the technical assistance, the amount of funding available, the application procedures, including the eligible applicants and activities to be funded, any special conditions applicable to the solicitation, including any requirements for a matching share or for commitments for CDBG or other title I funding to carry out eligible activities for which the technical assistance is to be provided, the maximum points to be awarded each evaluation criterion for the purpose of ranking applications, and any special factors to be considered in assigning the points to each evaluation criterion. The Notice will also indicate which program policy factors will be used, the impact of those factors on the selection process, the justification for their use and, if appropriate, the relative priority of each program policy factor. (2) For competitive procurement contract bids/proposals. The Department's criteria for review and selection of solicited bids/proposals for procurement contracts will be described in its public announcement of the availability of an Invitation for Bids (IFB) or a Request for Proposals (RFP). The public notice, solicitation and award of procurement contracts, when used to acquire technical assistance, shall be procured in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1) and the HUD Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 24). (g) Submission Procedures. Solicited assistance applications shall be submitted in accordance with the time and place and content requirements described in the Department's NOFA. Solicited bids/proposals for procurement contracts shall be submitted in accordance with the requirements in the IFB or RFP. (h) Approval Procedures. (1) Acceptance. HUD's acceptance of an application or proposal for review does not imply a commitment to provide funding.
