FR941202-0-00019 FR941202-0-00001 Agreement State Compatibility There were numerous public comments concerning compatibility. The commenters offered a wide range of opinions, from those recommending no compatibility to those favoring identical requirements between Agreement States and the NRC. These comments and NRC's responses will be discussed at the end of this section. After considering the comments, the Commission has determined that the compatibility levels for the final rule should remain the same as the proposed rule. All definitions contained in §§30.4 and 35.2 that are established or modified by this rulemaking are Division 1 levels of compatibility. These definitions must be the same for all NRC and Agreement State licensees so that national consistency can be maintained. Additionally, §§32.72, 35.6, 35.22(b)(2), 35.25, 35.50, 35.52, 35.53, 35.920, 35.972, 35.980, and 35.981 are Division 2 levels of compatibility because requirements at least this stringent are necessary to ensure adequate protection of the public health and safety. The Agreement States will be allowed to establish requirements that are more stringent than the NRC's requirements, but not less stringent. It would be appropriate for Agreement States to adopt the remaining sections of these revisions to Part 35 in this rulemaking, but it is not necessary to require any degree of compatibility between NRC and the States. Therefore, a Division 3 level of compatibility is appropriate for these sections. The Commission is currently developing a new policy on Agreement State compatibility. This development will include involvement of the Agreement States and the general public. At the conclusion of this effort, the Commission will implement guidance on the application of adequacy and compatibility and in light of the new guidance will reassess the existing compatibility levels. The Commission expects Agreement States to adopt rules required to maintain compatibility within 3 years after NRC's rules become effective. However, the States may elect to implement on a temporary basis the requirements contained in this final rule through license conditions prior to promulgation of the rule necessary for compatibility. In the preamble of the notice of the proposed rule, the Commission stated that some Agreement States, faced with administrative and resource constraints, may find the 3-year time period difficult to attain and may prefer that NRC extend flexibility in such cases to allow the States to implement the requirements through license conditions. In the same notice, the Commission requested public comment on permitting Agreement States flexibility in this regard, and if permitted, under what conditions. The NRC did not receive any comments on implementing requirements through license conditions. Under current policy, the Agreement States have the flexibility to implement the requirements contained in this final rule on a temporary basis through license conditions, until they adopt compatible rules. In addition, this issue will be addressed in the development of a new policy statement on adequacy and compatibility. There were numerous comments related to Agreement State compatibility. These comments and the NRC's responses are summarized below.
