FR941017-1-00006 FR941017-1-00001 Rationale for Individual Criteria A. Exclusion Area. An exclusion area surrounding the immediate vicinity of the plant has been a requirement for siting power reactors from the very beginning. This area provides a high degree of protection to the public from a variety of potential plant accidents and also affords protection to the plant from potential man-related hazards. The Commission considers an exclusion area to be an essential feature of a reactor site and is proposing to retain this requirement for future reactors. The proposed rule issued for comment in October 1992 proposed a minimum distance to the exclusion area boundary of 0.4 miles (640 meters), based upon the suggested value given in Regulatory Guide 4.7, without utilizing source term and dose calculations. This was based upon a conservative evaluation of the performance of fission product cleanup systems such as containment sprays or filter systems. Numerous comments were received stating that source term and dose calculations should be retained, and that the exclusion area distance should also be based upon a more realistic evaluation of actual fission product cleanup systems. In response to these comments, the Commission is proposing, in the present rule, to retain the use of source term and dose calculations, in part 50, to verify that an applicant's proposed exclusion area distance is adequate to assure that the radiological dose to an individual will be acceptably low in the event of a postulated accident. However, as noted above, if source term and dose calculations are used in conjunction with standardized designs, unlimited plant tradeoffs to compensate for poor site conditions would not be permitted. For plants that do not involve standardized designs, the source term and dose calculations would continue to provide assurance that the site is acceptable for the proposed design. The present regulation requires that the exclusion area be of such size that an individual located at any point on its boundary for two hours immediately following onset of the postulated fission product release would not receive a total radiation dose in excess of 25 rem to the whole body or 300 rem to the thyroid gland. A footnote in the present regulation notes that a whole body dose of 25 rem has been stated to correspond numerically to the once in a lifetime accidental or emergency dose to radiation workers which could be disregarded in the determination of their radiation exposure status (NBS Handbook 69 dated June 5, 1959). However, the same footnote also clearly states that the Commission's use of this value does not imply that it considers it to be an acceptable limit for an emergency dose to the public under accident conditions, but only that it represents a reference value to be used for evaluating plant features and site characteristics intended to mitigate the radiological consequences of accidents in order to provide assurance of low risk to the public under postulated accidents. The Commission, based upon extensive experience in applying this criterion, and in recognition of the conservatism of the assumptions in its application (a large fission product release within containment associated with major core damage, maximum allowable containment leak rate, a postulated single failure of any of the fission product cleanup systems, such as the containment sprays, adverse site meteorological dispersion characteristics, an individual presumed to be located at the boundary of the exclusion area at the centerline of the plume for two hours without protective actions), believes that this criterion has clearly resulted in an adequate level of protection. As an illustration of the conservatism of this assessment, the maximum whole body dose received by an actual individual during the Three Mile Island accident in March 1979, which involved major core damage, was estimated to be about 0.1 rem. In the proposed rule, the Commission is proposing two changes in this area. First, the Commission is proposing that the use of different doses for the whole body and thyroid gland be replaced by a single value of 25 rem, total effective dose equivalent (TEDE). The total effective dose equivalent concept is consistent with part 20 of the Commission's regulations, and is defined as the deep dose equivalent (for external exposures) plus the committed effective dose equivalent (for internal exposures). The deep dose equivalent is the same as the present whole body dose, while the committed effective dose equivalent is the sum of the products of doses to selected body organs times weighting factors for each organ that are representative of the radiation risk associated with that organ.
