FR940511-1-00090 FR940511-1-00013 Therefore, the Agency solicits comment on the assumptions used in this modeling, particularly whether or not some of them should be changed to more accurately predict the risk resulting from the undergound injection of these wastewaters. The Agency specifically requests comment on the following assumptions that are particularly important in this analysis: (1) Should the timeframe for injection of the tribromophenol wastewaters be extended beyond 60 years? (2) The model assumed that only one abandoned well would be open to flow. Should the Agency consider the potential for more abandoned wells coming in contact with the spreading plume? (3) Should the Agency assume the abandoned well(s) are plugged or unplugged? Several other assumptions (used in the modelling employed by the Agency), individually or in combination, could lead to an overestimation of actual risk and the Agency is requesting comment on them. They are: (1) The Agency assumed that a break occurs in an abandoned well shaft inside the Sparta aquifer. What are the chances that no breaks have occurred or will occur in the aquifer in any of the many abandoned wells in the area? (2) The drinking water well was assumed to be drilled in the proximity of an abandoned oil well. Is this a valid assumption? (3) The model assumed an average concentration of tribromophenol in the Sparta aquifer. If the well tapping the drinking water is nearer to the top of the aquifer, as it most likely would be, would this make a significant difference in the risk level calculated? (4) The Agency assumed that injection of wastewaters and pumping from Sparta at the site occurs during the same time frame. Should the Agency consider the pumping from Sparta will continue to occur after injection of wastewater ceases, which could affect the modelling calculation? Finally, the Agency requests comment on whether or not these tribromophenol wastewaters should be listed as hazardous waste based on modifications to EPA's analysis or on any additional data indicating groundwater contamination from the underground injection of these wastes. Although today's proposed listing determination models potential contamination to a drinking water source, it is not a finding under Section 144.12 of the UIC regulations. Those regulations prohibit endangerment of underground sources of drinking water (USDWs) as defined under the UIC program. A well which fails to meet this requirement must be denied a permit or placed under an enforcement action. The threshold for a determination of compliance with Section 144.12 is different from the threshold for listing a waste as hazardous under RCRA. The test for compliance under the UIC program is whether the well may cause the movement of any contaminant into a USDW in a manner that may cause a violation of a primary drinking water regulation, or may otherwise adversely affect the health of persons.
