FR941026-2-00015 FR941026-2-00013 Bonneville Power Administration Newberry Geothermal Pilot Project; Record of Decision AGENCY: Bonneville Power Administration (BPA), DOE. ACTION: Notice of Record of Decision. SUMMARY: The Bonneville Power Administration has issued a Record of Decision (ROD) to purchase electrical power from the proposed Newberry Geothermal Pilot Project (Newberry Project), to provide billing credits 1 to Eugene Water & Electric Board (EWEB), and to provide wheeling services to EWEB for the transmission of this power to their system. BPA has decided to acquire 20 average megawatts (aMW) of electrical power from a privately-owned geothermal power plant on the west flank of Newberry Volcano in Deschutes County, Oregon. The Newberry Project will generate 30 aMW and will be developed, owned, and operated by CE Newberry, Inc. of Portland, Oregon. In addition, BPA has decided to grant billing credits to EWEB for 10 aMW of electrical power and to provide wheeling services to EWEB for the transmission of this power to their system. BPA expects the Newberry Project to be in commercial operation by November 1997. 1 One method that BPA uses to acquire energy resources is Billing Credits. With this innovative mechanism, authorized by the Northwest Power Act, BPA provides a credit to an eligible customer for load reduction actions and energy resource developments. A complete description of the Billing Credits Policy is presented in an Environmental Assessment (DOE/EA&hyph;0180, June 1982), which has been made available to the public. BPA has statutory responsibilities to supply electrical power to its utility, industrial and other customers in the Pacific Northwest. The Newberry Project will be used to meet the electrical power supply obligations of these customers. The Newberry Project will also demonstrate the availability of geothermal power to meet power supply needs in the Pacific Northwest and is expected to be the first commercial geothermal plant in the region ADDRESSES: Copies of the Newberry Project FEIS, Executive Summary, Appendices, and Comment Report, (DOE EIS&hyph;0207, June 1994), and the USFS/BLM ROD are available from the Fort Rock Ranger District, 1230 NE Third Street, Suite A262, Bend, Oregon 97701; telephone (503) 383&hyph;4703. Copies of this ROD, the MAP, and the Resource Programs EIS are available from BPA's Public Involvement Office, PO Box 12999, Portland, Oregon 97212 or by calling BPA's nationwide toll-free document request line, 1&hyph;800&hyph;622&hyph;4520. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Katherine S. Pierce, NEPA Compliance Officer for the Office of Energy Resources_RAE, Bonneville Power Administration, PO Box 3621, Portland, Oregon 97208, telephone (503) 230&hyph;3962. Public availability: This ROD will be distributed to all persons and agencies known to be interested in or affected by the proposed action or alternative. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Purpose and Background The Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) is a self-financing Federal power marketing agency with statutory responsibility to supply electricity to utility, industrial, and other customers in the Pacific Northwest. The Pacific Northwest Electric Power Planning and Conservation Act (Northwest Power Act) requires BPA to meet its customers' electric power requirements. 16 U.S.C. 839d(a)(2). As part of its mission, BPA is responsible for acquiring conservation and additional generation resources sufficient to meet the future needs of its utility customers. Section 6(d) of the Northwest Power Act authorizes BPA to acquire experimental, developmental, demonstration, or pilot projects of a type with potential for providing cost- effective service to the region. 16 U.S.C. 839d(d). The Pacific Northwest Electric Power and Conservation Planning Council (Council), in its 1986 Power Plan, noted that ``*␣*␣*␣approximately 4,400 megawatts of cost-effective electrical energy could be obtained through the development of regional geothermal resource areas.'' However, because the resource had not been confirmed, it was not included in the portfolio of the 1986 Plan. The Power Plan called for methods of confirming this resource so that it would be available when needed. Newberry Volcano, Oregon, was identified as one of the most promising sites. The Newberry Project was selected under the BPA Geothermal Pilot Project Program. The goal of the Program is to initiate development of the Pacific Northwest's large, but essentially untapped, geothermal resources, and to confirm the availability of this resource to meet the energy needs of the region. The primary underlying objective of this Program is to assure the supply of alternative sources of electrical power to help meet growing regional power demands and needs. BPA's purposes for this action are to: (1) Meet contractual obligations to supply requested, cost-effective power to BPA customers, having considered potential environmental impacts and mitigation measures in its decision; (2) Assure consistency with BPA's statutory responsibilities, including the Pacific Northwest Electric Power Planning and Conservation Act (Northwest Power Act), while taking into consideration the Pacific Northwest Electric Power and Conservation Planning Council's (Council) Conservation and Electric Power Plan (Power Plan) and Fish and Wildlife Program; and (3) Test the availability of geothermal energy to provide a reliable, economical, and environmentally acceptable alternative energy source to help meet the region's power needs. To make these decisions, BPA cooperated on and adopted the Newberry Geothermal Pilot Project Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) (DOE/EIS_0207, June 1994). The FEIS was tiered to the Resource Programs Environmental Impact Statement (RPEIS&hyph;DOE/EIS&hyph;0162), which considered the environmental tradeoffs among the resource types available to meet BPA's needs. The FEIS evaluated the exploration, development, utilization, and decommissioning phases of the Newberry Project as well as related transmission, wheeling, and billing credit components. Alternative A is the CEC/EWEB proposal, and Alternative B is the three Federal agencies' modification of the proposal. In addition to identifying and analyzing the environmental impacts of these two alternatives for the Newberry Project, the FEIS also evaluated the No Action alternative. By contract, the Newberry Project is required to meet all Federal, state, and local requirements. The FEIS fulfills the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and meets the needs of the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) and the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), who have documented their decisions in a separate, joint ROD. BPA has also determined that this action is consistent with the Council's 1991 Power Plan. Based on the information analyzed and disclosed in the FEIS and associated documents, including the USFS/BLM ROD, BPA has determined that the preferred alternative is Alternative B with the conditions and mitigation and monitoring elements described in the USFS/BLM ROD. A Mitigation Action Plan (MAP) developed from the FEIS analysis is available. It requires implementation of the specific mitigation requirements described in the FEIS and USFS/BLM ROD.
