FR941202-0-00013 FR941202-0-00001 Response. In this example, an estimated unit dosage must first be ordered from the nuclear pharmacy. After the physician authorized user determines the precise dosage needed for the individual, the licensee may use either volume or weight to draw the precise dosage from the vial. The use of volume or weight for drawing a smaller dosage from a vial containing an estimated dosage is acceptable because that vial contains only the estimated dosage for one individual. Thus, even if an error is made, the maximum error would be limited to the estimated dosage. (4) Comment. When drawing a dosage from a vial containing multiple dosages, a licensee should be allowed to determine the dosage by using volume and a measurement relative to some standard. Response. Relative measurement of the alpha- or beta-activity of a radioactive drug could be inaccurate for a variety of reasons, including inconsistent placement of the vial in the instrument's chamber. Without specific details of the procedure for this relative measurement, the accuracy of the measurement is unknown. Therefore, the proposed method of using volume and a measurement relative to some standard cannot be generically accepted. However, if a medical use licensee would like to propose a specific set of procedures for a relative measurement of a particular isotope that would provide acceptable accuracy, the licensee may apply for a license amendment on a case-by-case basis. Section 35.53␣Measurement of Dosages of Unsealed Byproduct Material for Medical Use There were some comments concerning measurements of dosages. These comments and NRC's responses have been discussed under §35.52. Section 35.100␣Use of Unsealed Byproduct Material for Uptake, Dilution, and Excretion There were several comments concerning this section. These comments and the NRC's responses are discussed below. (1) Comment. The NRC should continue to permit medical use licensees to share a nuclear pharmacy without requiring a Part 32 license. Response. See response to comment ¶ (1) of section 32.72(a)(2). (2) Comment. Section 35.100 should be modified to allow a medical use licensee to obtain a radioactive drug only for research purposes from those Part 33 licensees who are authorized to manufacture and distribute radioactive drugs to be used only for research experiments. Response. The Commission currently permits a Part 33 licensee to distribute, on a limited basis, radioactive drugs to be used only for research experiments through license amendment approvals on a case-by-case basis. As discussed in the response to comments on 10 CFR 32.72(a)(2), Part 33 licensees seeking this authority must first obtain a license amendment and receive an authorization for limited distribution pursuant to Part 32. Therefore, it is not necessary to modify §35.100 because it will allow medical use licensees to receive radioactive drugs from a Part 33 licensee authorized for limited distribution. Section 35.910␣Training for Uptake, Dilution, and Excretion Studies Comment. One commenter stated that the proposed amendment to this section would impose severe restrictions on basic human research. The commenter further stated that researchers who desire approval to administer radioisotopes for one or two basic studies in humans and who are not preparing to become nuclear medicine physicians, will not meet these strict criteria. Response. Under the NRC's existing regulatory framework, administering byproduct material to a patient or a human research subject must be done by a physician authorized user or by an individual under the supervision of a physician authorized user. The use of the term ``patient or human research subject'' in this section is to clarify that, if a researcher intends to conduct basic studies using human subjects involving byproduct material, it is necessary to have a physician authorized user provide supervision so that the researcher may administer byproduct material to human research subjects. This is an existing regulatory position and it has not been changed by this rulemaking.
