FR941222-0-00035 FR941222-0-00003 Response. The cask vendor can apply to the NRC for a change to the cask certificate and SAR after the final rule is published in the Federal Register . The vendor must propose the generic revisions to the certificate and SAR and request NRC review of the proposed revision. The NRC will evaluate the proposed revision in an SER, and if appropriate, prepare a draft revised Certificate of Compliance. These documents would then be placed in the NRC Public Document Room and a proposed rule would be published requesting public comments on the proposed revised Certificate of Compliance. After consideration of public comments (and assuming an appropriate basis exists), a final rule would be published incorporating the revision in the revised Certificate of Compliance. The SAR (CSAR) is not necessarily generic for all United States operating reactor sites as the comment appears to suggest. The SAR is pertinent for those sites that have parameters that are incorporated by the cask design bases analyzed in the SAR. From a practical standpoint, it is difficult for a cask vendor to foresee all possible combinations of seismic, control component, distance, changes in length and weight, changes in transfer devices, etc. Revisions are expected when the vendor submits its initial application for approval. The vendor is responsible for the certified cask design. L.3. Comment. One commenter wanted an explanation for not allowing buyer substitution of material for a Certificate of Compliance and that these references should be deleted from fabrication specifications and drawings. Does this mean that no changes in any materials are allowed once the design is certified? If so, explain this in reference to new models of the VSC&hyph;24 as far as materials, coatings, etc.? Response. Under 10 CFR Part 72, the licensee is permitted to make changes in the ISFSI as described in the SAR provided the changes do not involve an unreviewed safety question. The licensee and cask certificate holder must have a quality assurance (QA) program that provides control over activities affecting quality of the identified structures, systems, and components to an extent commensurate with the importance to safety and to ensure conformance with the approved design. The NRC does not want buyers (who may not be the licensee or certificate holder) of cask materials to automatically be able to substitute material without the necessary safety evaluations. Rather, the licensee, through the cask certificate holder, has the ultimate responsibility for approving any changes to ensure conformance with the approved design. For structures, systems, and components identified as important to safety, if alternative materials are desired to be used and those specific materials form the basis of the safety evaluation, it would be appropriate to identify those materials in the cask application. Alternatively, the certificate holder may seek an amendment to the SAR and, if necessary, a change to the Certificate of Compliance. For other structures, systems, or components that are needed for the design to be used or are otherwise prudent, but do not perform a safety function and were not relied upon in the basis for design approval, appropriate changes may be permitted provided the licensee and the Certificate of Compliance holder document the appropriate evaluations and use their quality assurance programs to implement the change. New models of the VSC&hyph;24 casks are not the subject of this rulemaking. L.4. Comment. One commenter questioned how the draft Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact would remain valid if changes to cask design and procedures can be made. Tests or experiments could be conducted under draft Certificate of Compliance Item No. 9 (see also 10 CFR 72.48) leading to the use of a cask that does not meet the conditions specified in the Certificate of Compliance. These changes may adversely impact site-specific public health, safety, and the environment. Response. Given the limiting criteria of 10 CFR 72.48, it is unlikely that any change would materially change the environmental analysis. The licensee's authority under 10 CFR 72.48 does not permit any changes that involve unresolved safety issues, changes to the conditions for cask use in the Certificate of Compliance, significant increase in occupational exposure, or significant environmental impact. In the Environmental Assessment supporting this rulemaking to approve the Standardized NUHOMS, the NRC staff evaluated various types of accidents that could happen to the ISFSI facility. The NRC staff's evaluation encompassed design basis accidents and concluded that no radioactive material will be released to the environment. The NRC staff also evaluated a worst-case accident and found that the environmental impact is insignificant. Therefore, it is unlikely that the potential impact from changes to cask design or tests or experiments under the control of the licensee would introduce new environmental considerations or impacts that differ from or exceed those as analyzed in the Environmental Assessment. Changes in environmental impacts, as a result of changes to the cask design or procedures, must be evaluated by the licensee. The licensee's evaluations are available for inspection by the NRC.
