FR940224-2-00062 FR940224-2-00040 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM [Docket No. R&hyph;0693] Modification of the Payments System Risk Policy; Bankers' Banks, Edge Corporations, and Limited-Purpose Trust Companies AGENCY: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. ACTION: Policy statement. SUMMARY: The Board has determined to assess a penalty fee on the average daily daylight overdrafts in Federal Reserve accounts incurred by bankers' banks that do not maintain reserves, Edge and agreement corporations, and limited-purpose trust companies. The rate for the daylight overdraft penalty fee is equal to the regular daylight overdraft rate applicable to other institutions plus 100 basis points, quoted on a 24-hour basis, for a 360-day year, and adjusted for the length of the Fedwire operating day. The penalty fee should create an incentive for institutions that do not have regular discount window access to avoid incurring daylight overdrafts in Federal Reserve accounts. DATES: Effective April 14, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Oliver I. Ireland, Associate General Counsel (202/452&hyph;3625) or Stephanie Martin, Senior Attorney (202/452&hyph;3198), Legal Division; for the hearing impaired only: Telecommunications Device for the Deaf, Dorothea Thompson (202/452&hyph;3544). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Board has modified its payments system risk policy by adopting a daylight overdraft penalty fee. The penalty fee will be assessed on average daily daylight overdrafts in Federal Reserve accounts incurred by Edge and agreement corporations, 1 bankers' banks 2 that do not maintain reserves, and limited-purpose trust companies. These institutions do not have regular discount window access. 1 Edge corporations are organized under section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 611&hyph;631). Agreement corporations have an agreement or undertaking with the Board under section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 601&hyph;604a). For the purposes of this docket, the term ``Edge corporation'' includes both Edge and agreement corporations. 2 A bankers' bank is a financial institution that is not required to maintain reserves under the Board's Regulation D (12 CFR part 204) because it is organized solely to do business with other financial institutions, is owned primarily by the financial institutions with which it does business, and does not do business with the general public. A bankers' bank is not a depository institution as defined in the Board's Regulation A (12 CFR 201.2(a)). The Board anticipates that the penalty fee will provide an incentive for institutions without regular discount window access to refrain from incurring daylight overdrafts. This incentive will help a Reserve Bank to avoid a situation where it may be obliged to permit an overnight overdraft or to extend extraordinary discount window credit if an institution is unable to cover a daylight overdraft by the end of the business day. In addition, should daylight overdrafts be considered as Federal Reserve extensions of credit, the penalty fee for bankers' banks that do not maintain reserves would reflect the quid pro quo policy of reserves for discount window access embodied in the Monetary Control Act of 1980. Background Under the Board's current payments system risk policy, most depository institutions may incur daylight overdrafts in their Federal Reserve accounts up to a maximum, or cap, that is a multiple of their risk-based capital. Effective April 14, 1994, the Reserve Banks will assess a fee of 24 basis points (annual rate) on average daily daylight overdrafts. After full phase-in, expected in 1996, this fee will rise to 60 basis points (annual rate). If an institution fails to cover a daylight overdraft by the close of the business day, it may either obtain a discount window loan (if it has access to the discount window) or carry the overdraft overnight (a practice that is discouraged by the Federal Reserve). The Reserve Banks charge a penalty fee on overnight overdrafts. Since 1981, the overnight penalty rate has equalled the higher of 10 percent or the federal funds rate plus 2 percent (annual rate). On February 16, 1994, the Board approved a new overnight overdraft penalty rate equal to the federal funds rate plus 4 percent, with no floor. When an institution incurs an overnight overdraft, it must make up for any reserve or clearing account deficiency by holding make-up balances on another night. The Federal Reserve Act exempts bankers' banks from reserve requirements, 3 and Regulation A explicitly excludes bankers' banks from regular discount window access. 4 Nevertheless, the Board has permitted bankers' banks to have access to the discount window if they choose to maintain reserves voluntarily. Bankers' banks that maintain reserves may establish a cap and incur daylight overdrafts under the payments system risk policy to the same extent and subject to the same fees as depository institutions. To address the risks arising from daylight overdrafts and to avoid the extension of overnight credit to institutions with no discount window access, current policy provides that bankers' banks that do not maintain reserves should refrain from incurring daylight overdrafts. If such institutions do incur daylight overdrafts, however, they are required to post collateral to cover the overdrafts. 3 12 U.S.C. 461(b)(9). 4 12 CFR 201.2(a)(2). Edge corporations are subject to reserve requirements, but do not have access to the discount window on the same basis as depository institutions. Instead, Edge corporations generally are funded by their parent depository institutions, which have discount window access. Current policy permits Edge corporations to establish a cap and to incur overdrafts within that cap, provided that they post collateral to cover the overdrafts. Edge corporations also may incur book-entry securities overdrafts above their cap, provided the overdrafts are collateralized. Limited-purpose trust companies may become members of the Federal Reserve, at the Board's discretion, subject to conditions the Board may prescribe pursuant to the Act. As a general matter, member limited-purpose trust companies do not accept reservable deposits, do not have regular discount window access, and may not incur daylight overdrafts.
