FR940810-1-00068 FR940810-1-00010 (1) Changes in production or recover ability of the coal resource; (2) The environmental effects; (3) The public interest in the operation, or likely interest in the proposed revision; and (4) Possible adverse impacts from the proposed revision on fish or wildlife, endangered species, bald or golden eagles, or cultural resources. (c) Any significant revision to the approved mining or reclamation plan shall be subject to the public notice and hearing provisions of §§903.703(b)(3) and 773.13 (b) and (c) prior to approval and implementation. (d) Any revision to the approved reclamation plan that may have the potential to adversely impact the potential for the achievement of reclamation and the post-mining land use shall be considered a significant permit revision. (e) The regulatory authority will approve or disapprove non-significant permit revisions within a reasonable amount of time from the receipt of a complete and accurate revision application. Significant revision and renewals will be approved or disapproved under the provisions of §903.773(f). (f) In addition to the requirements of Part 774 of this chapter, any person having an interest which is or may be adversely affected by a decision on the transfer, assignment, or sale of permit rights, including an official of any Federal, State, or local government agency, may submit written comments on the application to the Office within 30 days of the publication of the newspaper advertisement required by §774.17(b)(2) of this chapter, or receipt of an administratively complete application, whichever is later. (g) Within 30 days from the last publication of the newspaper notice, written comments or objections to an application for significant revision or renewal of a permit under §774.15 may be submitted to the regulatory authority by: (1) any person having an interest that is or may be adversely affected by the decision on the application; or (2) public entities notified under §773.13(a)(3) of this chapter with respect to the effects of the proposed mining operations on the environment within their areas of responsibility. §903.775 Administrative and judicial review of decisions. Part 775 of this chapter, Administrative and Judicial Review of Decisions, shall apply to all decisions on permits. §903.777 General content requirements for permit applications. (a) Part 777 of this chapter, General Content Requirements for Permit Applications, shall apply to any person who makes application for a permit to conduct surface coal mining and reclamation operations. (b) Any person who wishes to conduct surface coal mining and reclamation operations shall file a complete application as early as possible before the date when a permit is desired and shall pay to OSM a permit fee in accordance with §903.736. (c) Any person who wishes to revise a permit shall submit a complete application as early as possible before the date that approval of the permit revision is desired and shall pay a permit fee in accordance with 30 CFR 777.17. §903.778 Permit applications_Minimum requirements for legal, financial, compliance, and related information. Part 778 of this chapter, Permit Applications_Minimum Requirements for Legal, Financial, Compliance, and Related Information, shall apply to any person who makes application for a permit to conduct surface coal mining and reclamation operations. §903.779 Surface mining permit applications_Minimum requirements for information on environmental resources. (a) Part 779 of this chapter, Surface Mining Permit Applications_Minimum Requirements for Information on Environmental Resources, shall apply to any person who makes application to conduct surface coal mining and reclamation operations. (b) In addition to the requirements of Part 779, the permit application shall contain a map that delineates existing vegetative types and a description of the plant communities within the proposed permit area and within any proposed reference area. §903.780 Surface mining permit applications_Minimum requirements for reclamation and operation plan. Part 780 of this chapter, Surface Mining Permit Applications_Minimum Requirements for Reclamation and Operation Plan, shall apply to any person who makes application to conduct surface coal mining and reclamation operations. §903.783 Underground mining permit applications_Minimum requirements for information on environmental resources.
