FR941021-0-00153 FR941021-0-00022 27. The Negotiated Rulemaking Committee could not agree to a method by which all six proposed systems could be licensed. Further, the sharing plan we proposed in the Notice, and which we adopt today, 39 does not accommodate all pending applicants and leaves little or no spectrum available for expansion of existing systems or the development of future MSS systems within the United States. Consequently, consistent with our past practice, we seek to ensure that those applicants awarded Big LEO licenses have the financial ability to proceed. 39 See paras. 44&hyph;45, infra. 28. The domestic fixed-satellite standard was developed to serve the public interest by deterring warehousing and inefficient use of valuable orbit spectrum resources. Given the same public interest concerns here, we proposed in the Notice a financial standard for the Big LEO service identical to the one used in the domestic fixed-satellite service, noting that a lesser standard could allow permittees to tie up scarce spectrum resources while preventing other qualified entities from providing service to the public. 40 Thus, we proposed to require Big LEO applicants to provide evidence of current assets, operating revenues, or irrevocably committed debt or equity financing sufficient to meet the estimated costs of constructing and launching all planned satellites, and operating the system for the first year. 41 40 1985 Processing Order, note 38, supra, at para. 8. 41 Notice, note 2, supra, at para. 27. We noted that ``first year operational costs'' were to be calculated for the year following the launch of the first satellite in the constellation. 29. The four parties to the Joint Proposal suggest using a less stringent financial standard that requires an applicant to show ``financial preparedness, including reliance on projected revenues and future public offerings'' in order to be granted a construction permit. Within one year from the date of the grant of a license, each permittee would be required to demonstrate that it meets the domestic fixed-satellite service financial standard with respect to 25% of the total constellation construction and launch costs. LQP, in contrast, argues that this proposed relaxation of financial standards must be balanced against the concern that only viable applicants be licensed. 42 42 See Letter from Chairman, Loral Corporation to Christopher B. Galvin, Motorola, Inc. (Sept. 13, 1994). 30. We conclude that although more relaxed approaches may be used for some satellite services, a strict financial requirement is warranted for the Big LEO service. The proposed Big LEO systems will cost between $97 million and $2 billion to implement. These are, by far, the most expensive satellite systems to date. As we indicated in the Notice, our experience with the satellite industry has proven that arranging financing for any space station system, even one significantly less costly than a Big LEO system, is extremely difficult, even after a construction permit has been granted. 43 Consequently, adopting a lesser financial standard than the domestic fixed-satellite standard, such as the one suggested in the Joint Proposal, could tie up spectrum for years, with contrary to the public interest. While system implementation milestone requirements 44 will provide a mechanism by which to revoke the licenses of those entities that are not capable of going forward, this process takes considerable time and can delay qualified entities from implementing systems and providing service to the public. 45 Because all pending Big LEO applicants cannot be accommodated and because there appears to be no room for future entry, granting an under-financed space station applicant a license may preclude an applicant that possesses the necessary financial resources from implementing its plans, and consequently service to the public may be delayed. Accordingly, we conclude that a financial demonstration identical to the one used in the domestic fixed-satellite service, as proposed in the Notice, should be adopted for the Big LEO service. 43 See note 35, supra. 44 See paras. 188&hyph;193, infra. 45 For example, ABCI, Rainbow, and USSSI were granted domestic fixed-satellite licenses in early 1983. Those licenses were not declared null and void until two years later, shortly before action was taken on the next processing group of domsat applications. Applications in that particular processing group had been on file since late 1983 and action on that group was delayed, in part, by the ABCI, Rainbow, and USSSI proceedings. See e.g., United States Satellite Systems, Inc., FCC 83&hyph;602 (released Jan. 23, 1984) (granting USSSI an additional six months in which to complete its financing), Mimeo No. 2583 (released Feb. 14, 1985) (revoking USSSI authorizations), FCC 85&hyph;394 (released Aug. 29, 1985) (denying USSSI's applications for review). 31. Applicants relying on internal financing need not set aside specific funds for their systems. Rather, as in the domestic fixed-satellite service, we require only a demonstration of current assets or operating income sufficient to cover system costs. The availability of internal funds sufficient to cover a system's costs provides adequate assurance at the time the Commission acts on the application that the system can be built and launched. Current assets_which includes cash, inventory, and accounts receivable_provide a general measure of a company's ability to finance the project itself or to raise funds from lenders and equity investors on the basis of its on-going operations. Highly capitalized companies possess more collateral and, thus, are in a better position to borrow money than thinly capitalized companies. 32. Further, ``irrevocably'' committed external financing is financing that has been approved and does not rest on contingencies which require action by either party to the loan or equity investment. In other words, the instrument of financing must demonstrate that the lender has already determined that the applicant is creditworthy and, absent a material change in circumstances, is prepared to make the loan immediately upon grant of a Commission authorization. 46 This is not to preclude applicants from relying on operating revenues from the initial operations of their systems to finance the remainder of their systems. Nevertheless, to ensure that the system is completed in a timely manner if revenues are not available as soon as anticipated, we require a commitment that a lender is prepared to finance the entire cost of the system. 46 For example, a change in general market conditions or in the applicant's creditworthiness is an acceptable limitation on the lender's commitment to make the loan. Further, a lender is not required to lend the applicant the entire sum at once. Rather, funding can be staggered to reflect the system's implementation schedule or the applicant's need to access those funds. See Licensing Space Stations in the Domestic-Satellite Service, 101 FCC 2d 223 (1985) ( 1985 Processing Group Notice of Proposed Rulemaking ), at para. 22. 33. Some of the applicants argued in their comments 47 that a more relaxed standard is supported by our use of a less stringent financial requirement in the radiodetermination satellite service (RDSS) and the non-voice, non-geostationary (NVNG) service. These parties argue that the unproven nature of the RDSS and NVNG services led to the adoption of a financial standard that permitted applicants to finance the systems as they are built and deployed, and that similar considerations apply in the Big LEO service. Our primary reason for the ``relaxed'' standard in the RDSS and NVNG services, however, was that all pending applicants could be accommodated and future entry was possible. 48 Consequently, a grant to an under-financed applicant would not preclude another qualified entity from going forward. The financial qualification standard adopted for RDSS and NVNG services is therefore inappropriate for Big LEOs. 47 We will address all concerns raised in the comments even though they may be inconsistent with the positions taken by the applicants in the Joint Proposal. 48 See Notice, note 2, supra, at 1108; RDSS Licensing Order, note 37, supra; Report and Order in CC Docket No. 92&hyph;76, 8 FCC Rcd 8450 (1993) ( NVNG MSS Order ).
