FR940527-2-00168 FR940527-2-00128 TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY Environmental Impact Statement; Shoreline Management Initiative AGENCY: Tennessee Valley Authority. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) will prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) on alternatives for management of TVA shoreline use associated with residential and other development adjacent to TVA reservoirs. It is envisioned that the EIS will analyze a range of alternatives for managing shoreline development, define a system to categorize shorelines, and determine permissible uses of shorelines. TVA reservoirs in Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia are affected by this proposed EIS. DATES: Comments on the scope of the EIS must be received on or before August 31, 1994. Thirteen public meetings will be held across the Tennessee Valley to obtain comments on the scope of the EIS. The locations and times for these meetings are announced below. TVA encourages those wishing to provide comments to do so as early as possible. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be sent to Dale Wilhelm, Manager of National Environmental Policy Act, Tennessee Valley Authority, 400 West Summit Hill Drive, WT SC&hyph;K, Knoxville, Tennessee 37902&hyph;1499. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Teresa C. McDonough or Robert L. Curtis, Jr., Reservoir Land Management, Tennessee Valley Authority, 17 Ridgeway Road, NRB 1A&hyph;N, Norris, Tennessee 37828&hyph;2001, telephone (615) 632&hyph;1542; or (800) TVA&hyph;LAND, toll free. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under section 26a of the TVA Act, any obstruction affecting navigation, flood control, or public lands on or along the Tennessee River system requires review and approval by TVA. In addition, TVA has a variety of landrights along TVA shorelines, ranging from the right to flood the land to fee ownership of the land. Requests to use public shoreline land typically require approval by TVA. In a recent five-year period, TVA approved about 9,500 requests for private docks, boathouses, retaining walls, riprap, landscaping, etc. along TVA shorelines. For the purposes of this EIS, the TVA reservoir shoreline is defined as land lying below a contour elevation about 5 feet above the top of the gates at TVA dams. Lands and water below this elevation are generally subject to section 26a jurisdiction. Currently, 15 percent of the shoreline on TVA's reservoirs is developed for private use; however, some lakes such as Wilson, Fort Loudoun, Chatuge, and Watts Bar, are much more highly developed. If current development trends continue, it is estimated that these figures could increase dramatically, especially on those lakes that are near urban areas or that have become resort destinations. The EIS will consider a variety of different approaches to shoreline management. Proposed Issues To Be Addressed The EIS will assess the consequences of establishing a system to categorize all 11,000 miles of TVA shorelines based on environmental resources, land rights, physical site features, and operational characteristics of the reservoir such as navigation and flood control. Permissible uses allowed in each shoreline category would be defined. Issues to be addressed would include impacts of shoreline development on floodplains, wetlands, cultural resources, aesthetics, riparian shoreline ecology, endangered and threatened species and sensitive habitat, water quality, aquatic resources, reservoir operations, navigation, public use opportunities, and socioeconomic conditions. Examples of actions potentially affected by this Initiative include: _Floating and fixed docks. _Storage lockers for water use equipment. _Non-navigable houseboats. _Floating and fixed boathouses. _Mooring buoys or posts. _Electric poles and overhead electric wires. _Fences. _Portable picnic tables, benches, and grills. _Vegetation trimming, clearing, and landscaping. _Boat launching ramps, marine railways, and associated driveways. _Land-based shelters for storage of boats and accessories. _Buried electrical and water lines. _Rip-rap, retaining walls, and bioengineered shorelines stabilization. _Terraces, patios, gazebos, steps, and walkways. _Fills, grading, change of contours. _Boat channels, harbors, recessed boat wells, and excavations.
