FR940328-0-00038 FR940328-0-00012 B. Overutilization for Commercial, Recreational, Scientific, or Educational Purposes Unrestricted collecting for scientific or horticultural purposes and excessive visits by individuals interested in seeing rare plants are potential threats to all of the endangered species, but especially to Cyanea truncata , Cyrtandra crenata , Cyrtandra polyantha , and Melicope lydgatei , each of which has a total of 10 or fewer individuals. Any collection of whole plants or reproductive parts of any of these four species would cause an adverse impact on the gene pool and threaten the survival of the species. The proximity of approximately 30 percent of the known individuals of Chamaesyce deppeana to a major scenic lookout, some within 15 ft (5 m) of heavy pedestrian traffic, poses a threat to a significant proportion of the entire species (J. Lau and J. Obata, pers. comms., 1991). Its accessibility also may make the plants attractive to collectors. One population of Hesperomannia arborescens is located close to a trail and, thus, is easily accessible to visitors (HHP 1991f1). Populations of Chamaesyce deppeana, Lobelia oahuensis , and Tetraplasandra gymnocarpa are on the boundary of a game mammal hunting area and are potentially threatened by trampling as hunters use the area (Buck 1991). C. Disease and Predation Disease is not known to be a significant threat to any of the endangered species. However, a tiny beetle, black twig borer ( Xylosandrus compactus ), is known to infest common taxa of Melicope in the Koolau Mountains (Davis 1970). Black twig borers burrow into branches and introduce a pathogenic fungus that kills twigs, reduces plant vigor, and often destroys entire plants. Populations of Melicope lydgatei that grow in the Koolau Mountains may be affected by these insects (Davis 1970, Hara and Beardsley 1979). Of the ungulates introduced to Oahu, pigs have become the primary modifiers of wet forests in the Koolau Mountains. Not only do they destroy native vegetation through their rooting activities and dispersal of alien plant seed (See Factor A), but pigs also feed on plants, preferring the pithy interior of large tree ferns and fleshy-stemmed plants from the bellflower family (Stone 1985; Stone and Loope 1987; S. Perlman, pers. comm., 1991). Predation of Cyanea truncata and Rollandia crispa by pigs has been observed and is believed to be one of the primary causes of the decline or extirpation of populations (L. Mehrhoff, pers. comm., 1993). Although the Service lacks conclusive evidence of predation on the other fleshy-stemmed plant taxa in this final rule, none of them are known to be unpalatable to pigs. Predation is, therefore, a probable threat to Lobelia oahuensis in areas where pigs have been reported.
