FR940919-0-00067 FR940919-0-00016 Commenters objected to the proposed levels and provided treatment data for only two metal limits, chromium and mercury. The Agency revised the proposed treatment standards for chromium and mercury as described later in this section. For the other UTS metal constituents the Agency promulgated standards as proposed. For four of these metals beryllium, thallium, vanadium and zinc, the previous standards limited the metal at one level, which was proposed and promulgated for UTS. For four other metals, antimony, cadmium, nickel and silver, the Agency proposed and promulgated the UTS level at the highest of the previous standards. This occurred based on the best data for the most difficult to treat wastes. Commenters did not submit new data supporting lower limits for these constituents. While the limits for some waste codes are raised, EPA considered the following factors: (1) A broader assessment of the treatment data; (2) Some of the low/previous metal standards simply reflected low levels in the untreated wastes; (3) Regulation of other metals for a waste code, namely those that are present in significantly high concentrations, will control design and operations of the treatment technology. For the remaining four metals, arsenic, barium, lead and selenium, the Agency did not propose or promulgate the UTS at the highest previous standard. Commenters did not submit data on these metals. The justification for rejecting lower levels are the same as those presented for antimony, cadmium, nickel and silver in the preceeding discussion. For these metals, EPA did not choose the highest previous standard; rather, the standard for the most difficult to treat waste was selected and it achieved a lower standard than the highest previous standard. In addition to the above consideration, the Agency considered matrix effects. In setting the nonwastewater metal limits, EPA has examined the most difficult to treat wastes; therefore, if a matrix relationship exists, other wastes should more easily meet the limits. If there exists a waste that can not meet the limits, the Agency has a treatability variance process to address those instances. It appears that HTMR is matrix independent, consistently achieving the same level of treatment performance as measured in the residuals, regardless of the influent matrix composition. With regard to matrix effects on stabilization, adjustments to the type and quantity of stabilizing agents can greatly compensate for matrix effects. The UTS standard for chromium (Total) was proposed to be 0.33 mg/l in the TCLP extract based upon the K061&hyph;HTMR treatment standard data. One commenter (Occidental Chemical), objected to the proposed limits and supplied stabilization data for chromium. They indicated through 85 data points that they could achieve a level of 0.58 mg/kg. The Agency evaluated treatability data from various sources, including Occidental Chemical and previously promulgated waste codes. These evaluations compared analyses of performance data between untreated and treated concentrations of metal waste. From this treatability data the Agency selected the most difficult to treat waste. It was determined that the waste criteria selected was submitted by Cyanokem for F006 during the promulgation of the Third Third rule (June 1, 1990). This waste was a composition of stripping liquids, plating operations, pelletizing operations, and clean out wastes from plating tanks. The data sets involving the most difficult to treat waste were used to calculate the limit of 0.86 mg/l TCLP. The other data sets, including those from the comments, generally achieved the 0.86 mg/l TCLP. The treatment results that did not meet the levels may be due to treatment being designed to only meet the characteristic levels. It is the Agency's belief that with the use of a more effective stabilization process, a lower level could be achieved, as demonstrated by the fact that a more difficult to treat waste attained the level of 0.86 mg/l TCLP. Therefore, the Agency is promulgating the treatment standard of 0.86 mg/l TCLP. EPA proposed UTS for low mercury subcategory nonwastewaters (containing less than 260 mg/kg total mercury) at 0.009 mg/l TCLP. Many commenters expressed concern over this standard. EPA has reconsidered the proposed UTS for mercury and is promulgating standards as follows: 0.200 mg/l TCLP for low subcategory retort residues, and 0.025 mg/l TCLP for other low subcategory nonwastewaters. (The existing treatment standard for high subcategory mercury nonwastewaters (concentration greater than 260 mg/kg) is already RMERC, i.e., recovery of mercury by retorting or roasting. This treatment standard is unaffected by today's rule.) Comments and EPA's responses are summarized below. Several commenters expressed the belief that the current treatment standards for K106, D009, and K071 wastes should remain in effect. These commenters submitted data from the analysis of retorted mercury waste to support the claim that the proposed UTS for mercury is not achievable by retorting, the recognized BDAT for K106 and D009 wastes. These data consisted of total and TCLP analyses of 109 residue samples from retorted K106 and D009 wastes. Although 23 of these samples contained greater than 260 mg/kg total mercury and would therefore require further retorting, of the remaining 86 samples, 18 contained greater than 0.009 mg/l mercury by TCLP, the proposed UTS for mercury nonwastewaters. All 86 samples contained less than 0.15 mg/l mercury by TCLP. These data support the commenters' position that the proposed UTS for mercury is not achievable by properly operated BDAT treatment technology (e.g., RMERC). Further examination of available data has convinced the Agency that the proposed nonwastewater standard was too low. The basis for the proposed UTS for metal nonwastewaters, which was data from the treatment of K061 by high temperature metal recovery (HTMR), is not appropriate for mercury wastes. K061 waste does not typically contain large quantities of mercury and HTMR facilities do not accept wastes containing high concentrations of mercury. EPA has therefore decided not to promulgate the proposed nonwastewater standards, and instead to apply the existing treatment standards for K071, K106, P065, P092, and U151 as the UTS for mercury nonwastewaters. This is appropriate, since mercury is the most significant constituent in these wastes, and BDAT for these wastes is particularly directed to treating mercury. The Agency continues to believe that the revised limits for mercury and 12 other metal constituents in K061 provide adequate assurance that BDAT will occur for K061. Thus, the universal treatment standards for low subcategory mercury wastes will be 0.20 mg/l mercury by TCLP for retort residue nonwastewaters, and 0.025 mg/l mercury by TCLP for other low subcategory nonwastewaters. The following table is a compilation of the final metal universal standards for nonwastewaters.
