FR941007-0-00041 FR941007-0-00011 Pursuant to section 172(c)(5), SIPs must require permits for the construction and operation of new or modified major stationary sources. The statutory permit requirements for ozone nonattainment areas are generally contained in revised section 173, and in subpart 2 of part D. These are the minimum requirements that States must include in an approvable implementation plan. For all classifications of ozone nonattainment areas and for ozone transport regions, States must adopt the appropriate major source thresholds and offset ratios. States must also adopt provisions to ensure that any new or modified major stationary source of nitrogen oxides (NO X ) satisfies the requirements applicable to any major source of volatile organic compounds (VOC), unless a special NO X exemption is granted by the Administrator under the provision of section 182(f). For serious and severe ozone nonattainment areas, State plans must implement sections 182(c)(6), (7) and (8) with regard to modifications. For emissions of VOC and NO X in ozone nonattainment areas, the State of Indiana has established major source thresholds in 326 IAC 2&hyph;3&hyph;1(q)(2) and offset ratios in 326 IAC 2&hyph;3&hyph;3(a)(5)(B) as follows: ␣ 1Area classification 1Major source threshold 1Offset ratio 1NO X provisions Marginal 100 tons per year 1.1 to 1 Included. Moderate 100 tons per year 1.15 to 1 Included. Serious 50 tons per year 1.2 to 1 Included. Severe 25 tons per year 1.3 to 1 Included. Indiana does not have an extreme ozone nonattainment area. In addition, Indiana's plan submittal reflects appropriate modification provisions in 326 IAC 2&hyph;3&hyph;1(j), including a de minimis level of 25 tons for serious and severe ozone nonattainment areas. 326 IAC 2&hyph;3&hyph;1(j) sets the major modification threshold level (``deminimis level'') at 25 tons per year (tpy) when the net emissions increase from the proposed modification is aggregated with all other net emissions increases from the source over a 5 consecutive calendar year period prior to, and including, the year of the modification. This meets the requirements of section 182(c)(6). The registration requirement exemption levels of 15 pounds per day of VOC and 25 pounds per day of NO X (326 IAC 2&hyph;1&hyph;1(b)(2)(B)) are for the purposes of determining applicability of the registration requirements for new sources and modifications to existing sources. These exemption levels do not exclude smaller emissions increases from being counted in the 5 year aggregated net emissions increase analyses required in serious and severe ozone nonattainment areas. 4. Carbon Monoxide The statutory permit requirements for CO nonattainment areas are generally contained in revised section 173, and in subpart 3 of part D. These are the minimum requirements that States must include in an approvable implementation plan. States must adopt the appropriate major source threshold and offset ratio. Indiana has established a major source threshold of 100 tpy (in 326 IAC 2&hyph;3&hyph;1(q)(1)) and an offset ratio of 1 to 1 (in 326 IAC 2&hyph;3&hyph;3(a)(5)(A)) for moderate CO nonattainment areas. Indiana does not have a serious CO nonattainment area. 5. PM&hyph;10 The statutory permit requirements for PM&hyph;10 nonattainment areas are generally contained in revised section 173, and in subpart 4 of part D. These are the minimum requirements that States must include in an approvable implementation plan. For both classifications of PM&hyph;10 nonattainment areas, States must adopt the appropriate major source threshold, offset ratio, significance level for modifications, and provisions for PM&hyph;10 precursors. Indiana has established major source thresholds (in 326 IAC 2&hyph;3&hyph;1(q)(1)), offset ratios (in 326 IAC 2&hyph;3&hyph;3(a)(5)(A)), modification significance levels (in 326 IAC 2&hyph;3&hyph;1(x)), and PM&hyph;10 precursor provisions as follows: ␣ 1Area classification 1Major source threshold 1Offset ratio 1Significance level 1Precursor provisions Moderate 100 tpy 1 to 1 15 tpy None. Indiana does not have a serious PM&hyph;10 nonattainment area. Also, Indiana is not required to count PM&hyph;10 precursors towards PM&hyph;10 emissions. Filter analysis data from ambient monitors in Cook County, Illinois (the data was collected in 1992) were used to asses the significance of PM precursors in the Lake County, Indiana PM nonattainment area. The monitors used are located at the Washington School and the Bright School in the city of Chicago, Illinois. These monitors are located approximately .6 and 1.75 miles, respectively, west the Lake County nonattainment area. Besides the close proximity, these sites are also appropriate because the source mix in southeast Chicago closely approximates that of the Lake County nonattainment area. The mean sulfate concentration plus the mean nitrate concentration for the Washington school and Bright school monitors were 13.1 m g/m3 and 14.9 m g/m3 respectively. This compares to an average annual background PM concentration of 23 m g/m3 in the Lake County nonattainment area. This illustrates the relative insignificance of the impact of PM precursors, and supports representing PM precursor impacts as part of the background concentration. Further considerations also argue against applying the same control requirements for precursor sources as for direct emission sources. The climatology in northwest Indiana is such that precursor emission control for a particular source would not have a significant effect until far downwind. In considering the reductions to be achieved by controlling PM precursors under section 189(e) Congress has indicated that USEPA should take into account reductions achievable from control requirements imposed by other sections or titles of the 1990 Clean Air Act. Title IV of the Clean Air Act mandates significant particulate precursor emission reductions in Indiana, after which the impacts of these sources on particulate matter concentrations will be even less significant. For these reasons, it is appropriate to conclude that precursors do not contribute significantly to particulate matter concentrations in the Lake County nonattainment area. This finding is based on the current character of the area including, for example, the existing mix of sources in the area. It is possible, therefore, that future growth could change the significance of precursors in the area. The USEPA intends to issue future guidance addressing such potential changes in the significance of precursor emissions in an area. 6. Sulfur Dioxide The statutory permit requirements for sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ) nonattainment areas are generally contained in revised section 173, and in subpart 5 of part D. These are the minimum requirements that States must include in an approvable implementation plan. For SO 2 nonattainment areas, States must adopt the appropriate major source threshold, offset ratio, and significance level for modifications.
