FR940303-1-00019 FR940303-1-00003 During the investigative stage of a case, an attorney for the government may communicate, or cause another to communicate, with any represented person, including a ``target'' as defined in section 9&hyph;13.240, concerning the subject matter of the representation if the communication is made in the course of an undercover investigation of possible criminal or wrongful activity. Undercover communications during the investigative stage must be conducted in accordance with 28 CFR §77.2(f), and relevant policies and procedures of the Department of Justice, as well as the guidelines for undercover operations of the federal law enforcement agency conducting the investigation (e.g., the Attorney General's Guidelines on FBI Undercover Operations). Overt communications during the investigative stage are subject to the procedures and considerations set forth in sections 9&hyph;13.230 - 9&hyph;13.233 and 9&hyph;13.240 - 9&hyph;13.242, below. 9&hyph;13.230␣Overt Communications With Represented Persons During the investigative stage of a criminal or civil enforcement matter, an attorney for the government as a general rule should communicate overtly with represented persons outside the presence of counsel only after careful consideration of whether the communication would be handled more appropriately by others. Attorneys for the government may not, however, cause law enforcement agents to make communications that the attorney would be prohibited from making personally. 28 CFR 77.8 prohibits an attorney for the government from initiating or engaging in negotiations of a plea agreement, immunity agreement, settlement, sentence, penalty or other disposition of actual or potential civil or criminal charges with a represented person without the consent of counsel. Discussion of the terms of a particular plea agreement, immunity agreement or other agreement covered by the rule is prohibited. However, the attorney for the government is not prohibited from responding to questions regarding the general nature of such agreements, potential charges, potential penalties or other subjects related to such agreements. In such situations, an attorney for the government should take care not to go beyond providing information on these and similar subjects, and generally should refer the represented person to his or her counsel for further discussion of these issues, as well as make clear that the attorney for the government will not negotiate any agreement with respect to the disposition of criminal charges, civil claims or potential charges or claims or immunity without the presence or consent of counsel. 9&hyph;13.231␣Overt Communications With Represented Persons_Presence of Witness An attorney for the government should not meet with a represented person without at least one witness present. To the extent feasible, a contemporaneous written memorandum should be made of all communications with the represented person. 9&hyph;13.232␣Overt Communications With Represented Persons_Restrictions When an attorney for the government communicates, or causes a law enforcement agent or other agent to communicate, with a represented person without the consent of counsel, the restrictions set forth in 28 CFR §§77.8 and 77.9 must be observed. 9&hyph;13.233␣Overt Communications_ Assurances Not To Contact Client During the investigative stage, and absent compelling law enforcement reasons, an attorney for the government should not deliberately initiate an overt communication with a represented person outside the presence of counsel if the attorney for the government has provided explicit assurances to counsel for the represented person that no such communication will be attempted and no intervening change in circumstances justifying such communications has arisen. 9&hyph;13.240␣Overt Communications With Represented Targets Except as provided in section 9&hyph;13.241 or as otherwise authorized by law, an attorney for the government should not overtly communicate, or cause another to communicate overtly, with a represented person who the attorney for the government knows is a target of a federal criminal or civil enforcement investigation and who the attorney for the government knows is represented by an attorney concerning the subject matter of the representation without the consent of the lawyer representing such person. A ``target'' is a person as to whom the attorney for the government has substantial evidence linking that person to the commission of a crime or to other wrongful conduct and as to whom the attorney for the government anticipates seeking an indictment or naming as a defendant in a civil law enforcement proceeding. An officer or employee of an organization that is a target is not to be considered a target automatically even if such officer's or employee's conduct contributed to the commission of the crime or wrongful conduct by the target organization; likewise, organizations that employ, or employed, an officer or employee who is a target are not necessarily targets themselves. 9&hyph;13.241␣Overt Communications With Represented Targets_Permissible Circumstances An attorney for the government may communicate overtly, or cause another to communicate overtly, with a represented person who is a target of a criminal or civil law enforcement investigation concerning the subject matter of the representation if one or more of the following circumstances exist: (a) Determination if Representation Exists. The communication is to determine if the target is in fact represented by counsel concerning the subject matter of the investigation or proceeding. (b) Discovery or Judicial Administrative Process. The communication is made pursuant to discovery procedures or judicial or administrative process, including but not limited to the service of a grand jury or trial subpoena, testimony before a grand jury, service of a summons and complaint, notice of deposition, taking of a deposition, administrative summons or subpoena or civil investigative demand. (c) Initiation of Communication by Represented Person. The represented person initiates the communication directly with the attorney for the government or through an intermediary and, prior to the commencement of substantive discussions on the subject matter of the representation and after being advised by the attorney for the government of the represented person's right to speak through his or her attorney and/or to have the attorney present for the communication, manifests that his or her waiver of counsel for the communication is voluntary, knowing and informed, and, if willing to do so, signs a written statement to this effect. (d) Waivers at the Time of Arrest. The communication is made at the time of the arrest of the represented person, and he or she is advised of his or her constitutional rights and voluntarily and knowingly waives them. (e) Investigation of Additional, Different or Ongoing Crimes or Wrongful Conduct. The communication is made in the course of an investigation of additional, different or ongoing criminal or wrongful conduct that is separate from or committed after the criminal or wrongful activity as to which the person is a target.
