FR941021-0-00182 FR941021-0-00022 4. Reporting Requirements 194. We will also generally follow the NVNG MSS rules for annual reporting requirements for this service, as proposed in the Notice and supported by most parties. Every licensee must provide an annual report fully describing the status of its construction, system loading and any outages or malfunctions that have occurred during the reporting period. These reports will be required on June 30 of each year. 195. Although several applicants argue that the information requested is either too burdensome or too proprietary in nature for dissemination, we believe this information is needed to allow us to evaluate whether, and to what extent, the spectrum is being used and to monitor construction progress. Licensees may request confidentiality for any portion of their report, pursuant to ยง0.459 of the Commission's rules, 47 CFR 0.459. As proposed in the Notice, we will also require that each licensee to certify to us within ten days of the date of any milestone requirement that the milestone was met or to advise us that it was not. 5. Distress and Safety Communications 196. Although Big LEO applicants did not indicate that they plan to use their systems for extensive distress and safety communications, we recognized in the Notice that because these systems have position determination capability, 262 they have the potential to complement existing search and rescue (SAR) and disaster response services. Further, although we recognize that Big LEO services cannot be used in lieu of distress beacons, such as satellite emergency position locator transmitters or emergency indicator radio beacons, that are required to be carried by international agreement or statute, 263 Big LEO system operators have certain obligations relating to maritime distress communications under sections 321(b) and 359 of the Communications Act, 47 U.S.C. 321(b), 359. 264 Other than these mandated requirements, we did not propose to require Big LEO systems to provide search and rescue or disaster response communications as a general service offering. We stated, however, that we expected that any satellite licensee that chose to offer emergency or safety communications services will coordinate its effort with the appropriate search and rescue organizations. 265 These requirements were contained in proposed rule ยง25.143(f). 262 See para. 104, supra. 263 Compulsory equipment carriage requirements are established in portions of the Commission's rules as well as by statute. See, e.g., 47 CFR 80.801, et seq. ; Ch. IV, International Convention on the Safety of Life at Sea, 32 U.S.T. 47, T.I.A.S. 9700 (1974). 264 Specifically, Section 321 of the Communications Act, 47 U.S.C. ยง321, requires, inter alia, that all radio stations including Government stations and foreign ship stations within U.S. territorial waters, give absolute priority to radio communications or signals relating to ships in distress. Section 359 of the Communications Act, 47 U.S.C. 359, requires, inter alia, that U.S. ships that encounter dangers to navigation such as, dangerous ice or winds whose force is 10 or above on the Beaufort scale must transmit such information to ships in the vicinity and authorities on land. Section 359 also prohibits ships or mobile stations from charging for transmitting messages related to dangers to navigation. 265 For example, the Interagency Committee on Search and Rescue (ICSAR) is composed of representatives from seven Federal Agencies, including the FCC, and has search and rescue responsibilities in the United States. Any satellite operator offering emergency services within the United States should coordinate the establishment of emergency services and procedures for its use with this organization. Similar procedures should be developed with all other domestic and international search and rescue organizations so that coordinated rescue operations can be quickly effected in the geographic area of concern.
