FR941028-2-00215 FR941028-2-00109 Glossary This glossary contains many of the terms used in the guidelines, as well as others that are encountered frequently by persons who implement TB infection-control programs. The definitions given are not dictionary definitions but are those most applicable to usage relating to TB. Acid-fast bacilli (AFB): Bacteria that retain certain dyes after being washed in an acid solution. Most acid-fast organisms are mycobacteria. When AFB are seen on a stained smear of sputum or other clinical specimen, a diagnosis of TB should be suspected; however, the diagnosis of TB is not confirmed until a culture is grown and identified as M. tuberculosis. Adherence: Refers to the behavior of patients when they follow all aspects of the treatment regimen as prescribed by the medical provider, and also refers to the behavior of HCWs and employers when they follow all guidelines pertaining to infection control. Aerosol: The droplet nuclei that are expelled by an infectious person (e.g., by coughing or sneezing); these droplet nuclei can remain suspended in the air and can transmit M. tuberculosis to other persons. AIA: The American Institute of Architects, a professional body that develops standards for building ventilation. Air changes: The ratio of the volume of air flowing through a space in a certain period of time (i.e., the airflow rate) to the volume of that space (i.e., the room volume); this ratio is usually expressed as the number of air changes per hour (ACH). Air mixing: The degree to which air supplied to a room mixes with the air already in the room, usually expressed as a mixing factor. This factor varies from 1 (for perfect mixing) to 10 (for poor mixing), and it is used as a multiplier to determine the actual airflow required (i.e., the recommended ACH multiplied by the mixing factor equals the actual ACH required). Alveoli: The small air sacs in the lungs that lie at the end of the bronchial tree; the site where carbon dioxide in the blood is replaced by oxygen from the lungs and where TB infection usually begins. Anergy; The inability of a person to react to skin-test antigens (even if the person is infected with the organisms tested) because of immunosuppression. Anteroom: A small room leading from a corridor into an isolation room; this room can act as an airlock, preventing the escape of contaminants from the isolation room into the corridor. Area: A structural unit (e.g., a hospital ward or laboratory) or functional unit (e.g., an internal medicine service) in which HCWs provide services to and share air with a specific patient population or work with clinical specimens that may contain viable M tuberculosis organisms. The risk for exposure to M tuberculosis in a given area depends on the prevalence of TB in the population served and the characteristics of the environment. ASHRAE: The American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers, Inc., a professional body that develops standards for building ventilation. Asymptomatic: Without symptoms, or producing no symptoms. Bacillus of Calmette and Guérin (BCG) vaccine: A TB vaccine used in many parts of the world. BACTEC ® : One of the most often used radiometric methods for detecting the early growth of mycobacteria in culture. It provides rapid growth (in 7&hyph;14 days) and rapid drug-susceptibility testing (in 5&hyph;6 days). When BACTEC ® is used with rapid species identification methods, M. tuberculosis can be identified within 10&hyph;14 days of specimen collection. Booster phenomenon: A phenomenon in which some persons (especially older adults) who are skin tested many years after infection with M. tuberculosis have a negative reaction to an initial skin test, followed by a positive reaction to a subsequent skin test. The second (i.e., positive) reaction is caused by a boosted immune response. Two-step testing is used to distinguish new infections from boosted reactions (see Two-step testing). Bronchoscopy: A procedure for examining the respiratory tract that requires inserting an instrument (a bronchoscope) through the mouth or nose and into the trachea. The procedure can be used to obtain diagnostic specimens. Capreomycin: An injectable, second-line anti-TB drug used primarily for the treatment of drug-resistant TB. Cavity: A hole in the lung resulting from the destruction of pulmonary tissue by TB or other pulmonary infections or conditions. TB patients who have cavities in their lungs are referred to as having cavitary disease, and they are often more infectious than TB patients without cavitary disease. Chemotherapy: Treatment of an infection or disease by means of oral or injectable drugs. Cluster: Two or more PPD skin-test conversions occurring within a 3-month period among HCWs in a specific area or occupational group, and epidemiologic evidence suggests occupational (nosocomial) transmission. Contact: A person who has shared the same air with a person who has infectious TB for a sufficient amount of time to allow possible transmission of M. tuberculosis. Conversion, PPD: See PPD test conversion. Culture: The process of growing bacteria in the laboratory so that organisms can be identified. Cycloserine: A second-line, oral anti-TB drug used primarily for treating drug-resistant TB.
