FR941122-0-00082 FR941122-0-00013 1. Several conditions on when wolves may be harassed or taken were removed from the final rule. The following conditions are not part of the final rule_(1) distinction between adult wolves and pups and (2) harassment may only occur for 15 minutes. 2. In the discussion of the final rule, it was clarified that after a private individual takes a depredating wolf, no additional agency actions will be conducted to control problem wolves in an area, unless more livestock depredations occur. This assumes that the problem wolf was killed, and therefore, no other control actions are required. 3. Several terms in the final rule were clarified and defined, including ``opportunistic noninjurious harassment,'' ``unintentional take,'' ``disposal of livestock carrion,'' issuance criteria for a wolf take permit to a grazing lessee on public lands, and criteria for resolving wolf/ungulate conflicts. 4. A termination clause was added to the final rule. The clause clarifies the Service's role and responsibilities regarding the establishment of an experimental population. 5. Three years following the initial reintroduction of wolves, a thorough review will be conducted. The review will determine if further reintroductions are required and if, to date, the management program has been successful. A provision to the rule was added that if the reintroduction and management practices under the experimental population rule did not result in wolf recovery, the Service would take appropriate actions. Such actions would be caused by the failure of the wolf population to maintain positive growth for 2 consecutive years. All corrective actions would be coordinated with affected States, tribes, and other Federal agencies. 6. Language regarding scientific or technical decisions in discussion of the rule was changed. Design study and reintroduction techniques may be changed or modified when expert and skilled biologists determine such changes are necessary and prudent. A list of relevant issues based on public comments and the Service's response to those issues follows. Issue 1: The subspecies of wolf that occupied the Yellowstone area was Canis lupus irremotus . The reintroduction program will use wolves from Canada which were once classified as a different subspecies; therefore, this violates the experimental population provision of the Act. Service Response: In recent times, there have been several revisions to the taxonomic classification of wolves in North America. Several scientific investigations have dealt with this issue (Brewster and Fritts 1994, Nowak 1994, Wayne et al. 1994). These investigations concluded (1) there were fewer wolf subspecies than previously believed, (2) irremotus was not a distinct subspecies, and (3) that wolves might be better classified as types or representative groups of geographic or climatic conditions rather than distinct subspecies. The northern Rocky Mountains are within the historic range of Canis lupus . Investigators concluded that reintroduction of wolves from Canada to the Park or central Idaho would accelerate the ongoing natural southern expansion of the species. Additionally, it was determined that current taxonomic discussions of wolf subspecies should not affect wolf recovery efforts in the northern Rocky Mountains of the United States.
