FR940722-1-00048 FR940722-1-00012 Section 23.1337(b) would also be revised by adding the word ``usable'' to the first sentence of this section. This revision is consistent with the requirements of §23.1337(b)(1), which requires the fuel quantity indicator to be calibrated to read ``zero'' when the fuel in the tank is equal to the unusable fuel determined under §23.959. Proposed new §23.1337(b)(4) would require a ``means to indicate'' the amount of usable fuel in each tank when the airplane is on the ground. This requirement would ensure that a reliable means is provided for the pilot to determine before takeoff that the amount of fuel that is in the airplane is adequate for the intended flight. The ability to make this preflight determination will help reduce the number of accidents that have resulted from fuel starvation. This proposal, which is patterned after §23.1337 (d) and (d)(1), would not require a separate fuel indicating system. The means to determine the amount of fuel while on the ground may be provided by a calibrated dipstick, separate markings on the inflight fuel indicator, or any other acceptable means selected by the manufacturer. Accordingly, this proposal would contribute to the safe operation of the airplane and would not appreciably add to the cost of the airplane design. Section 23.1351␣General The proposal would revise current §23.1351 by removing portions of paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) and by removing all of paragraph (b)(4). The removed requirements are applicable to alternators that depend upon the battery for initial excitation or for stabilization. This revision responds to a Joint Aviation Authority recommendation to remove the provisions that allow a battery failure to result in the loss of the alternator. Information in this recommendation showed that self-excited alternators are now available for installation on newly certificated airplanes. The FAA has verified that self-excited alternators are now available; therefore, there is no longer a need for the regulations to address alternators that depend upon a battery for initial excitation and stabilization. Revised §23.1351(c)(3) would require an automatic means for reverse current protection. Reverse current protection is accomplished by means that automatically detect changes in the current. The proposed revised wording would more accurately define this function and the equipment that would accomplish the protection. Finally, §23.1351(f) would be revised by adding a requirement that would require the ground power receptacle to be located where its use will not result in a hazard to the airplane or to people on the ground using the receptacle. Section 23.1353␣Storage Battery Design and Installation Proposed new §23.1353(h) would require that, in the event of a complete loss of the primary electrical power generating system, airplane battery capacity must be sufficient to supply at least 30 minutes of electrical power to those loads essential to the continued safe flight and landing of the airplane. This proposal is not limited to airplanes that are approved for any particular type of operation. Although the battery capacity needed for an airplane approved for day visual flight rules (VFR) operations would be much less than the capacity for an airplane approved for day/night instrument flight rules (IFR) operations, the same level of safety should be provided for all airplanes. While this proposal would add an additional requirement to part 23 for normal, utility, acrobatic, and commuter category airplanes, in practice this requirement to provide a battery capacity sufficient to supply at least 30 minutes of electrical power is not new to many airplane manufacturers. Certain other countries in which part 23 airplanes have been certificated have requirements for such a 30-minute battery capacity. Manufacturers' experience with these requirements has shown that the only design impact that results from complying with these requirements is the need to install a battery with greater capacity than might otherwise be installed. Experience has also shown that a load shedding procedure may be necessary for certain airplanes. No other airplane design changes would be needed. Despite the above referenced experience record, this requirement would be new to some manufacturers and they may have questions on how it would be applied. For that reason, this notice discusses compliance considerations that have emerged from experience based on substantively equivalent requirements. This compliance experience has shown that the rating of the battery selected for the airplane should be sufficient to cover the loss of capacity that would occur with battery age and the reduced capacity that results from a realistic state of charge, which may be less than a full charge. Using a design battery capacity that is only 75 percent of the battery nameplate rating would be an acceptable way of accounting for these losses. In addition to determining the battery rating that would be needed, the manufacturer would also need to determine the functions that would be necessary for 30 minutes of safe flight and the landing of the airplane. Again, experience has identified several functions. For a day VFR approved airplane, no functions may require battery power; however, it may be necessary to supply power for certain communication capacities or, if the airplane has electrically powered retractable landing gear, power may be required to lower the gear. Providing a secondary means for lowering the gear would be an acceptable alternative to providing electrical power or battery power for this function. For other types of operating approvals, providing power for the following functions and equipment should be considered: 1. Any required flight and navigation instruments. Air driven instruments that would function over the required period can also be accepted for this function. 2. Cockpit and instrument lighting. 3. For IFR and icing approvals, power for the heated pitot tube. 4. For radio communication, usually one VHF communication system with power for three to five minutes of transmission would be acceptable. 5. Functions needed for safe night flight and night landing of the airplane. 6. Electronic engine ignition systems.
