FR940902-0-00165 FR940902-0-00010 (e) In accordance with section 402 of the Veterans' Benefits and Programs Improvement Act of 1988 (29 U.S.C. 1751 note) services under this part shall be coordinated with programs administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs and with other veterans' programs such as the Veterans' Job Training Act (29 U.S.C. 1721 note), title IV-C of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1721, et seq. ), part 635 of this chapter, and the Transition Assistance Program. §631.38 State by-pass authority. (a)(1) In the event that a substate grantee fails to submit a plan, or submits a plan which is not approved by the Governor (see §631.50(f) of this part), the Governor may direct the expenditure of funds allocated to the substate area. (2) The Governor's authority under this paragraph (a) to direct the expenditure of funds remains in effect only until such time as a plan is submitted and approved, or a new substate grantee is designated (section 313(c)). (3) The Governor shall not direct the expenditure of funds under this paragraph (a) until after the affected substate grantee has been afforded advance written notice of the Governor's intent to exercise such authority and an opportunity to appeal to the Secretary pursuant to the provisions of §628.426(e) of this chapter. (b)(1) If a substate grantee fails to expend funds allocated to it in accordance with its plan, the Governor, subject to appropriate notice and opportunity for comment in the manner required by section 105(b)(1), (2), and (3) of the Act, may direct the expenditure of funds only in accordance with the substate plan. (2) The Governor's authority under this paragraph (b) to direct the expenditure of funds shall remain in effect only until: (i) The substate grantee corrects the failure; (ii) The substate grantee submits an acceptable modification; or (iii) A new substate grantee is designated (section 313(a) and (d)). (3) The Governor shall not direct the expenditure of funds under this paragraph (b) until after the affected substate grantee has been afforded advance written notice of the Governor's intent to exercise such authority and an opportunity to appeal to the Secretary pursuant to the provisions of §628.426(e) of this chapter. (c) When the substate area is the State, the Secretary shall have the same authority as the Governor under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Subpart E_State Programs §631.40 State program operational plan. (a) The Governor shall submit to the Secretary biennially, in accordance with instructions issued by the Secretary, a State program operational plan describing the specific activities, programs and projects to be undertaken with the funds reserved by the Governor under §631.32(c) of this part. (b) The State program operational plan shall include a description of the mechanisms established between the Federal-State Unemployment Compensation System, the Trade Adjustment Assistance Program, the State Employment service and programs authorized under title III of the Act and this part to coordinate the identification and referral of dislocated workers and the exchange of information. §631.41 Allowable State activities. (a) States may use funds reserved under §631.32(c) of this part, subject to the provisions of the State biennial and program operational plans, for: (1) Rapid response assistance; (2) Basic readjustment services when undertaken in Statewide, regional or industrywide projects, or, initially, as part of rapid response assistance; (3) Retraining services, including (but not limited to) those in section 314(d) of the Act when undertaken in Statewide, industrywide and regional programs;
