FR941021-0-00126 FR941021-0-00020 (1) Equipment records shall be maintained accurately and shall include the following information. (i) A description of the equipment. (ii) Manufacturer's serial number, model number, Federal stock number, national stock number, or other identification number. (iii) Source of the equipment, including the award number. (iv) Whether title vests in the recipient or the Federal Government. (v) Acquisition date (or date received, if the equipment was furnished by the Federal Government) and cost. (vi) Information from which one can calculate the percentage of Federal participation in the cost of the equipment (not applicable to equipment furnished by the Federal Government). (vii) Location and condition of the equipment and the date the information was reported. (viii) Unit acquisition cost. (ix) Ultimate disposition data, including date of disposal and sales price or the method used to determine current fair market value where a recipient compensates DOE for its share. (2) Equipment owned by the Federal Government shall be identified to indicate Federal ownership. (3) A physical inventory of equipment shall be taken and the results reconciled with the equipment records at least once every two years. Any differences between quantities determined by the physical inspection and those shown in the accounting records shall be investigated to determine the causes of the difference. The recipient shall, in connection with the inventory, verify the existence, current utilization, and continued need for the equipment. (4) A control system shall be in effect to insure adequate safeguards to prevent loss, damage, or theft of the equipment. Any loss, damage, or theft of equipment shall be investigated and fully documented; if the equipment was owned by the Federal Government, the recipient shall promptly notify DOE. (5) Adequate maintenance procedures shall be implemented to keep the equipment in good condition. (6) Where the recipient is authorized or required to sell the equipment, proper sales procedures shall be established which provide for competition to the extent practicable and result in the highest possible return. (g) When the recipient no longer needs the equipment, the equipment may be used for other activities in accordance with the following standards. Equipment with a current per-unit fair market value of less than $5000 may be retained, sold or otherwise disposed of with no further obligation to the awarding agency. For equipment with a current per unit fair market value of $5000 or more, the recipient may retain the equipment for other uses provided that compensation is made to the original Federal awarding agency or its successor. The amount of compensation shall be computed by applying the percentage of Federal participation in the cost of the original project or program to the current fair market value of the equipment. If the recipient has no need for the equipment, the recipient shall request disposition instructions from DOE. DOE shall determine whether the equipment can be used to meet DOE's requirements. If no requirement exists within DOE, the availability of the equipment shall be reported to the General Services Administration by DOE to determine whether a requirement for the equipment exists in other Federal agencies. DOE will issue instructions to the recipient no later than 120 calendar days after the recipient's request and the following procedures shall govern. (1) If so instructed or if disposition instructions are not issued within 120 calendar days after the recipient's request, the recipient shall sell the equipment and reimburse DOE an amount computed by applying to the sales proceeds the percentage of Federal participation in the cost of the original project or program. However, the recipient shall be permitted to deduct and retain from the Federal share $500 or ten percent of the proceeds, whichever is less, for the recipient's selling and handling expenses. (2) If the recipient is instructed to ship the equipment elsewhere, the recipient shall be reimbursed by the Federal Government by an amount which is computed by applying the percentage of the recipient's participation in the cost of the original project or program to the current fair market value of the equipment, plus any reasonable shipping or interim storage costs incurred. (3) If the recipient is instructed to otherwise dispose of the equipment, the recipient shall be reimbursed by DOE for such costs incurred in its disposition. (h) DOE reserves the right, at the end of a project, to transfer the title to the Federal Government or to a third party named by DOE when such third party is otherwise eligible under existing statutes. Such transfer shall be subject to the following standards.
