FR940811-2-00123 FR940811-2-00076 [Rel. No. IC_20444; International Series Release No. 696; 812&hyph;9056] The Bank of New York; Notice of Application August 5, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). Applicant: The Bank of New York. Relevant Act Sections: Conditional order requested under section 6(c) for an exemption from the provisions of section 26(a)(2)(D). Summary of Application: Applicant seeks a conditional order that would permit applicant to deposit foreign securities, held by unit investment trusts for which it serves as trustee, with the securities clearance and depository facilities operated by Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York (``Morgan Guaranty'') in Brussels, Belgium in its capacity as operator of the Euroclear System (``Euroclear''), or with Central de Livraison de Valeurs Mobilieres, S.A. (``CEDEL''). Euroclear and CEDEL are sometimes referred to as the ``Transnational Agencies.'' Filing Dates: The application was filed on June 15, 1994. Hearing or Notification of Hearing: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicant with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on August 30, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on the applicant, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 5th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Applicant, The Bank of New York, 101 Barclay Street, New York, New York 10286. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James M. Curtis, Senior Counsel, at (202) 942&hyph;0563 or Barry D. Miller, Senior Special Counsel, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicant's Representations 1. Applicant is a trust company incorporated and doing business under the laws of the State of New York. Applicant meets the qualifications of section 26(a)(1) of the Act for a trustee or custodian of a unit investment trust. Applicant currently serves as trustee of various unit investment trusts sponsored or co-sponsored by, among others, Van Kampen Merritt; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated; Nike Securities L.P.; Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.; Quest For Value; Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc.; and Unison Investment Trusts Ltd. and may in the future act as trustee of trusts sponsored by these and other sponsors. Under each trust indenture, and as required by the Act, applicant has responsibility for the custody of the securities held in the trust. 2. Various sponsors of trusts for which applicant acts as trustee have created, or have expressed an interest in creating, trusts whose investment objectives contemplate investment in securities denominated in foreign currencies and in foreign securities. Foreign securities, especially securities issued in the European market, are issued generally in bearer form. With the growth of the European securities markets, the problems with bearer instruments entailed by the necessity for presentment of certificates or coupons for payment of principal of or interest on the securities have led to the increased importance of a book-entry system to speed clearance of trades and collection of principal and interest payments. 3. Euroclear and CEDEL are the largest clearance and custody systems of internationally traded securities in the world. They were organized principally to provide a simple, economic and automated means of settling secondary market transactions in internationally traded securities regardless of the geographical location of the parties to the transaction. The branch of Morgan Guaranty in Brussels, Belgium operates Euroclear, and is subject to regulation by the New York and federal banking authorities and the Belgian Banking Commission. Belgian law governs Morgan Guaranty's liability as custodian and operator of Euroclear under the contract between Euroclear and each participating entity. CEDEL was founded as a limited company under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. CEDEL is headquartered in Luxembourg and has representative offices in London, Tokyo, New York, and Hong Kong. CEDEL operates under the supervision of the Institute Monetaire Luxembourgeois, the Luxembourg Monetary Authority, which is also the banking control authority. 4. Applicant believes that securities deposited in Euroclear or CEDEL are at least as effectively protected as the same securities would be if directly deposited with a foreign branch of a United States bank, or shipped to the United States for custody, for several reasons, including: (a) the insurance coverage for Euroclear and CEDEL depositaries and their outstanding loss records; (b) the expertise and experience of the banks holding securities for Euroclear or CEDEL; (c) the efficiencies resulting from handling large quantities of the same issue; (d) the excellent track records of Euroclear and CEDEL; (e) the close scrutiny of Euroclear and CEDEL services resulting from the market's dependence upon (and hence concern for) these services and the oversight of the depositaries; and (f) the depositary agreements pursuant to which securities are held by Euroclear and CEDEL depositaries, which impose high standards of care on the depositaries.
