FR941116-0-00010 FR941116-0-00001 (c) Filing a charge with the Board's General Counsel following exhaustion of administrative remedies. If, following the exhaustion of internal administrative remedies as described in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, an employee of the Architect of the Capitol wishes to pursue the matter before the Board, the employee may file a charge with the Board's General Counsel. The procedures for filing such a charge are set forth in ยง29.8. (d) Special rule applicable to charges filed with the General Counsel prior to March 1, 1995. A special rule applies to charges filed with the General Counsel prior to March 1, 1995. For these charges only, the General Counsel shall defer proceedings on the charge for no more than 60 days if the Architect of the Capitol certifies that such action is necessary to enable the Architect to issue a final decision on the charging party's internal complaint of discrimination or retaliation. ยง29.7 Notice of appeal rights. (a) The Architect of the Capitol shall be responsible for ensuring that employees are routinely advised of their appeal rights to the Board. Any final decision on an internal complaint of discrimination shall include a notice of the complainant's right to pursue the matter before the Board including: (1) The time limits for appealing to the Board; (2) The address of the Board; (3) The employee's right to representation before the Board; (4) The availability of a hearing before the Board where factual issues are in dispute; and (5) The employee's right to a reasonable amount of official time for the preparation and presentation of his or her appeal. (b) A copy of the Board's regulations shall be attached to the notice required by paragraph (a) of this section. The notice shall also be accompanied by proof of service. ยง29.8 Filing a charge with the General Counsel. (a) Who may file. Any employee of the Architect of the Capitol who claims that he or she has been subjected to unlawful discrimination or retaliation (as defined in ยง29.3) may file a charge with the Board's General Counsel. One or more employees may file a charge as representative of a class of employees of the Architect of the Capitol. (b) When to file. A charge by an employee of the Architect of the Capitol must be filed at either of the following times: (1) Within 30 days after the receipt of a final decision by the Architect of the Capitol on the employee's internal complaint of discrimination or retaliation; or (2) At any time after the passage of 120 days following the filing of an internal complaint of discrimination or retaliation, if the Architect of the Capitol has not yet issued a final decision on the internal complaint. (c) How to file. Charges may be filed with the General Counsel in person or by mail. Please note that the address to be used differs for the two kinds of filing. (1) Filing in person: A charge may be filed in person at the Office of the General Counsel, Suite 840, Union Center Plaza II, 820 First St., NE., Washington, DC. (2) Filing by mail: A charge may be filed by mail addressed to the General Counsel, Personnel Appeals Board, Suite 840, Union Center Plaza II, 441 G Street, NW., Washington, DC 20548. When filed by mail, the postmark shall be date of filing for all submissions to the General Counsel. (d) What to file. The charge should include the following information: (1) Name, address, and telephone number of the charging party. In the case of a class action, a clear description of the class of employees on whose behalf a charge is filed; (2) The names and titles of persons, if any, responsible for actions the charging party wishes to have the General Counsel review;
