FR941221-0-00034 FR941221-0-00013 Comment # 6: OVEC also commented that the emission caps to be set for existing plants as described as contingency measures should be set now, including a cap for the largest stationary source which is in Kentucky. Response # 6: West Virginia has time to determine how caps would be set, when and if it were necessary to choose this contingency measure. West Virginia cannot set emission caps for sources in Kentucky. Detailed information about the maintenance plan for Kentucky's portion of the ozone nonattainment area will appear in the separate notice prepared by EPA Region IV. Comment # 7: OVEC commented that the contingency measures related to Stage II and vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M) programs do not address the main stationary sources of ozone precursors. These programs are costly and would not be productive. Response # 7: For the past five years, Huntington has not experienced violations of the ozone standard due to reductions in mobile emissions. While current predictions do not indicate future increases in mobile emissions, contingency measures such as Stage II and I/M could provide a cost effective means of offsetting potential emissions increases from mobile and/or stationary source growth. Comment # 8: OVEC commented that until all causes of the ozone problem are understood in detail, no contingency plan is adequate. Response # 8: As previously mentioned, the Huntington area has not had a violation of the ozone standard in five years. Permanent and enforceable reductions have occurred, and future predictions indicate that emissions from all source categories will remain below emissions for these sources in the base attainment year of 1993. Therefore it is unlikely that ozone problems will occur again. However, in order to maintain attainment, the state will carefully track and periodically update the emissions inventory for the area. If substantial growth of emissions occurs or if ozone violations are recorded, the contingency measures will be examined and an appropriate measure(s) will be implemented. Since emissions of both VOC and NO X are being tracked and the list of contingency measures covers both precursor pollutants and a variety of source categories, the state can determine which sources need to be controlled and which measures need to be implemented. Final Action EPA is approving the ozone maintenance plan for the Huntington (Cabell and Wayne counties) area of West Virginia submitted on November 12, 1992, as revised on February 22, 1994 and August 10, 1994 because it meets the requirements of Section 175A. In addition, the Agency is redesignating the Huntington area to ozone attainment because the Agency has determined that the provisions of Section 107(d)(3)(E) of the Act for redesignation have been met. Because it was a nonattainment area on January 15, 1993 EPA notified the Governor of West Virginia that it had made a finding that West Virginia had failed to submit either a full or committal SIP revision for a basic inspection and maintenance (I/M) program for the Huntington portion of the ozone nonattainment area. Similarly on January 18, 1994, EPA notified the Governor that West Virginia had failed to submit a 15% plan for the area. These findings commenced the sanctions process outlined by section 179 of the Act. The 2:1 offset sanction has been in effect in the Huntington area since September 6, 1994 as a result of the January 15, 1993 finding. Upon the effective date of this final approval by EPA of West Virginia's redesignation request and maintenance plan, the requirement for West Virginia to submit a basic I/M program and 15% plan for this area will be lifted. Upon that same effective date, both findings will be automatically rescinded in the Huntington area and any sanctions imposed as of that date will be lifted. Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting or allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any state implementation plan. Each request for revision to the state implementation plan shall be considered separately in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. This action has been classified as a Table 2 action for signature by the Regional Administrator under the procedures published in the Federal Register on January 19, 1989 (54 FR 2214&hyph;2225), as revised by an October 4, 1993 memorandum from Michael H. Shapiro, Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation. The OMB has exempted this regulatory action from E.O. 12866 review. Under section 307(b)(1) of the Clean Air Act, petitions for judicial review of this action to approve West Virginia's redesignation request and maintenance plan for the Huntington portion of the Huntington-Ashland ozone nonattainment area must be filed in the United States Court of Appeals for the appropriate circuit by February 21, 1995. Filing a petition for reconsideration by the Administrator of this final rule does not affect the finality of this rule for the purposes of judicial review nor does it extend the time within which a petition for judicial review may be filed, and shall not postpone the effectiveness of such rule or action. This action may not be challenged later in proceedings to enforce its requirements. (See section 307(b)(2).) List of Subjects 40 CFR Part 52 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Hydrocarbons, Incorporation by reference, Intergovernmental relations, Nitrogen dioxide, Ozone. 40 CFR Part 81 Air pollution control, National parks. Dated: December 6, 1994. Peter H. Kostmayer, Regional Administrator, Region III.
