FR940620-2-00075 FR940620-2-00046 3. Section 2(a)(9) defines ``control'' as the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of a company. The section creates a presumption that owners of 25% or less of a company's voting securities do not control such company but this presumption may be rebutted by evidence of control. 4. AI Holdings argues that a finding of control under section 2(a)(9) is warranted for the following reasons: a. Since the reorganization, AI Holdings, through its officers, directors, and principal shareholders, has made substantially all of the decisions about the management and operations of Newco. Further, without the engineering and management skills of Heisey and Morris, Newco would be inoperable. b. Newco's board of directors does not take an active role in Newco's management. In addition, because of the Agreements, the ability of Newco's board of directors to make any major corporate changes without the consent of AI Holdings is limited, providing AI Holdings with effective control of such actions. c. The reorganization was effected in an effort to raise capital for the meter reading products business. The structure of the reorganization was chosen to provide Katema with sufficient ownership to let it consolidate its financial statements for tax and accounting purposes, while not diminishing AI Holdings' controlling influence over Newco and its operations. Applicant argues that although the reorganization altered the ownership of the business, it did not change its method of operation or the key individuals who had developed the product and managed the operations. 5. AI Holdings also believes that a finding should be made under section 3(b)(2) that it is primarily engaged in a non-investment company business through Newco for the following reasons: a. AI Holdings was organized as an operating company to develop, manufacture, and market automatic meter reading products. The reorganization was effected because the business needed additional capital. The basic operations of the automatic meter reading business has not changed. b. AI Holdings has never held itself out as being engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting, or trading in securities. c. The business activities of the senior officers of AI Holdings have been almost exclusively limited to the automatic meter reading products of Newco. None of the officers or directors are affiliated with any other investment company or securities broker-dealer. d. The only assets of AI Holdings are its shares of stock in Newco and approximately $3,400 in cash. By the Commission. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14936 Filed 6&hyph;17&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
