FR941110-0-00059 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: A few commenters believed that HCFA would be punishing those States that aggressively implement the Act, and some noted that States would have a financial incentive to ``settle'' during the survey process. Response: Because the Medicaid program is a joint Federal-State program, we do not believe that States have an incentive to spend their own State money on nursing care provided in a facility that does not meet the statutory requirements. Comment: Some wondered why HCFA's finding of noncompliance takes precedence over a State survey agency's finding of compliance, yet HCFA has no obligation to provide FFP during the appeal. Response: HCFA's finding of noncompliance takes precedence over a State's finding of compliance because the Act mandates this result in sections 1919(h)(6) and 1919(g)(3)(A). The Congress provided detailed procedures for resolving differences between a State and HCFA, but did not provide that FFP should continue merely because HCFA and a State disagree about a facility's compliance status. If HCFA's termination determination is overturned as a result of the appeal process, the State would receive FFP based on the reinstated provider agreement should the State have continued to make Medicaid payments to the facility. Comment: Some commenters apparently equated the availability of 120 days FFP during the hearing process with providing a pre-termination hearing. These commenters noted that Medicare's post-termination hearing does not cause concern to most providers because Medicare pays for only a small portion of days, whereas, to require post-termination hearings for Medicaid will cause greater concern because more money is at stake. Response: As we explain more fully elsewhere in this preamble, we believe it is important that, in light of the great similarity between facility requirements in Medicare and Medicaid and the fact that such a large percentage of facilities participate in both programs, appeal procedures ought to be the same for both programs. Additionally, because of the informal opportunities to resolve differences in the form of an informal dispute resolution mechanism, we believe that a facility's concerns for due process are more than adequately protected when balanced with the interests of nursing home residents in the swift correction of deficiencies. Redesignation of Sections
