FR941020-2-00002 FR941020-2-00001 AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT Privacy Act; Routine Uses for Offset of Federal Salaries or Benefits and for Disclosure to Consumer Reporting Agencies AGENCY: Agency for International Development, USAID. ACTION: Notice of an amendment of a Privacy Act system of records. SUMMARY: The Agency for International Development is adding two general routine uses for release of records. The first is to the Department of Defense, the U.S. Postal Service and other Federal agencies for the purpose of offsetting Federal salaries and benefits to recover delinquent debts owed to the U.S. Government. The second is for disclosure from specific systems of records to consumer reporting agencies to recover delinquent debts owed to the agency. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jan Miller, Office of General Counsel, 202/647&hyph;6380, Fax 202/647&hyph;8557. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: USAID's ``Statement of General Routine Uses'' is amended by adding the following: 12. A record in this system of records may be disclosed, as a routine use: To the Defense Manpower Data Center, Department of Defense and to the U.S. Postal Service, to conduct computer matching programs for the purpose of identifying and locating individuals who are receiving Federal salaries or benefit payment and delinquent in their repayment of debts owed to the U.S. Government under certain programs administered by USAID in order to collect the debts under the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97&hyph;365) by voluntary repayment, or by administrative or salary offset procedures; and to any other Federal agency for the purpose of effecting administrative or salary offset procedures against a person employed by that agency or receiving or eligible to receive some benefit payments from the agency when USAID as a creditor has a claim against that person. Disclosure of information about persons who are receiving Federal salaries or benefit payments and are delinquent in their repayment of debts owed to the U.S. Government under certain programs administered by USAID may be made to other Federal agencies, but only to the extent of determining whether the person is employed by that agency and if so, effecting administrative or salary offset procedures against the person. 13. A record in the following systems of records may be disclosed, as a routine use, to consumer reporting agencies: Claims Records (AID&hyph;20) Employee Payroll Records (AID&hyph;15) Litigation Records (AID&hyph;26) and Travel and Transportation Records (AID&hyph;19) Dated: September 29, 1994. Willette L. Smith, Public Affairs Specialist. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25981 Filed 10&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6116&hyph;01&hyph;M
