FR940303-2-00191 FR940303-2-00096 UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY Exchange Program To Enhance the Quality of Public Administration in the Jordan, Lebanon, and Syria (Public and Private Nonprofit Organizations in Support of International Educational and Cultural Activities) AGENCY: United States Information Agency. ACTION: Notice; request for proposals. SUMMARY: The Office of Citizen Exchanges (E/P) of the United States Information Agency's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs announces a competitive grants program for nonprofit organizations to develop a multi-phased exchange program intended to enhance the quality of public administration in Jordan, Lebanon, and Syria. Twelve to 15 public administrators from Jordan, Lebanon, and Syria, engaged in municipal management, the provision of social services, or educational administration, will travel to the United States for a six-week program in administration and management, combining a short but intensive introduction to management theory and practice and a month-long, hands-on internship in an appropriate American institutional structure. Subsequently, two or three American public administrators will travel to each of the target countries to conduct workshops and follow-on training activities with the original participants and their colleagues. Interested applicants are urged to read the complete Federal Register announcement before addressing inquiries to the Office or submitting their proposals. After the RFP deadline, the Office of Citizen Exchanges may not discuss this competition in any way with applicants until the final decisions are made. ANNOUNCEMENT NAME AND NUMBER: All communications with USIA concerning this announcement should refer to the above title and reference number E/P&hyph;94&hyph;21. DATES: Deadline for Proposals: All copies must be received at the U.S. Information Agency by 5 p.m. Washington, DC time on May 13, 1994. Faxed documents will not be accepted, nor will documents postmarked May 13, 1994, but received at a later date. It is the responsibility of each grant applicant to ensure that proposals are received by this deadline.
