FR941012-0-00116 FR941012-0-00011 OSHA believes these machine requirements are necessary to protect operators and other employees who are in the area where machines are being operated. According to the FRSI, 20 percent of all serious logging injuries involved machines (Ex. 4&hyph;65). Of all serious injuries reported, almost eight percent of employees injured were struck by a logging machine or vehicle. The record also shows that a significant number of logging employees are killed in machine accidents. The OSHA FCI report indicates that 17 percent of all employees were killed in machine accidents. The State of Washington fatality study in consistent with the FCI report. According to that study, almost 20 percent of the employee deaths resulted from machine rollover or being struck by a machine (Ex. 4&hyph;129). General Requirements At paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (ii) of the final rule, OSHA is requiring the employer to assure that each machine used by an employee is maintained and inspected so that the machine remains in serviceable condition. The employer must assure that any machine is inspected before initial use during a workshift, and that defects or damage be repaired or the unserviceable machine be replaced before work is commenced. Maintenance and inspection requirements were also contained in the proposed standard. Some commenters supported the general maintenance and inspection requirement for each machine (Ex. 5&hyph;10, 5&hyph;16). For example, one commenter said that daily cleaning and inspection of machines was a necessary element of fire prevention as well as other workplace protection (Ex. 5&hyph;10). OSHA believes that the reasoning and explanation for the maintenance and inspection requirements for PPE and hand and portable powered tools also applies to machines. (See discussion above of paragraphs (d)(1)(i), d(1)(ii), (e)(1)(i), and (e)(1)(ii).) As with tools and PPE, OSHA is imposing on the employer the obligation of assuring that machines are in serviceable condition. This obligation applies regardless of whether the employer or employee provides the machine. OSHA notes that because a general machine maintenance and inspection requirement has been included in the final rule, the Agency has deleted from the final rule proposed maintenance and/or inspection requirements for any particular machine safety feature. At paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of the final rule, OSHA is requiring that the employer assure that operating and maintenance instructions are available on the machine or in the area where the machine is being operated. This paragraph also requires that each machine operator and maintenance employee comply with the instructions. The pulpwood logging standard and the proposal both specified that instructions be kept with each machine. The proposed rule also contained a provision requiring operators and maintenance personnel to comply with the instructions. Some commenters supported the proposed provision, however, other commenters opposed requiring that instructions be kept on machines. These comments have been discussed above in the Major Issues section. Machine Operation At (f)(2)(i) of this final rule, OSHA is requiring that machines be operated only by designated persons. As explained above, a designated person is an employee who has the requisite knowledge, training and experience to perform specific duties. OSHA has included this provision in the final rule for two reasons. First, this provision must be read in conjunction with the training requirements in the final rule. The training provisions require that each machine operator be trained and demonstrate the ability to safely operate a machine before he/she is allowed to work independently. This provision reinforces the requirement that the employer not allow untrained personnel to operate machines. Second, training and skill are particularly necessary in an industry when machines are being operated in adverse weather conditions and on steep or unlevel terrain. Employees who have not been trained to safely operate a logging machine under such conditions could injure themselves or others. As noted earlier, over one-third of all employees reporting injuries in the WIR survey had never received any kind of training (Ex. 2&hyph;1).
