FR940503-2-00055 FR940503-2-00038 March 11, 1994. Assistant Secretary, Conservation and Renewable Energy, United States Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Ave., SW., Washington, DC 20585. Subject: Petition for Wavier and Application of Interim Waiver. Gentlemen: This is a Petition for Waiver and application of Interim Waiver submitted pursuant to Title 10 CFR 430.28. Waiver is requested from the test procedure for measuring Furnace Energy Consumption as found in appendix H to subpart B of part 430. The current test requires a 1.5 minute delay between burner ignition and the start of the circulating air blower. Armstrong Air Conditioning Inc. is requesting waiver and authorization to use a timed on delay instead of the specified 1.5 minutes for blower start-up after main burner ignition. Armstrong intends to use a fixed timing control on our GUK and GCK condensing gas furnaces and on our GUJ, GCJ, and GHJ non-condensing gas furnaces to gain additional energy savings that are achieved with the use of shorter blower on times. Test data for these furnaces with a timed on delay indicates an increase in AFUE. The use of a timed on delay reduces flue losses thus increasing furnace efficiency. Copies of confidential test data confirming these energy savings will be forwarded to you upon request. The current test procedure does not give Armstrong credit for the energy savings that can be obtained using fixed timing. ASHRAE 103&hyph;1993 test procedure that is under consideration by D.O.E. addresses the use of timed blower operation. Section 9.6.1 of ASHRAE 103&hyph;1993 requires testing of a furnace with this type of control to be set to its maximum setting. Armstrong's intent would be to request testing at this maximum setting. Granting of this Waiver permits testing of similar competitive products to be rated on a comparable basis to that of Armstrong. Armstrong is confident that this Waiver will be granted, and therefore requests an Interim Waiver be granted until a final ruling is made. Armstrong, as well as other manufacturers of domestic furnaces, have been granted similar waivers. Manufacturers that domestically market similar products have been sent a copy of this Petition for Waiver and Application for Interim Waiver. ␣␣␣Sincerely, Armstrong Air Conditioning Inc. Bruce R. Maike, Vice President Product Engineering. April 6, 1994. Assistant Secretary, Conservation and Renewable Energy, United States Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Ave., SW., Washington, DC 20585. Attention: Mr. Cyrus Nasseri. Subject: March 11, 1994 Petition for Waiver Addendum. Sir: Inadvertently in our Petition for Waiver and application for Interim Waiver, the delay on timing and the additional increase in AFUE was left out. Our intent is to use a 30 second delay between burner ignition and the start of the circulating air blower. An increase of 1.2 percentage points in AFUE can be achieved on the GUK and GCK condensing furnaces and an increase of .8 percentage points on the GUJ, GCJ, and GHJ furnaces. Please consider this information upon reviewing the Petition for Waiver and application for Interim Waiver. Should you require any additional information, please feel free to contact me. ␣␣␣Sincerely, Armstrong Air Conditioning Inc. Bruce R. Maike, Vice President Product Engineering. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10577 Filed 5&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
