FR940413-2-00041 FR940413-2-00025 [OPP&hyph;30000/48E; FRL&hyph;4770&hyph;2] Granular Carbofuran; Proposed Decision to Deny FMC Corp's Request for Reinstatement of the Corn and Sorghum Uses; Proposed Decision to Grant an Extension of the Phase-Out Period for Use on Rice; Call for Reduced Risk Alternatives to Control Rice Water Weevil AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: FMC Corporation and grower groups have requested reinstatement of the corn and sorghum uses, and extension of the phase-out period for the rice use of granular carbofuran. These three uses of granular carbofuran are currently being phased out according to the terms of an Agreement in Principle between FMC Corp. and EPA that concluded the Special Review of granular carbofuran. This notice announces EPA's proposed decision to deny FMC's request for reinstatement of the use of granular carbofuran on corn and sorghum, and to grant FMC's request for an extension to the phase-out period for rice. EPA's proposed decision to extend the rice use is subject to 40 CFR 154.35 because the extension of use might increase avian risk, which was the basis of the Special Review of granular carbofuran. EPA is proposing an extension of the use of granular carbofuran on rice because there are currently no efficacious alternatives available. In conjunction with the proposed extension of the phase-out period of granular carbofuran on rice, EPA is encouraging the registration of reduced risk alternatives to control rice water weevil. Specifically, EPA is asking pesticide manufacturers who are currently developing data in support of the rice registration or who are giving consideration to pursuing a rice registration in the near future, to inform the Agency of their plans. EPA will provide incentives for manufacturers if they have adequate data to support their claims of reduced risk. EPA is also calling for data on integrated pest management (IPM) strategies and non-chemical control methods for rice water weevil. DATES: Written comments must be submitted by July 12, 1994. ADDRESSES: By mail submit comments identified by the document control number [OPP&hyph;30000/48E] to: OPP Docket, Public Response and Program Resources Branch, Field Operations Division (7506C), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. In person bring comments identified by document control number (OPP&hyph;30000/48E) to: OPP Docket, Rm 1132, CM #2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: By mail: Margaret Rice, Special Review and Reregistration Division (7508W), Office of Pesticide Programs, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. Office location and telephone number: Special Review Branch, Rm. WF32N4, Crystal Station #1, 2800 Crystal Drive, Arlington, Virginia, (703) 308&hyph;8039. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background The Special Review of granular carbofuran was initiated in October 1985 (50 FR 41938), based solely on acute risk to avian species. In January, 1989, EPA's Preliminary Determination (54 FR 3744, January 25, 1989) proposed to cancel all uses based on the finding that the risks of granular carbofuran outweighed the benefits of continued use. EPA presented its proposed decision for public comment, to the Federal Insecticide Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) Scientific Advisory Panel (SAP), and to the U. S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). The SAP generally supported EPA's avian risk assessment methodology and the Agency's proposal to cancel all uses where efficacious alternatives were available. USDA provided information related to the use of granular carbofuran that EPA subsequently incorporated into its final benefits assessment. The ``Granular Carbofuran Conclusion of Special Review Technical Support Document,'' available in the OPP Docket, contains EPA's detailed response to the SAP, USDA, and public comments received in response to EPA's Preliminary Determination. While the Agency was preparing to finalize the proposed cancellation, FMC Corporation, the sole registrant of granular carbofuran, entered into negotiations with EPA. The result of the negotiations was an Agreement in Principle signed on May 13, 1991, which provided for phasing out 99 percent of the use of granular carbofuran over a 4-year period. The conclusion of the granular carbofuran Special Review (56 FR 64621, December 11, 1991) was based on amendments to the granular carbofuran registrations, including geographic restrictions, label changes, and phase-out of major uses, submitted to the Agency by FMC that implemented the terms and conditions of the Agreement in Principle. EPA determined that these amendments brought the risks and benefits of granular carbofuran into balance such that the Special Review could be concluded. The Agreement in Principle provided for the complete phase-out of granular carbofuran use by September 1, 1994, with the exception of five crops where minor amounts are used. Thus, pursuant to the Agreement in Principle, corn and sorghum were deleted from the granular carbofuran labels effective September 1, 1993. FMC has amended its label to delete the rice use effective September 1, 1994. The Agreement provides that beginning September 1, 1994, granular carbofuran will be labeled for use only on the following sites: bananas (in Hawaii only), cucurbits (pumpkins, cucumbers, watermelons, cantaloupes, and squash), dry-harvested cranberries, pine progeny tests, and spinach grown for seed. No more than a total of 4.5 million pounds of active ingredient (ai) in granular formulation was to have been sold in the United States between September 1, 1991 and August 31, 1994, with an additional limit of no more than 400,000 pounds ai to be sold between September 1, 1993 and August 31, 1994. Remaining stocks of granular carbofuran in the hands of growers and distributors labeled for use on corn and sorghum may be sold and used until September 1, 1994, i.e., 1 year after the deletions of those uses from the registrations. Similarly, granular carbofuran labeled for use on rice, in the possession of growers and distributors, may be used until September 1, 1995. FMC submitted label amendments embodying the terms and conditions of the Agreement in Principle. EPA published a notice (56 FR 33286) pursuant to section 6 (f) of FIFRA announcing the schedule for deletion of granular carbofuran uses on July 19, 1991. The Agreement in Principle stipulated that EPA would provide FMC with the opportunity for a meeting with the Director of the Office of Pesticide Programs regarding the risks and benefits of the corn, sorghum and rice uses of granular carbofuran prior to the effective dates of deletion of those uses from the label. FMC met with EPA on October 6 and 12, 1993, to present information in support of reinstating the corn and sorghum uses and extending the phase-out period of the rice use. All materials submitted by FMC as well as minutes of the October 6th and 12th meetings can be found in the OPP Docket. EPA has reviewed the material presented by FMC and other interested parties related to these three uses as input to this proposed decision. Granting any of FMC's requests would necessitate modification to the terms and conditions of the granular carbofuran registrations that were agreed upon by EPA and FMC, and that provided the basis for conclusion of the Special Review. Although EPA's proposed decision to deny FMC's request for modification that would allow additional use of granular carbofuran on corn and sorghum does not represent a change to the terms and condition of the registration, EPA is, nonetheless, offering a final opportunity for growers and others affected by the decision to come forward with relevant information. II. Arguments Put Forth by FMC in Support of Continued Use of Granular Carbofuran on Corn, Sorghum, and Rice Materials submitted by FMC in support of their request to continue the use of granular carbofuran on corn, sorghum, and rice are available for public viewing in the OPP Public Docket. These materials include minutes of the October 6 and 12 meetings with EPA. In its submissions, FMC contends that, in terms of benefits: 1. Taking into account changes to the 1990 Farm Bill would significantly increase benefits estimates. 2. Annual economic impacts due to the loss of granular carbofuran for corn and sorghum are considerably higher than EPA estimated in the Final Benefits Analyses. 3. The use of granular carbofuran provides indirect benefits of $50 to $100 million per year in hunting and recreational revenue, resulting from waterfowl habitat preservation in rice growing areas. In terms of risks, FMC contends that: 1. EPA's previous avian risk assessment was inadequate to determine the impact of granular carbofuran on bird populations. FMC submitted a protocol for a study intended to assess the probability of adverse effects from the use of granular carbofuran on populations of local and migratory bird species. 2. No additional kill incidents have occurred since 1991 from granular carbofuran used at planting on corn, sorghum, or rice. Relatively few bird kill incidents have occurred considering the more than 20 years of granular carbofuran use. 3. Cluster analysis would show granular carbofuran relatively low in risk compared to alternatives, if all risk endpoints were considered. III. Other Public Comments Received After the Conclusion of the Special Review In addition to the material submitted by FMC, EPA has received and considered information from others affected by the phase-out of granular carbofuran. These comments are summarized below. In a letter to EPA dated March 10, 1992, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) supported EPA's decision to phase-out most uses of granular carbofuran, because the phase-out was likely to prevent the deaths of untold numbers of migratory birds in the United States each year. However, FWS also indicated that they believed that there are no conditions under which granular carbofuran can be used without presenting unreasonable risk. The FWS supported full cancellation of all pesticide products containing carbofuran. The FWS letter stated that the continued registration of carbofuran poses conflict with several Federal wildlife statutes including the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act, and the Endangered Species Act. An attachment to the letter listed additional bird kill incidents, many not previously reported to EPA. EPA received numerous letters from Senators and Congressmen from corn, sorghum, and rice producing states supporting continued use. EPA received one letter from the National Corn Growers Association in support of continued use on corn. The National Grain Sorghum Producers submitted a letter with extension bulletins attached, and subsequently met with EPA on September 20, 1993 to outline the importance of several chemicals, including carbofuran, to grain sorghum production. The U.S. Rice Environmental Committee met with the Agency on June 18, 1992. They subsequently submitted a package to EPA that included: An analysis of potential chemical and non-chemical alternatives for control of rice water weevil; letters from State agencies, regional and National wildlife organizations attesting to improvement in application procedures and product stewardship to mitigate avian risk and the importance of rice fields as wildlife habitat; and letters from individuals and grower cooperatives attesting to the economic benefits of granular carbofuran use. Letters from the California Environmental Protection Agency and the California Department of Fish and Game specifically support the U.S. Rice Environmental Committee's position to retain the use of granular carbofuran on rice. Letters from the Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries, the Mississippi Department of Wildlife, Fisheries and Parks, the Missouri Department of Conservation, and the FWS Wildlife and Habitat Management Office in St. Charles, Arkansas emphasized the importance of rice lands as habitat for migratory waterfowl, but did not state a position on the continued use of granular carbofuran. It should be noted that during the comment period for the Preliminary Determination, many local, State, and National wildlife organizations wrote in support of EPA's proposal to ban all uses of granular carbofuran. These include the National Wildlife Federation, Defenders of Wildlife, the Rachel Carson Council, the International Crane Foundation, and the Canadian Wildlife Service. The National Audubon Society, favored immediate suspension for all uses except rice. They expressed concern about the possible effect of cancellation on wildlife habitat in California. EPA received letters from the following State wildlife and resource agencies in support of the Preliminary Determination to cancel granular carbofuran: the Indiana Department of Natural Resources, the Virginia Department of Natural Resources, the Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation, the Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish Commission, the Minnesota State Department of Natural Resources, the Louisiana Wildlife Federation, the Arizona Game and Fish Department, the Montana Department of Fish, Wildlife and Game, the North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission, the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, the Arizona Game and Fish Department, the Missouri Department of Conservation, and the Kansas Department of Wildlife and Parks. IV. EPA Response EPA's detailed response to issues raised by FMC and other commentors is contained in a memo titled, ``Analysis and Recommendation RE: FMC's Proposal to Reinstate the Use of Granular Carbofuran on Corn, Sorghum, and Rice.'' The memo is available in the OPP Docket. With respect to benefits, major points are summarized as follows: 1. Changes in agricultural policy, specifically to crop support programs, have been significant since EPA and others initially evaluated the benefits of granular carbofuran use. However, the higher benefits estimates generated by FMC are primarily attributable to their claim of large yield loss estimates for corn and sorghum. EPA finds insufficient evidence in FMC's submission to support FMC's high yield loss estimates. 2. FMC's economic analyses for corn and sorghum did not consider all available alternatives or all available efficacy data. In both cases, limited regional impacts were presented as national. For the sorghum analysis, FMC used the least effective alternative to calculate potential losses. All of these factors contributed to the higher estimates used by FMC. 3. EPA did not consider indirect benefits from hunting revenue, because these benefits are not unique to carbofuran. FMC's estimate of $50 to $100 million is exaggerated due to their use of several implausible assumptions regarding the use of economic multipliers and the relationship between granular carbofuran treated rice fields and total waterfowl habitat. With respect to risk, major points are summarized as follows: 1. EPA's risk assessment did not emphasize impacts on bird populations. EPA's concern with granular carbofuran is based on its high acute toxicity to birds, field studies, and incident reports documenting widespread and repeated mortality to many species of birds, including eagles, hawks and other predators. Incidents of both primary and secondary poisonings have been observed and documented in many different geographic areas, associated with many different use sites, and under varying environmental conditions. Legal precedent exists for pesticide regulatory decisions based on recurrent kills as an unreasonable adverse effect ( Ciba-Geigy Corp. v. EPA , 847 F.2d 277, 5th Cir. 1989). 2. FMC has not provided documentation of systematic monitoring of specific use sites to substantiate claims of reduced avian risk and elimination of kill incidents. Only letters of a testimonial nature have been provided. Six additional wildlife kill incidents have been reported to EPA since the conclusion of the Special Review in 1991. Species killed include a bald eagle, Canada geese, and red-tailed hawks. 3. EPA's assessment did address the comparative risk of alternatives in the 1991 Technical Support Document for the conclusion of the Special Review. V. EPA's Proposed Decision on Corn and Sorghum EPA finds no basis for reinstating either the corn or sorghum uses in the information provided by FMC and other commentors. EPA disagrees with the assumptions supporting FMC's claims of yield losses higher than those estimated by the Agency. FMC did not consider all available alternatives nor did they include all available efficacy data in their analysis. In its Final Benefits Analysis for Sorghum, EPA found that there are efficacious alternatives available for all corn and sorghum uses, except for a very limited area of Nebraska during high chinchbug infestation years. These findings are based on efficacy tests conducted by universities and state agricultural agencies. Material presented by sorghum growers contained no actual data to substantiate claims of high anticipated yield losses. No new data or information has been put forth that would substantively change the risk/benefit decision that formed the basis for the Agreement in Principle. Therefore, EPA proposes to deny FMC's request to reinstate the corn and sorghum uses of granular carbofuran. Pursuant to 40 CFR 154.35, EPA is not required to solicit comment on this decision to deny FMC's request for reinstatement of the corn and sorghum uses, since this decision would not modify the previous Agreement in Principle between FMC and EPA that concluded the Special Review. Because individuals affected by this decision have come forward and indicated that they were unaware that granular carbofuran would no longer be available for use on corn and sorghum in 1994, EPA will consider additional, new, and relevant data submitted to the Agency during the comment period for this notice. EPA is providing this additional comment period even though public comment on the decision to cancel all uses of granular carbofuran has been solicited previously in the Special Review Preliminary Determination (54 FR 3744). EPA responded to comments received at that time in the ``Granular Carbofuran Conclusion of the Special Review Technical Support Document'' available in the OPP Docket. EPA requests that any additional comments be focused on new and substantive data. See unit IX, of this notice, for a discussion of the specific data that are most useful to EPA. VI. EPA Proposed Decision on Rice EPA is proposing an extension to the current phase-out schedule for granular carbofuran use on rice because there are still no registered alternative chemical controls for rice water weevil, and there are currently no applications in the registration pipeline for this use. The absence of alternatives was a consideration in the decision that concluded the Special Review and continues to be of concern to the Agency. EPA is also concerned that non-chemical control options, specifically draining fields and eliminating vegetation on field edges (clean farming), may not provide effective control of rice water weevil and may compromise wildlife habitat initiatives that conservation groups have implemented with rice growers. EPA is soliciting additional data on these practices and on other pest control strategies that could reduce use of granular carbofuran while at the same time maintaining or enhancing wildlife habitat in rice growing areas. EPA is proposing a maximum 2 year extension to the current phase-out schedule for the use of granular carbofuran on rice. The Agency notes that the current phase-out schedule has already allowed substantial time for the development and implementation of alternative control methods, since the issuance of the Preliminary Determination in 1989. EPA further proposes that any extension of the use of granular carbofuran on rice be subject to the following conditions: 1. Production and sales by FMC will be limited to 250,000 pounds of active ingredient (ai) sold in granular formulations per year for the 1995 and 1996 use seasons for use on rice and the five minor uses stipulated in the Agreement in Principle. FMC must direct 2,500 pounds of the total 250,000 pounds ai to the areas where the five minor use crops are grown during the 1995 and 1996 use seasons. For the purpose of the proposed extension, the 1995 ``use season'' begins September 1, 1994 and ends August 31, 1995. Similarly, the 1996 use season begins September 1, 1995 and ends August 31, 1996. 2. Existing stocks in the possession of dealers and growers may be used on rice until September 1, 1997. 3. Production and sales by FMC will be limited to 2,500 pounds ai per year for use only on the five sites stipulated in the Agreement in Principle for 1997 and subsequent years. 4. No production and sales by FMC will be allowed for use on rice during the 1996 growing season, however, if a FIFRA section 3 registration for an alternative to control rice water weevil appears imminent at the end of the 1995 growing season. On or before September 1, 1995, EPA will assess the prospect for registration of alternatives to control rice water weevil and advise FMC and other interested parties if production and sales of granular carbofuran for use on rice will be allowed for the 1996 growing season. EPA's assessment of the registration prospect for alternatives will include: The product's efficacy in controlling rice water weevil; the completeness of the data base; and, the Agency's finding that the product presents less risk to the environment and human health than granular carbofuran. 5. For each use season, during any period of extension, FMC must submit to EPA by October 15, a report containing FMC's granular carbofuran production and sales totals for domestic use for the immediately preceding use season. FMC will provide EPA with batch numbers and keys for granular carbofuran product produced for the 1995 and 1996 domestic use seasons to facilitate identification of product by year. 6. FMC may be required to implement label changes or other measures to reduce avian risk during the period of extension. These may include but are not limited to: endangered species bulletins; user education and stewardship programs; and, scouting to determine infestation levels prior to application. The FWS may issue a new Biological Opinion during the 90&hyph;day comment period for this Notice. The Opinion is the result of an ongoing consultation between EPA and FWS regarding the potential of carbofuran to adversely affect endangered species. The Opinion or other comments from the FWS could influence EPA's decision on extending the use of granular carbofuran on rice. 7. All terms and conditions of the May 1991 Agreement in Principle will apply in the case of the extension, except the specific phase-out schedule and production limits for the rice use. EPA views the proposed extension of the phase-out of granular carbofuran on rice as a transitional measure. The U.S. Rice Environmental Committee has provided documentation of on-going research on both chemical and non-chemical controls for rice water weevil. In addition, the Committee has promoted cooperative efforts between rice growers and environmental organizations to enhance wildlife habitat in rice growing areas. The Agency will make every effort to encourage the registration and use of environmentally sound alternative control measures for rice water weevil. However, growers and others affected by the phase-out of granular carbofuran on rice are advised that EPA has already allowed substantial time for the development and adoption of alternative pest control methods. For this reason, extensions beyond those proposed in this notice are most unlikely. EPA has not changed the basic conclusions outlined in the granular carbofuran Special Review Final Determination, specifically, that the use of granular carbofuran on rice poses unreasonable risk to avian species. VII. Incentives for Development and Registration of Reduced Risk Alternatives to Control Rice Water Weevil EPA is committed to reducing risk from pesticide use by eliminating or limiting the use of the most dangerous pesticides, promoting the registration of reduced risk chemical alternatives, and promoting the development and implementation of integrated pest management strategies. In the case of rice water weevil, EPA notes that many chemicals have been tested and shown promise in controlling this pest. However, no manufacturers have yet pursued registrations for this use. In order to promote registrations of reduced risk alternatives for control of rice water weevil, EPA is soliciting letters indicating interest or intent to register products for this use, from manufacturers of new active ingredients, as well as active ingredients already registered on other sites. The Agency encourages registrants who can demonstrate that their products present less risk to the environment and human health than does the use of granular carbofuran to control rice water weevil to come forward now. The letters, indicating interest or intent, should provide rationale for claims of reduced risk that are organized and presented according to the ``Guidelines for Content of Reduced-Risk Rationales'' found in Pesticide Regulation (PR) Notice 93&hyph;9. The ``Guidelines'' contained in PR Notice 93&hyph;9, in this instance, are being used for formatting purposes only. It should be noted that PR Notice 93&hyph;9 applies only to applicants seeking to register new active ingredients, and should not be confused with the call for safer alternatives for the control of rice water weevil that applies to both new active ingredients and new uses of active ingredients registered on other sites. The letters of interest should also indicate when an application could be submitted. If registrants cannot provide a precise schedule, they should give an approximation of when they believe their section 3 application and tolerance requests will be submitted. EPA will treat information supplied by registrants as confidential, if the registrant so requests. Unit X of this notice, outlines procedures for submitting confidential business information. Respondents need not submit actual registration applications at this time. EPA intends to evaluate the letters/rationales received in response to this notice to determine which ones may qualify for special consideration as reduced risk pesticides. If the rationale provided demonstrates the opportunity for risk reduction, EPA will notify the registrant that the Agency will consider this factor in determining review priority for their registration application for the rice use. However, when registration packages are submitted, they must include all relevant data necessary for EPA to complete a risk assessment and make a regulatory decision. EPA is willing to consider other incentives that may apply in specific cases, for example, waiving tolerance fees for small businesses seeking registrations for biological pesticides. The Agency encourages registrants to suggest other reasonable incentives that may apply to their case that would stimulate their interest in coming forward sooner rather than later with registrations for the rice use. EPA recognizes the cost of developing additional data for an aquatic food use such as rice may be a potential barrier to registering reduced risk alternatives. The Agency encourages pesticide user groups, including grower organizations, to consider the option of providing assistance in developing the data required to support registration of alternatives to control rice water weevil. Assistance provided by user groups could range from participation in efficacy, crop residue, and phytotoxicity studies, to direct funding of environmental or human safety studies. EPA is also interested in data on the effectiveness of biological, cultural and integrated pest control strategies for rice water weevil. Material related to alternatives and incentives should be sent to the contact designated at the beginning of this notice. VIII. Coordination with USDA EPA is working with USDA to improve existing procedures to ensure that all affected end users are notified of EPA's proposed pesticide actions and are provided with the opportunity to contribute information relevant to those actions in a timely manner. EPA is also working with USDA to provide information to researchers on pesticides which have triggered environmental or human health concerns, so that this information can be used in identifying needs for research and development of alternatives. IX. Public Comments In the course of the Special Review of granular carbofuran, and in Special Reviews in general, EPA has relied on certain categories of data. Data used for Special Review decisions are derived from studies using controlled, scientific methods. For the benefits assessments these data include: comparative product performance (efficacy) data, particularly data on yield loss and market grade losses; quantitative usage data; data related to the distribution and life cycle of crop pests; and historic data on pest damage and levels of infestation. Comparative product performance data is generated from side-by-side trials of carbofuran and its alternatives. Performance tests compare the ability of products to control a specific pest and some also evaluate the effects on yield. Data considered in the granular carbofuran Special Review avian risk assessment include: laboratory toxicity data; toxicity and relative risk of alternative pest control measures; field studies; monitoring programs; and poisoning incidents associated with direct and secondary exposure to carbofuran. Field studies and monitoring both require systematic observation by technicians trained to recognize abnormal bird behavior and other evidence of exposure. In order to be scientifically valid, field studies should be conducted according to established protocols for survey methods, searching techniques and timing, and documentation of environmental conditions and application practices. The incident data used by EPA in the granular carbofuran Special Review generally involve laboratory analysis of bird carcasses to determine cause of death. Commentors are advised that data related to the categories listed above will be most useful to the Agency in reviewing the proposed regulatory decision on granular carbofuran. Letters of a testimonial nature without supporting, scientifically derived data are of limited utility. The following information would also be useful to the Agency: 1. Letters of intent or interest in registering new or existing chemicals for control of rice water weevil, as described in unit VII of this notice. 2. Data on additional measures that could be adopted to reduce avian risk. 3. Information from growers or organizations with knowledge of effective, non-chemical or IPM strategies for control of rice water weevil. 4. Data on the long-term impacts of population growth and geographic distribution of rice water weevil. 5. Data on the effectiveness of clean farming in controlling rice water weevil, and the schedule of vegetation removal in relation to bird use of rice fields. 6. State agricultural and wildlife agencies are encouraged to comment on methods to further reduce the use of granular carbofuran in rice growing areas through prescriptive use or other measures, and on how to monitor enforcement of label restrictions more effectively. X. Public Record EPA has established a public record (OPP&hyph;30000/48) for the granular carbofuran Special Review and related actions. The public record includes: 1. This Notice. 2. Materials submitted by the FMC Corporation and others in support of their request to modify the terms and conditions of the granular carbofuran registrations. 3. EPA's ``Analysis and Recommendation RE: FMC's Proposal to Reinstate the Use of Granular Carbofuran on Corn, Sorghum, and Rice.'' 4. EPA's Federal Register notice announcing receipt of FMC's request to amend their granular carbofuran registrations. July 19, 1991 (56 FR 33286). 5. EPA's Federal Register notice concluding the Special Review of granular carbofuran. December 11, 1991 (56 FR 64621). 6. Other correspondence and documents related to the Special Review of granular carbofuran. 7. A current index of materials in the public docket. Written comments received in response to this notice will be placed in the public docket. If substantive comments are received during the 90&hyph;day comment period, EPA will issue a second notice responding to the comments. Information submitted in any comment concerning this notice may be claimed confidential by marking any part or all of that information as ``Confidential Business Information'' (CBI). Information so marked will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. A copy of the comment that does not contain CBI must be submitted for inclusion in the public record. Information not marked confidential may be disclosed by EPA without prior notice to the submitter. The docket and index will be available for inspection and copying from 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except legal holidays, at the address given earlier in this notice. Dated: March 28, 1994. Douglas D. Campt, Director, Office of Pesticide Programs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8733 Filed 4&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
