FR940803-1-00065 FR940803-1-00014 Much confusion clouds the taxonomy of Medionidus species in the Apalachicolan Region. In the Chipola River system, van der Schalie (1940) recorded two species of Medionidus ( M. kingi and M. penicillatus ). Clench and Turner (1956) synonomized M. kingi and two other nominate species, the Ochlockonee moccasinshell and Suwannee moccasinshell with the Gulf moccasinshell, an arrangement also followed by Burch (1975). Johnson (1970) erroneously reported both the Gulf moccasinshell and Suwannee moccasinshell from the Apalachicola River system and the Suwannee moccasinshell from the Ochlockonee and Suwannee rivers as well. In his monograph on Medionidus, Johnson (1977) recognized the validity of the Gulf moccasinshell, Ochlockonee moccasinshell, and Suwannee moccasinshell from Apalachicolan Region streams based on shell characters. Turgeon et al. (1988) also recognized the validity of these three allopatrically distributed mussels. The Gulf moccasinshell was described from three sites in the Apalachicola River system in Georgia: the Chattahoochee River near Columbus and Atlanta, and the Flint River near Albany. The historical distribution of this diminutive species included 18 sites in the tributaries and mainstems of the Flint and Chattahoochee rivers, one Apalachicola River site, and 12 sites in the Chipola River system. The Gulf moccasinshell is known from 38 historical sites and has been eliminated from about three-quarters of its original range. It persists at eight tributary sites in the middle Flint River system, and in Econfina Creek (Butler 1993) but has not been collected in the Choctawhatchee River system since the early 1930's. Large populations (60+ individuals) were documented at several of historical sites in the Chipola River system (van der Schalie 1940); they probably occurred in similar numbers at other sites as well. However, recent collections of the Gulf moccasinshell indicate that only small populations persist today. The Service's recent survey of the Apalachicola River system located a total of only 10 specimens. Given the small sample sizes, the population viability of this species is questionable. The Gulf moccasinshell does not tolerate impoundments. The Ochlockonee moccasinshell ( Medionidus simpsonianus ) is a small species, generally under 55 mm (2.5 in) in length. It is slightly elongate-elliptical in outline with the posterior end obtusely rounded at the shell s median line and the ventral margin broadly curved. The posterior ridge is moderately angular and covered in its entire length with well developed, irregular ridges. Sculpturing may also extend onto the disk below the ridge and the surface texture is smooth. The color is light brown to yellowish green, with dark green rays formed by a series of connecting chevrons or undulating lines across the length of the shell. Internal characters include thin straight lateral teeth and compressed pseudocardinal teeth. There are two laterals and two pseudocardinals in the left valve and one lateral and one pseudocardinal in the right valve. The nacre is bluish white. The Service considers Unio simpsonianus to be a synonym of Medionidus simpsonianus. The Ochlockonee moccasinshell was described from the Ochlockonee River, Calvary, Grady County, Georgia. This mussel was known historically from six sites in the mainstem above Talquin Reservoir, three each in Georgia and Florida, and single site locations on the lower mainstem below Talquin Reservoir and in the Little River (Johnson 1977, Butler 1993). However, since 1974, the Ochlockonee moccasinshell has been represented by only two live individuals (both found as individuals at a single site in the mainstem above Talquin Reservoir in Florida in the past 5 years) despite concerted efforts by numerous investigators to locate additional populations. Four weathered dead shells were found at other mainstem sites in the past few years, including two sites in Georgia and one site in Florida. Once a fairly common species, with some populations numbering in the dozens of individuals, the Ochlockonee moccasinshell is now one of the rarest mussels in North America. This narrow endemic does not tolerate impoundment conditions. The oval pigtoe (Pleurobema pyriforme ) is a small to medium-sized mussel that attains a length of about 60 mm (2.4 in). The shell is suboviform compressed, with a shiny smooth epidermis. The periostracum is yellowish, chestnut, or dark brown, rayless, and with distinct growth lines. The posterior slope is biangulate and forms a blunt point on the posterior margin. The umbos are slightly elevated above the hingeline. As is typical of the genus, no sexual dimorphism is displayed in shell characters. Internally the pseudocardinal teeth are fairly large, crenulate and double in both valves. The lateral teeth are somewhat shortened, arcuate and double in each valve. Nacre color varies from salmon to bluish white and is iridescent posteriorly. Variation in this species has led to the description of various nominal species. The Service recognizes Unio pyriforme, Unio modicus, Unio bulbosus, Unio amabilis, Unio reclusum, Unio harperi, and Pleurobema simpsoni as synonyms of Pleurobema pyriforme.
