FR941026-1-00011 FR941026-1-00005 (a) What are the appropriate units of measure to use to compare infant fatalities/injuries from automobile travel to infant fatalities/injuries from air travel? (b) What is the infant automobile passenger fatality, serious injury, and minor injury incidence rate for families with infants traveling by automobile? How does this incidence rate compare with those of families traveling by air? (c) What is the non-infant automobile passenger fatality, serious injury, and minor injury incidence rate for families with infants traveling by automobile? How does this incidence rate compare with those of families traveling by air? (d) How does the automobile accident rate for parents and guardians of infants compare with the automobile accident rate for the general population? (e) When is the passenger seat and safety belt that is available to an adult passenger (without the child safety seat) safe enough for a child? (f) When should seats not manufactured to federal motor vehicle safety standards be used (if at all)? With regard to the issue of the efficacy of infant restraints, the FAA has completed a study entitled ``The Performance of Child Restraint Devices in Transport Airplane Passenger Seats.'' A notice of availability was published in the Federal Register on September 27, 1994 (59 FR 49276). The FAA is continuing to study child restraint systems and to work with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to develop revised standards for child safety seat testing and labeling. The FAA will be seeking data from some individually selected air carriers, air taxis, and commercial operators or their representatives concerning anticipated pricing policies if child safety seats are mandated for infants. This data is needed to respond to the Congressional request for a report and would constitute competitive commercial information. To avoid any improper exchange of competitive price or marketing information the FAA will maintain the confidentiality of such information. Raw data of this nature will not be disclosed; rather, any presentation of such data will be aggregated to avoid any competitive concerns. Comments Invited Parties interested in the congressionally mandated study of child safety seats are invited to submit such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Comments that provide a factual basis which support the views and suggestions presented are particularly helpful in analyzing the child safety seat issues. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, competitive, and small business aspects of child safety seat use and of potential alternatives. Written submissions should identify the docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration, Office of Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket (AGC&hyph;200), 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591. Comments should not be sent or directed to any of the contractors that have been engaged by the FAA to provide information for the study. All comments received on or before the closing date for comments will be fully considered. To the extent possible, all comments received after the closing date will be considered also. All comments submitted, will be available for examination in the Rules Docket both before and after the closing date for comments. Issued in Washington, DC, on October 20, 1994. Dale E. McDaniel, Deputy Assistant Administrator for Policy, Planning, and International Aviation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26441 Filed 10&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
