FR940721-0-00090 FR940721-0-00014 (7) A certification for the information, pursuant to §583.13, and the date (at least giving the month and year) of the certification. (8) A single certificate may cover multiple items of equipment. (b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the information provided in the certificate shall be the supplier's best estimates of price, content, and country of origin for the unique type of equipment expected to be supplied during the 12 month period beginning on the first July 1 after receipt of the request. If the unique type of equipment supplied by the supplier is expected to vary with respect to price, content, and country of origin during that period, the supplier shall base its estimates on expected averages for these factors. (2) The 12 month period specified in (b)(1) may be varied in time and length by the manufacturer if it determines that the alteration is not likely to result in less accurate information being provided to consumers on the label required by this part. (d) For allied suppliers of engines and transmissions, the information and certification required by this section is in addition to that required by §583.12. §583.12 Suppliers of engines and transmissions. (a) For each engine or transmission for which a manufacturer or allied supplier requests information, the supplier of such engine or transmission shall provide the manufacturer or allied supplier with a certificate providing the following information: (1) The name and address of the supplier; (2) A description of the engine or transmission; (3) The country of origin of the engine or transmission, determined under §583.8; (4) A certification for the information, pursuant to §583.13, and the date (at least giving the month and year) of the certification. (b) The information provided in the certificate shall be the supplier's best estimate of country of origin for the unique type of engine or transmission. If the unique type of equipment used in the engine or transmission is expected to vary with respect to price, content, and country of origin during that period, the supplier shall base its country of origin determination on expected averages for these factors. (c) The information and certification required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be provided by outside suppliers to the manufacturer or allied supplier no later than 45 days after receipt of the request, or the date specified by the manufacturer/allied supplier, whichever is later. (A manufacturer or allied supplier may request that the outside supplier voluntarily provide the information and certification at an earlier date.)
