FR940217-1-00077 FR940217-1-00014 In addition, this section would be amended to specify additional steps that the Secretary may take to insure the payment of any liabilities that are owed. Under this section, if an institution or third-party servicer owes funds, the Secretary may determine that an administrative offset (as provided for under 34 CFR 30.28) is an appropriate alternative to collect those funds. In the case of an institution or third-party servicer that provides surety or a guarantee for the benefit of the Secretary, such as a bond or letter of credit, the Secretary may determine it is necessary to collect from that surety or guarantee before the procedures under subpart H of this part are completed, if circumstances warrant. The Secretary would collect a surety or guarantee before all available appeal procedures are completed_ (1) Where the need to provide relief to students or borrowers affected by the institution's or third-party servicer's actions, as applicable, that led to the assessment of liability, is more important than deferring collection activities until after the completion of appeal proceedings (for example, when unpaid refunds to the Title IV, HEA programs are identified, the Secretary may collect in advance of a final determination or exhaustion of appeal procedures, as the harm to students outweighs deferring collection); or (2) Where the conditions under which a surety or guarantee are held do not provide adequate assurances that the surety or guarantee will be available for collection through the completion of available appeal proceedings. These modifications would provide clarification in the regulations of the Secretary's existing practice and authority to collect from sureties or guarantees in accordance with their terms, prior to final determinations of liabilities or exhaustion of appeal procedures. The Secretary also proposes to make clear that an institution is responsible for repayment of any funds owed by its servicer until those funds are repaid by the servicer. The Secretary considers this provision necessary because an institution is always responsible for the actions of its agents. The Secretary proposes that if a determination is made to assess a liability against a third-party servicer, the servicer would be required to notify each institution under whose contract the servicer was assessed a liability of the Secretary's determination. The servicer would also be required to notify every institution that contracts with the servicer for the same service that the Secretary determined a liability is owed. Final consensus on this particular language was not reached as negotiators believed that this provision essentially requires the notification of all institutions with which a servicer contracts. Negotiators objected to a notice being provided to institutions that a servicer contracts with that would not be directly affected by a determination from the Secretary to assess liability. A number of negotiators opposed this language on the ground that such a blanket notification unnecessarily damages a servicer's reputation among unaffected institutions. However, the Secretary believes that an institution that contracts with a third-party servicer should be informed of determinations by the Department of Education that the institution's servicer is improperly administering the Title IV, HEA programs, especially given the potential liability exposure to the institution. These notification requirements would arise only if the Secretary determines that a third-party servicer owes a liability based on an audit finding, after providing the institution or third-party servicer an opportunity to respond to an audit report response. By limiting the requirement for notice provided by a third-party servicer to institutions receiving the same service for which a liability was assessed, the Secretary believes that he has responded to any legitimate concerns raised by the negotiators. Section 668.25 Contracts between an institution and a third-party servicer. The Secretary proposes to redesignate ยง668.25, governing loss of institutional eligibility, as ยง668.26 and to add a new ยง668.25 that would establish minimum requirements for contracts between an institution and a third-party servicer. Proposed ยง668.25 would allow an institution to contract with a servicer to administer aspects of the institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program only to the extent that the servicer's eligibility to contract with that institution has not been limited, suspended, or terminated under the proceedings in Subpart G (as proposed to be amended). In addition, under these proposed regulations, a third-party servicer is considered eligible to contract with an institution to administer aspects of the institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program to the extent that the servicer is not found to exhibit indicators of questionable past performance. Indicators of questionable past performance would be_ (1) A limitation, suspension, or termination action by the Secretary against the servicer within the preceding five years;
