FR940304-1-00173 FR940304-1-00014 The Act provides for subsequent State petitions for exemption from preemption, which necessarily means that the determination as to whether a State law prevails must be made on a case-by-case basis using criteria set forth in the Act. When DOE receives such a petition, it will be appropriate to consider preparing a federalism assessment consistent with the criteria in the Act. e. Regulatory Flexibility Review The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96&hyph;354) requires an assessment of the impact of regulations on small businesses. Small businesses are defined as those firms within an industry that are privately owned and less dominant in the market. In this rulemaking, eight different products and, hence, industries are being addressed. Regulatory flexibility issues will be discussed for the industries for which standards are being prescribed. First, the energy conservation standard on those room air conditioner manufacturers who could be considered small businesses will be discussed. The room air conditioner industry is characterized by three firms with large market shares (accounting for nearly 75 percent of sales) and numerous firms sharing the remaining one-quarter of the market. There are significant differences among the major firms. For this industry, the Department has learned that average cost has an inverse relationship to firm size. Thus, the industry has economies of scale, and large firms (to the extent that their facilities are up-to-date) have lower average costs than small firms. This fact, coupled with increasing competitiveness of the national market, probably accounts for the continuing consolidation that has been occurring for several decades. The fact that the consolidation has been producing larger firms strongly corroborates the finding that large firms have a cost advantage. A principal implication of consolidation is that the smaller of the firms will be, on average, in more danger of failing or being bought out than will the large firms. Because of the greater precariousness of smaller firms, any decrease in average profitability is more likely to mean the difference between success and failure for a smaller firm. From the point of view of competitiveness, a decrease in average profitability could speed up the process of consolidation, producing a less competitive industry, while an increase in average profitability could help maintain the current levels of competition. Either effect might well be temporary, because, in the long run, the number of firms should be determined by the industry's cost structure and by the way a single firm's elasticity of demand relates to the number of competing firms. While some small firms have more energy efficient models than larger firms, and while some have more models of average efficiency, the impact of higher efficiency standards on small firms is likely to be mixed. If standards are technologically difficult to meet, however, they may hurt selected smaller firms the most, because smaller firms have less sophisticated research and development capabilities. Secondly, the impact of the energy conservation standards on water heater manufacturers needs to be addressed. Water heater manufacturing firms can be divided into two groups: those that compete on large sales volume products and those that compete in small, specialized markets. Small firms are generally forced to specialize in small market niches that offer some protection from the cost advantage that large firms hold when they can produce in volume. This effect can even be observed among the major producers, in the tendency of the smaller major producers to produce somewhat more specialized products. Just like the room air conditioner industry, water heater manufacturing is characterized by economies of scale in production, and large firms generally tend to have average costs that are lower than those of small firms. Although larger firms have a cost advantage because of economies of scale, the very small firms in the water heater manufacturing industry have found market niches in which to survive profitably. There are at least two small firms which manufacture standard electric resistance water heaters. In addition, there are also two small firms that manufacture heat pump water heaters. Therefore, if a very stringent efficiency standard for water heaters is mandated, one could expect that given the small margins in the industry, some small firms may have to leave the market. On the other hand, the small firms that specialize in higher efficiency models (such as heat pump water heaters) may experience a boom.
