FR941006-1-00036 FR941006-1-00008 (f) Reservations. Transaction requests, including requests for subscription and redemption, will not be accepted if unsigned, inappropriately completed, or not timely submitted. The Secretary of the Treasury reserves the right: (1) To reject any application for the purchase of securities under this offering; (2) To refuse to issue any such securities in any case or any class(es) of cases; and (3) To revoke the issuance of any security, and to declare the subscriber ineligible thereafter to subscribe for securities under this offering, if any security is issued on the basis of an improper certification or other misrepresentation by the subscriber, other than as the result of an inadvertent error, if the Secretary deems such action to be in the public interest. (4) Any of these actions shall be final. The authority of the Secretary to waive regulations under 31 CFR 306.126 applies to this Part 344. (g) Debt limit contingency. The Department of the Treasury reserves the right to change or suspend the terms and conditions of this offering, including provisions relating to subscriptions for, and issuance of, securities, interest payments, redemptions, and rollovers, as well as notices relating hereto, at any time the Secretary determines that issuance of obligations sufficient to conduct the orderly financing operations of the United States cannot be made without exceeding the statutory debt limit. Announcement of such changes shall be provided by such means as the Department deems appropriate. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535&hyph;0091) Subpart B_Time Deposit Securities ยง344.2 Description of securities. (a) Terms. (1) Certificates of Indebtedness. The certificates will be issued in a minimum amount of $1,000, or in any larger amount, in multiples of $100, with maturity periods fixed by the government body, from 30 calendar days up to and including one year, or for any intervening period. (2) Notes. The notes will be issued in a minimum amount of $1,000, or in any larger amount, in multiples of $100, with maturity periods fixed by the government body, from one year and one day up to and including 10 years, or for any intervening period. (3) Bonds. The bonds will be issued in a minimum amount of $1,000, or in any larger amount, in multiples of $100, with maturity periods fixed by the government body, from 10 years and one day up to and including 30 years, or for any intervening period. (b) Interest rate. Each security shall bear such rate of interest as the government body shall designate, but the rate shall not exceed the maximum interest rate. The applicable maximum interest rates for each day shall equal rates shown in a table (Form PD 4262), which will be released to the public by 10 a.m., Eastern time, each business day. If the Treasury finds that due to circumstances beyond its control the rates will not be available to the public by 10 a.m., Eastern time, on any given business day, it will provide an immediate announcement of that fact and advise that the applicable interest for the last preceding business day shall apply. The applicable rate table for any subscription is the one in effect on the date the initial subscription is telecopied, if transmitted by facsimile equipment, postmarked, if mailed, or carrier date-stamped, if the initial subscription is delivered by other carrier. Subscriptions telecopied, postmarked, or date-stamped on a non-business day will be subject to those interest rates which are in effect for the next business day. The rates specified in the tables are one-eighth of one percent below the then current estimated Treasury borrowing rate for a security of comparable maturity.
