FR940505-1-00418 FR940505-1-00012 (iii) Proof of Compliance. The facility shall prove compliance with the standards of paragraph (p)(3) of this section by conducting annual source testing of paper treating operations and analyzing resin content as per paragraph (p)(4) of this section. (iv) Retention of Records. All records maintained pursuant to this section shall be retained and available for inspection by the Administrator for the previous five-year period. (q) Reasonably Available Control Technology for Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds at SierraPine, Ltd. (1) Applicability. The requirements of paragraph (q) of this section shall apply to the owner or operator of SierraPine Limited (SierraPine), a medium density fiberboard plant, conducting operations at 4300 Dominguez Road, Rocklin, California. (2) Definitions. For the purposes of paragraph (q) of this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in ยง52.2950. Fiber drier means a device which uses steam-generated heat to reduce the moisture content of wood fibers. Fiberboard press means a device which uses heat and pressure to form fiberboard from a preformed mat of wood fiber and resin. Press line means a series of operations occurring within the press building including mat forming, fiberboard pressing, board unloading, and board cooling. Press vent means a device used to exhaust fiberboard press line emissions from the press line building. Wood waste-fired boiler means a combustion device which uses wood, wood fiber, sanderdust, or other wood byproducts as fuel to produce steam for process operations. (3) Standards. The owner or operator of SierraPine shall demonstrate compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (q)(3) (i) through (iii) of this section by January 1, 1996. (i) Emissions of unburned gaseous combustibles, including VOC and carbon monoxide, from the wood waste-fired boiler shall be minimized by maintaining proper combustion conditions. Proper combustion conditions include but are not limited to optimum combustion temperature, fuel moisture content, fuel firing rate, and sufficient secondary air. The owner or operator of the facility shall submit for approval by EPA a determination of proper combustion conditions. The source shall incorporate additional combustion conditions as recommended in writing by EPA. (ii) A capture and control system shall be installed and operated to reduce VOC emissions from the wood fiber driers and which meets the following requirements: (A) The capture and control system shall achieve a minimum 95% VOC control efficiency. Demonstration of VOC control efficiency shall be performed in accordance with the methods specified in paragraph (q)(6) of this section. (B) The VOC capture and control system shall be operated at all times during the operation of the wood fiber driers. The capture and control system shall be maintained and operated in a manner which consistently achieves the VOC control efficiency stated in paragraph (q)(3)(ii)(A) of this section. (iii) A capture and control system shall be installed and operated to reduce VOC emissions from press vents and which meets the following requirements: (A) The VOC capture and control system shall achieve a minimum 90% overall VOC control efficiency. Demonstration of VOC control efficiency shall be performed in accordance with the methods specified in paragraph (q)(6) of this section. (B) The VOC capture and control system shall be operated at all times during the operation of the press vents. The VOC capture and control system shall be maintained and operated in a manner which consistently achieves the overall VOC control efficiency stated in paragraph (q)(3)(iii)(A) of this section. (4) Reporting. The owner or operator of SierraPine shall be subject to the following reporting requirements. (i) A compliance plan shall be submitted to the EPA prior to installation of any VOC capture and control system or by July 1, 1995, whichever comes first. The compliance plan shall include a description of how the requirements of paragraph (q) of this section shall be met, including: (A) A description of the proposed VOC capture and control system to be installed at the facility including the following information at a minimum:
