FR940705-2-00210 FR940705-2-00091 Appendix K&hyph;III&hyph;B. Cultures of viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules shall be handled in a closed system (e.g., closed vessel used for the propagation and growth of cultures) or other primary containment equipment (e.g., biological safety cabinet containing a centrifuge used to process culture fluids) which is designed to reduce the potential for escape of viable organisms. Volumes less than 10 liters may be handled outside of a closed system or other primary containment equipment provided all physical containment requirements specified in Appendix G&hyph;II&hyph;A are met. Appendix K&hyph;III&hyph;C. Culture fluids (except as allowed in Appendix K&hyph;III&hyph;D) shall not be removed from a closed system or other primary containment equipment unless the viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules have been inactivated by a validated inactivation procedure. A validated inactivation procedure is one which has been demonstrated to be effective using the organism that will serve as the host for propagating the recombinant DNA molecules. Appendix K&hyph;III&hyph;D. Sample collection from a closed system, the addition of materials to a closed system, and the transfer of culture fluids from one closed system to another shall be conducted in a manner which minimizes the release of aerosols or contamination of exposed surfaces. Appendix K&hyph;III&hyph;E. Exhaust gases removed from a closed system or other primary containment equipment shall be treated by filters which have efficiencies equivalent to high efficiency particulate air/HEPA filters or by other equivalent procedures (e.g., incineration) to minimize the release of viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules to the environment. Appendix K&hyph;III&hyph;F. A closed system or other primary containment equipment that has contained viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules shall not be opened for maintenance or other purposes unless it has been sterilized by a validated sterilization procedure. A validated sterilization procedure is one which has been demonstrated to be effective using the organism that will serve as the host for propagating the recombinant DNA molecules. Appendix K&hyph;III&hyph;G. Emergency plans required by Sections IV&hyph;B&hyph;2&hyph;b&hyph;(6) and IV&hyph;B&hyph;3&hyph;c&hyph;(3) shall include methods and procedures for handling large losses of culture on an emergency basis. Appendix K&hyph;IV. Biosafety Level 2 (BL2)_Large Scale Appendix K&hyph;IV&hyph;A. Spills and accidents which result in overt exposures to organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules are immediately reported to the Biological Safety Officer, Institutional Biosafety Committee, NIH/ORDA, and other appropriate authorities (if applicable). Reports to NIH/ORDA shall be sent to the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, National Institutes of Health, Building 31, Room 4B11, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, (301) 496&hyph;9838. Medical evaluation, surveillance, and treatment are provided as appropriate and written records are maintained. Appendix K&hyph;IV&hyph;B. Cultures of viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules shall be handled in a closed system (e.g., closed vessel used for the propagation and growth of cultures) or other primary containment equipment (e.g., Class III biological safety cabinet containing a centrifuge used to process culture fluids) which is designed to prevent the escape of viable organisms. Volumes less than 10 liters may be handled outside of a closed system or other primary containment equipment provided all physical containment requirements specified in Appendix G&hyph;II&hyph;B are met. Appendix K&hyph;IV&hyph;C. Culture fluids (except as allowed in Appendix K&hyph;IV&hyph;D) shall not be removed from a closed system or other primary containment equipment unless the viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules have been inactivated by a validated inactivation procedure. A validated inactivation procedure is one which has been demonstrated to be effective using the organism that will serve as the host for propagating the recombinant DNA molecules. Appendix K&hyph;IV&hyph;D. Sample collection from a closed system, the addition of materials to a closed system, and the transfer of cultures fluids from one closed system to another shall be conducted in a manner which prevents the release of aerosols or contamination of exposed surfaces. Appendix K&hyph;IV&hyph;E. Exhaust gases removed from a closed system or other primary containment equipment shall be treated by filters which have efficiencies equivalent to high efficiency particulate air/HEPA filters or by other equivalent procedures (e.g., incineration) to prevent the release of viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules to the environment. Appendix K&hyph;IV&hyph;F. A closed system or other primary containment equipment that has contained viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules shall not be opened for maintenance or other purposes unless it has been sterilized by a validated sterilization procedure. A validated sterilization procedure is one which has been demonstrated to be effective using the organisms that will serve as the host for propagating the recombinant DNA molecules. Appendix K&hyph;IV&hyph;G. Rotating seals and other mechanical devices directly associated with a closed system used for the propagation and growth of viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules shall be designed to prevent leakage or shall be fully enclosed in ventilated housings that are exhausted through filters which have efficiencies equivalent to high efficiency particulate air/HEPA filters or through other equivalent treatment devices.
