FR940621-1-00016 FR940621-1-00006 2. The proposal would harmonize the marketing rules by permitting RF devices, prior to authorization or a determination of compliance with the technical standards, to be announced, advertised, displayed, and, if compliant with any Commission license requirements, operated for compliance testing, demonstrated at trade shows, or evaluated at the manufacturer's facilities. In addition, non-consumer RF devices, i.e. , products employed at business, commercial, industrial, scientific or medical sites, prior to testing or authorization, could be offered for conditional sale or supplied to the user for evaluation or compliance testing. As under the existing rules, no products may be marketed or supplied to the general public prior to testing or authorization. Further, these products must be designed with the intent of complying with all applicable regulations. 3. On its own motion, the Commission is also proposing several additional changes to the equipment authorization rules to resolve inconsistencies, to provide clarification, to remove unnecessary restrictions and obsolete regulations, and to incorporate several interpretations. Specifically, the Commission would amend the rules to indicate, explicitly, that, as with any request for authorization, an anti-drug abuse statement is required with requests for permissive changes. In addition, the rules would state that proper labeling of a product is a condition of the grant of equipment authorization and is required prior to marketing. The Commission would also clarify that a product is considered to be ``electrically identical'' if no changes are made to the product or if any changes to the product could be treated as Class I permissive changes. Further, outdated regulations, e.g. , references to type approval which is no longer employed, would be removed, duplicative rules would be removed, and erroneous rule citations would be corrected. 4. In addition to the above changes, the Commission proposes to require that any party that modifies an authorized RF device becomes responsible for ensuring that the modified product continues to comply with the appropriate standards and must maintain whatever records are required to demonstrate such compliance. In order to facilitate identification, the Commission also proposes that a product modified by someone other than the original responsible party be labeled with the name, address and telephone number of the new responsible party along with a statement that the product has been modified. 5. Finally, the Commission would amend the regulations regarding authorization under the verification procedure to clarify the information required to be retained by the responsible party and to indicate the time period within which requests by the Commission for product samples must be submitted and the party responsible for submitting those samples. Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis 6. As required by Section 603 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, the Commission has prepared an Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (IRFA) of the expected impact on small entities of the proposals suggested in this document. Written public comments are requested on the IRFA. These comments must be filed in accordance with the same filing deadlines as comments on the rest of the Notice, but they must have a separate and distinct heading designating them as responses to the Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis. The Secretary shall send a copy of this Notice of Proposed Rule Making, including the Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis, to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration in accordance with paragraph 603(a) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. Pub. L. No. 96&hyph;354, Stat. 1164, 5 U.S.C. Section 601 et seq. (1981). Reason for Action This Notice of Proposed Rule Making responds to the petition submitted by the Electronic Industries Association, Consumer Electronics Group, to harmonize our rules regarding the announcement, advertising, display, activation and marketing of radio frequency (RF) devices prior to compliance with the applicable standards. On our own initiative, we are also proposing amendments to the Part 2 rules to address the responsibility of parties that modify products prior to sale, and to establish a time frame within which samples or records files of verified devices must be submitted to the Commission upon request. In addition, we are proposing to amend the equipment authorization rules to clarify existing regulations, remove outdated regulations, and correct erroneous rule citations. Objectives The objectives of this proposal are to facilitate the marketing and display of RF devices, to identify the party ultimately responsible for ensuring that a marketed device complies with the standards, to facilitate the retrieval of test records by the Commission, to clarify existing regulations, to remove outdated regulations, and to correct existing errors in the rules. Legal Basis The proposed action is authorized under Sections 4(i), 302, 303(e), 303(f), and 303(r) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended 47 U.S.C. Sections 154(i), 302, 303(e), 303(f), and 303(r). Reporting, Recordkeeping and Other Compliance Requirements One change to the reporting and recordkeeping requirements would be initiated by this proposal: parties that take authorized RF devices and remanufacture or otherwise modify these products prior to marketing would be designated as the parties responsible for ensuring that the products comply with the applicable rules and, thus, would have the same reporting and record keeping requirements that normally apply to an equipment manufacturer. Federal Rules Which Overlap, Duplicate or Conflict With These Rules None. Description, Potential Impact and Number of Small Entities Involved It is unknown how many small entities that may be affected. There should be no adverse impact on any party that manufacturers or markets equipment that currently complies with our standards. Any Significant Alternatives Minimizing the Impact on Small Entities Consistent With Stated Objectives None. List of Subjects in 47 CFR Part 2 Radio, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary.
