FR940722-0-00139 FR940722-0-00019 (2) Default or disqualification after close of auction. If a high bidder defaults or is disqualified after the close of such an auction, the defaulting bidder will be subject to the penalty in paragraph (a)(1) of this section plus an additional penalty equal to three (3) percent of the subsequent winning bid. If the subsequent winning bid exceeds the defaulting bidder's bid amount, the 3 percent penalty will be calculated based on the defaulting bidder's bid amount. These amounts will be deducted from any upfront payments or down payments that the defaulting or disqualified bidder has deposited with the Commission. (b) When the Commission conducts sequential oral auctions pursuant to §24.702(a)(2), the Commission may modify the penalties set forth in subsection (a) above to be paid in the event of bid withdrawal, default or disqualification; provided, however, that such penalties shall not exceed the penalties specified above. (1) If a bid is withdrawn before the Commission has declared the bidding to be closed for the license bid on, no bid withdrawal penalty will be assessed. (2) If a bid is withdrawn after the Commission has declared the bidding to be closed for the license bid on, the penalty specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section will apply. §24.705 Bidding application (FCC Form 175 and 175&hyph;S Short-Form). All applicants to participate in competitive bidding for broadband PCS licenses must submit applications on FCC Forms 175 and 175&hyph;S pursuant to the provisions of §§1.2105 of the Chapter and 24.813. The Commission will issue a Public Notice announcing the availability of broadband PCS licenses and, in the event that mutually exclusive applications are filed, the date of the auction for those licenses. This Public Notice also will specify the date on or before which applicants intending to participate in a broadband PCS auction must file their applications in order to be eligible for that auction, and it will contain information necessary for completion of the application as well as other important information such as the materials which must accompany the Forms, any filing fee that must accompany the application or any upfront payment that will need to be submitted, and the location where the application must be filed. §24.706 Submission of upfront payments and down payments. (a) Where the Commission uses simultaneous multiple round auctions or oral sequential auctions, bidders will be required to submit an upfront payment in accordance with §1.2106 of this Chapter and §24.711(a)(1). (b) Winning bidders in an auction must submit a down payment to the Commission in accordance with §1.2107(b) of this Chapter and §24.711(a)(2). §24.707 Long-form applications. Each winning bidder will be required to submit a long-form application on FCC Form 401, as modified, within ten (10) business days after being notified that it is the winning bidder. Applications on FCC Form 401 shall be submitted pursuant to the procedures set forth in Subpart I of this Part and §1.2107 (c) and (d) of this Chapter and any associated Public Notices. Only auction winners (and applicants seeking partitioned licenses pursuant to agreements with auction winners under §24.714) will be eligible to file applications on FCC Form 401 for initial broadband PCS licenses in the event of mutual exclusivity between applicants filing Form 175. Winning bidders need not complete Schedule B to Form 401. §24.708 License grant, denial, default, and disqualification. (a) Except with respect to entities eligible for installment payments ( see §24.711), each winning bidder will be required to pay the balance of its winning bid in a lump sum payment within five (5) business days following the award of the license. Grant of the license will be conditioned upon full and timely payment of the winning bid amount. (b) A bidder who withdraws its bid subsequent to the close of bidding, defaults on a payment due or is disqualified will be subject to the penalties specified in §1.2109 of this Chapter. §24.709 Eligibility for licenses for frequency Blocks C and F. (a) General Rule . (1) No application is acceptable for filing and no license shall be granted for frequency Block C or frequency Block F, unless the applicant, together with its affiliates and persons holding interests in the applicant and their affiliates, have gross revenues of less than $125 million in each of the last two calender years and total assets of less than $500 million at the time the applicant's short-form (Form 175) application is filed. (2) No application is acceptable for filing and no license shall be granted for frequency Block C or frequency Block F, if, at the time the application is filed, the applicant (or person holding an interest in the applicant) is an individual and he or she (or affiliates) has $100 million or greater in personal net worth at the time the applicant's short-form (Form 175) application is filed.
