FR940406-0-00047 FR940406-0-00002 (f) Witnesses who are Board employees shall be in a duty status when their presence is authorized or required in connection with a complaint. ยง268.606 Joint processing and consolidation of complaints. Complaints of discrimination filed by two or more complainants consisting of substantially similar allegations of discrimination or relating to the same matter, or two or more complaints of discrimination from the same complainant, may be consolidated by the Board for joint processing after appropriate notification to the parties. The date of the first filed complaint controls the applicable time frames under subpart B of this part. Subpart G_Prohibition Against Discrimination In Board Programs and Activities Because of a Physical or Mental Disability ยง268.701 Purpose and application. (a) Purpose. The purpose of this subpart G is to prohibit discrimination on the basis of a disability in programs or activities conducted by the Board. (b) Application. (1) This subpart G applies to all programs and activities conducted by the Board. Such programs and activities include: (i) Holding open meetings of the Board or other meetings or public hearings at the Board's office in Washington, DC; (ii) Responding to inquiries, filing complaints, or applying for employment at the Board's office; (iii) Making available the Board's library facilities; and (iv) Any other lawful interaction with the Board or its staff in any official matter with people who are not employees of the Board. (2) This subpart G does not apply to Federal Reserve Banks or to financial institutions or other companies supervised or regulated by the Board. ยง268.702 Notice. The Board shall make available to employees, applicants for employment, participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons information regarding the provisions of this subpart G and its applicability to the programs and activities conducted by the Board, and make this information available to them in such manner as the Board finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by this subpart G. ยง268.703 Prohibition against discrimination. (a) No qualified individual with a disability shall, on the basis of a disability, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination in any program or activity conducted by the Board. (b)(1) The Board, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of a disability: (i) Deny a qualified individual with a disability the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that provide to others; (ii) Afford a qualified individual with a disability an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others; (iii) Provide a qualified individual with a disability with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in affording equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others; (iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to individuals with a disability or to any class of individuals with a disability than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified individuals with a disability with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others; (v) Deny a qualified individual with a disability the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards; or (vi) Otherwise limit a qualified individual with a disability in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving the aid, benefit, or service. (2) The Board may not deny a qualified individual with a disability the opportunity to participate in programs or activities that are not separate or different, despite the existence of permissibly separate or different programs or activities. (3) The Board may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, utilize criteria or methods of administration, the purpose or effect of which would: (i) Subject qualified individuals with a disability to discrimination on the basis of a disability; or (ii) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with a disability.
