FR940208-1-00068 FR940208-1-00011 (i) Flare design (i.e., steam-assisted, air-assisted, or non-assisted); and (ii) All visible emissions readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the compliance determination required under §63.425(a). (d) If an owner or operator requests approval to use a vapor processing system or monitor a parameter other than those specified in §63.427(a), the owner or operator shall submit a description of planned reporting and recordkeeping procedures. The Administrator will specify appropriate reporting and recordkeeping requirements as part of the review of the permit application. (e) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit to the Administrator a quarterly report of exceedences or failures to maintain, as appropriate, the monitored operating parameter value required under §63.427 (a) and (b). Owners and operators of new bulk gasoline terminals subject to provisions of this subpart shall submit to the Administrator a quarterly report of all instances in which a vacuum are not maintained in a gasoline tank truck during loading. These quarterly reports shall contain the monitored operating parameter value readings for the days on which exceedences or failures to maintain have occurred, and a description and timing of the steps taken to repair or perform maintenance on the vapor collection system or parameter monitoring system. A report is not required for those quarters where there were no exceedences or failures to maintain, as appropriate, the operating parameter and no instances in which a vacuum was not maintained. (f) Owners and operators complying with §63.427(a) shall maintain a record of the monitored operating parameter data at the facility for 5 years. This record shall indicate the time intervals during which loadings of gasoline tank trucks have occurred or, alternatively, shall record the operating parameter only during such loadings. The date and time of day shall also be indicated on this record. (g) Owners and operators complying with §63.427(c) shall maintain a record of the gasoline tank truck pressure data at the facility for 5 years. (h) Each owner or operator of storage vessels subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep records for 5 years and furnish reports as specified in §60.115b of this chapter. (i) Each owner or operator of equipment subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep records as specified in §60.486 (b) through (j) of this chapter, and shall furnish reports as specified in §60.487 of this chapter. (j) The reports required under all paragraphs of this section shall be consolidated into a Periodic Report and submitted to the Administrator on a semiannual basis. The additional Periodic Reports required under paragraph (e) of this section that fall between the semiannual reports shall be submitted separately. Each owner or operator shall certify in the Periodic Report that no excess emissions occurred during the quarters in which no excess report was filed under paragraph (e) of this section. (k) The Administrator may request more frequent reporting of monitored operating parameter data if: (1) Monitored parameter values demonstrating the source is out of compliance more than 1 percent of the operating days in the previous reporting period, or (2) The monitoring system is out of service more than 5 percent of the operating time in the previous reporting period. After 1 year of more frequent reporting, the owner or operator may request a return to quarterly reporting. §63.429 Delegation of authority. (a) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority to a State under section 112(d) of the Act, the authority contained in paragraph (b) of this section shall be retained by the Administrator and not transferred to a State. (b) The authority conferred in §63.426, and §63.427(a)(5) will not be delegated to any State. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2695 Filed 2&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
