FR941013-2-00103 FR941013-2-00078 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34791; International Series Release No. 723; File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;18] Order Approving Proposed Rule Change and Notice of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Amendment No. 3 to the Proposed Rule Change by the American Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to the Listing and Trading of Options on the Israeli Index October 5, 1994. On May 31, 1994, the American Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Amex'' or ``Exchange'') submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission''), pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder, 2 a proposed rule change to list and trade options on the Israeli Index (``Israeli Index'' or ``Index''). On August 2, 1994, the Exchange filed Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change, the subject matter of which supersedes the original proposal. 3 On August 8, 1994, the Exchange filed Amendment No. 2 (``Amendment No. 2'') to the proposal to clarify how the index will be weighted when the composition of the Index changes from its current number of eleven components. 4 On September 28, 1994, the Exchange filed Amendment No. 3 (``Amendment No. 3'') to the proposal to extend the trading hours of the Index options by five minutes, to 4:15 p.m., and to reduce the index value in half by doubling the size of the divisor. 5 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1982). 2 17 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4 (1991). 3 In the original proposal, the Amex originally sought approval of a narrow-based, capitalization-weighted index comprised of ten components. 4 See Letter from Nathan Most, Senior Vice President, New Products Development, Amex, to Michael Walinskas, Derivative Products Regulation, SEC, dated August 5, 1994. 5 See Letter from Nathan Most, Senior Vice President, Amex, to Michael Walinskas, Derivative Products Regulation, SEC, dated September 28, 1994. Notice of the proposed rule change was published for comment in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34554 (Aug. 19, 1994) and appeared in the Federal Register , 59 FR 44198 (Aug. 26, 1994). No comments were received on the proposal. This order approves the proposal, as amended. I. Description of the Proposal The Amex has developed a new index called The Amex/Oscar Gruss Israel Index, based entirely on shares of widely held Israeli stocks and American Depositary Receipts (``ADRs'') traded on the NYSE, Amex, or that are National Market (``NM'') securities traded through the National Association of Securities Dealers. Automated Quotation system (``NASDAQ''). The Index contains securities of highly capitalized companies with major business interests in Israel. These include companies which are incorporated in Israel, whose offices are located in Israel, or whose research and development activities are concentrated in Israel. Index Calculation and Maintenance The Index is calculated using a ``modified'' equal dollar weighting methodology. Five of the eleven component securities have been given a higher weighting in the Index in order to more closely approximate the weight the industry represented by that component has in the Israeli stock market. For example, ECI Telecom Ltd. and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, which are the largest capitalized components in the Index, will have a higher weight in the Index, but not as high as if the Index were capitalization weighted. The Amex believes that this ``modified'' equal dollar weighting methodology allows the Index to be a more accurate reflection of the Israeli market since it provides a higher weighting for the larger capitalized components, yet does not permit those stocks to dominate the Index. The following is a description of how the ``modified'' equal dollar weighting calculation method works. As of the market close on June 17, 1994, a $100,000 portfolio comprised of eleven Israeli component securities was established representing a hypothetical ``investment'' (rounded to the nearest whole share) of $12,000 in the five largest capitalized Index components and $6,667 in each of the six remaining Index components. The value of the Index equals the current market value ( i.e., based on U.S. primary market prices) of the sum of the assigned number of shares of each of the Index components divided by the Index divisor. The Index divisor was initially determined to yield the benchmark value of 213.00 at the close of trading on June 17, 1994, however, the Amex has since doubled the Index divisor in order to reduce the Index level. 6 Each quarter thereafter, following the close of trading on the third Friday of March, June, September and December, the Index components will be ranked in descending market capitalization order and the Index portfolio adjusted by changing the number of whole shares of each component stock so that the five largest capitalized stocks in the Index represent 60% of the Index value, and the remaining 40% of the Index value is evenly distributed over the remaining securities. If the number of components in the Index changes from eleven securities, the Amex will continue to weigh the five components with the highest market capitalizations 12%. The remaining components will then be weighted equally. 7 For example, if two new components are added to the Index, the five securities with the highest market capitalizations will be assigned 12% weightings while the remaining eight securities in the Index would be weighted 5%. 6 See Amendment No. 3. 7 See Amendment No. 2. The Exchange has chosen to rebalance following the close of trading on the quarterly expiration cycle because it allows an option contract to be held for up to three months without a change in the Index portfolio while at the same time, maintaining the ``modified'' equal dollar weighting feature of the Index. If necessary, a divisor adjustment is made at the rebalancing to ensure continuity of the Index's value. The newly adjusted portfolio becomes the basis for the Index's value on the first trading day following the quarterly adjustment. Adjustments to the Index are done on a regular basis and timely, proper and adequate notice is given to investors. An information circular is distributed to all Exchange members notifying them of the quarterly changes. This circular is also sent by facsimile to the Exchange's contacts at the major options firms, mailed to recipients of the Exchange's options related information circulars, and made available to subscribers of the Options News Network. In addition, the Exchange will include in its promotional and marketing materials for the Index a description of the ``modified'' equal dollar weighting methodology. As noted above, the number of shares of each component stock in the Index portfolio remains fixed between quarterly reviews except in the event of certain types of corporate actions such as the payment of a dividend other than an ordinary cash dividend, a stock distribution, stock splits, reverse stock splits, a rights offering distribution, reorganization, recapitalization, or similar event with respect to the component stocks. In a merger or consolidation of an issuer of a component stock, if the stock remains in the Index, the number of shares of that security in the portfolio may be adjusted, to the nearest whole share, to maintain the components's relative weight in the Index at the level immediately prior to the corporate action. In the event of a stock replacement, the average dollar value of the remaining portfolio components in the same weighting tier as the stock being replaced will be calculated and that amount ``invested'' in the stock of the new component, to the nearest whole share. In all cases, the divisor will be adjusted, if necessary, to ensure Index continuity.
