FR940817-1-00064 FR940817-1-00014 B. Reporting of Small Acquisitions and Option Exercises At present, small acquisitions of equity securities and exercises and conversions of derivative securities are reported on an insider's next otherwise required Form 4 or Form 5, whichever is earlier. 79 No change currently is proposed to the existing system of reporting these transactions, other than amendment of the small acquisitions reporting rule 80 to exclude from the $10,000 threshold acquisitions occurring within the prior six months of the current acquisition that were exempted by rule from Section 16(b) or previously reported on Form 4 or 5, and to clarify that the current acquisition cannot be disregarded in calculating the $10,000 threshold. Comment also is solicited as to whether reporting would be made more convenient for insiders, consistent with the informational needs of other investors, by permitting small acquisitions and exempt exercises and conversions to be reported solely on Form 5; or by providing that small acquisitions be reported on Form 5 and exempt exercises and conversions be reported on Form 4. 79 The timing for reporting exercises and conversions was expedited from the proposed annual reporting in response to commenters' concerns, particularly the concerns of individual investors that option exercises represent important indicia of insiders' views of their companies' prospects. If a derivative security is exercised or converted before its exempt grant otherwise must be reported, the grant should be reported at the same time as the exercise or conversion. 80 Proposed Rule 16a&hyph;6. This rule provides only a deferral, not an exemption from reporting. All small acquisitions, unless otherwise exempt, must be reported on Form 4 or 5 as specified in the rule. Currently, when an insider exercises an option acquired pursuant to a Rule 16b&hyph;3 plan and immediately sells a portion of the shares to pay the exercise price under a cashless exercise program, the transaction generally is reported on Form 4 or 5 as the exercise of a derivative security and sale of a non-derivative security. 81 Comment is solicited as to whether insiders should be either required or permitted to reflect the sale of the portion of shares necessary to satisfy the exercise price by using the transaction code for payment of an option exercise price by delivery or withholding of securities, 82 rather than the general sale of security code currently used, since all of these transactions constitute cashless exercises. In addition, comment is solicited as to whether this transaction code also should be used in connection with the exercise of stock appreciation rights. 81 Transaction code ``M'' is used to reflect the exercise and code ``S'' is used to reflect the sale of the underlying shares. 82 Transaction code ``F.'' The proposed amendments would clarify that code ``F'' also should be used to report the withholding of securities incident to vesting of a restricted security to satisfy tax liabilities. C. Joint and Group Reporting Currently, when more than one person subject to Section 16 is deemed to be a beneficial owner of the same equity securities, all such persons must report as beneficial owners and file separate reports. To reduce this duplicative reporting, the proposed rules would permit such persons to file their reports either separately or jointly. 83 83 Proposed Rules 16a&hyph;3(i) and 16a&hyph;1(a)(3) would reflect this change. Forms 3, 4 and 5 and the Instructions thereto also would be modified to permit joint and group filings. Under the proposal, where persons in a group have reporting obligations, the filing of collective reports on behalf of all group members would be permitted. 84 Such joint and group filings, and any amendments, could be submitted by any designated constituent beneficial owner. Required information would have to be given for each beneficial owner, and such filings would have to be signed by, or on behalf of, each beneficial owner by an authorized person, with statements confirming the delegation of signature authority attached to the filing. Beneficial owners making a joint or group filing could authorize one of the beneficial owners or a third party to sign on their behalf, provided that confirming statements are attached to the filing, or are provided by amendment as soon as practicable, with respect to each owner delegating signature authority, unless such a confirmation still in effect is on file with the Commission. 85 Of course, to the extent a sufficiently broad power of attorney previously had been filed, such as with a Schedule 13D, that power of attorney could be incorporated by reference in a Section 16(a) filing. Each beneficial owner would, of course, retain individual liability for compliance with the filing requirements, including the obligation to assure that the filing is timely and accurately made. 86 Comment is solicited as to whether, in the alternative, authority to make a group Section 16 filing could be presumed based on the filing of a group Schedule 13D, 87 such that all group members thereby would be deemed to have granted authority to any group member to file a Section 16 form. 84 Joint and group filings could be used, for example, by parents and subsidiaries, partnerships, or Schedule 13D groups [17 CFR 240.13d&hyph;101]. The group itself is not a reporting person for Section 16 purposes; however, under the proposed rules, group members could choose to file collective reports to satisfy their individual filing obligations. A group member is not required to report transactions by another group member, however, unless he or she has or shares a pecuniary interest in the securities acquired or disposed of by such other member. 85 General Instruction 7 to Forms 3, 4 and 5 permits a form filed for an individual to be signed on behalf of the individual by an authorized person. General Instruction 5 to Form 3 and General Instruction 4 to Forms 4 and 5 would be amended to specify the means of reporting the pecuniary interest of multiple beneficial owners. A corresponding amendment also would be made to General Instruction 6 to each Form. 86 Cf. In the Matter of Bettina Bancroft, Release No. 34&hyph;32033, AP 3&hyph;7999 (Mar. 23, 1993). 87 A group's Schedule 13D filing obligation may be satisfied either by a single joint filing or by each of the group's members making an individual filing. The Schedule 13D must be signed by each person on whose behalf the statement is filed or his or her authorized representative. D. Trust Transactions Today, a trust is subject to Section 16 not only if it beneficially owns more than ten percent of a class of registered equity securities, 88 but also if the trustee otherwise is an insider and has investment control over the issuer's securities held by the trust, and the trustee or a member of the trustee's immediate family has a pecuniary interest in such securities, except in limited circumstances. This dual standard, newly established under the rules adopted in 1991, created a new reporting obligation for some trusts, particularly family trusts where the insiders already were required to report most of the trust transactions involved. 89 88 See Proskauer Rose Goetz & Mendelsohn (Apr. 29, 1991) (a trust that holds more than ten percent of a class of equity securities registered under Section 12 is the beneficial owner of those securities for purposes of Section 16.) 89 See D'Ancona & Pflaum (Feb. 18, 1992); Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal (Mar. 23, 1992) (easing compliance with the reporting requirements for certain types of family trusts). Since the primary effect of the new standard was to create duplicative reporting obligations, imposing independent Section 16 obligations on the trusts does not appear necessary. Accordingly, the proposed rules would eliminate these overlapping obligations by subjecting a trust to Section 16 only if it holds more than ten percent of a class of registered equity securities of the issuer. 90 90 Proposed Rule 16a&hyph;8(a)(1). A conforming amendment to Rule 16a&hyph;2(d)(2) [17 CFR 240.16a&hyph;2(d)(2)] would reflect the proposed rescission of Rule 16a&hyph;8(a)(1)(ii) [17 CFR 240.16a&hyph;8(a)(1)(ii)]. Duplicative reporting also can result because in certain instances the trust and a trust beneficiary must report separately with respect to the same transaction. Accordingly, a proposed new note would provide that transactions attributed to a trust beneficiary may be reported by the trustee on behalf of the beneficiary. 91 91 Proposed note to Rule 16a&hyph;8(b)(3). E. Post-Termination Reporting Under the current rules, any transaction following the cessation of director or officer status is required to be reported, if executed within six months of a transaction that occurred while the person was a director or officer. However, it appears that the record-keeping burdens of tracking post-termination transactions should be imposed only with respect to those transactions where short-swing profit liability is likely. Accordingly, the proposal would eliminate insiders' post-termination reporting obligations with respect to post-termination transactions that are exempt and thus not subject to matching with pre-termination transactions. 92 Similarly, a post-termination transaction would not be required to be reported unless it occurred within six months of an opposite (purchase vs. sale), non-exempt transaction that was effected while the reporting person was an officer or director. 93 Comment is requested as to the continuing need to report these transactions. In particular, is it necessary to continue to require reporting of exempt post-termination transactions to assure that an exemption properly may be claimed? 92 Proposed Rule 16a&hyph;2(b)(2). 93 Proposed Rule 16a&hyph;2(b)(1).
