FR941102-1-00021 FR941102-1-00005 Historically, utilities began coordination activities by entering into simple bilateral arrangements, progressing gradually to more complex contractual agreements. Such agreements may simply cover an exchange of energy and power, or they may cover a variety of services. They generally are not considered to be pooling agreements unless they include coordination of reserve generating capacity and, in most cases, some coordination of planning and construction in addition to operating coordination. 11 11 Although the terms ``pooling'' and ``coordination'' are sometimes used interchangeably, generally, the term ``coordination'' refers to the whole spectrum of relationships between utilities, and ``pooling'' refers to more formalized agreements between utilities to operate and plan their systems in a manner that achieves the greatest regional economy and reliability. Traditional power pools have provided to their members significant economic benefits and operating efficiencies, including: reduced operating costs resulting from joint dispatch; reduced fixed costs resulting from joint construction of generating units and reserve sharing; and increased system reliability resulting from reserve sharing and regional planning. Existing pools vary a great deal in the extent to which they are integrated, i.e., to which they plan and operate their individual systems as a single system. 12 The most highly integrated pools are referred to as ``tight'' pools. 13 Tight pools extensively coordinate their planning and operations in both the long and short run, and in theory provide the greatest benefits. They provide for joint planning on a highly coordinated basis and for centralized dispatch of generating facilities. They also establish contractual requirements with respect to generating capacity and operating reserves, together with financial penalties to enforce reserve requirements. 14 12 Other pooling arrangements may coordinate extensively, but only involve a few companies, e.g., the coordination arrangement between Detroit Edison Company and Consumers Power Company. Some coordination arrangements often referred to as power pools are, in fact, simply vehicles for bilateral trades of economy energy, such as Western Systems Power Pool (WSPP) and Florida Energy Broker. 13 There are three tight power pools operating today. NEPOOL operates in six New England states, and its 90 members include investor-owned utilities (IOUs) and publicly-owned utilities. The New York Power Pool (NYPP) operates in the State of New York, and its members include the seven IOUs in the State and the Power Authority of the State of New York. PJM operates in the Mid-Atlantic region, and its eight members include only IOUs. 14 There are also several affiliated utility systems (registered holding companies under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935) that operate as tight power pools. Southern Company, Entergy Corporation, American Electric Power Company, Allegheny Power System, Central & South West Corporation, General Public Utilities (which is itself a member of PJM), and Northeast Utilities (which is itself a member of NEPOOL). Together, these affiliated utility systems and tight pools account for approximately 40 percent of the generating capacity in the Eastern Interconnection. One of the key characteristics of a tight power pool is central dispatch, which ensures short-term efficiency by dispatching the pool's combined generating resources to meet the pool's combined loads, without regard to unit ownership. The benefits of central dispatch (i.e., the savings realized by dispatching jointly rather than individually) are shared among pool members. 15 15 Even when pool members undertake bilateral trades with other pool members to increase their revenues from pool interchange, the pool dispatch is unaffected. The bilateral agreement is simply a mechanism for adjusting the pool's after-the-fact benefit sharing formula. A long-term benefit of a tight power pool is joint action to enhance reliability. A tight pool coordinates maintenance to ensure that adequate reserves are maintained, that is, units are taken out of service on a staggered basis. Also, tight pools undertake some regional planning of production and transmission to facilitate joint solutions to regional needs and problems. Finally, tight pools conduct transactions with neighboring pools to realize additional economy savings and to increase reliability whenever possible. Tight power pools generally require that members provide transmission access to other members without a direct charge for economy trades effected through central dispatch as compensation for use of their facilities. However, the transmission providers may be assigned a share of the savings resulting from the central dispatch. Affiliated power pools, i.e., the registered holding companies, have more extensive transmission access provisions that generally include some form of transmission equalization payments among members. Pools that are characterized by a lower level of coordination are called ``loose pools.'' 16 For example, while the participating utilities work together to establish principles and practices for interconnected operation, review area power supply problems and establish criteria for power supply adequacy, exchange generation and transmission construction plans, and plan coordinated efforts to attain optimal economy and reliability, there is no central dispatch and there may be less joint planning. 16 An example of a loose pool is MAPP, which operates in the Midwest. Its members (as well as associated members and a liaison participant) include IOUs, publicly-owned entities, generating and transmitting cooperatives, Canadian crown corporations and one Federal power marketing administration (the Western Area Power Administration).
