FR940407-2-00125 FR940407-2-00065 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20183; 812&hyph;8738] Regis Fund, Inc., et al.; Application March 31, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANTS: The Regis Fund, Inc. (the ``Fund''); United Asset Management Corporation (``UAM''); Acadian Asset Management, Inc., Cooke & Bieler, Inc., Dewey Square Investors Corp., Fiduciary Management Associates, Inc., Investment Counselors of Maryland, Inc., Sirach Capital Management, Inc., Spectrum Asset Management, Inc., Sterling Capital Management Company, Thompson, Siegel & Walmsley, Inc., any future investment adviser or subadviser to the Fund or a future Fund (as defined below) which is directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with UAM (the ``Investment Advisers''); Regis Retirement Plan Services, Inc., any future distributor of the Fund or a future Fund (as defined below) which is directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with UAM (the ``Distributor''); and any other future investment company advised by the Investment Advisers, or whose principal underwriter is the Distributor, and that are in the same ``group of investment companies'' as defined in rule 11a&hyph;3 under the Act (``future Funds`'). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Exemption requested pursuant to section 6(c) from sections 18(f), 18(g), and 18(i). SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order to permit the Funds to issue and sell multiple classes of securities representing interests in the same investment portfolio. FILING DATE: The application was filed on December 21, 1993. By letters dated February 8, 1994 and March 28, 1994, applicants' counsel stated that an amendment, the substance of which is incorporated herein, will be filed during the notice period. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the Commission by 5:30 p.m., on April 25, 1994 and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, One International Place, 44th Floor, Boston, MA 02110. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James M. Curtis, Senior Counsel, at (202) 504&hyph;2406, or Barry D. Miller, Senior Special Counsel, at (202) 272&hyph;3018 (Office of Investment Company Regulation, Division of Investment Management). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. The Fund is a Maryland corporation registered as an open-end management investment company. The Fund currently consists of twenty-five series of shares (each, together with any series subsequently established or otherwise acquired is referred to as the ``Portfolio''). Each of the existing Investment Advisers is a wholly-owned subsidiary of UAM, which is a holding company incorporated in Delaware for the purpose of acquiring and owning firms engaged primarily in institutional investment management. The Fund's shares are distributed through the RFI Distributors division of the Distributor. The Distributor of the Fund is a wholly-owned subsidiary of UAM. 2. Existing shares of each Portfolio (``Existing Shares'') are no load, are not offered in connection with a rule 12b&hyph;1 distribution plan, and are designed primarily for investment by high net worth individuals and tax-exempt fiduciary investors who are entrusted with the responsibility of investing assets held for the benefit of others. 3. Applicants propose that the Fund issue additional, separate classes of shares (``New Shares'') designed for a particular market. Each class of New Shares would be identical in all respects to the Existing Shares except for its class designation, the allocation of certain expenses, voting rights, and exchange privileges. 1 1 The Fund may institute a sales charge or a contingent deferred sales charge in the future with respect to the New Shares. Prior to the implementation of any CDSL, applicants will obtain a Commission order allowing the imposition of the CDSL, unless the Commission has adopted a rule allowing its imposition.
