FR941130-1-00015 FR941130-1-00001 (3) The equitable relationship between committee membership and districts; (4) Economies to result for producers in promoting efficient administration due to redistricting or reapportionment of members within districts; and (5) Other relevant factors. (b) Membership of the committee shall be apportioned among the districts of the production area so as to provide the following representation or such other representation as recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary: (1) Three producer members, including at least one who predominately produces seed potatoes, and one handler member, with their respective alternates, from District No. 1; (2) One producer member and one handler member, with their respective alternates, from District No. 2; and (3) One producer member and one handler member, with their respective alternates, from District No. 3; §945.24 Selection. Members and alternates of the committee shall be selected by the Secretary on the basis specified in §945.23 (b) from nominations made pursuant to §945.25 or from other eligible persons. 5. In §945.30, paragraph (a) is revised to read as follows: §945.30 Procedure. (a) A simple majority of all members of the committee, including alternates acting for members, shall be necessary to constitute a quorum or to pass any motion or approve any committee action, except any motion regarding a change in committee size shall require a unanimous vote. At any assembled meeting, all votes shall be cast in person. * * * * * 6. In §945.42, paragraph (b) is revised and new paragraphs (d) and (e) are added to read as follows: §945.42 Assessments. * * * * * (b) Assessments shall be levied upon handlers at a rate per hundredweight of potatoes or equivalent established by the Secretary. Such rate may be established upon the basis of the committee's budget recommendations, and other available information. * * * * * (d) The committee may impose a late payment charge or an interest charge, or both, on any handler who fails to pay, on or before the due date established by the Secretary, the total assessment for which such handler is liable. Such due date and the late payment fee and interest rate shall be recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary. (e) In order to provide funds to carry out its function, after the effective date of this subpart the committee may accept advance assessments from handlers. Advance assessments received from a handler shall be credited toward assessments levied against that handler during that fiscal period. In the case of an extreme emergency, the committee may also borrow money on a short term basis to provide funds for the administration of this part. Any such borrowed money shall only be used to meet the committee's current financial obligations, and the committee shall repay all borrowed money by the end of the next fiscal period from assessment income. 7. In §945.52, paragraph (a)(3) is revised to read as follows: §945.52 Issuance of regulations. * * * * * (3) Fix the size, capacity, weight, dimensions, pack, labeling or marking of the container, or containers, which may be used in the packaging or handling of potatoes, or both; or * * * * * 8. Section 945.80 is amended by designating the existing undesignated text as paragraph (a) and adding new paragraphs (b) through (d) to read as follows: §945.80 Reports. (a) *␣*␣* (b) All data or other information constituting a trade secret, or disclosing a trade position or business condition of a particular handler shall be treated as confidential and shall at all times be received by and kept in the custody and under the control of one or more designated employees of the committee. Information which would reveal the circumstances of a single handler shall be disclosed to no person other than the Secretary. (c) Each handler shall maintain for at least two succeeding fiscal periods such records of potatoes received and of potatoes disposed of by such handler as may be necessary to verify reports required pursuant to this section. The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may prescribe rules and regulations issued pursuant to this section specifying handler records and reports which the committee may need to perform its functions. (d) For the purpose of assuring compliance and checking and verifying reports filed by handlers, the Secretary and the committee, through its duly authorized agents, shall have access to any premises where applicable records are maintained, where potatoes are held, and, at any time during reasonable business hours, shall be permitted to inspect such handlers' premises and any and all records of such handlers with respect to matters within the purview of this part. Dated: November 23, 1994. Lon Hatamiya, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29505 Filed 11&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;02&hyph;P
