FR940110-1-00100 FR940110-1-00006 (2) The Bank shall set forth in its AHP implementation plan the nature, frequency and duration for monitoring compliance with the District Bank priority or priorities. (h) Monitoring compliance with the economic mobility priority. If an applicant in its AHP application commits to fund a project that meets the requirements of §960.10(d)(5), the Bank or its designee shall obtain a certification from the sponsor or the owner upon completion and full occupancy of the project, as required under §960.15(c)(4), that the sponsor or the owner has met such requirements as committed to in the AHP application. §960.15 Reporting requirements. (a) Reporting by the Banks. Each Bank shall provide accurate and timely reports and documentation to, and in the format requested by, the Board concerning the Bank's AHP, as the Board may from time to time require. (b) Reporting by applicants. (1) Each Bank shall require an applicant receiving a subsidized advance or direct subsidy pursuant to this part to report at least annually to the Bank on the manner in which it has used the funds, with such reports continuing until the funds have been fully disbursed by the applicant. (2) If subsidized advances or direct subsidies are used to finance construction or rehabilitation of a project, the Bank shall require the applicant to report to the Bank at reasonable intervals determined by the Bank, and described in the Bank's AHP implementation plan, on the progress of the construction or rehabilitation until completion. (c) Reporting by the sponsor or owner. _(1) Owner-occupied housing units_ (i) Initial certification. Where a subsidized advance or direct subsidy is used to finance the purchase of an owner-occupied housing unit, the Bank shall require the sponsor to certify, at the time a household enters into a purchase contract for such unit or at the closing on the financing for such unit, that the unit has been sold to a household with an income at or below the level committed to in the AHP application. Where a subsidized advance or direct subsidy is used to finance the rehabilitation of an owner-occupied housing unit, the Bank shall require the sponsor to certify at the time a loan or grant is committed to fund such rehabilitation that the household that owns and occupies the unit has an income at or below the level committed to in the AHP application. (ii) Reports of subsequent sale. If an owner-occupied housing unit assisted by a grant provided under the AHP is not subject to a deed restriction or other legally enforceable mechanism restricting transfer of ownership to a household with an income at or below the level committed to in the AHP application, the Bank shall require the sponsor to report to the Bank or its designee, at least annually for the required long-term period, the number of any such units that are sold to households whose incomes exceed the level committed to in the AHP application, and to certify to the Bank that it is continuing to satisfy its commitment, pursuant to its legally binding agreement with the Bank. (2) Rental housing units_certification. The Bank shall require the sponsor or owner to certify, upon initial full occupancy of the units in an AHP-assisted rental housing project but no later than one year after initial disbursement of the subsidized advance or direct subsidy, and annually thereafter, that the project's units, or portion thereof, are affordable for and occupied by households with incomes at or below the levels committed to in the AHP application. (3) Special needs_initial certification. If an applicant in its AHP application commits to fund a housing project that will provide housing units for persons with a special need, or will provide a continuing special service to occupants pursuant to §960.10(d)(3), the Bank shall require the sponsor or the owner to certify upon completion and full occupancy of the project that the project's units, or portion thereof, are occupied by persons with such special needs or that a special service is being provided to occupants, as committed to in the AHP application. (4) Economic mobility_certification. If an applicant in its AHP application commits to fund a housing project that meets the requirements for economic mobility under §960.10(d)(5), the Bank shall require the sponsor or the owner to certify upon completion and full occupancy of the project that the sponsor or owner has met such requirements, as committed to in the AHP application. (d) Other reports. The Bank shall require applicants or sponsors to provide such other reports as the Bank deems necessary in order to fulfill its monitoring obligations under §960.14. Subpart H_Corrective and Remedial Actions for Fraud or Non-Compliance With AHP Requirements §960.16 Corrective and remedial actions for fraud or non-compliance. (a) Fraud or willful non-compliance. (1) In the event of an applicant's, sponsor's or owner's fraud with respect to the requirements of this part, the Bank shall exclude the applicant, sponsor or owner, respectively, on a permanent basis, from future participation in the AHP. In the event of an applicant's, sponsor's or owner's willful non-compliance with the requirements of this part, the Bank shall suspend the applicant, sponsor or owner, respectively, at least on a temporary basis, from future participation in the AHP during the period such willful non-compliance continues, and may exclude such party permanently from future participation in the AHP. (2) In the event of an applicant's fraud or willful non-compliance with respect to the requirements of this part, the Bank shall recover from the applicant the full amount of the AHP subsidy provided to the project. (3)(i) In the event of a sponsor's or owner's fraud or willful non-compliance with respect to the requirements of this part, the full amount of the AHP subsidy shall be recovered from the sponsor or owner by the applicant and returned to the Bank or, if previously agreed to by the Bank, shall be recovered by the Bank from the sponsor or owner. If efforts to recover the AHP subsidy from the sponsor or owner are unsuccessful, the applicant shall not be liable for such funds.
