FR940412-2-00127 FR940412-2-00090 Fifteen to 25 percent of the funds available are to be used for the evaluation component. Outcome Evaluation: Outcome evaluation assesses whether the project was effective in achieving its goals, objectives and activities. For the purposes of this grant program, the outcome evaluation must provide periodic measures on the community or geographic area in the following broad categorical areas: (1) Substance abuse prevalence, incidence, frequency and amount; (2) Substance abuse-related health, safety and risk indicators (e.g., HIV/AIDS, crime, violence, unemployment, etc). The outcome evaluation design should employ a time series design, which allows for comparisons within and between communities or geographic areas. Outcome Evaluation Questions: At a minimum, applicants should include the following questions in the outcome evaluation component: (1) Does the presence of the Coalition and prevention program result in measurable reductions in use/abuse of identified substances, and/or health and safety problems of the target groups in the community or geographic area? (2) Does the presence of the Coalition and prevention program result in measurable increases in knowledge and anti-substance abuse attitudes by residents of the community or geographic area? (3) Does the presence of the Coalition and prevention program result in measurable increases in the target group(s)' ability to resist substance abuse and related risky behaviors? (4) Does the presence of the Coalition and prevention program result in measurable decreases in the target group's school absences or truancy rates in the community or geographic area? (5) Does the presence of the Coalition and prevention program result in a perceived increase in safety and a measurable decrease in drug dealing in the community or geographic area neighborhoods? (6) Does the presence of the Coalition and prevention program result in measurable decreases in the rate of domestic violence in the community or geographic area? (7) Does the presence of the Coalition and prevention program result in a measurable reduction in the number of violent crimes associated with substance abuse in the community or geographic area? (8) Does the presence of the Coalition and prevention program result in a measurable reduction in the number of substance abuse related emergency room admissions? (9) Does the presence of the Coalition and prevention program result in a measurable reduction in the number of substance abuse related vehicle crashes? (10) Does the presence of the Coalition result in measurable increases in environmental/social change policies (i.e., number of ordinances introduced/enacted/repealed; limited alcohol and tobacco advertising, etc.). Grantees will be required to collect uniform baseline and yearly data on some indicators using standardized instruments. Data collection and analysis, aggregation to group, and procedures for transmitting the results to CSAP will be provided at the first grantee meeting following award. OMB approval will be obtained for use of the instruments.
