FR940803-1-00050 FR940803-1-00010 195.501␣Scope. 195.503␣Definitions. 195.505␣Personnel to be qualified. 195.507␣Instructors. 195.509␣Evaluation and Scheduling. 195.511␣Qualification training. 195.513␣Testing. 195.515␣Refresher training. 195.517␣Competency reviews. 195.519␣Recordkeeping. 195.521␣Compliance dates. Subpart G_Qualification of Pipeline Personnel. §192.503 Scope. (a) This subpart prescribes minimum requirements for the qualification of personnel performing covered functions. (b) Under this subpart, personnel must complete requirements for qualification training, testing, and refresher training. (c) Under this subpart, the operator must ensure implementation of the following requirements: identification of covered functions and affected personnel; selection of instructors and subject matter; evaluation of prior experience and training of personnel; scheduling and implementation of training, testing, and refresher training; performance of competency reviews; maintenance of qualification records; certification of personnel and supervisory person qualification; and adherence with compliance dates. (d) No operator may use a person to perform any covered function for which qualification is needed, unless and until that person is qualified and certified by the operator, or that person is accompanied and directed by a qualified person. §195.503 Definitions. As used in this subpart: Covered functions means regulated operation, maintenance, and emergency-response functions performed in direct contact, or in close association with pipelines subject to this part. Covered functions are not limited to those under Subpart F_Operation and Maintenance of this part. Covered functions do not include clerical, truck driving, accounting, or other functions not subject to this part. Demonstrable proficiency means evidence of knowledge and skill acceptable to other persons with specialized training or certification in the performance of similar functions. Demonstrated successful performance on a test means achievement of at least the minimum acceptable grade level that demonstrates the knowledge and skills required to competently perform the function tested. Personnel means persons performing covered functions or supervisory persons directly overseeing persons performing covered functions. The persons may be the operator or employed by the operator, be a contractor engaged by the operator, or be employed by such contractor. Qualification training and testing schedule means a written or computerized schedule, prepared by the operator, that sets out the following minimum details: names and titles of personnel, dates of training and testing, elements of general and specific training to be taught or tested, and names of instructors. Qualified means meeting the training, testing, and recordkeeping requirements of this subpart for a covered function. Qualified administratively means meeting the training, testing, and recordkeeping requirements of this subpart for a covered function, except those involving the demonstration of competent ``hands-on'' skills, such as required for welding. Refresher training schedule means a written or computerized schedule, prepared by the operator, setting out the same details as the qualification training and testing schedule, except that information relating to testing is not required. Supervisory persons means persons such as operators, managers, supervisors, foremen, co-workers and other personnel. §195.505 Personnel to be qualified. (a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, persons performing covered functions and supervisory persons directly overseeing persons performing covered functions must be qualified under this subpart. Personnel requiring such qualification may be the operator or employed by the operator, be a contractor engaged by the operator, or be employed by such contractor. (b) Except for the covered functions of welding and nondestructive testing under subpart D of this part, personnel requiring qualification under paragraph (a) of this section may perform a covered function without qualification if, while performing the function, those persons are accompanied and directed by a supervisory person qualified under this subpart. (c) Supervisory persons directly overseeing qualified persons performing covered functions must, themselves, be qualified or be qualified administratively for those functions.
