FR940505-1-00146 FR940505-1-00012 An airline's compliance with a seasonal environmental performance target will be determined by comparing actual pounds-per-PEU performance against the target. An airline whose actual performance exceeds the target will be required to submit a fee proportional to the resultant excess emissions, as described in ``Fee System'' above. This fee will be remitted along with the annual compliance determination report. An airline's annual emissions/activity report will include a statement signed by a corporate officer affirming the report's accuracy. Failure to provide accurate information in the annual emissions/activity report will be considered a FIP violation subject to EPA enforcement. Reporting airlines will be required to maintain copies of their annual reports for three years, including all relevant calculation worksheets and supporting data. ( f ) Exemptions. EPA requests comment on the desirability of providing exemptions from the requirements of this control program for certain types of commercial aircraft operations or unusual situations. Atypical aircraft operations beyond the control of an airline and not anticipated in the design of the operations data collection system, such as in-flight emergency situations requiring emergency landings, could be exempted from reporting requirements and would not count toward an airline's environmental performance. Also, certain small commercial aircraft operators might be unnecessarily burdened under this program relative to the emissions reductions that might be obtained. EPA requests comment on the desirability and feasibility of establishing a de minimis exemption for this control program. Additionally, the Agency requests comment on the desirability of waiving part or all of any fee incurred by individual airlines that can demonstrate unreasonable economic hardship or burden on interstate commerce. Finally, comments are solicited on appropriate procedures and criteria for granting exemptions to foreign flag air carriers to ensure compliance with international treaties, bilaterial agreements, or when the Secretary or Deputy Secretary of the Department of State find that granting such an exemption is in the national interest of the United States. ( 3 ) Legal Authority and Regulatory Interactions. As noted in this preamble, EPA has broad authority under section 110(c) to promulgate regulations in a FIP when states have failed to submit a state plan or have submitted defective state plans. See Southland Terminal Corp. v. EPA, 504 F.2d 646, 669 (1st Cir. 1979). The courts have not required EPA to demonstrate explicit authority for promulgating specific control measures in FIPs. Instead, EPA may exercise its broad authority under section 110(c) unless such authority is expressly prohibited under the Act, other statutes, or the United States Constitution. EPA's general regulatory authority and its authority under section 110(c) include the ability to impose and enforce pollution fees. See 42 U.S.C. Sections 110(a)(2)(A); 172(c)(6). Congress has also granted express authority to EPA to set emissions standards for certain sources of pollution, such as aircraft and new locomotive engines. See 42 U.S.C. Sections 7547, 7571 (a)(2). In vesting EPA with authority to promulgate aircraft emissions standards, Congress recognized the authority of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to regulate aircraft design and manage the navigable airspace to assure safety and efficiency. Sections 231 and 232 of the Act establish a cooperative scheme in which EPA is required to consult with FAA in setting emissions standards, and FAA is charged with enforcing those standards. 42 U.S.C. Sections 7571&hyph;7472. The president may disapprove any standard after notice and an opportunity for a hearing, based upon a finding by the FAA that the standard would create a hazard to safety. Additionally, in section 233, Congress preempted the states from enacting or enforcing any emission standards for aircraft that did not conform to the federal standards. Id. Section 7573. EPA's broad powers under section 110(c) provide the legal authority for promulgating the control strategy proposed in the FIP_an emissions fee system based on a declining performance target expressed in per passenger emissions that can be achieved through either operational or technological means. EPA is not exercising its authority under section 231 to promulgate technology forcing emission standards for aircraft engines as the control strategy in this FIP. Nevertheless, the proposed control strategy maintains cooperative interaction between EPA and FAA and recognizes FAA's expertise in aircraft safety and navigation. EPA has consulted with FAA in drafting the proposed control strategy and will continue to consult and cooperate with FAA in finalizing and implementing the control strategy. EPA has determined that the proposed control strategy is well within the broad scope of powers under section 110(c) and that the strategy is not prohibited under any provisions in the Act. As explained elsewhere in this preamble, EPA has solid legal authority for fee systems to encourage emission reductions. Further, EPA believes that the proposed control strategy is not prohibited by or in direct conflict with other federal regulations and statutes, such as the Airline Deregulation Act of 1978 (``ADA''), the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 (``ANCA''), or the Federal Aviation Act, which establishes FAA for overseeing aircraft safety, the efficient use of the navigable airspace, and the national air transportation system.
