FR940325-2-00118 FR940325-2-00053 Clean Vessel Act Education/Information Scoping Meeting AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of meeting. SUMMARY: The Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) is announcing a scoping meeting to determine the need for developing an education/information program for the Clean Vessel Act at the national level. Funds are currently provided to States to develop education/information programs, but the extent of overlap in developing products is not known since no overview is provided at the national level. The meeting is to determine (1) education/information needs, (2) the extent of education/information currently provided, (3) the role, if any, of the Service is providing education/information, and (4) priorities for accomplishing education/information at the national level. DATES: The scoping meeting will take place on May 17, 1994, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. ADDRESSES: The scoping meeting will take place in room 200, 4401 North Fairfax Drive, Arlington, Virginia. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Columbus Brown, Chief, Division of Federal Aid, Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Department of the Interior, 1849 C Street, NW., MS 140 ARLSQ, Washington, DC 20240, (703) 358&hyph;2156. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: One of the purposes of the Clean Vessel Act is to provide grant funds to States to educate boaters: (1) On where pumpouts and dump stations are located so they can dispose of recreational boat sewage in an environmentally sound manner, and (2) on the environmental benefits of using pumpouts and dump stations. Currently, Federal, State, local and marine industry groups provide education/information to various audiences in boating, either through the Clean Vessel Act or through other programs. However, there is no comprehensive approach to this education/information dissemination. The extent of the education/information currently provided is not known, but indications are that education/information is not provided to the different audiences uniformly. Some audiences are not targeted in some States, some information is not provided in some States, and some States have not submitted education proposals under the Clean Vessel Act. To provide for the most successful education program, all appropriate audiences should be targeted. Also, information exchange may result in a more efficient and less costly program. Lastly, the program may benefit from generic educational materials produced at the national level. The result would be that more pumpout and dump stations could be constructed to better attain the goal of the Clean Vessel Act to increase water quality. The purposes and agenda of the scoping meeting, therefore, are: (1) To determine the extend of education/information, methods and target audiences needed, (2) to establish the extent of education/information, methods and target audiences currently provided that is applicable to the success of the Clean Vessel Act, (3) to assess what portion of the education/information program, if any, is most appropriately done at the national level and, (4) to prioritize the national needs, if any, so that the most important education/information tasks can be accomplished first. This will be a participatory meeting, with attendees requested to provide input as to education/information, methods and target audience needs, and what products they are currently contributing to the pumpout/dump station education program. Sample products are welcome. Dated: March 18, 1994. J.L. Gerst, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7141 Filed 3&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
