FR941003-0-00026 FR941003-0-00006 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 117 [CGD09&hyph;94&hyph;008] RIN&hyph;2115&hyph;AE47 Drawbridge Operation Regulations; Black Rock Canal, NY AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: At the request of the Canadian National Railway Company, the Coast Guard is changing the operating regulations governing the Canadian National railroad bridge at mile 3.8 across the Black Rock Canal in Buffalo, New York, by not requiring bridgetenders to be in constant attendance at the bridge during periods of time when there is little or no significant navigation on the Canal. This action will relieve the bridge owner of the burden of having a bridgetender in constant attendance and will provide for the reasonable needs of navigation. Additionally, this rule adjusts the hours of the Ferry Street bridge at mile 2.6 across the Black Rock Canal when the bridge is not required to have a bridgetender in attendance. EFFECTIVE DATE: This rule becomes effective on November 2, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Robert W. Bloom, Jr., Chief, Bridge Branch, Ninth Coast Guard District, at (216) 522&hyph;3993. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Drafting Information The principal person involved in drafting this document is Mr. Fred H. Mieser, Project Manager. Regulatory History On June 1, 1994, the Coast Guard published a notice of proposed rulemaking entitled Drawbrige Operation Regulations; Black Rock Canal, NY, in the Federal Register (59 FR 28324 and 28325). On June 17, 1994, the commander, Ninth Coast Guard District published the proposed rule as a Public Notice (PN 09&hyph;03/94). Interested persons were given until August 1, 1994, and July 18, 1994, respectively, to submit comments. Two letters were received commenting on the proposal. A public hearing was not requested and one was not held. Background and Purpose Presently, the Canadian National railroad bridge is required to have bridgetenders in constant attendance at all times. The owner requested that they be allowed to remove bridgetenders from the bridge between the hours of 11 p.m. and 7 a.m., seven days a week, from April 15 through November 30, with a requirement to open the bridge on signal when notice is given at least two hours in advance of a vessel's time of intended passage through the draw. From December 1 through April 14, the bridge would be unattended at all times with a requirement to open the bridge on signal if notice is given at least four hours in advance of a vessel's time of intended passage through the draw. At all times, the bridge will be required to open as soon as possible for the passage of public vessels of the United States, State or local government vessels used for public safety, and vessels in distress. Discussion of Comments and Changes Two comments were received from the notice of proposed rulemaking requesting that the hours when the bridges are unattended be changed. The commenters requested the unattended periods for the bridges listed in the proposed rule, 11 p.m. to 7 a.m., be changed to conform with the period of time when the Black Rock Locks are unattended, between the hours of 12 midnight and 8 a.m., seven days a week. In addition, the regulations contained in 33 CFR 117.769 do not require the Ferry Street bridge across the Black Rock Canal to be manned from 11 p.m. to 7 a.m. The requested change of time is a reasonable request and will benefit marine traffic using the Black Rock Canal by bringing the time period for the bridges and locks in line when a vessel owner/operator is required to give an advance notice to transit the Canal. Therefore, section 117.769(a) of the proposed rule has been changed in the final rule by not requiring the bridges to be manned between the hours of 12 midnight to 8 a.m. Regulatory Evaluation This regulation is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this rule to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary. The Coast Guard concludes this because the rule which is being changed allows for the removal of bridgetenders during a period of time when there is little or no significant navigation on a waterway. In addition this rule establishes a consistent period of time when an advance notice is required to have the bridges manned which is less confusing to the person requesting passage through the locks and draws of the bridges.
