FR940811-2-00008 FR940811-2-00004 9. Specifications. This FIPS adopts ANSI/TIA/EIA&hyph;606&hyph;1993, Administration Standard for the Telecommunications Infrastructure of Commercial Buildings. The American National Standard specifies the administrative requirements for the telecommunications infrastructure within a new, existing, or renovated office building or campus. Areas of the infrastructure to be administered include: (a) Terminations for the telecommunications media located in work areas, telecommunications closets, equipment rooms, and entrance facilities; (b) Telecommunications media between terminations; (c) Pathways between terminations that contain the media; (d) Spaces where terminations are located; and (e) Bonding/grounding as it applies to telecommunications. This standard also specifies requirements for the collection, organization, and presentation of as-built data. 10. Implementation. The use of this standard by Federal departments and agencies is compulsory and binding for the administration of the telecommunications infrastructure of new buildings, effective February 10, 1995. Use of the standard is recommended for the administration of the telecommunications infrastructure of existing and renovated buildings. Anyone associated with telecommunications equipment, wiring systems, wire termination products, and pathway/space components will find this standard useful. By having one administration reference document, progress can be made toward building consistently administered telecommunications infrastructures. Administration in accordance with this standard can be accomplished by either paper- or computer-based systems. In today's increasingly complex telecommunications environment, effective administration is enhanced by the use of computer-based systems. This standard will also reduce the large number of incompatible and incomplete administrative approaches in existence. Over time, the end user should expect manufacturers to provide telecommunications systems that include administrative support complying with this standard. It is also expected that administrative products that comply with this standard will become available. 11. Waivers. Under certain exceptional circumstances, the heads of Federal departments and agencies may approve waivers to Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS). The head of such agency may redelegate such authority only to a senior official designated pursuant to section 3506(b) of Title 44, U.S. Code. Waivers shall be granted only when: a. Compliance with a standard would adversely affect the accomplishment of the mission of an operator of a Federal computer system or related telecommunications system, or b. Cause a major adverse financial impact on the operator which is not offset by Governmentwide savings. Agency heads may act upon a written waiver request containing the information detailed above. Agency heads may also act without a written waiver request when they determine that conditions for meeting the standard cannot be met. Agency heads may approve waivers only by a written decision which explains the basis on which the agency head made the required finding(s). A copy of each such decision, with procurement sensitive or classified portions clearly identified, shall be sent to: National Institute of Standards and Technology, Attn: FIPS Waiver Decisions, Technology Building, room B&hyph;154, Gaithersburg, MD 20899. In addition, notice of each waiver granted and each delegation of authority to approve waivers shall be sent promptly to the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate and shall be published promptly in the Federal Register . When the determination on a waiver applies to the procurement of equipment and/or services, a notice of the waiver determination must be published in the Commerce Business Daily as a part of the notice of solicitation for offers of an acquisition or, if the waiver determination is made after the notice is published, by amendment to such notice.
