FR941003-2-00110 FR941003-2-00049 (20) One Humanities Administrator, Centers for Advanced Study, Division of Research Programs. (21) One Challenge Grants Officer. (22) One Assistant Director, Humanities Projects in Media Program, Division of Public Programs. (23) One Humanities Administrator, Publications Program, Division of Research Programs. (24) Deputy to the Director, Division of Research Programs. (25) One Humanities Administrator, Summer Seminars for College Teachers, Division of Fellowships and Seminars. (26) Two Humanities Administrators, Humanities Projects in Libraries and Archives, Division of Public Programs. (27) One Humanities Projects Assessment Officer and one Humanities Administrator, Office of the Chairman. (28) One Humanities Administrator, Public Humanities Projects, Division of Public Programs. (29) One Humanities Administrator, Interpretive Research Programs, Division of Research Programs. (30) One Humanities Administrator, Office of Challenge Grants. (31) (Reserved). (32) One Assistant Director, Fellowships Program, Division of Fellowships and Seminars. (33) (Reserved). (34) One Humanities Administrator, Humanities Projects in Higher Education Program, Division of Education Programs. (35) Two Humanities Administrators, Humanities Projects in Higher Education Program, Division of Education Programs. (36) Three Humanities Administrators, Humanities Projects in Higher Education Program, Division of Education Programs. (37) Two Humanities Administrators, Summer Seminars for Secondary School Teachers, Division of Fellowships and Seminars. (38) One Humanities Administrator, Summer Stipends, Division of Fellowships and Seminars. (39) One Humanities Administrator, Travel to Collections, Division of Fellowships and Seminars. (40) One Humanities Administrator, Translation Program, Reference Works Program, Division of Research Programs. (41) One Humanities Administrator, Editions Program, Reference Work Program, Division of Research Programs. (42) (Reserved). (43) One Humanities Administrator, Foundations of American Society Program, Division of Fellowships and Seminars. (44) One Humanities Administrator, Humanities Projects in Museums and Historical Organizations, Division of Public Programs. (45) Six Humanities Administrators, Division of Preservation and Access. (46) Director, Division of Preservation and Access. (47) One Humanities Administrator, Centers for Advanced Study, International Research, and Selected Areas, Division of Research Programs. (48) Director, Office of Planning and Budget. (49) One Humanities Administrator, Tools Program, Reference Materials Program, Division of Research Programs. (50) One Humanities Administrator, Division of Preservation and Access. (51) Two Humanities Administrators, Archaeology Program, Interpretive Research Program, Division of Research Programs. (52) One Humanities Administrator, Humanities, Science, and Technology Program, Interpretive Research Program, Division of Research Programs. (53) One Humanities Administrator, Office of the Chairman. (54) Four Humanities Administrators, Office of the Assistant Chairman for Programs and Policy. (55) One Humanities Administrator, Fellowships Program, Division of Fellowships and Seminars. (56) One Humanities Administrator, Seminars Program, Division of Fellowships and Seminars. (57) One Humanities Administrator, Guides Program, Reference Materials Program, Division of Research Programs. (58) One Humanities Administrator, Public Challenge Grants Program, Division of Public Programs. (59) One Humanities Administrator, Dissertation Grants/Summer Seminars for College Teachers, Division of Fellowships and Seminars. Section 213.3285␣Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (a) One position of Civil Engineer (Construction Manager).
