FR941110-1-00080 FR941110-1-00011 _the type of machine used to recover and/or recycle the material, _the name of the facility and/or the name of the equipment employed to reclaim a previously used substance, or _a chain of ownership of the substance from recovery to final import, _a certification from the foreign seller that the substance is previously used, _a chemical test of used imports where the quantity of the import exceeds some specified weight (e.g., 10,000 pounds). EPA is aware that the importer may not always know if the imported substance was in fact previously used. In the absence of information requirements such as those noted above, the importer might be forced to rely solely on the statements of exporters from other countries_individuals about whom the importer may know little or nothing. The types of information noted above are designed to provide an opportunity for independent verification of the nature of the substance being imported (both from the U.S., and by the exporting country government). As an alternative, or in addition to requiring import information such as that noted above, EPA proposes that it be able to request post-import information designed to ensure that the product is treated in a manner consistent with the claimed import status. Importers of used material that was not reclaimed may be asked to provide information on the facilities that they will use for reclaiming the used substances once imported. Information that EPA may require could include, where applicable: _the name of the reclamation facility that will clean a used or a recycled substance to the specified ARI&hyph;700 Standard, _information demonstrating that such cleaning will take place, or _the bills of sale from the exporter to the actual purchaser of the substance (not necessarily the importer). EPA requests comment on the above-noted list of potential information requirements, and requests comment on alternative information requirements that can reasonably be expected to result in an accurate determination of whether the substance being imported is in fact used. 2. Certification by the Country of Export In future meetings, the Parties to the Protocol may decide to require the government of the country of origin of a material to certify its status as used prior to export. While this might obviate the need for some of the information listed in paragraph B.1. above, it would also require EPA to establish a program to certify any U.S. exports of used controlled substances. EPA already has a limited certification program for certain reclamation facilities. Under this program, reclamation facilities must be able to ensure that previously used substances will be reclaimed to a level of purity called for by the ARI&hyph;700 Standard. With regard to exports of used substances, with such Protocol changes, U.S. exporters could be required to certify to EPA that the ``used'' substance that it wishes to export was indeed taken from a use system. The exporter could also be required to keep records on selected items under paragraph B.1. above, to facilitate future verification. EPA requests comments on this approach to certify that the used and recycled class I substances being exported are being recovered from use systems. 3. Creation of a Permit Program for the Importation of Used Materials EPA is considering the use of a permit system for the importation of used controlled substances. In addition to the measures discussed in paragraphs B.1. and B.2. above, EPA believes a permit system may deter fraudulent import of mislabelled controlled substances, and may provide greater control over the entry of used controlled substances into United States jurisdiction. The European Union requires importers to have permits to control the import of mislabelled ozone-depleting substances that are used. EPA believes that adoption of a similar system of permits for the importation of used controlled substances may increase the effectiveness of enforcement actions against the illegal importation of used substances into the U.S. EPA seeks comments on the potential effectiveness of a permit system in controlling the import of mislabelled used controlled substances, in general, and the specific permit systems described below. Under all options being considered, an importer would not be able to import until a permit was granted. Currently, EPA receives a monthly list of importers of controlled substances from U.S. Customs. With a permit system, EPA would collect information from importers of used controlled substances and could match persons on the monthly U.S. Customs list with the list of persons who have permits to import used controlled substances. A person appearing on the U.S. Customs list who does not have a permit would be in potential violation of the regulation. A permit system would also enable compliance and enforcement staff to link suspicious imports by permitted importer to a specific person, i.e., the name and address of the company. Importers would also be aware that EPA held information on each import, providing a disincentive for fraudulent activity. One option EPA is considering would require individuals to obtain a permit from EPA prior to each proposed import of a used controlled substance. EPA would require the person to submit an application for a permit 15 days before the import is due to enter U.S. jurisdiction. EPA would then have 5 days in which to grant the permit. If EPA does not act within 5 days, the permit would be granted automatically. EPA would review the information to determine if the information is sufficient and verify the accuracy of the claims. If the application is denied, the person may appeal within 5 days. EPA would then have 5 days in which to review the appeal and deny or grant the permit. If EPA does not make a determination on the appeal within 5 days, the permit would be granted automatically. The application for an import permit for a particular shipment of used controlled substances would need to include the name and address of the importer, their importer identification number, and the quantity of controlled substance that the person intends to import. In addition, the individual would be required to furnish information such as that outlined under paragraph B.1., ``Information Requirements,'' that ensures the substance being imported is in fact ``used.'' EPA is requesting comment on a list of information requirements in paragraph B.1. to identify those which might best verify that a controlled substance is in fact ``used.'' In addition, importers of used controlled substances may be asked to provide information on the reclamation facility they will use once the substance is imported, in order to bring the contaminated material to chemical and physical specifications for sale in the United States. EPA is considering this option because it would provide detailed, timely information on each shipment and allow more accurate compliance determinations. However, EPA is seeking comments on the potential constraints on trade that a shipment by shipment permitting system might impose.
