FR940825-1-00102 FR940825-1-00009 e. Title V Operating Permit Program Submittal Deadlines, Implementation Deadlines and Other Requirements f. Small Business Assistance Program Submittal Deadline and Compliance Advisory Panel Requirement 3. Stringency of Tribal Regulations 4. Provisions for which No Separate Tribal Program Required C. Procedures for Review of Tribal Air Programs 1. Modular Approach to Tribal Air Programs 2. Procedures for Reviewing and Approving Tribal Implementation Plans (``TIPs'') 3. Procedures for Reviewing Other Tribal Air Programs (``TAPs'') D. Revisions to CAA Implementing Regulations 1. 40 CFR Part 35_State[, Tribal] and Local Assistance 2. 40 CFR Part 49_Tribal Clean Air Act Authority 3. 40 CFR Part 50_National Primary and Secondary Ambient Air Quality Standards 4. 40 CFR Part 51_Requirements for Preparation, Adoption, and Submittal of Implementation Plans 5. 40 CFR Part 52_Approval and Promulgation of Implementation Plans 6. 40 CFR Part 70_State [and Tribal] Operating Permit Programs 7. 40 CFR Part 81_Designation of Areas for Air Quality Planning Purposes IV. Federal Financial Assistance A. Sources of Funding Assistance B. Tribal Eligibility for Air Grant Assistance 1. Section 103 Air Assessment Grants 2. Section 105 Air Program Grants 3. Tribal Agencies and Consortia C. Use of EPA General Assistance Grants D. Additional Administrative Requirements V. Miscellaneous A. Executive Order (EO) 12866 B. Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) C. Executive Order (EO) 12875 D. Paperwork Reduction Act VI. Request for Public Comments VII. Electronic Filing of Comments Addendum A: General Description of Clean Air Act Programs Addendum B: List of EPA Regional Offices I. Background of the Proposed Rule A. Development of the Proposed Rule This notice describes proposed regulatory changes to implement section 301(d) of the Clean Air Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 7401, et seq. (the ``Act'' or ``CAA''). Section 301(d) requires EPA to promulgate regulations that provide for Indian Tribes, if they so choose, to assume responsibility for the development and implementation of CAA programs on lands within the exterior boundaries of their reservations or other areas within their jurisdiction. This Tribal authority will apply to all CAA programs which the EPA Administrator determines to be appropriate in taking final action on this proposal. An Indian Tribe that takes responsibility for a CAA program under this rule would essentially be treated in the same way as a State would be treated for that program, with any exceptions noted in this rule and discussed below in this preamble. 1. Federal/EPA Indian Policy In developing this proposed rule, EPA has acted on the principles expressed in existing Federal policy statements regarding Indian Tribes. On January 24, 1983, the President issued a Federal Indian Policy stressing two related themes: (1) that the Federal government will pursue the principle of Indian ``self-government'' and (2) that it will work directly with Tribal governments on a ``government-to-government'' basis. Presidential support was reaffirmed in an April 1, 1993 statement. On November 8, 1984, in response to the 1983 Federal statement, EPA adopted a policy statement and implementing guidance addressing the administration of EPA environmental programs on Indian reservations. EPA's policy is ``to give special consideration to Tribal interests in making Agency policy, and to ensure the close involvement of Tribal Governments in making decisions and managing environmental programs affecting reservation lands.'' EPA committed to pursue certain principles to meet this objective, including the following: EPA recognizes Tribal Governments as sovereign entities with primary authority and responsibility for the reservation populace. Accordingly, EPA will work directly with Tribal Governments as the independent authority for reservation affairs, and not as political subdivisions of States or other governmental units. * * * * *
