FR940825-2-00013 FR940825-2-00008 Third, Sandvik contends that according to the Court of International Trade (CIT) ruling in Sandvik AB v. United States (721 F. Supp. 1322, 1335 (CIT 1989)) the Department must calculate profit based on the ``increased value'' as defined in the statute. Sandvik maintains that movement of a product or component does not constitute performance of a ``manufacture or assembly'' process on the imported merchandise. Thus, Sandvik concludes that movement expenses may not be considered part of the U.S. value added. Department's Position The Department's standard practice is to subtract from USP any increased value added to the merchandise by a process performed after importation and before sale to the first unrelated customer (see e.g., Roller Chain, Other Than Bicycle, from Japan; Final Results of Administrative Review of Antidumping Finding (48 FR 51801, November 14, 1983), and Cellular Mobile Telephones and Subassemblies from Japan; Final Results of Antidumping Duty Administrative Review (54 FR 48011, November 20, 1989). Accordingly, the Department correctly included the costs of transporting the product from the port to the U.S. factory as an element of further manufacturing. Contrary to respondent's claims, this practice is consistent with the statute and the Department's regulations, which allow for adjustments to USP for any increased value resulting from a process of manufacture or production, or assembly ( see 19 USC §1677a(e)(3) and 19 CFR 353.41(e)). The Department treats the costs of moving the product to the factory as part of the process of further manufacturing because, were it not for the further manufacturing, these costs would not be incurred. Furthermore, the Department's regulations allow for inclusion of transportation costs in calculating value added adjustments. Specifically, 19 CFR 353.41(e)(3) states that the Secretary ``generally will'' consider many factors, including ``other expenses,'' in the determination of ``increased value.'' Thus, the Department's practice is consistent with its authority to assess the costs of port to factory movement expenses in determining value added adjustments. Sandvik's reliance on the CIT case, Sandvik AB v. United States (721 F. Supp. 1322, 1335 (CIT 1989) ( Sandvik )), to support its contention that the movement of a product does not constitute performance of a ``manufacture or assembly'' process is misplaced. In Sandvik , the CIT held that the Department can deduct from the USP the profit associated with further manufacturing. In making this decision, the CIT simply quoted the relevant portions of the statute and regulations at issue, but never addressed the precise meaning of the statute or the issue of movement expenses. Moreover, the Department's approach to these movement expenses is in accordance with longstanding practice ( see Gray Portland Cement and Clinker from Japan; Final Results of Antidumping Duty Administrative Review (56 FR 48826, September 20, 1983, as amended, 58 FR 53705, April 21, 1983) (the Department included freight from the U.S. port to the U.S. plant in the U.S. further manufacturing costs); see also, Stainless Steel Hollow Products from Sweden; Final Results of Antidumping Duty Administrative Review (57 FR 21389, 21392, May 20, 1992)). Finally, in Final Results of Antidumping Duty Administrative Review, Certain Internal-Combustion, Industrial Forklift Trucks from Japan (57 FR 3167, 3169, January 28, 1992), the Department included transportation of merchandise as part of U.S. value added. Although these were delivery charges incurred in the transportation of the goods from the factory, this case nonetheless illustrates the Department's practice of including movement expenses as part of the costs of further manufacturing. Therefore, the Department has included the costs of transporting the product from the port to the factory as an element of further manufacturing. Comment 7: According to Sandvik, the company imposes a service charge for cutting each piece of hollow bar sold in Sweden to the length desired by each Swedish customer. Sandvik points out that since none of the hollow bar sold in the United States was cut to length, sales of hollow bar in the home market carry a selling expense that U.S. sales do not. Accordingly, Sandvik requests that the Department reduce the home market price by the amount of the service charge. In support of its position, Sandvik contends that both the Department's regulations and current practice establish that Sandvik is entitled to a circumstance of sale adjustment for the service of cutting hollow bar to length. According to Sandvik, 19 CFR 353.56(a)(2) sets forth the types of differences in circumstances of sale for which the Department may normally make reasonable allowances, which includes ``those involving differences in *␣*␣* servicing.'' Thus, Sandvik contends that the company's service charge is properly characterized as a circumstance of sale adjustment. In addition, Sandvik cites cases demonstrating that the requested adjustment is supported by Department practice. In the antidumping duty investigation on Polyethylene Terephthalate Film, Sheet and Strip from the Republic of Korea ( Pet Film ) (56 FR 16305, April 22, 1991), Sandvik claims the Department granted a circumstance of sale adjustment to account for slitting costs when respondent cut its merchandise to the width desired by each home market customer. According to Sandvik, no such expenses were incurred for U.S. sales. Thus, Sandvik claims Pet Film is analogous to the situation in the present review on SSHP.
