FR941202-0-00066 FR941202-0-00010 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For information concerning the final standard, contact Mr. Paul Almodóvar, Coatings and Consumer Products Group, Emission Standards Division (MD&hyph;13), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, 27711, telephone number (919) 541&hyph;0283. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: National emission standards for hazardous air pollutants (NESHAP) for halogenated solvent cleaners were proposed in the Federal Register on November 29, 1993 (58 FR 62566). This Federal Register action announces the EPA's final decisions on the rule. Under section 307(b)(1) of the Act, judicial review of the NESHAP is available only by the filing of a petition for review in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit within 60 days of today's publication of this rule. Under section 307(b)(2) of the Act, the requirements that are the subject of today's notice may not be challenged later in civil or criminal proceedings brought by the EPA to enforce these requirements. I. The Standards National emission standards for major sources of hazardous air pollutants established under section 112 of the Act reflect: ``*␣*␣*␣the maximum degree of reduction in emissions of the HAP␣*␣*␣* that the Administrator, taking into consideration the cost of achieving such emission reduction, and any nonair quality health and environmental impacts and energy requirements, determine is achievable for new or existing sources in the category or subcategory to which such emission standards applies *␣*␣*'' (the Act section 112(d)(2)). Area sources are regulated with a MACT standard, unless there is justification for regulating them under GACT. The promulgated standard includes multiple alternatives to allow owners or operators maximum compliance flexibility. These alternatives include an equipment standard, in conjunction with work practice requirements, and an alternative overall solvent emissions standard. The idling emission limit and the alternative overall solvent emission standard are not available to owners or operators of batch cold cleaning machines. If an owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line cleaning machine elects to comply with the equipment standard, they must install one of the control combinations listed in the regulation, use an automated parts handling system to process all parts, and follow multiple work practices. As an alternative to selecting one of the equipment control combinations listed in the regulation, an owner or operator may demonstrate that the batch vapor or in-line cleaning machine can meet the idling mode emission limit specified in the standards. In addition to maintaining this idling mode emission limit, the owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine must use an automated parts handling system to process all parts and comply with the work practice standards. A third alternative for complying with these standards is to comply with the overall solvent emissions limit. An owner or operator complying with the overall solvent emissions limit is required to ensure that the emissions from each solvent cleaning machine are less than or equal to the solvent emission levels specified in the standard. Under this alternative standard, an owner or operator is not required to use an automated parts handling system or to comply with the work practice standards. The batch cold cleaning machine standard is an equipment standard. However, those owners or operators choosing the equipment options without the water layer must also comply with work practice requirements. There is no idling standard or overall solvent emissions standard for batch cold cleaning machines. Batch cold cleaning machines located at nonmajor sources are exempt from title V permit requirements. Section 114(a)(3) of the amended CAA requires enhanced monitoring and compliance certification of all major stationary sources. The annual compliance certifications certify whether compliance has been continuous or intermittent. Enhanced monitoring shall be capable of detecting deviations from each applicable emission limit or standard with sufficient representativeness, accuracy, precision, reliability, frequency and timeliness to determine if compliance is continuous during a reporting period. The monitoring in this regulation satisfies the requirements of enhanced monitoring. II. Summary of Impacts These standards will reduce nationwide emissions of hazardous air pollutants (HAP) from halogenated solvent cleaning machines by 77,400 Mg/yr (85,300 tons per year), or 63 percent by 1997 compared to the emissions that would result in the absence of the standards. No adverse secondary air impacts, water or solid waste impacts are anticipated from the promulgation of these standards. The national annual energy usage due to the installation of the required control devices is expected to increase from 12.9 million KWH/yr to 66.9 million KWH/yr, which is equivalent to approximately 29.3 thousand barrels of oil. These estimates do not include energy savings from reduced solvent use. The implementation of this regulation is expected to result in an overall annual national net savings of $19 million. This includes a net annualized savings from installation of control devices of $30.5 million and a total monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping costs of $11.6 million. These savings will come from the significant decrease in solvent emissions and, therefore, solvent consumption, which outweigh the overall cost of air pollution control equipment and monitoring and recordkeeping costs.
