FR940222-1-00059 FR940222-1-00009 §421.101 Optional intermediary functions. An agreement between HCFA and an intermediary may specify the optional functions to be performed by the intermediary, which may include, but are not necessarily limited to, the following: (a) Provider audits . The intermediary must audit the records of providers of services as necessary to assure proper payments. (b) Utilization patterns. The intermediary must assist providers to_ (1) Develop procedures relating to utilization practices; (2) Make studies of the effectiveness of those procedures and recommend methods to improve them; (3) Evaluate the results of utilization review activity; and (4) Assist in the application of safeguards against unnecessary utilization of services. (c) Resolution of cost report disputes. The intermediary must establish and maintain procedures approved by HCFA to consider and resolve any disputes that may result from provider dissatisfaction with an intermediary's determinations concerning provider cost reports. (d) Reconsideration of determinations. The intermediary must establish and maintain procedures approved by HCFA for the reconsideration of its determinations to deny payments to an individual or to the provider that furnished services to the individual. The PRO performs reconsideration of cases in which it made a determination subject to reconsideration. (e) Information and reports. The intermediary must furnish to HCFA any information and reports that HCFA requests in order to carry out its responsibilities in the administration of the Medicare program. (f) Other terms and conditions. The intermediary must comply with all applicable laws and regulations and with any other terms and conditions included in its agreement. (g) Dual intermediary responsibilities. With respect to the responsibility for service to provider-based HHAs and provider-based hospices, where the HHA or hospice and its parent provider will be served by different intermediaries under §421.117 of this part, the designated regional intermediary will process bills, make coverage determinations and make payments to the HHAs and hospices. The intermediary serving the parent provider will perform all fiscal functions, including audits and settlement of the Medicare cost reports and the HHA and hospice supplement worksheets. 4. A new §421.100 is added to subpart B to read as follows: §421.100 Required intermediary functions. An agreement between HCFA and an intermediary specifies the functions to be performed by the intermediary, which must include the following required functions and may include optional functions listed in §421.101 of this part and any others agreed to by HCFA. The required functions are: (a) Coverage. (1) The intermediary ensures that it makes payments only for services that are: (i) Furnished to Medicare beneficiaries; (ii) Covered under Medicare; and (iii) In accordance with PRO determinations when they are services for which the PRO has assumed review responsibility under its contract with HCFA. (2) The intermediary takes appropriate action to reject or adjust the claim if_ (i) The intermediary or the PRO determines that the services furnished were not reasonable, not medically necessary, or not furnished in the most appropriate setting; or (ii) The intermediary determines that the claim does not properly reflect the kind and amount of services furnished. (b) Fiscal management. The intermediary must receive, disburse, and account for funds in making Medicare payments. 5. Section 421.126 is amended by revising the heading and by adding a new paragraph (c) to read as follows: §421.126 Termination or nonrenewal or agreements. * * * * * (c) Nonrenewal by the intermediary or Secretary. (1) An intermediary may nonrenew an agreement with the Secretary by giving the Secretary written notice of the intermediary's intention to nonrenew the agreement at least 90 days before the end of the current period of the agreement. (2) The Secretary may nonrenew an agreement with an intermediary by giving the intermediary written notice of the Secretary's intention to nonrenew the agreement at least 90 days before the end of the current period of the agreement. (3) In the event that either the Secretary or intermediary gives notice of intention to nonrenew an agreement, the Secretary may extend the agreement for such time and under such conditions as may be specified in the agreement. (4) The providers served by an intermediary whose contract is not being renewed have the opportunity to nominate another intermediary, in accordance with §421.104.
