FR940127-0-00019 FR940127-0-00004 III. Comment Summary The FDIC received 21 comment letters addressing various aspects of its proposed rule. Letters were submitted by 12 depository institutions or holding companies, four trade associations representing depository institutions, three trade associations representing housing and home building interests, and one secondary mortgage market maker. One comment document was filed by a group of individuals. Of the 21 letters received, six respondents agreed with the proposal to lower the risk weight for multifamily housing loans and offered no suggestions for changes to it. Another 12 commenters generally found the FDIC's proposal acceptable, but recommended certain changes in the eligibility criteria or the treatment of loss sharing arrangements. Three respondents objected to the proposal to lower the risk weight for multifamily housing loans, although two of these commenters made suggestions for improving the eligibility criteria. Three commenters, two of whom supported the proposal and one who opposed it, expressed concern that Congress had mandated that the regulatory agencies lower the risk weight for a specific loan category. Loan-to-Value Ratios Although the proposal called for the loan-to-value ratio requirement to be met at the origination of a multifamily housing loan, the FDIC specifically requested comment on whether, in light of the other criteria that a multifamily housing loan must also meet, (1) a loan that does not satisfy the loan-to-value ratio requirement at origination should be permitted to do so later during the life of the loan and, if so, under what circumstances, and (2) a loan that satisfies this requirement at origination but fails to do so at a later date should thereafter be ineligible for a 50 percent risk weight. These issues were addressed by five respondents. Two respondents suggested that the loan-to-value ratios of ``large'' multifamily properties be recalculated every two years to determine whether the required ratio continues to be met. The other three respondents stated that multifamily housing loans not meeting the loan-to-value ratio requirement at origination should be eligible for the 50 percent risk weight if the ratio later decreases as a result of either principal payments or increased property values. However, only one of these three also recommended that multifamily housing loans should have their risk weights increased from 50 to 100 percent if their loan-to-value ratios rise above the levels set forth in the proposal subsequent to their origination. In contrast, another of these three commenters stated that a multifamily housing loan whose loan-to-value ratio increases after origination should be eligible to retain its 50 percent risk weight as long as the remaining eligibility criteria continued to be met. Finally, one of these commenters expressed concern about the cost of obtaining appraisals if the final rule were to require frequent reappraisals to ensure that the loan-to-value ratio requirement continues to be satisfied over time. After considering these comments and consulting with the other agencies, the FDIC has decided that the loan-to-value ratio requirement in the final rule should not be a one-time only test at origination. Rather, a multifamily housing loan that does not satisfy the loan-to-value ratio requirement at origination, but does so at a later date, should then receive the benefit of a more favorable risk weight (assuming the other eligibility criteria are also met). A multifamily housing loan whose loan-to-value ratio no longer meets the specified ratio requirement has a reduced margin of collateral protection and its relative risk has increased to a level that no longer justifies the loan's continued eligibility for a 50 percent risk weight. Thus, the final rule makes the loan-to-value ratio requirement an ongoing eligibility criterion by stating that the ratio should be determined on the basis of the most current appraisal or evaluation of the property, whichever may be appropriate. 3 This approach is also intended to be consistent with the FDIC's regulations and guidelines for real estate lending and appraisals. Under these regulations and guidelines, a bank's written real estate lending policies must establish prudent underwriting standards, including loan-to-value limits. In addition, a bank's real estate appraisal and evaluation programs should include general criteria that identify when it is in the bank's interests to reappraise or reevaluate real estate collateral. Thus, the final rule does not mandate a specific frequency with which reappraisals and reevaluations of multifamily properties must be made, but relies instead on a bank's own policies and procedures in this area. 3 At the origination of a loan to purchase an existing multifamily property, the lesser of the actual acquisition cost or value estimate would be used in the loan-to-value ratio.
