FR940413-0-00082 FR940413-0-00026 Comment: Two commenters stated that the definition of ``person with disabilities'' should be revised to conform to the definition provided in the Americans with Disabilities Act. Response: The definitions for the various categories of ``persons'' and ``families'' used in section 622 of the 1992 Act, are provided in section 621 of the 1992 Act. The final rule reflects the definition for ``person with disabilities'' set forth in section 621. Additionally, neither the Americans with Disabilities Act or section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 amended the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 to replace the 1937 Act's definition of ``persons with disabilities.'' Comment: One commenter stated that the age distinction for ``near-elderly person'' is too low and should be raised to 55. Two commenters stated that the definition of ``disabled families'' should include an age restriction, such as 55 or 50 years of age. Another commenter stated that the definition of ``elderly family'' should exclude any child under the age of 55. Response: The statute defines all of these terms (``near-elderly person,'' ``disabled family'' and ``elderly family'') and the Department is without authority to adopt the recommendations made by these commenters. Section 621 defines ``near-elderly person'' as a person who is at least 50 years of age, but below the age of 62. The statute does not provide for an age restriction in the definition of ``disabled family'' nor does it exclude as an ``elderly family'' a family with children who are neither elderly or near-elderly. In fact in the final rule, the definition of ``disabled family'' rule clarifies that this term includes persons and other members of the family who may be elderly, near-elderly, or who are neither elderly, or near-elderly. The definition of ``elderly family'' clarifies that this term includes persons and other members of the family who may be persons with disabilities or who are neither elderly nor near-elderly. Comment: One commenter requested that the Department provide a definition for ``accessible'' when used in the context of a dwelling unit. Response: The definition section of the final rule includes a definition for ``accessible unit.'' The final rule provides that the term ``accessible unit'' has the meaning given this term under the second definition of ``accessible'' in 24 CFR 8.3, which is a definition familiar to PHAs. Section 945.203␣ Allocation plan Comment: Two commenters requested that the final rule require PHAs to explain the methods used in arriving at information required by the allocation plan. Response: The Department declines to impose this requirement on PHAs. Much of the information required by the allocation plan will be derived from the PHA's waiting list, or from the locality's CHAS, or other local housing needs survey. Members of the public that may be interested in determining how a PHA arrived at the information disclosed in its allocation plan may inquire about this at the public meeting to be held on the allocation plan. Some of the information will be derived from the PHA's self-evaluation under section 504. Comment: Several commenters supported the use of the CHAS as a source of information required to be included in the allocation plan, but other commenters stated that the CHAS is not a useful source of information or is not required in their jurisdictions. Response: The statute specifically includes the CHAS as a source of data for the allocation plan. For localities where there is no CHAS, the final rule provides for use of any other local housing needs survey. Comment: One commenter stated that in determining additional housing resources that are needed to house non-elderly disabled persons, the rule should clearly state that if the same number of units would be offered to the applicant group not allowed in designated units, as would have been offered before the designation, then no new units are needed.
