FR940216-0-00170 FR940216-0-00010 2. Phase II Reformulated Gasoline Beginning in the year 2000, reformulated gasoline certified on average must meet a VOC emission reduction standard of 27.4 percent in VOC control region 2 and 29.0 percent in VOC control region 1, as well as a toxic emission reduction standard on average of 21.5 percent. In addition, a NO X emission reduction standard of 6.8 percent on average is required for Phase II of reformulated gasoline. The Agency projects that under Phase II, there will be 3&hyph;4 fewer incidences of cancer per year, summertime VOC emissions will be reduced by approximately 42,000 tons, and summertime NO X emissions will be reduced by approximately 22,000 tons in the nine cities and other areas currently opted into the RFG program (incremental to Phase I). B. Economic Impact 1. Phase I Reformulated Gasoline Due to the required addition of oxygenates to gasoline and to refinery processing changes that will be needed to reduce fuel benzene and RVP levels and to meet the VOC, NO X and toxic emission standards, the cost of producing reformulated gasoline certified under Phase I, is expected to increase by approximately 3&hyph;5 cents per gallon in 1995 above the cost of conventional gasoline. We project annual costs of $700 to $940 million for both those areas mandated to be part of the program and those that have chosen to opt-in. Additionally, there will be costs due to testing, enforcement and recordkeeping. 2. Phase II Reformulated Gasoline As discussed in Section VI, The overall cost of the Phase II reformulated gasoline VOC standards and NO X standards for Phase II RFG is approximately 1.2 cents per gallon (incremental to Phase I RFG) during the VOC control period when the more stringent VOC and NO X standards are in effect. There should be no additional cost during the non-VOC control period, since only the toxics standard changes, and there is not expected to be a cost for year-round toxics control above that required for Phase I RFG. In addition, EPA does not expect non-production related costs, such as distribution costs, recordkeeping and reporting costs, etc., to increase significantly relative to Phase I reformulated gasoline. The environmental and economic impacts of the reformulated gasoline program are described in more detail in the Section V and VI of the Final Regulatory Impact Analysis. XIII. Public Participation During the reformulated gasoline rulemaking, EPA encouraged and welcomed full public participation in arriving at its final decisions and developing its final rule. EPA met with representatives of the automobile, petroleum, and oxygenate industries as well as environmental and citizen organizations. Their concerns and ideas were considered in the development in this final rule for reformulated gasoline. Public workshops to discuss and resolve a variety of issues on several aspects of the reformulated gasoline program were sponsored by the Agency. Additionally, EPA solicited, reviewed, and considered written comments on all aspects of its three previous proposals and Phase II correction notice. All comments received by the Agency are located in the EPA Air Docket, Dockets A&hyph;91&hyph;02 and A&hyph;92&hyph;12 (See ADDRESSES ). As mentioned above, all significant comments were used to revise the previous proposals and/or are responded to in the Regulatory Impact Analysis contained in Docket A&hyph;91&hyph;02.
