FR941205-1-00059 FR941205-1-00014 (2) It is disclosed to either body of Congress or to a duly authorized committee or subcommittee of Congress. * * * * * 20. In section 572.701, paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) are removed, paragraph (a)(1) is redesignated (b) and is revised, paragraph (a)(2) is redesignated (c), a new paragraph (a) is added, paragraph (e) is redesignated (d) and is revised, a new paragraph (e) is added, paragraph (f) is redesignated (g) and is revised, and a new paragraph (f) is added, as follows: ยง572.701 General requirements. (a) Certain agreements are required to submit quarterly Monitoring Reports on an ongoing basis for as long as they remain in effect, setting forth information and data on the agreement member lines' cargo carryings, revenue results and port service patterns under the agreement. In addition, certain agreements are required to submit minutes of their meetings. (b) Address. Monitoring Reports and minutes required by this subpart should be addressed to the Commission as follows: Director, Bureau of Trade Monitoring and Analysis, Federal Maritime Commission, Washington, D.C. 20573&hyph;0001. Copies of the applicable Monitoring Report form may be obtained from the Bureau of Trade Monitoring and Analysis. The lower, left-hand corner of the envelope in which each Monitoring Report or set of minutes is forwarded should indicate the nature of its contents and the related agreement number. For example: ``Monitoring Report, Agreement 5000'' or ``Minutes, Agreement 5000.'' * * * * * (d) Time for filing. Monitoring Reports shall be filed within 30 days of the end of each calendar quarter. Minutes filed on an annual (calendar) year basis shall be filed by February 15 of the following year. Other documents shall be filed within 30 days of the end of a quarter-year, a meeting, or the receipt of a request for documents. (e) A complete response in accordance with the instructions on the applicable Monitoring Report shall be supplied to each item. Whenever the party answering a particular part is unable to supply a complete response, that party shall provide either estimated data (with an explanation of why precise data are not available) or a detailed statement of reasons for noncompliance and the efforts made to obtain the required information. (f) A Monitoring Report for a particular agreement may be supplemented with any other information or documentary material. (g) Confidentiality. The Monitoring Reports, minutes, and any other additional information submitted for a particular agreement will be exempt from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552, except to the extent: (1) It is relevant to an administrative or judicial action or proceeding; or
