FR940325-1-00068 FR940325-1-00008 The proposed rule would add requirements that applicants for the renewal or the issuance of new grazing permits or leases, and any affiliates, must be determined by the authorized officer to have a satisfactory record of performance based on specified standards. Applicants for renewal must be determined to be in substantial compliance with the terms and conditions of the expiring permit or lease. In assessing whether an applicant for renewal is in substantial compliance, the authorized officer would consider the number of prior incidents of noncompliance with the requirements of 43 CFR part 4100, as well as the nature and seriousness of any single incident of noncompliance. The proposed rule would deny a new permit or lease to those applicants who have had Federal grazing leases or permits, or State grazing permits or leases within the Federal grazing allotment for which application is made, canceled due to violations of terms or conditions during the 36 months preceding application. Applicants and their affiliates that have been barred from holding a Federal grazing permit or lease by court order would also be determined to be disqualified. The provisions pertaining to disqualification include changes made to the provisions of the advance notice of proposed rulemaking. Restricting the scope of consideration of the applicant's history of performance under State leases to those State lands located within the Federal grazing allotment boundary for which application is made is intended to reduce the workload associated with obtaining and reviewing State records. Also, the inability of the applicant to make use of State lands within the Federal grazing allotment would often inhibit the orderly administration of the Federal permit or lease. The advance notice of proposed rulemaking provided for disqualification on the basis of suspension or cancellation of certain permits or leases. Under the proposed rule, suspension of grazing permits or leases, in whole or in part, would not result in disqualification. The provisions for disqualification would also affect the allocation of increased forage under §§4110.2&hyph;3 and 4110.3&hyph;1 and conflicting applications under §4130.1&hyph;2. These three sections reference ``qualified applicants.'' The amendments pertaining to the disqualification of applicants are intended to reflect the requirements of the Taylor Grazing Act and FLPMA that public lands be managed in a way that protects them from destruction or unnecessary injury and provides for orderly use, improvement, and development of resources, as well as provisions for renewing permits and leases except where violations of rules and regulations and terms and conditions of the permit or lease have occurred.
