FR941116-0-00015 FR941116-0-00002 Since the value of cotton is the basis of the supplemental assessment calculation and the figures shown in the right hand column of the Import Assessment Table 1205.510 (b)(3) are a result of such a calculation, these figures have been revised. These figures indicate the total assessment per kilogram due for each Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) number subject to assessment. The commenter also requested the addition of nine HTS numbers to the Import Assessment Table. Such addition would normally be done by first issuing a notice and allowing an opportunity for comment. Nevertheless, the agency consulted with USDA's Economic Research Service (ERS) which develops and maintains the raw cotton equivalent conversion factors used in the Import Assessment Table. The Economic Research Service provided the agency with a database library of HTS numbers divided into groups by various fiber types. Products that contain a blend of fibers in their construction are reported under multiple fiber categories in the database with corresponding conversion factors for each type of fiber present. The nine suggested numbers were reviewed against the list of cotton containing HTS numbers in the database. Upon review of the HTS numbers suggested for inclusion in the Import Assessment Table it was determined that eight of the HTS numbers are for products that are primarily composed of manmade fibers and one of the numbers was for products composed primarily of wool. It was further determined that none of the suggested numbers has an ERS raw cotton equivalent conversion factor. Based on the agency's review it was determined not to include the numbers in the Import Assessment Table. The agency has made a change in the final rule to correct the omission of recent changes to a paragraph from §1205.510. On July 1, 1994, (59 FR 33901) the agency published an interim final rule with a request for comments. This interim final rule provided for the continuation of assessments on HTS numbers that change between updates to the Import Assessment Table, provided that no change to the description of the product occurred. No comments were received regarding this change and a final rule implementing the change was published on August 26, 1994 (59 FR 44033). This final rule became effective September 26, 1994. The amended §1205.510 (b)(3) as published in the final rule on August 26 has been added to this final rule. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 1205 Advertising, Agricultural research, Cotton, Marketing agreements, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 7 CFR Part 1205 is amended as follows: PART 1205&hyph;COTTON RESEARCH AND PROMOTION 1. The authority citation for Part 1205 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 2101&hyph;2118. 2. In Section 1205.510, paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) are revised to read as follows: §1205.510 Levy of assessments. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (2) The 12-month average of monthly average prices received by U.S. farmers will be calculated annually. Such average will be used as the value of imported cotton for the purpose of levying the supplemental assessment on imported cotton and will be expressed in kilograms. The value of imported cotton for the purpose of levying this supplemental assessment is $1.197 per kilogram. (3) The following table contains Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) classification numbers and corresponding conversion factors and assessments. The left column of the following table indicates the HTS classifications of imported cotton and cotton-containing products subject to assessment. The center column indicates the conversion factor for determining the raw fiber content for each kilogram of the HTS. HTS numbers for raw cotton have no conversion factor in the table. The right column indicates the total assessment per kilogram of the article assessed. (i) Any line item entry of cotton appearing on Customs entry documentation in which the value of the cotton contained therein is less than $220.99 will not be subject to assessments as described in this section. (ii) In the event that any HTS number subject to assessment is changed and such change is merely a replacement of a previous number and has no impact on the physical properties, description, or cotton content of the product involved, assessments will continue to be collected based on the new number.
