FR940617-1-00014 FR940617-1-00005 POSTAL SERVICE 39 CFR Chapter I Invoicing Procedures for Freight Carriers AGENCY: Postal Service. ACTION: Request for comments. SUMMARY: The Postal Service is considering changes to its payment system to permit the implementation of new software applications. The Postal Service seeks comments from interested parties, because these changes would affect invoicing procedures for freight transportation carriers. DATES: Comments must be received on or before July 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be mailed or delivered to: Manager, Materiel Distribution, U.S. Postal Service, room 1141, 475 L'Enfant Plaza SW., Washington, DC 20260&hyph;6225. Copies of all written comments will be available for inspection and photocopying between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Frank Scheer, (202) 268&hyph;2120. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under 39 U.S.C. 401(4), the Postal Service has the general power to determine and keep its own system of accounts and the forms and contents of its contracts and other business documents. In the past, for freight invoicing purposes, the Postal Service has generally used Government Bills of Lading, Standard Form 1103 (SF 1103), in accordance with the procedures set forth in 41 CFR 101&hyph;41.000, et seq. The Postal Service is considering changes to its payment system that would affect invoicing procedures for all freight transportation carriers currently handling shipments on Government Bills of Lading. Shipments of U.S. Mail, household goods, or other personal property not handled on SF 1103 would not be covered by the new payment system. This change would permit the Postal Service to implement new software applications for freight traffic management. The principal feature of the new system would be to permit freight carriers to submit billings either electronically, or by paper invoices using the Public Voucher, Standard Form 1113 (SF 1113), along with the required supporting documentation. New billing procedures would be drafted to provide guidance both for electronic and paper billing. These procedures would include information about the Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) approval process, Trading Partner Agreements, submission of electronic invoices, testing rejection and resubmission of valid invoices, payments, and suspension of EDI operations. Information about waivers, payee codes, and other payment processes would also be included. The Postal Service believes that freight carriers electing to conduct business electronically should be required to use the EDI Standards X12, developed by the Accredited Standards Committee (ASC) of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). The Postal Service would obtain commercial EDI Value-Added Network (VAN) services to send and receive EDI shipping and billing data. Carriers would be required to use the VAN selected by the Postal Service to transfer data electronically for these transactions. Although existing procedures for issuing and paying Government Bills of Lading for Postal Service shipments will continue, one change would be required to be consistent with electronic practices, if they are implemented. Any carrier submitting paper billings would be required to include its Tax Identification Number (TIN) on the SF 1113. A TIN for a parent company would also be required if the carrier is a subsidiary of a parent company. The carrier TIN would be used for vendor identification during payment processing; the Postal Service would not assign its own vendor supplier code for this purpose. In view of the foregoing, the Postal Service requests comments and proposals from interested parties on the following matters: 1. The level of carrier interest in electronic communications to replace hardcopy bills of lading and freight bills. 2. The procedures carriers would prefer to see used for handling these transactions. 3. The impact upon carriers of adding the carrier's TIN to SF 1113. Comments regarding these matters are requested within 30 days of the date of publication of this notice. The Postal Service will take these comments under consideration as it formulates possible changes in its payment system. Stanley F. Mires, Chief Counsel, Legislative Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14718 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7710&hyph;12&hyph;P
