FR940825-1-00056 FR940825-1-00008 (ii) A letter from an INS asylum officer granting asylum (if application is filed on or after October 1, 1990) or from an INS district director granting asylum (if application filed before October 1, 1990); (iii) A court decision granting withholding or deportation; or (iv) A letter from an INS asylum officer granting withholding of deportation (if application filed on or after October 1, 1990). (4) Form I&hyph;688, Temporary Resident Card, which must be annotated ``section 245A'' or ``section 210''; (5) Form I&hyph;688B, Employment Authorization Card, which must be annotated ``Provision of Law 274a.12(11)'' or ``Provision of Law 274a.12''; (6) A receipt issued by the INS indicating that an application for issuance of a replacement document in one of the above-listed categories has been made and the applicant's entitlement to the document has been verified; or (c) Other acceptable evidence. If other documents are determined to constitute acceptable evidence of eligible immigration status, they will be announced by HUD in a notice published in the Federal Register . §200.185 Verification of eligible immigration status. (a) When verification is to occur. Verification of eligible immigration status shall be conducted by the project owner simultaneously with verification of other aspects of eligibility for assistance or continued eligibility for assistance under a covered program. The project owner shall verify eligible immigration status in accordance with the INS procedures described in this section. (b) Primary verification._ (1) Automated verification system. Primary verification of the immigration status of the person is conducted by the project owner through the INS automated system (INS Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE)). The INS SAVE system provides access to names, file numbers and admission numbers of noncitizens. (2) Failure of primary verification to confirm eligible immigration status. If the INS SAVE system does not verify eligible immigration status, secondary verification must be performed. (c) Secondary verification._ (1) Manual search of INS records. Secondary verification is a manual search by the INS of its records to determine an individual's immigration status. The project owner must request secondary verification, within 10 days of receiving the results of the primary verification, if the primary verification system does not confirm eligible immigration status, or if the primary verification system verifies immigration status that is ineligible for assistance covered by this subpart. (2) Secondary verification initiated by project owner. Secondary verification is initiated by the project owner forwarding photocopies of the original INS documents listed in §200.184 (front and back), attached to the INS document verification request form G&hyph;845S (Document Verification Request), to a designated INS office for review. (Form G&hyph;845S is available from the local INS Office.) (3) Failure of secondary verification to confirm eligible immigration status. If the secondary verification does not confirm eligible immigration status, the project owner shall issue to the family the notice described in §200.186(d), which includes notification of appeal to the INS of the INS finding on immigration status (see §200.186(d)(4)). (d) Exemption from liability for INS verification. The project owner shall not be liable for any action, delay, or failure of the INS in conducting the automated or manual verification. §200.186 Delay, denial, reduction or termination of assistance. (a) General. Assistance to a family may not be delayed, denied, reduced or terminated because of the immigration status of a family member except as provided in this section. (b) Restrictions on delay, denial, reduction or termination of assistance._ (1) Restrictions on reduction, denial or termination of assistance. Assistance to an applicant shall not be reduced or denied, and assistance to a tenant shall not be delayed, denied, reduced, or terminated, on the basis of ineligible immigration status of a family member if: (i) The primary and secondary verification of any immigration documents that were timely submitted has not been completed; (ii) The family member for whom required evidence has not been submitted has moved from the assisted dwelling unit; (iii) The family member who is determined not to be in an eligible immigration status following INS verification has moved from the assisted dwelling unit; (iii) The INS appeals process under §200.186(e) has not been concluded; or (iv) For a tenant, the informal hearing process under §200.186(f) has not been concluded. (2) Restrictions on denial or termination. Assistance to an applicant shall not be denied, and assistance to a tenant shall not be terminated, on the basis of ineligible immigration status of a family member if: (i) Assistance is prorated in accordance with §200.188; (ii) Assistance for a mixed family is continued in accordance with §200.187; or (iii) Deferral of termination of assistance is granted in accordance with §200.187. (3) When delay of assistance to an applicant is permissible. Assistance to an applicant may be delayed after the conclusion of the INS appeal process, but not denied until the conclusion of the informal hearing process, if an informal hearing is requested by the family.
