FR940216-0-00018 FR940216-0-00007 The agency believes that the label and information requirements adopted today will be effective in warning consumers against using a rear-facing infant restraint in a vehicle seating position equipped with an air bag. The warning is needed because data have indicated that unacceptably high forces are produced by a deploying air bag on present designs of rear-facing infant restraints. Several commenters, however, expressed concern that the requirements adopted today might impede the development of rear-facing infant restraints that are safe to use in an air bag equipped seating position. These commenters indicated that manufacturers are undertaking efforts to develop infant restraints that can be used in an air bag-equipped seating position. Ford said that the warning statement may limit the flexibility of infant restraint manufacturers to recommend using a rear-facing system in an air bag-equipped seating position under limited circumstances, such as if the vehicle seat were adjusted to a certain position. Century stated that NHTSA should ensure that the warning label requirement does not prevent future child seat designs that work adequately with an air bag. Century suggested that NHTSA should begin defining a test procedure and performance criteria for testing the interaction of child restraints with air bags. NHTSA does not intend for this rule to impede the development of rear-facing restraints that are compatible with an air bag. As discussed in the NPRM, the agency has been closely monitoring the work of a task force on Child Restraint and Air Bag Interaction (CRABI) formed by the Society of Automotive Engineers. The task force is comprised of motor vehicle and child seat manufacturers and highway safety researchers. It has developed guidelines consisting of test procedures and test configurations (e.g., test dummies and a test fixture) that can be used for evaluating the interactions between child restraints and air bags. Moreover, NHTSA has developed, for research and evaluation purposes, procedures that were used in the Fall 1991 test program of air bags and rear-facing infant restraints. NHTSA will continue to closely monitor the work of CRABI, especially regarding the development of test procedures evaluating the performance of an infant restraint when used with a passenger side air bag. If CRABI were to develop a test procedure from its guidelines, NHTSA would evaluate it to determine whether the procedure is appropriate for Standard 213. Among other things, the procedure would have to be suitable for testing all types of infant restraints, and be able to provide test results that assess the performance of the restraint in the real world. The agency will consider a test procedure for incorporation into Standard 213 as soon as a suitable one is developed. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices Executive Order 12866 (Regulatory Planning and Review) and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures
