FR941216-0-00014 FR941216-0-00004 Section 172.25 Funding This section provides that the funds received by a State may only be used for awarding contracts for engineering and design services to carry out projects and activities eligible for Federal-aid funding and the Federal share shall be the same as the Federal-aid share applicable to the type of work or project being developed or the system on which the project is located. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices Executive Order 12866 (Regulatory Planning and Review) and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures The FHWA has determined that this is not a significant regulatory action within the meaning of Executive Order 12866 or a significant regulation under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation. This regulation implements section 1060 of the ISTEA which expressly requires the FHWA to issue regulations to carry out the private sector involvement program. The program enables State highway agencies to apply for Federal-aid highway funds which may only be used to contract for engineering and design services with the private sector. When funds are appropriated, the $5 million authorized for the program will be made available to at least three States. Regulatory Flexibility Act In compliance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;612), the FHWA has evaluated the effects of this rule on small entities. This rule sets forth the criteria under which the FHWA would select three or more States to receive grants for engineering and design services. States, however, are not included within the definition of ``small entity'' set forth in 5 U.S.C. 601(6). Therefore, the FHWA hereby certifies that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12612 (Federalism Assessment) This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that this action does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a separate federalism assessment. Executive Order 12372 (Intergovernmental Review) Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.205, Highway Planning and Construction. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation on Federal programs and activities apply to this program. Paperwork Reduction Act This action does not contain a collection of information requirement for purposes of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. 3501&hyph;3520. National Environmental Policy Act The FHWA has analyzed this action for the purpose of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq. ) and has determined that this action would not have any effect on the quality of the environment. Regulation Identification Number A regulation identification number (RIN) is assigned to each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations. The Regulatory Information Service Center publishes the Unified Agenda in April and October of each year. The RIN contained in the heading of this document can be used to cross reference this action with the Unified Agenda. List of Subjects in 23 CFR Part 172 Government procurement, Grant programs_transportation, Highways and roads. Issued on: December 7, 1994. Rodney E. Slater, Federal Highway Administrator.
