FR940425-2-00060 FR940425-2-00046 1. Improve methods for disease prevention; 2. Improve methods of diagnosis, treatment, and clinical management for the benefit of a significant number of individuals; 3. Reduce clinically significant variations among clinicians in the particular services and procedures utilized in making diagnoses and providing treatments; and 4. Reduce clinically significant variations in the outcomes of health care services and procedures. Also, in accordance with Title IX of the PHS Act and section 1142 of the Social Security Act, the AHCPR Administrator is to assure that the needs and priorities of the Medicare program are reflected appropriately in the priorities for development of guidelines. Clinical Practice Guidelines Released and Under Development The following AHCPR-supported guidelines have been released and disseminated widely: ␣1. Acute Pain Management: Operative or Medical Procedures and Trauma ␣2. Urinary Incontinence in Adults ␣3. Pressure Ulcers in Adults: Prediction and Prevention ␣4. Cataract in Adults: Management of Functional Impairment ␣5. Depression in Primary Care: Volume I: Detection and Diagnosis, and Volume II: Treatment of Major Depression ␣6. Sickle Cell Disease: Screening, Diagnosis, Management, and Counseling in Newborns and Infants ␣7. Evaluation and Management of Early HIV Infection ␣8. Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia: Diagnosis and Treatment ␣9. Management of Cancer Pain 10. Unstable Angina: Diagnosis and Management The following AHCPR-supported guidelines are under development: ␣1. Treatment of Pressure Ulcers in Adults ␣2. Acute Low Back Problems in Adults ␣3. Quality Determinants of Mammography ␣4. Recognition and Initial Assessment of Alzheimer's and Related Dementias ␣5. Diagnosis and Treatment of Anxiety and Panic Disorders ␣6. Smoking Prevention and Cessation ␣7. Otitis Media with Effusion in Young Children ␣8. Heart Failure: Evaluation and Care of Patients with Left Ventricular Systolic Dysfunction ␣9. Post Stroke Rehabilitation 10. Cardiac Rehabilitation The following guidelines are currently being reviewed and updated by private sector panels of experts and consumers.
