FR940505-1-00361 FR940505-1-00012 (f) Test methods. (1) For the purposes of this section, the VOC content in pesticides shall be determined by the methods described in paragraphs (f)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section or by methods as stringent in accuracy, reliability, reproducibility, and frequency and approved by EPA. (i) Thermogravimetric Analysis (TGA). The ``American Standard Test Method (ASTM) for Compositional Analysis by Thermogravimetry'' (ASTM E&hyph;1131&hyph;86) as modified in EPA's alternative control technology document (ACT) for pesticides (``Alternative Control Technology Document; Control of VOC Emissions from the Application of Agricultural Pesticides,'' EPA&hyph;453/R&hyph;92&hyph;011, March 1993, appendix C); or (ii) Volatile Organics in Pesticides (VOP). The purge and trap procedure as described in EPA's ACT (EPA&hyph;453/R&hyph;92&hyph;011, appendix C). (2) The exempt compound content of a pesticide may be determined by the statement of formulation required pursuant to FIFRA (7 U.S.C. 136a(c)(1)(E)). (3) Pesticides that are diluted with VOC-containing material (e.g., gasoline, xylene, toluene, and other solvents), at any point before application, are to be tested diluted with said material at the average dilution used during application. Pesticides that are diluted with non-VOC-containing materials (e.g., water) are to be tested as sold rather than as applied. ยง52.2961 Stationary and area source rules. (a) Solvent Cleaning Operations. (1) Purpose and Applicability. The purpose of this section is to reduce emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) from solvent cleaning operations, and from the storage and disposal of materials used in solvent cleaning operations. This section applies to any facility located in the affected area that uses VOC-containing materials in the production, repair, maintenance, or servicing of parts, products, tools, machinery, equipment, or general work areas, or that stores and/or disposes of VOC-containing materials used in solvent cleaning operations. For the purposes of this section, the affected area includes the Ventura County Area for ozone and the Sacramento Metro Area for ozone as described in 40 CFR 81.305. (2) Definitions. For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in ยง52.2950. Aerosol product means a hand-held, nonrefillable container which expels pressurized product ingredients by means of a propellant-induced force. Application line means that portion of a motor vehicle assembly production line which applies surface and other coatings to motor vehicle bodies, hoods, fenders, cargo boxes, doors, and grill opening panels. Appurtenances means accessories to an architectural structure, including, but not limited to: hand railings, cabinets, bathroom and kitchen fixtures, fences, rain-gutters and down-spouts, window screens, lamp-posts, heating and air conditioning equipment, other mechanical equipment, and large fixed stationary tools and concrete forms. Architectural coatings means any coatings applied to stationary structures and their appurtenances, to mobile homes, to pavements, or to curbs. Closed container means a container that encloses greater than 90% of the liquid surface area, except when depositing and removing objects to be cleaned or for maintenance and repair to the container itself. Cured coatings, cured inks, and cured adhesives means coatings, inks, and adhesives which are dry to the touch. Electronic components means circuit card assemblies, printed wire assemblies, printing wiring boards, soldered joints, ground wires, bus bars, and other electrical fixtures, except for the actual cabinet in which the components are housed. Flexographic printing means a printing method utilizing flexible rubber or other elastomeric plate which employs rapid-drying liquid inks. Grams of VOC per liter of material means the weight of VOC per volume of material and can be calculated by the following equation: E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.094 Where: W s =weight of volatile compounds in grams; W w =weight of water in grams; W es =weight of exempt compounds in grams; and V m =volume of material in liters. Graphic arts means all screen, gravure, letterpress, flexographic, and lithographic printing processes. Gravure printing means an intaglio process in which the ink is carried in minute etched or engraved wells on a roll or cylinder. The excess ink is removed from the surface by a doctor blade. Institutions mean, but are not limited to, schools, hospitals, sanitariums, prisons, health clubs, and theaters. Janitorial cleaning means the cleaning of building or facility components, such as the floor, ceiling, walls, windows, doors, stairs, bathrooms, etc. Letterpress printing means the method in which the image area is raised relative to the nonimage area and the ink is transferred to the paper directly from the image surface. Lithographic printing means a plane-o-graphic method in which the image and nonimage areas are on the same plane. Liquid leak means a visible liquid solvent leak from a container at a rate of more than three drops per minute, or a visible liquid mist. Maintenance cleaning means a solvent cleaning operation carried out to keep parts, products, tools, machinery, equipment, or general work areas in clean and good operational condition.
