FR940110-2-00079 FR940110-2-00064 [Release No. 34&hyph;33410; File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;93&hyph;62] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of Proposed Rule Change by the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to a Discount of its Transaction, Comparison and Floor Brokerage Transaction and Assessment Fees for November 29, 1993 to December 31, 1993 January 4, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on December 20, 1993, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Phlx'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Phlx proposes to discount its transaction, comparison and floor brokerage transaction and assessment fees encompassing all transactions executed on the Phlx in equities, equity options, index options and foreign currency options on the Phlx for the billing cycle beginning settlement date November 29, 1993, to settlement date December 31, 1993. The discount shall be a 33 percent reduction across-the-board for all fees, charges and assessments as described above. 1 1 The Phlx proposes to discount the following fees, charges and assessments: Equity Transaction Value Charge; Equity Floor Brokerage Assessment; Equity Floor Brokerage Transaction Fee; Option Comparison Charge; Option Transaction Charge; Option Floor Brokerage Assessment; Floor Brokerage Transaction Fee; Option Comparison Charge; Option Transaction Charge; Option Floor Brokerage Assessment; Floor Broker Transaction Fee; Option Comparison Charge; Option Transaction Charge; Option Floor Brokerage Assessment; Floor Broker Transaction Fee; Option Comparison Charge; Option Transaction Charge; Option Floor Brokerage Assessment; Floor Broker Transaction Fee; and Volume Discount For Currency Option Transaction Charge Activity. II. Self-regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The Exchange seeks to discount its transaction, comparison and floor brokerage transaction and assessment fees encompassing all transactions executed on the Phlx in equities, equity options, index options and foreign currency options on the Phlx for the billing cycle beginning settlement date November 29, 1993, to settlement date December 31, 1993. The discount shall be a 33 percent reduction across-the-board for all fees, charges and assessments as described above for the limited period from November 29, 1993, to December 31, 1993 (Phlx's final month's billing cycle) in recognition of record volume and cost efficiencies anticipated to continue through December. In this regard, discounts will not apply to non-transaction related fees and charges such as the floor facilities fees, booth and post rental fees, as well as membership dues, etc. 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b)(4) of the Act in that it provides for the equitable allocation of reasonable fees and other charges among members using its facilities. The proposed fee schedule change also aligns service fees more closely to the cost of providing those services. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants or Others Comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The foregoing rule change establishes or changes a due, fee or other charge imposed by the Exchange and therefore has become effective pursuant to section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act and subparagraph (e) of Rule 19b-4 thereunder. At any time within 60 days of the filing of such proposed rule change, the Commission may summarily abrogate such rule change if it appears to the Commission that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of the filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the Phlx. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;93&hyph;62 and should be submitted by January 28, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;430 Filed 1&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
