FR940505-1-00168 FR940505-1-00012 ( 4 ) Emission Reductions. EPA believes the average g/bhp-hr level for line haul locomotives and locomotive engines operated by class 1 locomotives in California is approximately 13.5 g/bhp-hr. This estimate was developed from train data and locomotive emission data supplied to EPA by railroad companies that operate within California, and locomotive engine manufacturers. 86 The railroads have however claimed that the average emission level of locomotives operating in California is 12 g/bhp-hr. While they have provided no accounting of that average level, and the 13.5 g/bhp-hr level was calculated from data provided by the railroads, EPA has used both levels in its estimates of the benefits of this program. The range provides for conservative estimates both of the current emissions impact of locomotives and the reductions from this program. Other locomotives, those operated by class 2 and 3 railroads and switcher locomotives operated by class 1 railroads have g/bhp-hr levels higher than 13.5 g/bhp-hr. 86 Memo from Peter Hutchins to Chester J. France. February 14, 1994, ``Current Emission Levels and Duty-Cycles.'' To calculate a minimum emission reduction, one can assume that all locomotives are at 12 or 13.5 g/bhp-hr. EPA's 2007 requirement that railroad emissions average 5.5 g/bhp-hr would therefore provide overall emission reductions of 54 percent to 59 percent. The 2010 requirement that railroad emissions average 4.0 g/bhp-hr would therefore provide overall emission reductions of 67 percent to 70 percent. Since the current overall average emissions, due to switching operations and class 2 and 3 operation, must be higher than 13.5 g/bhp-hr, a reduction in excess of 70 percent is likely. EPA believes the reductions necessary to meet the 5.5 g/bhp-hr emission average will be achievable through the use of clean diesel technology and operational changes. Some use of alternative fuels may be necessary to supplement the emission reduction achieved by clean diesel and operational changes or to allow significant growth. Electrification, under strong consideration for at least some South Coast lines would greatly facilitate compliance and reductions. EPA requests comment on what types of engines or strategies may be required to comply with this program. EPA does not anticipate that additional measures of reduction will be required at this time. However several options, which EPA could not finalize due to technological issues, but could develop later as provided by section 182(e)(5) of the CAA, are widespread use of electrification and the use of fuel cells. ( 5 ) Other Options. EPA requests comment on three other options being promoted by the South Coast, the CARB and the AAR, respectively. The South Coast Air Quality Management District is proposing that a 90 percent reduction in railroad emissions in the basin be required by the year 2010. This proposal requires electrification of all locomotive operations, including switching. They have not yet determined how such a project could be funded. For this reason, EPA is not proposing this option. The CARB is considering an option that would require an 80 percent reduction in locomotive NO X emissions statewide by 2003. Emissions of HC and CO would be allowed to rise and emissions of particulates would be reduced after 2003. It appears likely that this level of reduction could require that all locomotives used in California operate on a fuel other than diesel, with natural gas being a likely candidate. Alternatively, electrification of a number of lines may be necessary. EPA is concerned about the practicality and costs associated with electrification, and is therefore not proposing this option. The AAR has proposed that linehaul locomotives be required to average 6 g/bhp-hr by the year 2010. This proposal could presumably build from national standards on new locomotives and some regulation of remanufactured locomotives. However, it does not affect switching and other non-line operations, such as loading and unloading. The effect of that omission has been variously estimated at from 5 to 30 percent of emissions depending on the geographic area. Because this program does not achieve sufficient reductions, EPA is not proposing this option. However, EPA requests comment on this and the other two options.
