FR940106-2-00084 FR940106-2-00039 Public Health Service Statement of Organization, Functions and Delegations of Authority; Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health Part H, Public Health Service (PHS), Chapter HA (Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health), of the Statement of Organization, Functions and Delegations of Authority for the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) (42 FR 61318, December 2, 1977, as amended most recently at 58 FR 58871, November 4, 1993) is amended to reflect changes within the Office of Management, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health. Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health Under Chapter HA, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health, Section HA&hyph;20, Functions, Office of Management, delete in their entirety the titles and statements for the Office of Personnel Management (HAU3), and add the following: Office of Personnel Management (HAU3). The Director, Office of Personnel Management, serves as the principal advisor to the Assistant Secretary for Health, the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Health Management Operations and the Director, Office of Management, in meeting PHS nationwide human resources management responsibilities; represents the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health and the PHS agencies in contacts with DHHS, U.S. Office of Personnel Management, other Federal Agencies, and provides leadership and direction in the planning and implementation of comprehensive human resource management systems for PHS. Division of Employee and Labor Management Relations (HAU32). Plans, monitors, directs, implements, and evaluates a comprehensive employee relations program throughout the PHS including providing guidance, policy direction, and assistance in carrying out USOPM and HHS guidelines in misconduct and performance deficiencies and in the resolution of grievances and appeals, and administering the PHS recognition and awards program. Plans, monitors, directs, implements and evaluates an effective Federal labor management relations program throughout the PHS which establishes a system of cooperative and quality relationships between labor organizations and management; defines the respective rights of each in dealing with the other; and seeks to insure the PHS management is adequately defended and/or represented. Division of Policy, Evaluation and Compensation (HAU33). Develops, implements, and administers systems for and advises on PHS human resources management planning for all areas of human resource services; formulates PHS personnel policies and delegations of authority; evaluates personnel management practices and programs throughout PHS; creates and implements new/pilot projects, alternative personnel and pay systems, and other continuous-improvement efforts; provides PHS-wide leadership for the functional areas of pay, salary setting, bonuses and allowances, job evaluation and position management. Division of Staffing and Development (HAU36). Develops and implements PHS policies and programs in the areas of recruitment and staffing, career development and training and performance management. Coordinates special staffing and career development programs to meet work force needs with particular emphasis on the health professions, students, under-represented groups and executive resources management. Provides PHS-wide advice, assistance and leadership in these areas and common needs training for employees in the Parklawn complex. Division of Personnel Operations (HAU37). Administers the Parklawn Servicing Personnel Office (SPO) providing technical review and oversight to the consolidated personnel activities of the constituent agencies of Parklawn complex; assures close working relationships exist between personnel and programs with a uniformity of operations within the scope of the SPO. Plans and conducts an operating personnel program for the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health (OASH), including position classification, pay administration, employment, merit promotion, personnel security, employee relations, labor-management relations, awards and special recruitment activities. Provides personnel management advice and assistance on all aspects of personnel administration to managers, supervisors, and employees of OASH. Division of Human Resources Information Management (HAU38). Provides ADP systems support to the PHS personnel offices and the OPM Divisions. Provides human resources management information to PHS agency management. Manages DHHS automated personnel and pay systems for the PHS agencies in the Parklawn complex. Designs and maintains application systems which provide PHS agencies with access to personnel/payroll information. Supports ADP hardware software, applications and network administration used by OPM. Dated: December 27, 1993. Anthony L. Itteilag, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Health Management Operations. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;223 Filed 1&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;17&hyph;M
