FR940607-2-00084 FR940607-2-00060 Finally, with regard to the trading of underlying securities, the 1993 Circular states that the CBOE's rules do not prohibit a floor broker from entering into transactions on other exchanges for his personal account in financial instruments underlying or related to the classes at the station where he acts as a floor broker. Because trading in the underlying financial instrument could be perceived as a conflict of interest, the Equity and Index Floor Procedure Committees strongly advise against it. The 1993 Circular states that it would be a violation of the CBOE's rules for a floor broker to enter into transactions in an underlying or related financial instrument based on information concerning a customer option order which he holds. The CBOE states that the 1993 Circular is designed to provide guidance to floor brokers regarding the Exchange's interpretation of applicable CBOE Rules, the Act, and Commission regulations. The CBOE states that the 1993 Circular is not intended to be a comprehensive discussion of the named subjects, but is designed to supplement existing Exchange rules and Interpretations and Policies relating thereto for the purpose of providing CBOE members with authoritative guidance regarding the Exchange's interpretation of its rules, the Act, and Commission regulations in certain specific contexts. The CBOE believes that the proposed 1993 Circular is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act, in general, and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) of the Act, in particular, in that it will provide guidance to CBOE members regarding the obligations of floor brokers under CBOE rules, the Act, and Commission regulations, and is thereby designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices and to promote just and equitable principles of trade. The Commission finds that the proposed 1993 Circular is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of Section 6(b)(5) in that the 1993 Circular is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade and to protect investors and the public interest. 5 Specifically, the Commission believes that the 1993 Circular should help to provide floor brokers with a clear explanation of certain of their obligations under the Act, the Commission's regulations, and the CBOE's rules, thereby helping to ensure the maintenance of fair and orderly markets. The Commission believes that the 1993 Circular should facilitate the execution of customer orders at the best available prices by providing guidance with regard to print-throughs and orders executed erroneously, and by stating that floor brokers representing customer orders have a fiduciary obligation to their clients to execute their orders on the CBOE floor at the best available prices. The 1993 Circular also notes that a floor broker's due diligence in handling an order includes the floor broker's insuring that all market or marketable limit orders are constantly represented in the crowd either by himself or by another floor broker for as long as the order is active. 5 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1984). In addition, the Commission believes that the 1993 Circular should help to ensure the integrity and fairness of the CBOE's markets by advising members of restrictions on floor brokers' activities. Specifically, the 1993 Circular notes that the CBOE's rules prohibit a member from trading as a market maker with respect to option contracts traded at a particular station on the same day that the member is acting as a floor broker at that station. The 1993 Circular also contains provisions designed to ensure that floor brokers do not engage in abusive or illegal trading. In this regard, the 1993 Circular makes clear that it is a violation of the CBOE's rules for a floor broker to enter into transactions in an underlying or related financial instrument based on information concerning a customer option order which he holds. 6 6 Such transactions would also be inconsistent with the Act. Finally, the Commission believes that it is beneficial for the CBOE to codify in a circular existing Exchange policies and procedures regarding floor broker activity. The Commission believes that the 1993 Circular will make it easier for floor brokers to understand and have access to relevant policies and procedures with respect to their obligations as floor brokers. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act 7 that the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;93&hyph;44) is approved. 7 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1982). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 8 8 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13733 Filed 6&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
