FR941230-2-00004 FR941230-2-00002 Public participation is an important part of the analysis, commencing with the initial scoping process (40 CFR 1501.7). The public is encouraged to visit with Forest Service officials at any time during the analysis and prior to the decision. The Forest Service will be seeking information, comments, and assistance from Federal, State, and local agencies and other individuals or organizations who may be interested in or affected by the proposed action. A public meeting and open house has already been held. Additional meetings will be held if necessary, but are not scheduled at this time. Comments from the public and other agencies will be used in preparation of the Draft EIS. The scoping process will be used to: 1. Identify potential issues. 2. Identify major issues to be analyzed in depth. 3. Eliminate minor issues or those which have been covered by a relevant previous environmental analysis, such as the Idaho Panhandle Forest Plan EIS. 4. Identify alternatives to the proposed action. 5. Identify potential environmental effects of the proposed action and alternatives (i.e., cumulative effects). 6. Determine potential cooperating agencies and task assignments. Some public comments have already been used during the initial interdisciplinary review of the original project proposal. The comments that we have received so far relate to the following elements of the BlueGrass Bound landscape: 1. Threatened, Endangered, and Sensitive plant and animal species. 2. Watershed and Fisheries. 3. Roadless. 4. Visual Quality. This list will be verified, expanded, or modified based on additional public scoping and interdisciplinary review of this proposal. Most of the above comments received so far have been more categorically in nature than site specific. Site specific comments are the most useful information that we can have for improving the design and implementation of this project. The Forest Service believes, at this early stage, it is important to give reviewers notice of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC, 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the draft environmental impact statement stage but that are not raised until after completion of the final environmental impact statement may be waived or dismissed by the courts. City of Angoon v. Hodel, 803 F.2d 1016, 1022 (9th Cir. 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. v. Harris, 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of those court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the 45-day scoping comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in developing issues and alternatives in the final EIS. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues on the proposed action, comments on this notice or the draft EIS should be as specific as possible. It is also helpful if comments refer to specific pages or chapters of this notice or the draft EIS. Comments may also address the adequacy of the draft EIS or the merits of the alternatives formulated and discussed in the statement. Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points. I am the responsible official for this environmental impact statement. My address is Bonners Ferry Ranger District, Rt. 4 Box 4860, Bonners Ferry, ID 83805&hyph;9764. Dated: December 16, 1994. Allen B. Chrisman, Acting District Ranger. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;32147 Filed 12&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
