FR940919-0-00076 FR940919-0-00016 2. Simplified LDR Notification Requirements Comments on LDR notification requirements at the roundtable ranged from suggestions that EPA should eliminate notifications altogether to suggestions that EPA modify or delete data items on the notification. In response, EPA proposed to eliminate the requirement at 40 CFR 268.7(a)(1)(ii) and at 268.9(d)(1) that the notification include treatment standards or references to those standards. It was argued that such a simplification makes particular sense in conjunction with EPA's proposal to consolidate the treatment standard tables. Commenters on this issue all supported this proposed simplification. EPA is thus dropping the treatment standard or reference to the treatment standard from the LDR notification in this final rule. Today's action does not eliminate the existing requirement to identify the constituents in F001&hyph;F005 spent solvent wastes, F039 wastes, or the underlying hazardous constituents in D001, D002, and in TC organic wastes, unless the generator/treater is going to monitor for all hazardous constituents in the waste. However, the regulatory language is made clearer, and there is no longer any requirement that the corresponding constituent level be included with the constituents identified on the LDR notification for these wastes. IV. Treatment Standards for Toxicity Characteristic Waste A. Introduction_Content and Scope EPA is promulgating treatment standards for the newly identified toxicity characteristic (TC) organic wastes (D018&hyph; D043) as proposed. These are identical to the UTS in today's rule. The UTS apply to the underlying hazardous constituents in the TC waste as well as the individual constituent responsible for the TC designation. Underlying hazardous constituents are any constituents in ยง268.48 which are reasonably expected to be present at levels above the UTS at the point of generation of the TC waste. (See definition at ยง268.2(i).) Although the intent of today's regulations is to require treating all underlying hazardous constituents present plus the TC constituent, today's rule calls for generators to monitor only the TC constituent and those underlying hazardous constituents ``reasonably expected to be present'' in their waste at its point of generation. Today's rule is promulgating the compliance monitoring provisions that were proposed. Section X of this preamble (Compliance Monitoring and Notification) discusses them in detail. Several commenters suggested that EPA promulgate alternative standards of incineration (INCIN), fuel substitution (FSUBS) and recovery of organics (RORGS) for these wastes. These commenters pointed to the Interim Final Rule of May 24, 1993 (58 FR 29867) where EPA extended the use of these methods of treatment to all D001 wastes disposed outside CWA or CWA-equivalent impoundments or Safe Drinking Water Act regulated Class I underground injection wells. EPA is not adopting this approach in today's rule for TC organic wastes. First, EPA does not believe that methods of treatment intended to address organic constituents will always adequately address any underlying metal constituents present in these wastes. In addition, the Agency has not yet been able to completely evaluate the appropriateness of requiring specified treatment technologies for TC wastes and other wastes. 1. Waste Management Systems Affected by Today's Rule In terms of waste management systems, today's rule applies to those TC wastes which are managed in systems other than: (1) wastewater treatment systems which include surface impoundments whose ultimate discharge is subject to the Clean Water Act (CWA); (2) zero dischargers who, before permanent land disposal of the wastewater, treat the wastewaters in a CWA-equivalent wastewater treatment system; or, (3) Class I underground injection wells subject to the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) Underground Injection Control (UIC) program. CWA-equivalent treatment means biological treatment for organics, reduction of hexavalent chromium, precipitation/sedimentation for metals, alkaline chlorination or ferrous sulfate precipitation of cyanide (to the extent these constituents are present in the untreated influent to wastewater treatment systems), or treatment that the facility can show performs as well or better than these enumerated technologies. See ยง268.37(a), 58 FR at 29885 (May 24, 1993). Organic TC wastes managed in these types of systems will be regulated in the next LDR rule. Additionally, ``decharacterizing'' the TC wastes regulated under this rule by rendering them noncharacteristic does not remove them from the scope of these regulations. Chemical Waste Management v. EPA , 976 F. 2d at 14&hyph;15. Consequently today's final rule will apply to some injection practices, in particular, those involving Class V injection wells. These typically are wells injecting nonhazardous wastes above or into underground sources of drinking water. (If, however, the TC wastes injected into non-Class I wells were to be treated by CWA-equivalent means before injection, today's treatment standards would not apply. This is an example of the type of zero discharger referred to above.)
