FR940124-0-00033 FR940124-0-00003 (4) In connection with the Housing Authority's other public housing that remains under ACC, for any purposes authorized for the use of operating funds under the ACC and applicable provisions of the 1937 Act and Federal regulations, as included in the HUD-approved operating budgets. Examples include maintenance and modernization, augmentation of operating reserves, protective services, and resident services. Such use shall not result in the reduction of the operating subsidy otherwise payable to the Housing Authority under 24 CFR part 990. (5) In connection with any other type of Federal, State, or local housing program for low-income families. ยง907.17 Records, reports, and audits. The Housing Authority shall be responsible for the maintenance of records (including sales and financial records, which contain racial and ethnic characteristics of the purchasers) for all activities incident to implementation of the HUD-approved homeownership plan. These records include those pertaining to the affirmative fair housing marketing strategy and the nondiscriminatory selection of purchasers. Until all planned sales of individual dwellings have been completed, the Housing Authority shall submit to HUD annual sales reports, in a form prescribed by HUD. The receipt, retention, and use of the sale proceeds shall be covered in the regular independent audits of the Housing Authority's public housing operations, and any supplementary audits that HUD may find necessary for monitoring. Where another entity is responsible for sale of individual units, pursuant to ยง907.7(b), the Housing Authority must ensure that the entity's responsibilities include proper record keeping and accountability to the Housing Authority, sufficient to enable the Housing Authority to monitor compliance with the approved homeownership plan, to prepare its reports to HUD, and to meet its audit responsibilities. All books and records shall be subject to inspection and audit by HUD and the General Accounting Office (GAO). ยง907.18 Submission and review of homeownership plan. Whether to develop and submit a proposed homeownership plan is a matter within the discretion of the Housing Authority. The Housing Authority may initiate a proposal at any time, according to the following procedures: (a) Consultation with Field Office. Before submission of a proposed plan, the Housing Authority shall consult informally with its local HUD Field Office to assess feasibility and the particulars to be addressed by the plan. (b) Plan. The Housing Authority shall submit the proposed plan, together with supporting documentation, to the local HUD Field Office. (c) Conditional approval. Conditional approval may be given, at HUD discretion, where HUD determines that to be justified. For example, conditional HUD approval might be a necessary precondition for the Housing Authority to obtain the funding commitments required to satisfy the requirements for final HUD approval of a complete homeownership plan. Where conditional approval is granted, HUD will specify the conditions in writing. (d) Environmental review. Before approval of the plan, HUD will conduct an environmental review of the properties in accordance with 24 CFR part 50. ยง907.19 HUD approval and Housing Authority-HUD implementing agreement. Upon HUD notification to the Housing Authority that the homeownership plan is approvable (in final form that satisfies all applicable requirements of this part), the Housing Authority and HUD will execute a written implementing agreement, in a form prescribed by HUD, to evidence HUD approval and authorization for implementation. The plan itself, as approved by HUD, shall be incorporated in the implementing agreement. Any of the items of supporting documentation may also be incorporated, if agreeable to the parties. The Housing Authority shall be obligated to carry out the approved homeownership plan and other provisions of the implementing agreement without modification, except with written approval by HUD.
