FR940620-1-00099 FR940620-1-00009 (h) Final disposition of appeal or suit. If the Contractor appeals or files suit and if, upon final disposition of the appeal or suit, the contracting officer's decision is_ (1) Sustained_: (i) Any restrictive marking on such computer software shall be struck or corrected at the Contractor's expense or ignored; and, (ii) If the asserted restriction is found not to be substantially justified, the Contractor shall be liable to the Government for payment of the cost to the Government of reviewing the asserted restriction and the fees and other expenses (as defined in 28 U.S.C. 2412(d)(2)(A)) incurred by the Government in challenging the restriction, unless special circumstances would make such payment unjust. (2) Not sustained_ (i) The Government shall be bound by the asserted restriction; and, (ii) If the challenge by the Government is found not to have been made in good faith, the Government shall be liable to the Contractor for payment of fees and other expenses (as defined in 28 U.S.C. 2412(d)(2)(A) incurred by the Contractor in defending the restriction. (i) Flowdown. The contractor shall insert this clause in all contracts, purchase orders, and other similar instruments with its subcontractors or suppliers, at any tier, who will be furnishing computer software to the Government in the performance of this contract. The clause may not be altered other than to identify the appropriate parties. (End of clause) 23. Section 252.227&hyph;7020 is revised to read as follows: ยง252.227&hyph;7020 Rights in special works. As prescribed in 227.405&hyph;3, 227.406(a) and 227.505(a), use the following clause: RIGHTS IN SPECIAL WORKS (XXX 1994) (a) Applicability. The clause applies to works first created, generated, or produced and required to be delivered under this contract. (b) Definitions. As used in this clause: (1) Computer data base means a collection of data recorded in a form capable of being processed by a computer. The term does not include computer software. (2) Computer program means a set of instructions, rules, or routines recorded in a form that is capable of causing a computer to perform a specific operation or series of operations. (3) Computer software means computer programs, source code, source code listings, object code listings, design details, algorithms, processes, flow charts, formulae and related material that would enable the software to be reproduced, recreated, or recompiled. Computer software does not include computer data bases or computer software documentation. (4) Computer software documentation means owner's manuals, user's manuals, installation instructions, operating instructions, and other similar items, regardless of storage medium, that explain the capabilities of the computer software or provide instructions for using the software. (5) Unlimited rights means the rights to use, modify, reproduce, perform, display, release, or disclose a work in whole or in part, in any manner, and for any purpose whatsoever, and to have or authorize others to do to. (6) The term works includes computer data bases, computer software, or computer software documentation; literary, musical, choreographic, or dramatic compositions; pantomimes; pictorial, graphic, or sculptural compositions; motion pictures and other audiovisual compositions; sound recordings in any medium; or, items of similar nature. (c) License rights. (1) The Government shall have unlimited rights in works first produced, created, or generated and required to be delivered under this contract. (2) The contractor shall assign to the Government copyright in all works first produced, created, or generated and required to be delivered under this contract. The contractor, unless directed to the contrary by the contracting officer, shall place the following notice on such works: `` ( Year date of delivery ) United States Government, as represented by the Secretary of ( department ). All rights reserved.'' For phonorecords, the `` '' marking shall be replaced by a ``P''. (3) The contractor grants to the Government a royalty free, worldwide, nonexclusive, irrevocable license to reproduce, prepare derivative works from, distribute, perform, or display, and to have or authorize others to do so, the contractor's copyrighted works not first produced created, or generated under this contract that have been incorporated into the works deliverable under this contract. (d) Third party copyrighted data. The contractor shall not incorporate, without the written approval of the contracting officer, any copyrighted works in the works to be delivered under this contract unless the contractor is the copyright owner or has obtained for the Government the license rights necessary to perfect a license of the scope identified in paragraph (c)(3) of this clause and, prior to delivery of such works_ (1) Has affixed to the transmittal document a statement of the license rights obtained; or, (2) For computer software, has provided a statement of the license rights obtained in a form acceptable to the contracting officer. (e) Indemnification. The contractor shall indemnify and save and hold harmless the government, against any liability, including costs and expenses, (1) for violation of proprietary rights, copyrights, or rights of privacy or publicity, arising out of the creation, delivery, use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, or disclosure of any works furnished under this contract, or (2) based upon any libelous or other unlawful matter contained in such works. (f) Government furnished information. Paragraphs (d) and (e) of this clause are not applicable to information furnished to the contractor by the Government and incorporated in the works delivered under this contract. (End of clause)
