FR941025-2-00145 FR941025-2-00078 The Commission anticipates that the other appropriate SRO participants also will file the revised specifications for approval by the Commission. The NYSE, and these other SROs, may use the revised Examination, Specifications and Content Outline after the Commission has approved the proposed rule changes of the other appropriate SRO participants. III. Discussion After careful review, the Commission finds that the proposed rule changes are consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and in particular, with the requirements of Sections 6(b)(5) and 6(c)(3)(B) of the Act. 5 Section 6(b)(5) requires, among other things, that the rules of an exchange be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. Section 6(c)(3)(B) provides that a national securities exchange may examine and verify the qualifications of an applicant to become a person associated with a member in accordance with procedures established by the rules of the exchange, and may require any person associated with a member, or any class of such persons, to be registered with the exchange in accordance with procedures so established. 5 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) and (c)(3)(B) (1988). The Commission also believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 15(b)(7) of the Act 6 which stipulates that prior to effecting any transaction in, or inducing the purchase or sale of any security, a registered broker or dealer must meet certain standards of operational capability, and that such broker or dealer must meet certain standards of training, experience, competence, and such other qualifications as the Commission finds necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. 6 15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(7) (1988). The Commission believes that revising the Series 7 Examination, Specifications and Content Outline should help to ensure that only those securities representatives with a comprehensive knowledge of current Exchange rules, as well as an understanding of the Act, will be able to solicit, purchase or sell securities for the accounts of customers. The Commission believes that the revised areas covered by the Examination, Specifications and Content Outline are appropriate subject matters and include a sufficiently broad range of topics to ensure an appropriate level of expertise by representatives. Additionally, the revised examination tests relevant subject matters in view of changes in applicable laws, rules, regulations, products, and industry practices. By ensuring this requisite level of knowledge, the NYSE can remain confident that securities representatives have demonstrated an acceptable level of securities knowledge to carry out their responsibilities. The Commission has determined that the Content Outline for the revised Series 7 Examination is sufficiently detailed and covers appropriate information so as to provide an adequate basis for studying the new topics covered on the revised examination. The revised Content Outline should help ensure that those persons taking the revised examination understand the full range of subject matters included in the examination. The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder. IV. Conclusion It is therefore ordered, Pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 7 that the proposed rule change (File Nos. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;26 and SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;27) are approved contingent upon the filing of the Examination Specifications and Content Outline by the order appropriate SROs and the approval of those filings by the Commission. 7 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 8 8 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1994). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Security. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26434 Filed 10&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
