FR940527-2-00152 FR940527-2-00119 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20309; File No. 812&hyph;8816] Principal Mutual Life Insurance Company, et al. May 20, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of application for order under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``1940 Act'' or the ``Act''). APPLICANTS: Principal Mutual Life Insurance Company (``Principal Mutual''), Principal Mutual Life Insurance Company Separate Account B (``Separate Account B'') and Princor Financial Services Corporation (``Princor''). RELEVANT 1940 ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under section 6(c) of the Act granting exemptions from sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) thereof. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order permitting the deduction from the assets of Separate Account B of the mortality and expense risks charge imposed under certain flexible purchase payment individual variable annuity contracts (the ``Contracts''). FILING DATE: The application was filed on February 7, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the Commission's Secretary and serving the Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests must be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m., on June 14, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on the Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Persons may request notification of the date of a hearing by writing to the Secretary of the SEC. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, The Principal Financial Group, Des Moines, IA 50392&hyph;0300. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Joyce M. Pickholz, Senior Counsel, or Wendell M. Faria, Acting Assistant Director, on (202) 942&hyph;0670, Office of Insurance Products, Division of Investment Management. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Following is a summary of the application. The complete application is available for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. Principal Mutual, a mutual life insurance company, was incorporated under the laws of Iowa in 1879 as Bankers Life Association. It changed its name to Bankers Life Company in 1911 and assumed its present name in 1986. Principal Mutual sells life, disability, and health insurance, and annuities written both on an individual and group basis. 2. Separate Account B was established on January 12, 1970. It is registered under the Act as a unit investment trust. Under Iowa insurance laws and regulations the income, gains or losses, whether or not realized, of Separate Account B are credited to or charged against the assets of Separate Account B without regard to the other income, gains or losses, of Principal Mutual. Separate Account B is divided into three divisions (``Divisions'') corresponding to the three mutual funds (``Mutual Funds'') in which its assets may be invested. The Mutual Funds are diversified, open-end, management investment companies that serve as funding vehicles for variable insurance products of Principal Mutual and are not offered directly to the public. Principal Mutual may, at a later date, determine to create additional Divisions of Separate Account B to invest in any additional Mutual Fund shares which may be issued in the future or in the shares of other investment companies. 3. Princor, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Principal Mutual, will be the principal underwriter of the Contracts. It is registered as a broker-dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. 4. The Contracts are flexible purchase payment individual variable annuity contracts which provide for the accumulation of values on a fixed or variable basis and the payment of annuity benefits on a fixed basis. The Contracts are designed to provide individuals with retirement benefits in connection with certain plans entitled to special tax treatment under the Internal Revenue Code and in connection with non-tax qualified retirement plans. Subject to certain restrictions, amounts accumulated may be transferred among Divisions of Separate Account B or to or from Principal Mutual's general account. 5. The owner of a Contract may allocate purchase payments among the available Divisions of Separate Account B and to Principal Mutual's general account for accumulation on a fixed basis (the ``Fixed Account''). The owner may also transfer on either a scheduled or unscheduled basis amounts accumulated in any Division or the Fixed Account subject to certain restrictions. For any unscheduled transfer from a Division made after the twelfth such transfer in a Contract year, Principal Mutual may impose a transaction fee not to exceed $30. Such charge is designed to cover the administrative expenses associated with the transfer. Transfers among Divisions of Separate Account B will be made in reliance upon the exemptive relief provided by Rule 11a&hyph;2 under the Act. 6. On the last day of each Contract year prior to the commencement of annuity payments, Principal Mutual will deduct from the accumulated value of the Contract an annual fee equal to the lesser of $30 or 2% of the accumulated value. The fee will be deducted from the owner's interest in either the Fixed Account or a Division of Separate Account B, whichever has the greatest value. The annual fee will also be deducted if the Contract is surrendered on any date other than a Contract anniversary. No annual fee will be deducted, either annually or upon surrender, if the accumulated value of the Contract is at least $30,000 at the time the fee is to be deducted.
