FR941006-1-00126 FR941006-1-00016 a. Should label warning statements be required for iron-containing products? Based on the data in the AAPCC and AG petitions and in the CPSC case reports, iron-containing products can cause injury, including serious injury, and death when children gain access to these products. FDA finds from these data that the potential for harm exists for all three types of iron-containing products available, i.e., multi-vitamin/mineral supplements that contain iron, iron supplements, and iron-containing drugs. Supporting this finding are the data cited in Tables 1, 2, and 3 that show that, since 1983, at least 40 deaths have been attributed to the accidental ingestion of iron supplements and iron-containing drugs, and that, since 1986, nearly 190 poisonings that were life threatening or that resulted in permanent injury, and over 2,000 poisonings requiring some form of treatment, have resulted from accidental ingestion of adult iron-containing products. Further support is provided by the data in the CPSC case reports, which show 80 ingestions of iron leading to hospital emergency room visits with varying types of injury, including vomiting, lethargy, diarrhea, and elevated serum iron (see Table 6). The data in Tables 4 and 6 show that in several documented poisoning incidents, children have ingested 30, 40, 50, or more tablets of iron-containing products when these amounts of tablets were accessible. Aside from the potential for such ingestion of iron-containing supplements and drugs to be fatal, the consequences of ingesting even multi-vitamin/mineral type products in these amounts is evident from Table 8. This table shows that an amount of iron that may produce symptoms of iron poisoning (i.e., 25 mg/kg) can be ingested by a 10 kg child if the child consumes 25 tablets containing 10 mg of iron each or approximately 14 tablets containing 18 mg each. (Ten mg and 18 mg of iron are the amounts typically contained in multi-vitamin/mineral supplements with iron including children's vitamins.) Based upon the data in Tables 4 and 6, ingestion of this many tablets is not atypical. Thus, FDA finds that injury can result anytime a small child is able to gain access to even the lowest potency iron-containing products available. Further, the fact that over 2,000 reported poisoning incidents of varying severity have been recorded in recent years (Tables 2 and 3), and the fact that AAPCC reports that accidental iron poisoning is presently the leading cause of pediatric poisoning deaths, lead FDA to find that pediatric iron poisonings have occurred, and continue to occur, with significant frequency. Further, FDA finds that the fact that these poisonings continue to occur, even though there have been over 40 deaths from accidental iron ingestion (See Table 1), strongly suggests that many adults are not aware of the potential for serious harm or death in young children from accidental ingestion of iron-containing products. Support for this finding is provided by statements made by the parents of the victims in several of the poisoning incidents, described in the case reports obtained from CPSC as follows: (1) ``The mother stated that she thought the pills (prenatal iron pills) were just vitamins and would not harm the victim'' (Ref. 21, case report No. 10).
