FR940617-1-00039 FR940617-1-00012 (3) Other allowable indications for products labeled as either antiseptic or health-care personnel handwash. The labeling of the product may also contain the following phrase: ``Recommended for repeated use.'' Other labeling claims requested by the comments for first aid antiseptics are not being included in the tentative final monograph. The agency believes that the general claim ``for handwashing to decrease bacteria on the skin'' encompasses the variety of uses for promoting good individual and family hygiene. The agency tentatively concludes that the labeling statements proposed above express the same concepts as the labeling suggested by the comments in language that can be more readily understood by the consumer. C. Comments on Definitions 6. One comment objected to a portion of the definition for health-care personnel handwash in §333.3(d) of the tentative final monograph that states that the antimicrobial agent is ``broad-spectrum'' and ``if possible, persistent.'' The comment argued that, because these handwashes are used 50 to 100 times daily, persistence of effect is unnecessary. The comment also questioned the need for a broad-spectrum antimicrobial, stating that Staphylococcus epidermidis ( S. epidermidis ) generally is the only natural resident bacteria on the skin, and other transient micro-organisms are more likely to be removed mechanically by washing than by antimicrobial action. The comment suggested that the choice to use or not to use a broad-spectrum antimicrobial ingredient should be left to the manufacturer. Another comment pointed out that the requirement for ``broad spectrum'' activity is inconsistently applied in the definitions for health-care personnel handwash, patient preoperative skin preparation, and surgical hand scrub (§333.3(d), (e), and (i), respectively) because ``broad spectrum'' activity is mandatory for the first two classes and only ``desirable'' for surgical hand scrubs. The comment cited comment 93 (43 FR 1210 at 1224) and the testing guidelines for safety and effectiveness of OTC topical antimicrobials (43 FR 1239) to show the agency's awareness of possible shifts in microbial flora due to a lack of broad spectrum activity. The comment urged that all three product classes include the requirement for each product to at least demonstrate in vitro ``cidal'' activity against gram-negative bacteria, fungi, and lipophilic and hydrophilic viruses in addition to the gram-positive activity. In §333.3(d) of the previous tentative final monograph, a health-care personnel handwash was defined as an ``*␣*␣* antimicrobial-containing preparation designed for frequent use; it reduces the number of transient micro-organisms on intact skin to an initial baseline level after adequate washing, rinsing, and drying, and it is broad-spectrum, fast acting, and, if possible, persistent.'' In the tentative final monograph, the agency agreed with the Panel that persistence, defined as prolonged activity, is a valuable attribute that assures antimicrobial activity during the interval between washings and is important to a safe and effective health-care personnel handwash (43 FR 1215). The Panel explained that a property such as persistence, which acts to prevent the growth or establishment of transient micro-organisms as part of the normal baseline or resident flora, would be an added benefit (39 FR 33103 at 33115). Although the Panel did not propose persistence as a mandatory requirement for a health-care personnel handwash, the agency is retaining the words ``if possible, persistent'' in the definition in this amended tentative final monograph because this is a desirable trait for these products. Regarding the comment's objection to the broad-spectrum requirement, the Panel in its discussion of the normal skin flora stated that the predominant members of the normal flora are gram positive cocci and diptheroids and not S. epidermidis, as the comment indicates. The Panel stated further that a small number of gram negative species, such as coliforms and related micro- organisms, as well as higher forms such as yeast may also be residents of the skin of healthy individuals (39 FR 33103 at 33107). In its discussion of health-care personnel handwash drug products, the Panel acknowledged that, in all likelihood, the specified effect of these products (i.e., removal of transient micro-organisms) can be achieved with a well formulated nonantimicrobial soap or detergent product. However, the Panel concluded that transient micro-organisms may become part of the established ``resident'' flora with time, and stated that in a health-care situation, the fast, effective removal of transient micro-organisms is a requirement because they may be pathogenic (39 FR 33103 at 33115). The Panel recommended that health-care personnel handwash drug products containing an antimicrobial ingredient should be broad spectrum. The Panel defined ``broad spectrum'' in reference to microbiological activity as meaning the antimicrobial has activity against more than one type of micro- organism, that is, activity against gram positive and gram negative bacteria, fungi, and viruses (39 FR 33115). Because transient micro-organisms present on the skin may include widely diverse species, resulting from contact with contaminated persons and materials, the agency concludes that a greater reduction of transient micro-organisms on the skin can be achieved if the antimicrobial containing drug product used as a health-care personnel handwash provides broad spectrum activity.
