FR940516-0-00092 FR940516-0-00030 Changes From the Proposed Rule There are three changes from the proposed rule in the final rule. The first change is to delete the phrase ``NMFS or U.S. Coast Guard enforcement'' from sentences referring to authorized officers in ยง675.27 (h)(2)(i)(A) and (ii)(B)( 1 ). Removing the phrase makes the references consistent with the definition of authorized officers in 50 CFR 620.2. The second change is to clarify the intent of the first sentence of ยง675.27(h)(2)(ii) by replacing the phrase ``estimate its total weight'' with ``estimate the total weight of its groundfish catch''. The third change is to clarify the intent of ยง675.27(h)(2)(ii)(A)( 2 ). The requirement that marked increments be readable from the outside of the bin at all times has been changed to read ``Marked increments, except those on the wall containing the viewing port or window, must be readable from the outside of the bin at all times.'' The phrase ``on each side of the bin'' is deleted from the last sentence of the paragraph. Although NMFS requires that all internal sides of the bin be marked, the markings on the side of the bin containing the viewing port or window need not be visible from the outside of all bins. This issue is also addressed in the response to Comment 9. Four letters of comment were received during the comment period. One letter was in support of the rule. Three letters included comments or suggestions on technical or operational aspects of the rule. Fourteen individual comments were contained in these four letters. No comments were in opposition to the rule. Comment 1: Increased observer coverage and improved equipment for estimating total catch in the CDQ fisheries will be beneficial to fishery managers and to CDQ fishing partners. Response: NMFS concurs. Comment 2: NMFS should identify standards for catch measurement and leave it to the industry to decide what equipment and methods would meet those standards. Response: This rule offers two options for processor vessels to provide improved estimates of catch in the CDQ fisheries. One is based on volumetric estimates and the other is based on a scale weight. While a performance standard for the accuracy of a scale system can be established by NMFS and tested by an observer, the same standard of accuracy cannot be established for volumetric estimates. The accuracy of a scale system depends on the performance of a piece of equipment, while the accuracy of volumetric estimates depends on the accurate measuring of the bin volume, on the ability of an observer to determine the volume visually, and on variation in the density of the fish. The only way to test the accuracy of volumetric estimates of total groundfish catch weight is to compare the volumetric estimates of fish weight with the scale weight of the same fish. A scale large enough to assess the accuracy of volumetric estimates of catch aboard a processor vessel would be more effectively used to weigh the catch directly. Rather than specifying an accuracy standard for volumetric estimates, NMFS has established guidelines for the equipment that must be provided for the observer to make volumetric estimates. Comment 3: NMFS should fairly apply regulations for improved total catch weight to all sectors. Response: This rule addresses only processors and vessels participating in the CDQ fisheries. All catcher vessels must meet the same requirements, regardless of their size. Shoreside processors are required to report scale weights, because scales are currently available in all the plants. All processor vessels are offered the same options to provide improved estimates of catch. Comment 4: The appropriate method for estimating total catch weight should distinguish between the pelagic pollock fisheries and other mixed-species fisheries. Response: The CDQ fisheries are predominantly pelagic pollock fisheries in that most trawl hauls contain 95 percent or more pollock by weight. The primary difference between pelagic pollock fisheries and mixed-species fisheries, with respect to volumetric estimates of total groundfish catch weight, is the appropriate density factor to use in the volume-to-weight conversion. NMFS distinguishes between the pelagic pollock fishery and other mixed-species fisheries by applying a standard density factor of 0.93 mt/m3 for all trawl hauls in the pelagic pollock fishery and by using the observer's estimate of the appropriate density factor for hauls with less than 95 percent pollock. Comment 5: The appropriate location of certified marks inside bins depends on the configuration of the individual bin and should be determined on a case-by-case basis. Response: NMFS agrees that many bins have different configurations and that specifying the location and number of certified markings that would provide the most accurate volumetric estimates from each bin on each vessel may be more desirable. However, NMFS does not have the resources to review and approve the bin configurations for individual vessels. For this reason, the final rule contains specifications that must be met for each bin used to make volumetric estimates of catch weight. Comment 6: Vessel owners should be required to submit a description of the system they plan on using, with endorsement by prospective certifiers, well in advance of the effective date, to assure that they have selected a workable system and that they have adequate time to get it in place and certified. Response: The processor or vessel owners are responsible for completing these modifications by the effective date (i.e., August 15, 1994, see ยง675.27(h)(2)). Therefore, NMFS is providing approximately 3 months for modifications to the vessel that may be necessary under this rule. Comment 7: Visual access to the bins and to all walls in the bins is difficult to achieve, costly, and sometimes impossible.
