FR940314-0-00041 FR940314-0-00007 EPA maintains that the District may use any administrative Procedures it has under State law to implement and enforce the requirements of part 55, such as a variance. However, as stated in the preamble to part 55, as onshore, a variance will not shield a source from enforcement action by EPA. Permits Pursuant to §55.6: (1) VCAPCD will require that the Applicant send a copy of any permit application required by 40 CFR 55.6 to the Administrator through the EPA Regional Office (Attn: A&hyph;5&hyph;1) at the same time as the application is submitted to VCAPCD. (2) VCAPCD shall send a copy of any public comment notice required under §§55.6, 55.13 or 55.14 to the Administrator through the EPA Regional Office (Attn: A&hyph;5&hyph;1) and the Minerals Management Service. (3) VCAPCD shall send a copy of any preliminary determination and any final permit action required under §§55.6, 55.13 or 55.14 to the Administrator through the EPA Regional Office (Attn: A&hyph;5&hyph;1) at the time of the determination and shall make available to the Administrator any materials used in making the determination. (4) VCAPCD shall provide written notice of any permit application from a source, the emissions from which may affect a Class I area, to the Federal Land Manager of that area. (5) The District will request EPA guidance on any matter involving the interpretation of section 328 of the Act, the delegated sections of the OCS air regulations or any other provision of 40 CFR part 55 to the extent that implementation, review, administration or enforcement of these provisions has not been covered by determinations or guidance sent to the District. (6) Pursuant to its authority under the Clean Air Act, EPA may review permits issued by the District under this agreement to ensure that the District's implementation of Rule 72.1 is consistent with the time frames and requirements of the federal regulations. Exemptions Pursuant to §55.7: (1) VCAPCD shall transmit to the Administrator (through the Regional Office), the Minerals Management Service, and the U.S. Coast Guard, a copy of the permit application, or the request for exemption if no permit is required, within 5 days of its receipt. (2) VCAPCD shall consult with the Minerals Management Service of the U.S. Department of the Interior and the U.S. Coast Guard to determine whether the exemption will be granted or denied. (3) If VCAPCD, the Minerals Management Service, and the U.S. Coast Guard do not reach a consensus decision within 90 days from the day the VCAPCD received the exemption request, the request shall automatically be referred to the Administrator, who will process the referral in accordance with 40 CFR 55.7(f)(3). VCAPCD shall transmit to the Administrator, within 91 days of its receipt, the exemption request and all materials submitted with the request, such as the permit application or the compliance plan, and any other information considered or developed during the consultation process. (4) VCAPCD will process exemption requests submitted with an approval to construct or permit to operate application in accordance with the procedures outlined in 40 CFR 55.6(a)(2), which supersedes District Rule 25. Monitoring, Reporting, Inspections, and Compliance VCAPCD may use any authority it possesses under state law to require monitoring and reporting, and to conduct inspections. The Administrator or VCAPCD shall consult with the Minerals Management Service and the U.S. Coast Guard prior to inspections. This shall in no way interfere with the ability of EPA or VCAPCD to conduct unannounced inspections. General Conditions (1) VCAPCD agrees to implement and enforce the Federal requirements of 40 CFR 55.13 as well as the applicable state and local requirements contained in 40 CFR 55.14. Notwithstanding the above, EPA retains authority for implementation and enforcement of the PSD requirements of part C of the Act and 40 CFR 52.21. (2) The primary responsibility for enforcement of the OCS air regulations delegated to the District will rest with the VCAPCD. Nothing in this agreement shall prohibit EPA from regulations, or the terms and conditions of any permit issued by the District pursuant to this agreement.
