FR940728-2-00107 FR940728-2-00072 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY AND WATER COMMISSION Availability of Final Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact agency: United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico. action: Notice of availability of final environmental assessment and finding of no significant impact. summary: Pursuant to section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969; the Council on Environmental Quality Final Regulations (40 CFR Parts 1500 through 1508); and the Operational Procedures of the United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico (USIBWC), for Implementing Section 102 of NEPA, published in the Federal Register September 2, 1981 (46 FR 44083); the USIBWC hereby gives notice that the Final Environmental Assessment and Final Finding of No Significant Impact for Quisto Energy Corporation (Quisto) to construct, operate, and maintain a gas well located on the Main Floodway of the Lower Rio Grande Flood Control Project (LRGFCP) are available. The USIWBWC finds that the proposed action to issue a license to Quisto for such works is not a major federal action that would have a significant adverse effect on the quality of the human environment. A Notice of Finding of No Significant Impact was signed June 17, 1994, (59 FR 33303&hyph;33304) and provided a thirty (30) day review and comment period before making the finding final. addresses: Dr. Conrad G. Keyes, Jr., Principal Engineer, Planning, United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, 4171 North Mesa Street, C&hyph;310, El Paso, Texas 79902&hyph;1441. Telephone: 915/534&hyph;6703. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Proposed Action The action proposed is the USIBWC to issue a license to Quisto to construct, operate, and maintain a gas well and install related features with Meyerhoff No. 3 Drilling Unit, Lot 271, Kelly-Pharr Subdivision, Hildalgo County, Texas. The gas well is proposed to be located on privately owned land within the Main Floodway of the USIBWC LRGFCP approximately 8 kilometers (5 miles) southeast of the town of Pharr. Access to the drilling site is by way of existing county and private roads. Alternatives Considered Three alternatives were considered in the Environmental Assessment (EA): The Proposed Action Alternative is for Quisto to construct, operate, and maintain a gas well in a cultivated field within the Main Floodway of the USIBWC LRGFCP. The proposed action will require the USIBWC to issue a license to ensure that such works do not cause an obstruction to flood flows within the floodway or interfere with the operation and maintenance of the LRGFCP. The No Action Alternative is for Quisto to not construct, operate, and maintain a gas well within the Main Floodway of the LRGFCP. The no action alternative will not require the USIBWC to issue a license since no work will be done within the LRGFRCP. The no action alternative will result in the denial of access to the mineral owner to rightfully owned minerals, loss of tax revenues to the State of Texas, and result in an unrecoverable clean energy source. The Directional Well alternative is for Quisto to drill a well from outside the Main Floodway to a depth below the proposed surface location. The directional well alternative will not require the USIBWC to issue a license since no work will be done within the LRGFCP. The directional well alternative is considered not workable because of a lack of an available surface drillsite outside the Main Floodway and technical problems associated with a bottomhole location some 610 meters (2,000 feet) or more from the surface location.
