FR941017-2-00137 FR941017-2-00078 In determining whether to modify the MMCOF, OTS must therefore consider whether such a modified index would be based on comparable data and provide comparable results. Similarly, in considering stopping publication of the MMCOF, OTS must determine whether acceptable substitute indices are available. II. Potential Modifications to the MMCOF OTS has considered two potential modifications to the MMCOF and believes that neither would substantially affect the information provided in the MMCOF or the results obtained by using it in adjusting ARMs. A. Use a Randomly Selected Sample of the Industry The OTS has considered computing the MMCOF using a randomly selected sample of OTS-regulated institutions. This might include the OTS-regulated, BIF-insured institutions discussed above in section II.A. The OTS estimates that a random sample of 476 institutions would provide a confidence level of 95% that the MMCOF will be within +(^) .05% (5 basis points) of the sample value. By rotating the institutions comprising the statistical sample every twelve to eighteen months, the regulatory reporting burden on the industry as a whole would be reduced. The agency resources involved in calculating the MMCOF would also likely be reduced. B. Expand the Number of Reporting Institutions One of the past benefits of the MMCOF as an index for adjusting ARMs was that it represented a broad, national cross-section of the thrift industry. If the MMCOF is no longer widely used because it is calculated from a decreasing number of OTS-regulated SAIF-insured thrifts, one alternative that might increase its utility is to expand the number of reporting institutions. While OTS does not have the authority to require depository institutions that it does not regulate, such as commercial banks to provide information on their cost of funds to the OTS, it could expand the MMCOF to include OTS-regulated, Bank Insurance Fund (BIF)-insured institutions. This would add 16 institutions currently not included in the reporting universe. These institutions control between 9 and 10% of the industry assets. Expanding the number of reporting institutions to include the OTS-regulated BIF-insured institutions would only slightly affect the MMCOF index, however, because it is a median index 2 and not a weighted average. 3 The additional burden such an expansion would cause OTS would also be slight. 2 The median cost of funds is defined as the middle value (the point that has an equal number of observations above and below it) of a set of institutions' individual cost of funds ratios. 3 The weighted mean cost of funds ratio is defined as the sum of quarterly interest expense paid or accrued on deposits and borrowings, excluding escrow accounts, divided by the average (current and previous cycle) sum of balances in deposits and borrowings (both Federal Home Loan Bank advances and other borrowings, excluding escrow accounts). III. Potential Substitute Indices if OTS Stopped Publishing the MMCOF OTS reviewed three potential substitute indices to determine if any would be acceptable substitutes under the requirements of section 402(e)(3) of FIRREA. Two of these indices either use a calculation formula substantially similar to the MMCOF or yield results substantially similar to the MMCOF: the Eleventh District COFI and the QCOFI. These indices are based on data either supplied to the OTS or that the OTS requires thrifts to supply to their Federal Home Loan Banks on request. The index most frequently used to adjust ARMs, One Year Treasury Bills (Constant Maturity), was also reviewed as a possible acceptable substitute. OTS believes, however, that this index does not satisfy the statutory requirements for substitute indices because it is neither technically similar to the MMCOF index, nor is its movement substantially similar. Exhibit 1 shows the movement of the MMCOF compared to the One Year Treasury Bill index. The two indices' only similarity is that both are released monthly. A. Eleventh District Cost of Funds Index The Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco's ``Eleventh District Cost of Funds'' index is calculated from data submitted from all OTS-regulated SAIF-insured savings institutions located in Arizona, California, and Nevada. 4 In March, 1994, these institutions represented 6.4 percent of the total number and approximately 35 percent of the total assets of OTS-regulated institutions. The Eleventh District COFI and the MMCOF are substantially similar in that the formula used in the Eleventh District COFI is based on the same Thrift Financial Report lines as are used in the MMCOF. While the Eleventh District COFI is a weighted mean and the MMCOF is a median, the Eleventh District COFI closely tracks the MMCOF. For example, from mid-1991 through March 1994, the monthly results were substantially similar, particularly over the last two years. Exhibit 2 shows the movement of the Eleventh District COFI as compared to the MMCOF from 1980 through March 1994. 4 12 CFR 563.180(e) requires savings associations to supply this data to their respective Federal Home Loan Banks upon request. B. OTS Quarterly Average Cost of Funds Index
