FR940722-0-00003 FR940722-0-00002 FARM CREDIT ADMINISTRATION 12 CFR Parts 607, 614, 615, and 620 RIN 3052&hyph;AB44 Assessment and Apportionment of Administrative Expenses; Loan Policies and Operations; Funding and Fiscal Affairs, Loan Policies and Operations, and Funding Operations; Disclosure to Shareholders AGENCY: Farm Credit Administration. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Farm Credit Administration (FCA), by the Farm Credit Administration Board (Board), amends the regulations relating to the components of permanent capital for Farm Credit System (Farm Credit or System) banks and associations. The objective of these regulations is to implement amendments to the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (1971 Act) made by the Farm Credit Banks and Associations Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (1992 Act). The effect of the regulations is to establish requirements for the agreement between a Farm Credit Bank (FCB) and its related direct lender associations specifying where the earnings held by the FCB and allocated to associations may be counted as permanent capital, to specify how these earnings would be counted in the absence of an agreement, to provide a date certain for the exclusion from capital of payments by Farm Credit institutions to the Farm Credit System Financial Assistance Corporation (FAC) made in connection with the repayment of Treasury-paid interest, and to make other conforming changes to implement the statutory amendments. Technical and conforming changes are made throughout the agency's regulations. EFFECTIVE DATE: The regulations shall become effective on December 31, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert S. Child, Policy Analyst, Regulation Development, Office of Examination, Farm Credit Administration, McLean, VA 22102&hyph;5090, (703) 883&hyph;4498, TDD (703) 883&hyph;4444, or Rebecca S. Orlich, Senior Attorney, Office of General Counsel, Farm Credit Administration, McLean, VA 22102&hyph;5090, (703) 883&hyph;4020, TDD (703) 883&hyph;4444. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On June 15, 1993, the FCA Board proposed amendments to its regulations that would implement the changes set forth by the 1992 Act. (See 58 FR 34004, June 23, 1993.) The FCA received comments in response to these proposed regulations from The Farm Credit Council on behalf of its membership and the Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation, two Farm Credit Banks (FCBs), a Farm Credit association, and a state bankers' association. These comments were fully considered by the FCA in drafting the final regulations. The comments and the FCA's response to the comments are discussed below, along with an explanation of any material changes made to the proposed regulations. In addition, technical and clarifying changes to language of the proposed regulations have been made in the final regulations. I. General Comments A commenter asserted that some of the proposed regulations, particularly ยง615.5210(e)(2)(ii)(A) through (C) and (E), inject the FCA into the decision making process of the banks and associations as they attempt to develop agreements that will best fit their business needs. The proposed regulations cited by the commenter pertain to the time period of the allocation agreement, the effective date, the prohibition on amendments more often than annually without FCA approval, and the automatic 1-year extension if neither party objects. As is explained in more detail below, the regulatory requirements were proposed primarily for safety and soundness reasons but also provided for the administrative convenience of the System institutions and the FCA. The FCA also attempted to provide a framework that would permit negotiation between banks and associations on an equitable basis. The final regulations contain modifications to the proposed regulations, including certain deletions of provisions pertaining to administrative convenience, to the extent the FCA believes appropriate without compromising safety and soundness and fairness principles. A commenter asserted that the underlying impact of the proposed regulations was to provide greater flexibility to the FCBs in competing with private sector lenders and criticized this as contrary to the public good and inconsistent with the objective of reducing Government's role in the free market. The FCA disagrees. The proposed regulations do not augment the statutory authority of the FCBs. The ``greater flexibility'' in allocating capital is provided by the statute and is not expanded by the regulations. A commenter stated a belief that the intent of the 1992 Act amendment to section 4.3A(a)(1)(B) of the 1971 Act was to require FCBs and associations to enter into allocation agreements. The FCA disagrees that the law mandates allocation agreements and does not believe it is appropriate or feasible to promulgate a regulation forcing nonagreeing associations and FCBs to enter into agreements. In the event that there is no agreement, the allocation formula provides an orderly way of determining which institution will count the allocated investment, or any part of it, as permanent capital. II. Specific Comments Section 615.5201(a)_Definition of ``Allocated Investment'' One commenter requested clarification that allocated earnings ``retained by the bank'' means ``not paid in cash.'' This was the intended meaning of the regulation, consistent with the statutory language. The FCA has added clarifying language in the final regulation.
