FR940314-2-00122 FR940314-2-00065 [Release No. 34&hyph;33722; File No. SR&hyph;ICC&hyph;94&hyph;03] Self-Regulatory Organizations; The Intermarket Clearing Corporation; Filing and Order Granting Temporary Approval on an Accelerated Basis to a Proposed Rule Change Relating to Revisions to the Standards for Letters of Credit Deposited as Margin March 7, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on February 23, 1994, The Intermarket Clearing Corporation (``ICC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I and II below, which Items have been prepared primarily by ICC. The Commission is publishing this notice and order to solicit comments from interested persons and to grant accelerated approval of the proposed rule change through December 31, 1994. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change requests that the Commission extend its temporary approval of ICC's modifications to its rules setting forth the standards for letters of credit deposited with ICC as a form of margin. 2 2 Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 32003 (March 16, 1993), 58 FR 15389 [File No. SR&hyph;ICC&hyph;92&hyph;01] (order approving revised letter of credit standards through December 31, 1994). II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, ICC included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. ICC has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change requests that the Commission extend its temporary approval of ICC's modifications to its rule 502(a)(3), which sets forth the standards for letters of credit deposited with ICC as margin. The modifications which are the subject of this proposed rule filing are the same modifications which were previously approved by the Commission. 3 3 For a detailed discussion of the revised standards, refer to Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 32003, supra note 2. First, ICC intends to require that letters of credit state expressly that payment must be made prior to the close of business on the third banking day following demand. Second, ICC proposes to amend its rules to eliminate the issuer's right to revoke the letter of credit. Third, unless otherwise permitted by ICC, ICC's proposal requires letters of credit to expire on a quarterly basis rather than annually. Fourth, ICC proposes to add language to its rules to make explicit ICC's authority to draw upon a letter of credit at any time, whether or not the clearing member that deposited the letter of credit has been suspended or is in default, if ICC determines that such a draw is advisable to protect ICC, other clearing members, or the general public. Finally, ICC proposes to amend its rules to grant its chairman limited discretion to accept a letter of credit that varies from the standards set forth in its rules. This discretionary power will be limited by the following factors: (1) Before using this power, the chairman must consult with the staffs of ICC's regulatory agencies, which include the Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (``CFTC''); (2) this power can be used only in unusual circumstances and only on a temporary basis; (3) after exercising such power, the chairman must advise ICC's board of directors; and (4) ICC must promptly notify clearing members affected by the exercise of this power. 4 ICC believes the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of section 17A of Act. 5 Specifically, ICC believes the proposed rule change promotes the protection of investors by enhancing ICC's ability to safeguard the securities and funds in its possession or subject to its control. 4 Factors (1) and (2) are set forth in ICC Rule 502(a)(3). Factors (3) and (4) are set forth in the letter from James C. Yong, Vice President and Assistant Secretary, ICC, to Jerry W. Carpenter, Branch Chief, Division of Market Regulation (``Division''), Commission (March 1, 1993), which amended File No. SR&hyph;ICC&hyph;92&hyph;01. ICC has represented that the March 1, 1993, letter with all its requirements for use by ICC's Chairman of his limited discretion to accept a letter of credit that varies from the standards is applicable to this proposed rule filing. Conversation between James C. Yong, Vice President and Assistant Secretary, ICC, to Jerry W. Carpenter, Branch Chief, Division, Commission (March 4, 1994). 5 15 U.S.C. 78q-1
