FR940127-2-00098 FR940127-2-00068 The Commission notes that Lehman Brothers intends to have the Pricing Agent publish the value of the Telecommunications Basket once each business day after 5 p.m. Eastern Standard Time for dissemination to electronic reporting services as well as to newspapers and trade publications. Lehman Brothers asserts that the value of a SUNS does not necessarily correlate with the intra-day price moves related to the underlying component securities, largely as a result of the time value to maturity of the SUNS. As a general matter, the Commission continues to believe that for new derivative products, real-time dissemination of the value of the underlying instrument should be provided to all investors. Nevertheless, the Commission has determined to permit Telecommunications Basket SUNS to trade without real-time dissemination at this time for several reasons. First, a SUNS is not a leveraged product that has its value determined primarily from the underlying securities but rather guarantees recoupment of 100% of the principal amount. Second, factors such as the creditworthiness of the issuer, in addition to price movements in the underlying securities will be relevant in pricing the Telecommunications Basket SUNS. Third, the Telecommunications Basket SUNS should, at least prior to expiration, trade more like a bond or debt security, based on the issuer's ability to perform rather than the value of the Telecommunications Basket. 25 Accordingly, the Commission believes that real-time dissemination of the aggregate market value of the underlying Telecommunications Basket is not necessary at this time but would nevertheless expect Lehman Brothers, along with the Amex, to monitor the product to determine if increased reporting is necessary especially as the product approached maturity. 26 25 Lehman Brothers has agreed to monitor the volatility of the market price of the Global Telecommunications Basket SUNS in relation to the underlying Global Telecommunications Basket and to discuss with the Commission the need to implement more frequent portfolio value dissemination in the event of an increase in intra-day volatility. See January 6 Letter, supra note 6. 26 Notwithstanding the above, the Commission still believes that it is useful and beneficial for all investors and market participants to have access to the value of the portfolio on a real-time basis and encourages the Amex and Lehman Brothers to further explore the possibilities in this area. The Commission realizes that SUNS do not contain a clearinghouse guarantee (as in the case of standardized options), but are instead dependent upon the individual credit of the issuer. 27 This heightens the possibility that a purchaser of Telecommunications Basket SUNS may not be able to receive the promised payment of 100% of the principal upon maturity. To some extent this credit risk is minimized by the Exchange's continued listing standards which require issuers to maintain a minimum aggregate market value of $1 million for its publicly-held shares. 28 In addition, the Exchange's hybrid listing standards further require that Telecommunications Basket SUNS have at least $20 million in market value. 29 In any event, financial information regarding Lehman Brothers, in addition to information on substantially all of the issuers of the underlying securities comprising the Telecommunications Basket, will be publicly available. 30 27 In this case, the issuer of Telecommunications Basket SUNS will be Lehman Brothers. 28 See Amex Company Guide ยง1003(b). 29 See Amex Company Guide ยง107. 30 With the exception of one component (Telekom Malaysia), the securities comprising the Telecommunications Basket are either issued by companies that are reporting companies under the Act or subject to a limited exemption under Rule 12g3&hyph;2(b) of the Act. See Letter from Benjamin Krause, Senior Vice President, Capital Markets Group, Amex, to Richard Zack, Branch Chief, Office of Derivatives Regulation, Division of Market Regulation, Commission, dated October 25, 1993 (``October 25 Letter''). The Commission also has a systemic concern, however, that a broker-dealer, such as Lehman Brothers, or a subsidiary providing a hedge for the issuer will incur position exposure. As discussed in the MITTS Approval Orders, the Commission believes this concern is minimal given the size of Telecommunications Basket SUNS issuance in relation to the net worth of Lehman Brothers. 31 31 See MITTS Approval Orders, supra note 7.
