FR940805-2-00050 FR940805-2-00032 (C) ``Three Palms, Ltd.'' means (1) Three Palms, Ltd, and its predecessors, successors and assigns, subsidiaries, and division, and their respective directors, officers, employees, agents and representatives; and (2) partnerships, joint ventures, groups and affiliates that Three Palms, Ltd., controlled, directly or indirectly, and their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, and representatives. (D) ``Weststar Communications, Inc.'' means (1) Weststar Communications, Inc., and its predecessors, successors ad assigns, subsidiaries, divisions, and their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, and representatives; and (2) partnerships, joint ventures, groups and affiliates that Weststar Communications, Inc., controls, directly or indirectly, and their respective directors, officers, employees, agents and representatives. (E) ``Rodney A. Hansen'' means Rodney A. Hansen, individually, and all partnerships, joint ventures, and corporations that Rodney A. Hansen controls, directly or indirectly, and their respective directors officers, employees, agents, and representatives. (F) ``Respondents'' means Boulder Ridge Cable TV, Inc., Dean Hazen, Weststar Communications, Inc., and Rodney A. Hansen. (G) ``Cable Television Service'' means the delivery to the home of various entertainment and informational programming via a cable television system. (H) ``Cable Television System'' means a facility, consisting of a set of closed transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control equipment that is designed to provide cable television service, which includes video programming and which is provided to multiple subscribers within a community. The term does not include: (a) A facility that service only to retransmit the television signals of one or more television broadcast stations; or (b) a facility that serves only subscribers in one or more multiple dwelling units under common ownership, control, or management, unless such facility or facilities uses a public right-of-way. (I) ``NON&hyph;COMPETITION AGREEMENT'' means the ``NON&hyph;COMPETITION AND NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT'' signed by respondents and Three Palms, Ltd., on November 22, 1988. (J) ``Agreeing not to compete'' means agreeing directly or indirectly not to own, manage, operate, control (or engage or participate in the ownership, management, operation, or control of) a cable television system, subscription television system, multipoint distribution system, direct broadcast system, private operational fixed microwave service, or any similar multi-channel video distribution system or service (or obtaining or holding any authorizations or franchises for any of the foregoing) in competition with another person.
