FR941021-2-00054 FR941021-2-00040 [FRL&hyph;5095&hyph;1; ECAO&hyph;RTP&hyph;0671] Workshop on Particulate Matter Mortality Epidemiological Research agency: Environmental Protection Agency. action: Notice of public meeting. summary: The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is sponsoring a workshop to review selected epidemiology studies of relationships between particulate matter (PM) and mortality among human populations. The Environmental Criteria and Assessment Office (ECAO), within EPA's Office of Research and Development, is conducting the workshop to critically examine the subject studies to determine the extent to which these studies and supporting materials provide an adequate quantitative basis for determining PM exposure characteristics (particle sizes, concentrations, etc.) associated with any increased risk of human mortality/morbidity effects. This workshop is being held as part of the process for reviewing and, as appropriate, revising the EPA document Air Quality Criteria for Particulate Matter, to meet statutory requirements of the Clean Air Act. dates: The workshop will be held November 9 through 11, 1994, from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., at the North Raleigh Hilton, Raleigh, NC. The workshop is open to the public, although seating will be limited and advanced registration is required. Interested parties should contact Ms. Emily Lee, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, ECAO, MD&hyph;52, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711; telephone: 919&hyph;541&hyph;4169; fax 919&hyph;541&hyph;5078. for further information contact: Dr. Allan Marcus, manager for the section of the chapter on epidemiological mortality studies, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, ECAO, MD&hyph;52, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711; telephone 919&hyph;541&hyph;0636. supplemental information: As discussed in a previous call for information (59 FR 17375, April 12, 1994), EPA is undertaking to review and where appropriate, update and revise the document, Air Quality Criteria for Particulate Matter. As part of this process, the scientific literature is reviewed for information that will help form the scientific bases on which decisions can be made with regard to possible revision of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for Particulate Matter (PM) under section 109(d) of the Clean Air Act. This workshop will include presentation and review of methodological aspects and analytical results from newly emerging epidemiology studies that evaluate the potential health effects from PM exposure and are likely to be of much importance in addressing health effects issues in the revised PM criteria document. The 1994 workshop discussions and associated peer-review comments will provide inputs for consideration in the drafting of epidemiology chapter materials to be included in an initial draft of the revised PM criteria document. The epidemiology chapter (and other chapters) of that initial document draft will later undergo review at another experts' workshop to be held in early 1995 (as will be announced in a later Federal Register notice) before release of an external review draft of the document for public review and comment, and review by the Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee (CASAC). Copies of the research studies to be covered at the November 1994 workshop will be made available to the public at the time of the workshop. Members of the public will have an opportunity at the workshop to make brief, oral statements pertinent to the technical evaluation of the epidemiologic studies under review at the workshop. The workshop will not address the issue of possible revision of the current PM NAAQS per se. Interested parties also are invited to assist the EPA in developing and refining the scientific information base for PM by submitting new information on the topics covered at the workshop. To be considered for inclusion in the review process, submitted information should have been published or accepted for publication in a peer-reviewed, scientific journal. Such information should be submitted to Allan Marcus at the address provided. Dated: October 17, 1994. Carl R. Gerber, Acting Assistant Administrator for Research and Development. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26189 Filed 10&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;M
