FR941021-2-00141 FR941021-2-00090 [Release No. 34&hyph;34846; File No. SR&hyph;PTC&hyph;94&hyph;05] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Participants Trust Company; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change Establishing Early Principal and Interest Distribution on Government National Mortgage Association II Securities October 14, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on October 11, 1994, the Participants Trust Company (``PTC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;PTC&hyph;94&hyph;05) as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared primarily by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change will establish early principal and interest (``P&I'') distribution on Government National Mortgage Association (``GNMA'') II securities. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and the Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of the proposed rule change is to extend the program for the early distribution of P&I to GNMA II P&I distributions. Under the proposal, all of the P&I on GNMA II securities will be distributed by PTC to its participants by Fedwire early in the day of distribution rather than by credit to the participants' cash balances payable at end of day settlement. 2 2 PTC's present program for the early distribution of P&I permits the distribution of up to 50% of P&I payable on GNMA I securities by intraday Fedwire transfer of funds on the distribution date, the 15th day of the month, with the balance distributed by credit to the participants' cash balances payable at end of day settlement. PTC intends to continue the intraday distribution of GNMA I P&I as currently constituted subject to its discretion to suspend the program if it is deemed necessary or advisable at any time in the future. Background Before November 1993, PTC's rules and procedures provided that PTC disburse P&I on securities deposited at PTC by means of a credit to the participant's applicable account cash balance. This resulted in the participant's receipt of available funds in the amount of the P&I net of any account debits and/or credits at the end of the day as part of the settlement process. In November 1993, PTC's rules were amended to eliminate the requirement that P&I be disbursed by means of a credit to a participant's cash balance and to permit PTC to make payment of P&I either by intraday Fedwire transfer of immediately available funds or by means of a credit to the applicable cash balance, as PTC deems advisable from time to time. At that time, the Commission required PTC to limit intraday disbursement of P&I to the amount of collected and available P&I payments without recourse to funds available to PTC from other sources for P&I disbursement such as PTC's own funds, the cash portion of the mandatory deposits to the participant's fund, and borrowed funds secured by the P&I receipts. 3 PTC then began a pilot program to distribute up to 50% of the P&I payable with respect to GNMA I securities subject to the requirement that the intraday distribution be made from collected and available GNMA I P&I only. 3 Refer to Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 33132 (November 9, 1993), 58 FR 59501 and 33586 (April 12, 1994), 59 FR 59501. PTC now seeks to expand its intraday P&I disbursement program to permit intraday disbursement of all GNMA II P&I to participants who elect to receive the intraday distribution subject to retaining discretion to suspend the program if it is deemed necessary or advisable in the future. GNMA II P&I Proposal Currently, Chemical Bank as central paying and transfer agent for the GNMA II program credits PTC's account on Chemical Bank's books in the amount of the GNMA II payment. PTC transfers the funds via Fedwire transfer into PTC's account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the GNMA II distribution date. 4 PTC credits the GNMA II P&I to its participants' accounts at PTC on the day of receipt and disburses the payment in same-day funds net of any intraday account debits and credits as part of the end-of-day settlement. PTC does not use its uncommitted line of credit to fund the GNMA II P&I disbursement. 5 Under the proposal, PTC anticipates passing-through all GNMA II P&I upon its receipt from Chemical Bank. This will result in the intraday disbursement of all payable GNMA II P&I by Fedwire transfer at or before approximately 12 noon to all participants who elect to receive it intraday. 4 The GNMA II distribution date is generally the 20th day of the month. If the 19th day of the month is not a business day but the 20th day of the month is a business day, then the distribution date is the first business day after the 20th day of the month. If both the 19th and 20th days of the month are not business days, the first business day thereafter is the distribution date. 5 During the period from January 1994 through August 1994, the amount of the GNMA II monthly P&I has averaged just under $1 billion. The largest monthly P&I amount was in April 1994 in the amount of $1.2 billion, and the lowest monthly P&I amount was in August 1994 in the amount of $800 million. PTC believes that because the proposed rule change facilitates the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions and provides for the safeguarding of securities and funds in PTC's custody or control or for which it is responsible, it is consistent with Section 17A of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to PTC.
