FR940705-2-00016 FR940705-2-00010 9. Applicability. a. Federal standards for high level programming languages are applicable for computer applications and programs that are either developed or acquired for government use. FIPS M is one of the high level programming language standards provided for use by all Federal departments and agencies. FIPS M is suitable for the data processing applications which include but are not limited to: _Those involving the creation and manipulation of string-oriented or text-oriented collections of data; _Those requiring interactive data management. b. The use of FIPS high level programming languages applies when one or more of the following situations exist: _It is anticipated that the life of the program will be longer than the life of the presently utilized equipment. _The application or program is under constant review for updating of the specifications, and changes may result frequently. _The program is to be understood and maintained by programmers other than the original ones. _The advantages of improved program design, debugging, documentation and intelligibility can be obtained through the use of this high level language regardless of interchange potential. _The program is or is likely to be used by organizations outside the Federal Government ( i.e. , State and local governments, and others). _The program is being used for ``cooperative'' processing across multiple processing platforms (e.g., desktops, servers, and mainframes). c. Nonstandard language features should be used only when the needed operation or function cannot reasonably be implemented with the portable features alone. Although nonstandard language features can be very useful, it should be recognized that their use may make the interchange of programs and future conversion to a revised standard or replacement processor more difficult and costly. d. Programmatic requirements also may be more economically and efficiently satisfied by the use of automatic program generators. However, if the final output of a program generator is a M source program, then the resulting program should conform to the conditions and specifications of FIPS M. 10. Specifications. FIPS M (also known as MUMPS [MASSACHUSETTS GENERAL HOSPITAL UTILITY MULTI-PROGRAMMING SYSTEM]) specifications are the language specifications continued in American National Standard for Information System_Programming Language_M (also known as MUMPS, [MASSACHUSETTS GENERAL HOSPITAL UTILITY MULTI-PROGRAMMING SYSTEM]), ANSI/MDC X11.1&hyph;199X. a. The ANSI/MDC X11.1&hyph;199X document specifies the representation, syntax, and semantics for M programs; the representation of input and output data processed by M programs; and the restrictions and limitations imposed by an implementation of M conforming to the ANSI/MDC X11.1&hyph;199X standard. b. The standard does not specify: _The mechanisms by which M programs are transformed or invoked for use by a data processing system; _The mechanisms by which input data are transformed for use by a M program or output data are transformed after being produced by a M program; _The limits on program size or complexity except when and where applicable to an application as specified in Part 2: M Portability Requirements of ANSI/MDC X11.1&hyph;199X; _The results when the rules of the standard fail to establish an interpretation; _The minimal requirements of a data processing system that is capable of supporting a conforming implementation. 11. Implementation. The implementation of FIPS M involves four areas of consideration: the effective date, acquisition of M processors, interpretation of FIPS M, and validation of processors. 1.1␣Effective Date. This revised standard becomes effective six (6) months after the publication in the Federal Register announcing approval by the Secretary of Commerce. M Processors acquired for Federal use after this date should conform to FIPS PUB 125&hyph;2. A transition period provides time for industry to produce M language processors conforming to the standard. The transition period begins on the effective date and continues for 90 days thereafter. The provisions of FIPS PUB 125&hyph;2 apply to orders placed after the effective date of this publication. If, during the transition period, a processor conforming to FIPS PUB 125&hyph;2 is not available, a processor conforming to FIPS PUB 125&hyph;1 may be acquired for interim use during the transition period. This transition period is intended to give implementations time to make the enhancements necessary to enable conformance to FIPS PUB 125&hyph;2. No further transitional period is necessary. 11.2␣Acquisition of M Processors. Conformance of FIPS M should be considered whether M processors are developed internally, acquired as part of an ADP system procurement, acquired by separate procurement, used under an ADP leasing arrangement, or specified for use in contracts for programming services. Recommended terminology for procurement of FIPS M is contained in the U.S. General Services Administration publication Federal ADP & Telecommunications Standards Index, Chapter 4 Part 1.
