FR940128-2-00098 FR940128-2-00064 [FRL&hyph;4831&hyph;1] Environmental Leadership Program: Update EPA announces the next steps in the development of the Environmental Leadership Program (ELP). After reviewing many possible options, the Agency has decided to proceed with pilot projects to test the feasibility of a voluntary program to recognize industrial facilities. The pilots will explore ways to encourage facilities to develop innovative audit and compliance programs and to reduce the risk of non-compliance through pollution prevention practices. The wide variety of public comments on the original ELP proposal (published in the Federal Register on January 15, 1993) clearly indicated an interest in a program to recognize and encourage ``environmental excellence.'' While no true consensus emerged on the best structure or goals for the program, several themes were common to the majority of the comments: •EPA should encourage companies and facilities of all sizes and from all industries to participate in the program. •EPA should focus its program on individual facilities rather than on entire corporations. •Any EPA-developed statement of environmental principles would duplicate existing private-sector efforts and would be difficult to enforce. In response to these comments, EPA has decided to continue developing a voluntary, facility-based program. The Agency will develop pilot projects with specific industries and states to evaluate the many unresolved issues raised during the comment period. These include a possible multiple-tier structure to encourage broad participation, determining the role of compliance, self-reporting of violations, public accountability, the role of incentives in encouraging companies to exceed minimum requirements, and how pollution prevention practices can help facilities reduce or avoid the risk of non-compliance. EPA Deputy Administrator Bob Sussman and Steve Herman, the Assistant Administrator for the Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance (OECA) have been asked to coordinate this effort. The Agency will provide more information on the process for selecting pilot participants and on the development of test projects in the early spring of 1994. The Office of Compliance within OECA will be responsible for this process. Please call Mike Schiavo at (202) 260&hyph;2824 for more information. Also in response to the comments, the Agency has concluded that it will not issue its own guidelines for corporate environmental principles, but rather work cooperatively with the many other organizations that have developed corporate and industry-wide codes of environmental conduct. The Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics will take responsibility for representing the Agency in this area, and for ensuring the involvement of other EPA offices where appropriate. Please call David Kling at (202) 260&hyph;3557 for more information. EPA thanks all of those who have expressed an interest in the ELP concept and looks forward to making this program an exciting and effective approach to pollution prevention and compliance. Dated: January 14, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1953 Filed 1&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
