FR941110-2-00033 FR941110-2-00009 NSK further argues that the Department's request for a sale-by-sale listing of home-market sales was made in the context of a cost investigation, and came two years after the submission of the original home-market sales listing. Finally, NSK argues that to the extent that NSK responses may have been deficient, the omissions were minor and not intended to impede the reviews, and first-tier BIA should not be applied. Department's Position: We agree with NSK that the Department verified the general completeness of NSK's reported home-market sales listing. We also agree with NSK that the Department's request for a sale-by-sale listing of home-market sales was pursuant to a cost investigation. However, as NSK has conceded both in its rebuttal brief and at the hearing, NSK never responded to our July 1, 1988, request for a complete home-market sales listing. This failure to report a sale-by-sale listing has major implications with respect to the cost test and the model match. By selectively reporting home-market sales, NSK could have arguably contrived a result where U.S. models would be matched with low-cost, low-price ``similar'' models. Therefore, while we appreciate NSK's candor in admitting that it never provided the complete sales listing, we cannot ignore the fact that the cost test and model match were compromised. We note that this conclusion applies only to U.S. models which do not have ``identical'' matches in the home market. Throughout the TRB reviews, all parties have operated on the premise that bearings with identical nomenclature ( i.e. , product or identification number) are identical in all physical aspects. Thus, models with identical nomenclature will in every instance be matched to each other, and NSK's incomplete sales listing does not compromise such a comparison. Therefore, for these final results of review, we have relied on BIA for sales of U.S. models for which NSK did not make sales of identical merchandise in the home market. Where identical bearings were sold in both markets, we have used NSK's reported data. With respect to the choice of BIA, we note that, throughout the many delays that have arisen in the course of the 1980/86 reviews, NSK has generally been a cooperative respondent. Accordingly, for those U.S. sales where no identical matches are possible, we have relied on a second-tier BIA rate, which is the highest margin for NSK from any preceding review period. Comment 36: NSK takes issue with the Department's application of BIA for U.S. sales lacking VCOM information. NSK contends that its COM records are tied to the year of production, rather than the year of sale and, therefore, the Department should use cost data from another year within the 1980/86 PORs for any U.S. sale lacking difmer cost data.
