FR940412-2-00019 FR940412-2-00010 [Docket No.: 940365&hyph;4065] Termination of Selected National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program (NVLAP) Services AGENCY: National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Commerce. ACTION: Notice to terminate specific programs within the National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program (NVLAP). SUMMARY: Under the NVLAP Procedures (15 CFR part 7), the Director of NIST may terminate a field of testing or a LAP when the Director NIST determines that a need no longer exists to accredit laboratories for the services covered under the scope of a LAP. The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) requests comments on proposed termination of selected fields of testing in the Computer/Electronics and Product Testing Laboratory Accreditation Programs offered by NVLAP, and announces a 60 day comment period for that purpose. The fields of testing proposed for termination are High Level Protocols, DDN X.25/Blacker Host, Plastics, Seals and Sealants, and Solid Fuel Room Heaters. A review of all NVLAP programs revealed that these particular fields of testing had very small and/or declining laboratory enrollments which makes their continuance impractical. NVLAP operates solely on a fee reimbursable basis and it was determined that fees from laboratories in these fields of testing could not support the costs required to maintain the programs. After a comment period, the Director of NIST shall determine if public support exists for the continuation of the fields of testing. If public comments support the continuation of the fields of testing, the Director of NIST shall publish a Federal Register Notice announcing their continuation. If public support does not exist for continuation, the fields of testing will be terminated effective 90 days after the date of this notice of intent to terminate the fields of testing. Persons interested in commenting on the proposed terminations should submit their comments in writing to the address below. All comments received in response to this notice will become part of the public record and will be available for inspection and copying at the NIST Records Inspection Facility. DATES: Comments on the proposed terminations must be received no later than June 13, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments on the proposed terminations must be submitted to: Albert D. Tholen, Chief, National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Building 411, room A162, Gaithersburg, MD 20899, telephone number (301) 975&hyph;4016. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Albert D. Tholen, Chief, National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program, (301) 975&hyph;4016. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The National Institute of Standards and Technology administers the National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program under regulations as found in part 7 of title 15 of the Code of Federal Regulations. NVLAP provides an unbiased third party evaluation and recognition of laboratory performance, as well as expert technical assistance to upgrade that performance by accrediting calibration and testing laboratories found competent to perform specific tests or calibrations. NVLAP accreditation is available to commercial laboratories, manufacturer's in-house laboratories, and federal, state and local government laboratories. Foreign-based laboratories may also be accredited if they meet the same requirements as domestic laboratories. NVLAP is comprised of a series of Laboratory Accreditation Programs (LAPS) which are established on the basis of requests and demonstrated need. Each LAP includes specific test and/or calibration standards and related methods and protocols assembled to satisfy the unique needs for accreditation in a field of testing, field of calibration, product of service. Dated: April 4, 1994. Samuel Kramer, Associate Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8689 Filed 4&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;13&hyph;M
