FR941121-2-00094 FR941121-2-00079 [Release No. 34&hyph;34970; File No. SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;94&hyph;23] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change and Amendment No. 1 Thereto by the Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to Short Sales of Nasdaq/NM Securities of Companies Involved in Mergers or Acquisitions November 14, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on August 18, 1994, the Pacific Stock Exchange (``PSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. On October 14, 1994, the Exchange filed Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change. 2 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1). 2 In Amendment No. 1, the PSE adds the requirement that the merger or acquisition must be ``publicly announced'' to qualify as an exempt hedge transaction in an ``M&A'' security. See letter from Michael D. Pierson, Senior Attorney, Market Regulation, PSE, to Francois Mazur, Attorney, Office of Market Supervision, Commission, dated October 13, 1994 (``Amendment No. 1''). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The PSE proposes to amend its Rule 4.19 concerning the designation of certain short sales of Nasdaq National Market securities (``NM securities'') by market makers as exempt from the NASD's bid test rule. 3 3 See NASD Manual, Rules of Fair Practice, Article III, Section 48 (``NASD Rules''). II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places qualified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of the proposed rule change is to permit PSE options market makers to designate as bid test exempt under PSE Rule 4.19 certain short sales of the stock of a company that is involved in a merger or acquisition with the issuer of a stock underlying an option that has been designated as a ``designated Nasdaq/NM security'' pursuant to PSE Rule 4.19(c)(2)(B)(ii). To qualify as bid test exempt under this proposal, the short sales of the company stock involved in the merger or acquisition must serve to hedge a position in an option overlying the designated NM security, where the option position was or will be established in the course of bona fide market making activity. This proposal recognizes that when a designated NM security becomes involved in a merger or acquisition, PSE market makers may need to hedge positions in options on the designated NM security by buying or selling shares of stock of the other company involved in the merger or acquisition, whether or not the other company's stock has listed overlying options, Indeed, where there are no options on that stock, buying or selling the stock itself may at times be the only feasible way for a market maker to hedge positions in options on the designated NM security, given the risk arbitrage relationship that is likely to exist between the two stocks. The proposed rule change will facilitate hedging by options market makers in this circumstance by allowing them to sell short shares of the ``other'' company involved in the merger for hedging purposes, and to designate those short sales as bid test exempt. The PSE believes that its proposal will enhance the ability of PSE market makers to perform their market making functions, thereby contributing to the liquidity of the market for options, as well as the market for the stocks of both companies. This proposed rule change, like the current Rule 4.19, 4 is intended to operate in coordination with an exemption from the bid test provided for in the NASD Rules. 4 See File No. SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;94&hyph;16 (pending). The PSE believes that because the proposed rule change will enhance the ability of market makers to perform their market making activities, thereby contributing to the depth and liquidity of the options market, it will serve in furtherance of the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) of the Act to promote just and equitable principles of trade and to protect investors and promote the public interest.
