FR940628-0-00052 FR940628-0-00017 ( 1 ) The fiscal year loan type recovery rate within such school sectors as the Secretary may designate for the agency, and for all agencies. ( 2 ) The fiscal year loan type recovery rate for loans for the agency and for all agencies categorized by age of the loans as the Secretary may determine. ( 3 ) The performance of the agency, and all agencies, in default aversion. ( 4 ) The agency's performance on judgment enforcement. ( 5 ) The existence and use of any state or guaranty agency-specific collection tools. ( 6 ) The agency's level of compliance with §§682.409 and 682.410(b)(6). ( 7 ) Other factors that may affect loan repayment such as State or regional unemployment and natural disasters. (ii) Denial of an agency's petition . If the Secretary does not accept the agency's petition, the Secretary provides, in writing, to the agency the Secretary's reasons for concluding that the Federal fiscal interest is best protected by requiring the assignment. * * * * * (c)(1) A guaranty agency must assign a loan to the Secretary under this section at the time, in the manner, and with the information and documentation that the Secretary requires. The agency must submit this information and documentation in the form (including magnetic media) and format specified by the Secretary. * * * * * (6) The Secretary may accept the assignment of a loan without all of the documents listed in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. If directed to do so, the agency must retain these documents for submission to the Secretary at some future date. * * * * * 20. Section 682.410 is amended by revising paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2); and adding paragraphs (a)(6), (a)(7), and (a)(8) to read as follows: §682.410 Fiscal, administrative, and enforcement requirements. (a) *␣*␣* (1) Reserve fund assets . The guaranty agency must establish and maintain a reserve fund to be used solely for the FFEL Program to which the guaranty agency must credit_ (i) The total amount of insurance premiums collected; (ii) Funds appropriated by a State for the agency's loan guaranty program, including matching funds under section 422(a) of the Act; (iii) Federal advances obtained under sections 422(a) and (c) of the Act; (iv) Federal payments for default, bankruptcy, death and disability, closed schools and false certification claims; (v) Supplemental preclaims assistance payments; (vi) Administrative cost allowance payments received under §682.407; (vii) Funds collected by the guaranty agency on FFELP loans for which the guaranty agency has paid claims; (viii) Investment earnings on the reserve fund; and (ix) Funds received by the guaranty agency from any other source for the agency's loan guaranty program. (2) Uses of reserve fund assets . A guaranty agency may only use the assets of the reserve fund established under paragraph (a)(1) of this section to pay_ (i) Insurance claims; (ii) Operating costs, including payments necessary in administering loan collections, preclaims assistance, monitoring enrollment and repayment status and any other loan guaranty activities under this part; (iii) Lenders that participate in a loan referral service under section 428(e) of the Act; (iv) The Secretary's equitable share of collections; (v) Federal advances and other funds owed to the Secretary; (vi) Reinsurance fees; (vii) Insurance premiums related to cancelled loans; and (viii) Any other amounts authorized or directed by the Secretary. * * * * * (6) Minimum reserve fund level . The guaranty agency must maintain a current minimum reserve level of not less than_ (i) .5 percent of the amount of loans outstanding, for the fiscal year of the agency that begins in calendar year 1993; (ii) .7 percent of the amount of loans outstanding, for the fiscal year that begins in calendar year 1994; (iii) .9 percent of the amount of loans outstanding, for the fiscal year of the agency that begins in calendar year 1995; and (iv) 1.1 percent of the amount of loans outstanding, for each fiscal year of the agency that begins on or after January 1, 1996. (7) For purposes of this section, reserve fund level means_ (i) The total of the reserve fund assets as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, minus (ii) The total of the amount of the reserve fund assets used in accordance with paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section. (8) For purposes of this section, amount of loans outstanding means_ (i) The sum of_ (A) The original principal amount of all loans guaranteed by the agency; and (B) The original principal amount of any loans on which the guarantee was transferred to the agency from another guarantor, excluding loan guarantees transferred to another agency pursuant to a plan of the Secretary in response to the insolvency of the agency; (ii) Minus the original principal amount of all loans on which_ (A) The loan guarantee was cancelled; (B) The loan guarantee was transferred to another agency; (C) Payment in full has been made by the borrower; (D) Reinsurance coverage has been lost and cannot be regained; and (E) The agency paid claims. * * * * * 21. Section 682.414 is amended by revising paragraph (a)(3)(iii) and adding a new paragraph (a)(3)(iv) to read as follows: §682.414 Records, reports, and inspection requirements for guaranty agency programs. (a) *␣*␣* (3) *␣*␣* (iii) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section, a lender shall retain the records required for each loan for not less than five years following the date the loan is repaid in full by the borrower or the lender is reimbursed on a claim. However, in particular cases, the Secretary or the guaranty agency may require the retention of records beyond this minimum period. (iv) A lender shall retain a copy of the audit report for not less than five years after the report is issued. * * * * *
