FR940106-2-00050 FR940106-2-00031 Mr. Brancato's claim is completely unsubstantiated. The April 13, 1989, plea agreement represents the complete and final embodiment of Mr. Brancato's and the government's intention; the agreement explicitly states that ``[t]here are no other agreements, promises, undertakings or understandings between Mr. Brancato and this Office.'' Contrary to Mr. Brancato's ``assumption,'' the terms of the plea agreement do not preclude subsequent civil or administrative actions, including debarment. The terms bar only subsequent criminal action. Because the plea agreement is the complete and final expression of the compromise between Mr. Brancato and the government, and because the agreement does not preclude debarment, Mr. Brancato's claim fails to raise a genuine and substantial issue of fact. F. Debarment of Mr. Brancato Is Not Prohibited by the Ex Post Facto Clause In his final argument, Mr. Brancato states, ``individuals who cooperate with the government should not be subject to sanctions of this kind ex post facto .'' Mr. Brancato fails to support this statement with an explanation or case citation. Although it is unclear from this statement what point Mr. Brancato is attempting to make, two separate arguments may be implied: That his cooperation exempts him from the debarment provisions, and that his debarment violates the ex post facto clause of the United States Constitution. Both arguments are discussed individually below. As discussed above, the mandatory debarment provisions, not the permissive debarment provisions, apply in this case. Cooperation with the government may not be considered in the decision to initiate mandatory debarment proceedings. (Cooperation may, however, be considered in determining whether to grant special early termination of debarment, under section 306(d)(4)(C) of the act, to individuals and as evidence of mitigation, in determining appropriateness and period of permissive debarment.) Because Mr. Brancato's cooperation is immaterial here, his claim fails to raise a genuine and substantial issue of fact. Mr. Brancato further suggests that the ex post facto clause of the U.S. Constitution prohibits application of section 306(a)(2) of the act to him because this section was not in effect at the time of Mr. Brancato's criminal conduct. Section 306(a)(2) of the act was enacted on May 13, 1992. The conduct underlying Mr. Brancato's conviction occurred in 1987, and his conviction occurred in 1990. An ex post facto law is one which punishes acts occurring prior to enactment of the law, or which adds a new punishment to one that was in effect when the crime was committed. ( Ex Parte Garland, 4 Wall. 333, 377, 18 L. Ed. 366 (1866). Collins v. Youngblood, 110 S.Ct. 2715 (1990).) Retroactive application of a law to serve a remedial purpose does not violate the ex post facto clause. Because debarment is intended as a remedy, rather than a punishment, retroactive application of the mandatory debarment provisions of the act is not prohibited by the ex post facto clause. Debarment was clearly intended to be remedial. Congress created the Generic Drug Enforcement Act of 1992 (GDEA) in response to findings of fraud and corruption in the generic drug industry. Both the language of the GDEA itself and its legislative history reveal that the purpose of the debarment provisions is remedial: ``to restore and ensure the integrity of the ANDA approval process and to protect the public health'' (see section 1, Pub. L. 102&hyph;282, (GDEA)). A statement by Senator Hatch supports the remedial character of debarment as follows: ``*␣*␣* [t]he legislation *␣*␣* provides a much-needed remedy for the blatant fraud and corruption uncovered in the generic drug industry *␣*␣* during the last 3 years.'' (Emphasis added.) (See Congressional Record, April 10, 1992, at S 5616.) It is well established by the Supreme Court that statutes which deny future privileges to convicted offenders because of their previous criminal activities in order to ensure against corruption in specified areas do not impose penalties for past conduct and, therefore, do not violate the ex post facto prohibitions (see, e.g., Hawker v. New York, 170 U.S. 189, 190 (1898) (physician barred from practicing medicine for a prior felony conviction); DeVeau v. Braisted, 373 U.S. 154 (1960)). In DeVeau, the Court upheld a law that prohibited a convicted felon from employment as an officer in a waterfront union. The purpose of the law was to remedy the past corruption and to ensure against future corruption in the waterfront unions. The Court in DeVeau, 363 U.S. at 160, stated: The question in each case where unpleasant consequences are brought to bear upon an individual for prior conduct, is whether the legislative aim was to punish that individual for past activity, or whether the restriction of the individual comes about as a relevant incident to a regulation of a present situation, such as the proper qualifications for a profession *␣*␣*. As in DeVeau, the legislative purpose of the relevant statute is to ensure that fraud and corruption are eliminated from the generic drug industry. The restrictions placed on individuals convicted of a felony under Federal law are not intended as punishment but are ``incident to a regulation of a present situation'' ( DeVeau, 363 U.S. at 160) and are necessary in order to remedy the past fraud and corruption in the industry. The legislative history is replete with statements that the GDEA provides the reasonable means needed to eliminate the widespread corruption in the generic drug industry and to restore consumer confidence in generic drugs. Because debarment is a remedial action, rather than one intended to punish, debarment does not violate the ex post facto clause and Mr. Brancato's claim fails to raise a genuine and substantial issue of fact. In conclusion, Mr. Brancato has raised no genuine and substantial issue of fact regarding his conviction. He acknowledges his conviction as alleged by FDA in the agency proposal to debar him. In addition, Mr. Brancato's legal arguments do not create a basis for a hearing and, in any event, are unpersuasive. Accordingly, the Deputy Commissioner for Operations denies Mr. Brancato's request for a hearing.
