FR941128-1-00010 FR941128-1-00001 (b) Eligible entities shall submit an original and two (2) copies of a proposal to the appropriate SBA district office covering the state or portion of a state (when there is more than one SBDC located in a state) in which the applicant proposes to continue to provide service. (c) The proposal format shall correspond to the annual SBDC Program Announcement. (d) The applicant should make every effort to ensure an application is complete when filed. Authorized SBA officials may request that the applicant amend an application. (e) A timetable for appropriate SBA review will be included as a part of the annual Program Announcement. (f) A proposal shall be reviewed by the SBA Project Officer in the SBA district office. (g) Upon written recommendation for approval by the SBA District Director, the proposal shall be submitted through appropriate SBA channels to the AA/SBDCs for review. Project Officers may request further information to ensure the proposal conforms to all administrative, budgetary and programmatic requirements of the Program Announcement. (h) The Office of SBDCs Grants Management Specialist shall negotiate and determine that all dollars committed are reasonable, allowable and allocable, to assure conformity of the application with applicable statutory, financial, and regulatory requirements, and OMB Circulars. The Grants Management Specialist may request additional information or amendments to the application prior to issuing the Cooperative Agreement. (i) At any time, an applicant or recipient organization may file an amendment for the SBA's review and approval. An amendment shall be signed by the official of the applicant or recipient organization authorized to do so on the original application. Amendments must be reviewed and incorporated into the Cooperative Agreement by the Central Office Grants Management Specialist before they may take effect. ยง130.430 Application decisions. (a) The AA/SBDCs or his or her designee may approve, conditionally approve, or reject any application or amendment to an application. If the application or amendment is rejected, the AA/SBDCs shall communicate the reasons for rejection simultaneously to the applicant and any appropriate SBA field office. If the approval is conditional, the conditions shall be set forth in the Cooperative Agreement. Upon approval or conditional approval, a Cooperative Agreement may be issued by the Grants Management Specialist. (b) In considering the application, significant factors shall include: (1) The ability of the applicant to contribute Matching Funds; and (2) For applicants who have been previously funded, the quality of their performance in the previous Budget period. (c) In the event of a conditional approval, SBA reserves the right to conditionally fund a recipient organization for one or more specified periods of time up to a maximum of one Budget period in order to provide the recipient organization with time to resolve the conditions set forth in the conditional approval. When the SBA conditionally funds a recipient organization, the specific conditions and applicable remedies which must be addressed will be set forth as special terms and conditions in the Cooperative Agreement. In the event the recipient organization fails to resolve such conditions to SBA's satisfaction within the time period provided by SBA, SBA has the right to determine not to continue to fund the SBDC, subject to the provisions of ยง130.700(a). ยง130.440 Maximum amount of grant. No recipient of funds shall receive an SBDC grant which would exceed the greater of: (a) The minimum statutory amount, or (b) Its pro rata share of all SBDC grants as determined by the statutory formula set forth in section 21(a)(4) of the Small Business Act. ยง130.450 Matching Funds. (a) As a condition of any Cooperative Agreement or amendment or modification thereof, the recipient organization must provide total Matching Funds equal to the total amount of the SBA funding and all amendments or modifications thereof. (b) All sources of Matching Funds must be identified as specifically as possible. In the case of cash, sources shall be identified by name and account number in the budget proposal and shall be certified by an authorized official of the recipient organization or by any sponsoring SBDC organization providing a Cash Match through a sub-contract agreement. The account containing such cash must be under the direct management of the SBDC Director, or, if provided by a sponsoring SBDC organization, by its SBDC employee. If the State is providing such cash, and if the State appropriation cycle permits, the recipient organization must verify that sufficient funds will be available prior to the use of Federal dollars. (c) The Grants Management Specialist is responsible for determining Matching Funds or Cash Match meet the requirements of the statute and appropriate OMB circulars. (d) Overmatched amounts. (1) SBDCs are encouraged to furnish Overmatched Amounts. (2) Once approved as part of the budget, any Overmatched Amount can be applied to any additional Matching Funds requirements that would be necessary in the case of a supplemental funding increase received by the SBDC during the budget period, as long as the total Cash Match being provided by the SBDC remains at 50% or more of the total SBA funds provided during the budget period. (3) If used in the manner described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, such Overmatched Amount is reclassified as committed Matching Funds. (4) Allowable Overmatched Amounts which have not been used in the manner described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section may, with the approval of the AA/SBDCs, be used as a credit to offset any confirmed audit disallowances applicable to the Budget period in which the Overmatched Amount exists. Offsetting funds shall be considered to be used as Matching Funds and are not again allowable as Matching Funds for past or future Budget periods.
