FR940407-1-00049 FR940407-1-00012 b. Capital Asset Pricing Model. The conceptual basis of the CAPM is that investors hold diversified portfolios consisting of individual common stocks to minimize risk. Diversification reduces the risk of the portfolio because individual common stock rates of return 32 are not perfectly correlated. The rate of return on some common stocks tends to be high while on others it tends to be low so that the average risk or variability of the return of the portfolio is less than the average risk of the returns of the common stocks contained in that portfolio. Diversification does not completely eliminate risk, however, since individual common stock returns are correlated to a certain degree due to the influence of pervasive forces not specific to a particular security that affect the overall market. 32 The annual rate of return on a common stock is the sum of two components: (1) The annual dividend yield, which is annual dividend income divided by the price of the common stock at the beginning of a given year; and (2) the annual capital appreciation or depreciation, which is the annual increase or decrease in the price of the common stock, divided by the price at the beginning of the given year. The total risk of a common stock is partitioned into two components: (1) The ``specific'' or ``unsystematic'' risk unique to a company that can be diversified away in a well-constructed portfolio, and (2) the ``market'' or ``systematic'' risk that cannot be diversified away. The core idea of the CAPM is that because investors can diversify away company-specific risk, they should not be rewarded for bearing this superfluous risk. Diversified risk-averse investors are exposed solely to market risk and are, therefore, rewarded with higher expected returns for bearing higher market risk. The CAPM provides a measure of market risk, known as ``beta,'' which gauges the degree to which an individual common stock's return moves with the overall market's return. Specifically, the common stock's historical returns are compared with the overall market's historical returns (commonly measured as the returns on a broad market index such as the Standard and Poor's 500). A common stock is considered to be of above average risk if the stock's return is more volatile than that of the market, 33 and of below average risk if the stock's return is less volatile than that of the market. 34 ``Beta'' is used in the CAPM model to adjust the market premium expected by investors in comparison to debt for the riskiness of an individual common stock. 33 The ``beta'' for such an above-average risk common stock is greater than one. 34 The ``beta'' for such a below-average risk common stock is less than one. The CAPM holds that the return on a common stock expected by an investor is equivalent to that which could be earned on a riskless investment, plus a premium for assuming risk that is proportional to the common stock's market risk (i.e., ``beta''), and the market price of risk (i.e., the difference between the overall expected stock market return and the expected return on a risk-free investment). The CAPM is represented algebraically as follows: K e =R f +B(R m ^R f ) where: K e is the expected return on the regulated firm's common stock (i.e., its cost of common-stock equity capital; R f is the expected risk-free return; B is the relevant expected market risk ``beta'' of the regulated firm's common stock; and R m is the expected overall stock market return. To illustrate the CAPM, assume that a hypothetical regulated company's expected ``beta'' is .95, the expected risk-free rate is 7 percent, and the expected overall stock market return is 12 percent. The company's cost of common-stock equity capital is: K e =.07+.95(.12^.07) =.07+.0475 =.1175 or 11.75 percent. i. Practical Issues. The practical application of the CAPM requires estimates of the expected ``beta'' of the regulated firm, the expected risk-free rate, and the expected return on the stock market. Each of these inputs is discussed in turn. (a) Risk-Free Rate. The yield on a 90-day Treasury Bill is theoretically risk-free. It is devoid of default risk and is subject to little interest rate risk. Treasury Bill rates vary widely, however, resulting in volatile and unreliable common-stock equity return estimates. In addition, 90-day Treasury Bill rates generally do not match investors' planning horizons, which typically are far in excess of 90 days. Short-term government obligations may also reflect the impact of factors (e.g., inflation) differently than long-term securities such as common stocks, or may reflect different factors than those influencing the long term securities. Long-term Treasury bonds (e.g., 30-year bonds) may more closely approximate investors' planning horizons, and their yields usually match more closely with common stock returns. The yields on long-term bonds are subject to substantial interest rate risk, however, and so are not truly risk-free. A compromise is to use the yields on Treasury securities of intermediate maturities as proxies for the risk-free rate. Accordingly, the Commission's proposed rule implements the CAPM using a six-month average of five-year Treasury Note yields.
