FR941216-2-00055 FR941216-2-00036 TGC states that the operating pressures of the lines range from 25 psig to 950 psig. It is stated that, where the operating pressures tend toward the higher range, such pressures are necessary to enable the gas to enter Transwestern's transmission system. TGC states that the operating pressures of the segments being transferred by Transwestern are consistent with the operating pressures of other systems which the Commission has found to be gathering. Once the facilities are transferred by Transwestern, TGC submits that they will be owned and operated by an entity engaged in the gathering of natural gas as a business. TGC states that it will be competing with other similar entities in the Kansas, Oklahoma, Texas and New Mexico production areas. While each of the Farmland criteria need not be met for each of the facilities to be found gathering, TGC argues that it has demonstrated that, on the whole, the primary function test has been met with regard to the facilities to be transferred by Transwestern. As a result, TGC submits that the Commission should disclaim jurisdiction over the facilities and find that they perform a gathering function under Section 1(b) of the NGA. Comment date: December 29, 1995, in accordance with thie first paragraph of Standard Paragraph F at the end of this notice. Standard Paragraphs F. Any person desiring to be heard or to make any protest with reference to said application should on or before the comment date, file with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Washington, D.C. 20426, a motion to intervene or a protest in accordance with the requirements of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure (18 CFR 385.214 or 385.211) and the Regulations under the Natural Gas Act (18 CFR 157.10). All protests filed with the Commission will be considered by it in determining the appropriate action to be taken but will not serve to make the protestants parties to the proceeding. Any person wishing to become a party to a proceeding or to participate as a party in any hearing therein must file a motion to intervene in accordance with the Commission's Rules. Take further notice that, pursuant to the authority contained in and subject to the jurisdiction conferred upon the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission by Sections 7 and 15 of the Natural Gas Act and the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, a hearing will be held without further notice before the Commission or its designee on this application if no motion to intervene is filed within the time required herein, if the Commission on its own review of the matter finds that a grant of the certificate and/or permission and approval for the proposed abandonment are required by the public convenience and necessity. If a motion for leave to intervene is timely filed, or if the Commission on its own motion believes that a formal hearing is required, further notice of such hearing will be duly given. Under the procedure herein provided for, unless otherwise advised, it will be unnecessary for applicant to appear or be represented at the hearing. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30923 Filed 12&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;P
