FR941230-2-00026 FR941230-2-00020 [FRL&hyph;5129&hyph;3] Draft Soil Screening Guidance AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Notice of availability with request for comment on Draft Soil Screening Guidance. SUMMARY: The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has developed and is requesting public comment on a draft Soil Screening Guidance. This guidance presents a framework for developing soil screening levels (SSLs), including simple equations and generic levels. The guidance, when finalized, will serve as a tool to expedite the evaluation of contaminated soils at sites addressed under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), commonly known as Superfund. While the guidance is intended to be used as a screening tool to determine if further study is warranted at a site, it is not intended to have the force of a regulation and does not represent cleanup standards for a site. The Draft Soil Screening Guidance, on which EPA seeks comment, is presented in a Fact Sheet and supported by the Technical Background Document, which presents the technical foundation for calculation of the SSLs. Along with these EPA is providing an Issues Document which reviews comments that have been made in outreach discussions of the Soil Screening Guidance. These three documents are available from the National Technical Information Service at the addresses listed below. Additional supporting information, including summaries of previous outreach activities, is available for inspection in the Superfund Docket at the address listed below. EPA is also conducting formal peer review of the draft Soil Screening Guidance, concurrently with public review. The guidance is a draft for review only and should not be used until it is finalized, following public comment and peer review. We take this measure to avoid misuse of ``draft'' numbers until further consideration of technical and policy issues that may be raised during the comment period. For the same reason this draft is not intended to be utilized at this time at facilities where remedial activities are being undertaken pursuant to RCRA corrective action authorities. As described in the Issues Document, EPA is considering the value or impact of the guidance in other phases of Superfund cleanup, and in other Agency or State programs. The Issues Document accompanying the draft guidance contains a brief discussion of the potential uses of the Soil Screening Guidance both inside and outside of Superfund. EPA has conducted a number of outreach activities during the development of this guidance, including a public, informational meeting held on December 1, 1994. DATES: Comments received by March 1, 1995, will be considered. Comments received after that date will be considered to the extent feasible; however, EPA will not delay finalizing the guidance in order to accommodate late comments.
