FR940203-2-00111 FR940203-2-00068 (5) ``Skill certificate''. The definition of the term ``Skill certificate'' has been revised to clarify that the term is intended to refer to a portable, industry-recognized credential, that certifies that a student has mastered skills that are benchmarked to high-quality standards. In addition, under the revised definition, prior to the development of skill standards under the proposed Goals 2000: Educate America Act, States are required to develop skill standards under a process described in their plan. Those standards also must be benchmarked to high-quality standards. (6) ``Workplace mentor''. The definition of the term ``Workplace mentor'' has been revised to clarify that a workplace mentor may be either an employee at the workplace in which work-based learning is being provided, or another individual approved by the employer. This revision makes clear that individuals such as special educators, vocational rehabilitation counselors, job coaches, and work-study coordinators, may serve as workplace mentors for all students, including, in particular, students with disabilities. In addition, the definition has been revised to require workplace mentors to possess both the skills and knowledge to be mastered by the student whom they are mentoring in the workplace. (b) Absolute Priority (1) Collaboration with appropriate officials (Paragraph (b)(2)). The priority has been revised to require collaboration with the State educational agency rather than the chief State school officer in the implementation of School-to-Work Opportunities systems. The Secretaries have made this change in order to be consistent with both the House and Senate bills. A corresponding change has been made to paragraph (b)(1) of the selection criterion ``Collaboration and Involvement by Key Partners.'' (2) Active and continued involvement of interested parties (paragraph (b)(3)). The priority has been revised to include a reference to ``related services personnel'' following the reference to teachers, in the illustrative list of interested parties whose active and continued involvement in States' School-to-Work Opportunities systems may be obtained by States. In addition, in the interest of consistency with the proposed School-to-Work Opportunities legislation that is expected to govern future funding of State School-to-Work Opportunities systems and in response to comments, the Secretaries have added human services agencies, language minority communities, Private Industry Councils established under the Job Training Partnership Act, vocational student organizations, and State or regional cooperative education associations, to the illustrative list of interested parties. (3) Coordination of the use of funds (paragraph (b)(4)). The priority has been revised to include the Job Opportunities Basic Skills Training Program, authorized under part F, title IV, of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 681 et seq. ), programs of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq. ), and programs of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001 et seq. ), among the related Federal programs with which States are directed to coordinate their School-to-Work Opportunities systems. (4) State training strategies (new paragraph (b)(5)). The priority has been revised to include a new paragraph (b)(5) requiring that States describe their strategies for providing training for teachers, employers, mentors, counselors, and other parties in the States' School-to-Work Opportunities systems. The Secretaries view this change as being consistent with the intent of the School-to-Work Opportunities initiative which calls for innovation and fundamental change in States' secondary school academic and skill training. (5) Ensuring opportunities for young women to participate (paragraph (b)(8)). The priority has been revised so that, rather than being required simply to describe how States will ensure opportunities for young women to participate in School-to-Work Opportunities programs, States are required to describe the goals and the methods that they will use, such as awareness and outreach, to ensure opportunities for young women to participate in School-to-Work Opportunities programs in a manner that leads to employment in high-performance, high-paying jobs in non-traditional employment. (6) Ensuring opportunities leading to employment (paragraph (b)(9)). The priority has been revised to clarify that States must describe how they will ensure opportunities for low-achieving students, students with disabilities, and drop-outs, to participate in School-to-Work Opportunities programs in a manner that leads to employment in high-performance, high-paying jobs. This revision renders paragraph (b)(9) consistent with paragraph (b)(8), under which States must describe how they will ensure similar opportunities for young women to participate.
