FR941221-2-00002 FR941221-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Forest Service Mendenhall Glacier Recreation Area Management Plan Update, Tongass National Forest, Chatham Area, Juneau Ranger District, Juneau, AK AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The Department of Agriculture, Forest Service will prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) to disclose the environmental impacts of updating the Mendenhall Glacier Recreation Area (MGRA) Management Plan. The MGRA is located in the City and Borough of Juneau, Alaska. The proposed action is to update the 1975 MGRA Management Plan, which will result in a non-significant amendment to the Tongass Land Management Plan. No site specific projects or other activities are proposed as part of this action. The proposed action provides an updated management strategy for one of Juneau's most popular recreation areas. The revised plan also would provide clarification and more specific guidelines for Management Units within the recreation area. The Forest Service is seeking information and comments from Federal, State and local agencies as well as individuals and organizations who may be interested in, or affected by, the proposed action. DATES: Comments concerning the scope of the analysis should be received in writing by January 21, 1995. ADDRESSES: Send written comments or requests for additional information to Joni Packard, Interpretive Specialist Planner, Juneau Ranger District, 8465 Old Dairy Road, Juneau, Alaska 99801 (907) 586&hyph;8800. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The purpose and need for the proposed action is to provide a management strategy which provides more specific management direction for the MGRA, reduces conflicts between recreational user groups, and protects the natural resources of this special area. There is a need to resolve public concerns related to discharge of firearms and use of off road vehicles (ORVs) within the MGRA, which appear to create threats to the health and safety of recreational users and to residents living adjacent to the MGRA property boundary. Additionally, chronic vandalism, illegal dumping of garbage, late night partying, and excessive noise continue to be on-going problems that need to be resolved. There is also a need to address concerns about resource damage resulting from certain recreational uses. Gary Morrison, Chatham Area Forest Supervisor, Tongass National Forest, Chatham Area, is the deciding official. The decision to be made is whether or not to update the MGRA Plan as proposed or an alternative to the update. A decision must also be made whether the update is a non-significant amendment to the Tongass Land Management Plan. The no action and proposed action alternatives will be considered in the EIS as well as other alternatives which address significant issues and satisfy the purpose and need for the action. Alternatives may consider eliminating or reducing ORV and firearm use within the MRGA. Preliminary issues that have been identified include: 1. Off-road vehicles (ORVs), bicycles (and other non-motorized uses), pedestrian, and horse use often conflict in the MGRA, resulting in deterioration of the recreational visitor experience, safety concerns, and resource damage. 2. Firearm use in the recreation area results in safety hazards to other recreationists and adjacent residents.
