FR940603-1-00088 FR940603-1-00009 5. Familiarity with Conditions. Prior to the submission of the Proposal the Bidder shall make and shall be deemed to have made a careful examination of the site of the Project and of the Specifications, Drawings, and forms of Contractor's Proposal and Contractor's Bond on file with the Secretary of the Owner and with the Engineer, and shall become informed as to the location and nature of the proposed work, the transportation facilities, the kind and character of soil and terrain to be encountered, the kind of facilities required before and during the construction of the Project. Bidders will be required to comply with all applicable statutes, regulations, etc., including those pertaining to the licensing of contractors, and the so-called ``Kick-back Statute'' (48 Stat. 948) and regulations issued pursuant thereto. 6. Proposals will be accepted only from those prequalified bidders invited by the Owner to submit a proposal. 7. The time for Completion of the Project shall be as specified by the Engineer in the Proposal. 8. Bid Bond. Each Proposal must be accompanied by a bid bond in the form attached or a certified check on a bank that is a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, payable to the order of the Owner, in an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the maximum bid price. Each Bidder agrees, provided its Proposal is one of the three low Proposals, that, by filing its Proposal together with such bid bond or check in consideration of the Owner's receiving and considering such Proposals, said Proposal shall be firm and binding upon each such Bidder and such bid bond or check shall be held by the Owner until a Proposal is accepted and a satisfactory Contractor's Bond is furnished (where required) by the successful Bidder and such acceptance has been approved by the Administrator, or for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days from the date hereinbefore set for the opening of Proposals, whichever period shall be the shorter. If such Proposals is not one of the three low Proposals, the bid bond or check will be returned in each instance within a period of ten (10) days to the Bidder furnishing same. 9. Contractor's Bond. The successful Bidder will be required to execute two additional counterparts of the Proposal and, for a Contract in excess of $100,000, to furnish a Contractor's Bond in triplicate in the form attached hereto with sureties listed by the United States Treasury Department as Acceptable Sureties, in a penal sum not less than the contract price. 10. Failure to Furnish Contractor's Bond. Should the successful Bidder fail or refuse to execute such counterparts or to furnish a Contractor's Bond (where required) within ten (10) days after written notification of the acceptance of the Proposal by the Owner, the Bidder will be considered to have abandoned the Proposal. In such event, the Owner shall be entitled (a) to enforce the bid bond in accordance with its terms, or (b) if a certified check has been delivered with the Proposal, to retain from the proceeds of the certified check, the difference (not exceeding the amount of the certified check) between the amount of the Proposal and such larger amount for which the Owner may in good faith contract with another party to construct the Project. The term ``successful Bidder'' shall be deemed to include any Bidder whose Proposal is accepted after another Bidder has previously refused or has been unable to execute the counterparts or to furnish a satisfactory Contractor's Bond (where required.) 11. Contract is Entire Agreement. The Contract to be effected by the acceptance of the Proposal shall be deemed to include the entire agreement between the parties thereto, and the Bidder shall not claim any modification thereof resulting from any representation or promise made at any time by any officer, agent or employee of the Owner or by any other person. 12. Minor Irregularities. The Owner reserves the right to waive minor irregularities or minor errors in any Proposal, if it appears to the Owner that such irregularities or errors were made through inadvertence. Any such irregularities or errors so waived must be corrected on the Proposal in which they occur prior to the acceptance thereof by the Owner. 13. Bid Rejection. The Owner reserves the right to reject any or all Proposals. 14. Definition of Terms. The terms ``Administrator,'' ``Engineer,'' ``Supervisor,'' ``Project,'' ``Completion of Construction'' and ``Completion of the Project'' as used throughout this Contract shall be as defined in Article VI, Section 1, of the Contractor's Proposal. 15. The Owner represents: a. All easements and rights-of-way, except as shown on maps included in the Specifications, have been obtained from the Owners of the properties across which the project is to be carried out (including tenants who may reasonably be expected to object to such clearing). The remaining easements and rights-of-way, if any, will be obtained as required to avoid delay in construction. b. Prompt payment for the work to be done will be made with funds pursuant to the Loan Contract, or with funds otherwise available to the Owner. If the Owner shall fail to comply with any of the undertakings contained in the foregoing representations or if any such representations shall be incorrect, the Bidder will be entitled to extension of time of completion for a period equal to the delay, if any, caused by the failure of the Owner to comply with such undertakings or by any such incorrect representation; provided the Bidder shall have promptly notified the Owner in writing of its desire to extend the time of completion in accordance with the foregoing. XXXX Owner By XXXX XXXX , 19 XXXX Contractor's Proposal (Proposal shall be submitted in ink or typewritten). To: XXXX (Hereinafter called the ``Owner''). ARTICLE I_GENERAL Section 1. Offer to Clear. The undersigned (hereinafter called the ``Bidder'') hereby proposes to furnish all materials, equipment, machinery, tools, labor, transportation and other means required to clear rights-of-way for rural electric system bearing the REA Designation XXXX in strict accordance with the Specifications and Drawings therefor, attached hereto and made a part hereof, for the prices hereinafter stated. Section 2. Description of Contract. The Notice and Instructions to Bidders and Specifications attached hereto and made a part hereof, together with the Proposal and Acceptance constitute the contract. The Specifications consisting of maps, plan and profile sheets showing the number and types of right-of-way units that are to be cleared for each parcel, along with other special drawings are identified as follows: XXXX . Section 3. Familiarity with Conditions. The Bidder has made a careful examination of the site of the Project and of the Specifications, Drawings, and form of Contractor's Bond attached hereto, and has become informed as to the location and nature of the proposed work, the transportation facilities, the kind and character of soil and terrain to be encountered, and the kind of facilities required for undertaking and completing the Project, and has become acquainted with the labor conditions, state and local laws and regulations which would affect the proposed work. Section 4. License. The Bidder warrants that a Contractor's License is XXXX , is not XXXX , required, and if required, it possesses Contractor's license number XXXX for the State of XXXX in which the Project is located and said license expires on XXXX , 19 XXXX . Section 5. The Bidder warrants that this Proposal is made in good faith and without collusion or connection with any person or persons bidding for the same work.
