FR940920-2-00085 FR940920-2-00039 Public Health Service Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health; Privacy Act of 1974; Altered System of Records AGENCY: Public Health Service, HHS. ACTION: Notification of an altered system of records. SUMMARY: In accordance with the requirements of the Privacy Act, the Public Health Service (PHS) is publishing a notice of altered system of records for the attached 67 Privacy Act systems of records. The purpose of the alteration is to add a new routine use. DATES: PHS invites interested parties to submit comments on the proposed routine use on or before October 20, 1994. PHS has sent a Report of Altered System of Records to the Congress and to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) on September 6, 1994. The new routine use will be effective 40 days after the date of publication unless PHS receives comments that would result in a contrary determination. ADDRESSES: Please submit comments to: PHS Privacy Act Officer, Room 17&hyph;45, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857, Telephone: 301&hyph;443&hyph;2055. Comments received will be available for inspection at this same address from 8:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: The PHS Privacy Act Officer at the address listed above. The telephone number listed above is not toll free. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: PHS is proposing to add a new routine use to the 67 Privacy Act systems of records listed below. This routine use will permit the disclosure of information from these systems to certain individuals who are working in various PHS components but who do not have the status of agency employees and, in many instances, do not receive pay from the office that employs them. Examples of such categories of individuals are: PHS volunteers engaged under 42 U.S.C. 217b. Student volunteers engaged under 5 U.S.C. 3511. Job Corps enrollees engaged under the Job Training Older American Community Service Employment Act enrollees. Individuals working under a personal services contract. Since some offices that use these workers wish to have them perform functions that entail access to records in Privacy Act systems of records, the question arose whether these workers can be considered employees for purposes of the Privacy Act. PHS has decided to promulgate a new routine use rather than rely on the protection of subsection (b)(1) of the Privacy Act. The proposed new routine use is compatible with the purpose of the data collection, since the disclosures are being made for the very purpose for which the information was collected, i.e., to carry out the particular agency or program function for which the specific system of records was established. The records will continue to be adequately protected, since the individuals to whom the information will be disclosed work under the supervision of agency employees. They must observe the same safeguards that agency employees do in the maintenance of Privacy Act records. Dated: September 7, 1994. Wilford J. Forbush, Director, Office of Management.
