FR940606-2-00011 FR940606-2-00009 Numbering of Schedule B Data Items, Form EIA&hyph;858 11993 (Current) 2Item No. 2Item title 11994 (Change) 2Item No. 2Item title 1 Contract 1 Contract. 2 Inventories 2 Inventories. 3 Inventory policy 3 Inventory policy. 4 Actual enrichment feed deliveries 4 Unirradiated new assemblies loaded. 5 Projected feed deliveries 5 Actual enrichment feed deliveries. 6 Unirradiated new assemblies loaded 6 Projected feed deliveries. 7 Enrichment services purchased by utilities 7 Now Item 1.J, under ``Contract''. On the 1993 Form EIA&hyph;858 (left-hand column above), Items 1 and 6 (now Item 4) will be modified as described below. Items 2, 3, 4 (now Item 5), and Item 5 (now Item 6) of Schedule B will continue to be collected without modifications. Item 7, ``Enrichment Services Purchased by Utilities,'' on the 1993 Schedule B will be incorporated under Item 1.J, ``Utility Purchases of Enrichment Services,'' on the 1994 Schedule B. For Item 1 (Contract) Item 1 will be modified as explained under ``a'' through ``h'' below: a. A check off box will be added to Item 1.B to identify contracts that have been renegotiated based on price-related issues. b. Item 1.C will be a new item to collect information on the term-of-delivery arrangement specified in a contract: i.e., Whether the respondent classifies the reported contract as having a ``spot,'' short-term,'' ``medium-term,'' or a ``long-term'' delivery period. c. Item 1.D, ``Transaction Type,'' will provide separate check off boxes to indicate whether uranium materials were sent or received under an Exchange transaction. d. Item 1.E will display a listing of applicable country identification codes from which respondents can choose to report the country or countries of origin and/or destination for deliveries of natural uranium and the country of enrichment services for enriched uranium. An ``Other'' space will be provided for respondents to write in a country name and its identification code not listed under item 1.E. e. Item 1.F will be designed to collect data on individual quantities of delivered uranium and the type of material delivered, its price, delivery date (DD/MM), whether the material was imported or exported, and country of origin. For deliveries of enriched uranium product (EUP), the quantity will be reported as kilograms of uranium (KgU). The transaction tails assay, the product assay, and the feed assay also will be reported to allow the EIA to calculate the natural uranium feed component quantity as equivalent U 3 O 8 for each delivered quantity. For EUP, the country of enrichment will be reported instead of the country of uranium origin. For deliveries of both natural uranium and EUP, forecast for firm and optional deliveries will be requested for a five-year forward period. f. Reporting the contract pricing mechanism under Item 1.H will be simplified to: (a) Request respondents to report whether a pricing arrangement under a market-price related contract specifies a ``floor price'' or a ``no floor price''; (b) add a check off box to capture ``spot-market price'' pricing arrangements; and (c) allow pricing arrangements other than for ``market-price related'' and ``contract price'' to be reported as ``Other'' and briefly described in the space provided. g. Under Item 1.I, respondents will be requested to briefly describe the options that are allowed under the contract for the seller and/or the buyer (purchaser). h. Utility purchases of enrichment services (formerly Item 7 of Schedule B) will be reported under Item 1.J in order to collect the reporting of all utility contracting activities under Item 1. This new format will permit the respondent to report individual quantities of separative work units (SWU) purchased by a utility by the date of delivery, seller's name, and the country of enrichment origin.
