FR941012-2-00055 FR941012-2-00039 [Docket No. CP94&hyph;6&hyph;001; CP94&hyph;89&hyph;000] Texas Eastern Transmission Corporation; CNG Transmission Corporation; Notice of Intent To Prepare an Environmental Assessment for the Proposed Flex-X/CNG Project and Request for Comments on Environmental Issues October 5, 1994. The staff of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC or the Commission) will prepare an environmental assessment (EA) that will discuss the environmental impacts of the construction and operation of facilities proposed in the Flex-X/CNG Project. 1 This EA will be used by the Commission in its decision-making process to determine whether an environmental impact statement is necessary and whether to approve the project. 1 Texas Eastern Transmission Corporation's and CNG Transmission Corporation's applications were filed with the Commission under Section 7 of the Natural Gas Act and Part 157 of the Commission's regulations. Summary of the Proposed Project Texas Eastern Transmission Corporation (Texas Eastern) has an existing natural gas pipeline system consisting of various diameter pipe that extends from the State of Texas and offshore Louisiana through the Appalachian area to the Eastern Seaboard in the Philadelphia and New York area. Texas Eastern wants to expand and modify its facilities to transport an additional 105,000 dekatherms of natural gas per day (Dthd) to CNG Transmission Corporation (CNG) and wants Commission authorization to construct and operate the following facilities needed to transport those volumes: •13.9 miles of 36-inch-diameter replacement pipeline in two segments in Pennsylvania: Uniontown Discharge mileposts (Mps) 1048.47 to 1058.18 for 9.7 miles in Fayette and Somerset Counties. Bedford Discharge Mps 1106.65 to 1110.87 for 4.2 miles in Bedford County. •6,500 horsepower (hp) of compression at its existing Uniontown Compressor Station in Fayette County, Pennsylvania. The Texas Eastern pipeline facilities were originally proposed as part of the Liberty Pipeline Project in Docket Nos. CP92&hyph;720&hyph;000 and CP92&hyph;720&hyph;001. These facilities were discussed in our Notices of Intent dated January 22 and December 22, 1993. The Liberty Project applications were dismissed by the Commission without prejudice on August 12, 1994. CNG wants to provide transportation of 105,000 Dthd from Texas Eastern to three utilities, an electric generation plant, and a cogeneration developer. To provide this transportation, CNG wants Commission authorization to construct and operate about 8,000 hp of compression (two 4,000-hp electric motor-driven compressor units) at a new station to be known as CNG's Chambersburg Compressor Station, in Franklin County, Pennsylvania. The general location of the project facilities is shown in appendix 1. 2 1 The appendices referenced in this notice are not being printed in the Federal Register. Copies are available from the Commission's Public Reference Room, Room 3104, 941 North Capitol Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20246, or call (202) 208&hyph;1371. Copies of the appendices were sent to all those receiving this notice in the mail. Land Requirements for Construction Texas Eastern's proposed replacements would be built adjacent and parallel to existing rights-of-way. Texas Eastern intends to use an 85-foot-wide construction right-of-way. About 60 feet of the planned 85-foot width would use existing right-of-way. Consequently, about 25 feet of new clearing would be required in most areas. Following construction, the disturbed area would be restored and the 25 feet of new clearing would be allowed to revert to its former land use. Additional working space would be required adjacent to the planned construction right-of-way at areas of steep side slopes, and in most areas where topsoil would be segregated (agricultural and residential areas). Additional working space would also be required adjacent to road and stream crossings. The EA Process The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requires the Commission to take into account the environmental impacts that could result from an action whenever it considers the issuance of a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity. NEPA also requires us to discover and address concerns the public may have about proposals. We call this ``scoping''. The main goal of the scoping process is to focus the analysis in the EA on the important environmental issues. By this Notice of Intent, the Commission requests public comments on the scope of the issues it will address in the EA. All comments received are considered during the preparation of the EA. State and local government representatives are encouraged to notify their constituents of this proposed action and encourage them to comment on their areas of concern. The EA will discuss impacts that could occur as a result of the construction and operation of the proposed project under these general headings: •Geology and soils •Water resources, fisheries, and wetlands •Vegetation and wildlife •Endangered and threatened species •Land use •Cultural resources •Hazardous waste •Air quality and noise We will also evaluate possible alternatives to the proposed project or portions of the project, and make recommendations on how to lessen or avoid impacts on the various resource areas. Our independent analysis of the issues will be in the EA. Depending on the comments received during the scoping process, the EA may be published and mailed to Federal, state, and local agencies, public interest groups, interested individuals, affected landowners, newspapers, libraries, and the Commission's official service list for this proceeding. A comment period will be allotted for review if the EA is published. We will consider all comments on the EA before we recommend that the Commission approve or not approve the project. Currently Identified Environmental Issues We have already identified several issues that we think deserve attention based on a preliminary review of the proposed facilities and the environmental information provided by Texas Eastern and CNG. Keep in mind that this is a preliminary list. The list of issues may be added to, subtracted from, or changed based on your comments and our analysis. Issues are: •The proposed pipelines would cross five perennial waterbodies.
