FR940822-2-00142 FR940822-2-00061 f. Task Schedule . Present a general schedule for the full proposed project period and a detailed task schedule for the first year of the proposed new project period. An application for on-going support of a package grant should include a separate task schedule and timeline for each project included in the proposed package, as well as a schedule and time line that covers the package of projects as a whole. The same alphabetic identifiers and project titles used in the original application should be used to identify the component projects in the renewal application. g. Other Sources of Support . Indicate why other sources of support are inadequate, inappropriate or unavailable. 4. Budget and Budget Narrative Provide a complete three-year budget and budget narrative conforming to the requirements set forth in paragraph VII.D. Changes in the funding level requested should be discussed in terms of corresponding increases or decreases in the scope of activities or services to be rendered. A complete budget narrative should be provided for each year, or portion of a year, for which grant support is requested. Changes in the funding level requested should be discussed in terms of corresponding increases or decreases in the scope of activities or services to be rendered. The budget should provide for realistic cost-of-living and staff salary increases over the course of the requested project period. Applicants should be aware that the Institute is unlikely to approve a supplemental budget increase for an on-going support grant in the absence of well-documented, unanticipated factors that clearly justify the requested increase. A continuation application for a package grant must include a separate budget narrative identified alphabetically (i.e. A, B, C) and by project title for each project component. 5. References to Previously Submitted Material An application for an on-going support grant should not repeat information contained in a previously approved application or other previously submitted materials, but should provide specific references to such materials where appropriate. 6. Submission Requirements, Review and Approval Process, and Notification of Decision The submission requirements set forth in section VII.E., other than the deadline for mailing, apply to applications for an on-going support grant. Such applications will be rated on the selection criteria set forth in section VIII.B. The key findings and recommendations resulting from an evaluation of the project and the proposed response to those findings and recommendations will also be considered. The review and approval process, return policy, and notification procedures are the same as those for new projects set forth in sections VIII.C.&hyph;VIII.E.
