FR940228-0-00077 FR940228-0-00017 Based on a review of the comments and the administrative record, EPA has decided not to extend the financial responsibility compliance deadline for petroleum marketers, non-marketers, or local governments. While the Agency acknowledges that some of these owners, especially in those few states without a state assurance fund, may have difficulty complying with the financial responsibility requirements, EPA agrees with commenters that say that most owners and operators are already covered by either state assurance funds, self-insurance mechanisms or private insurance. Agency analysis indicates that compliance may be as high as 98% for local governments with the addition of the four self-assurance mechanisms promulgated in February, 1993. In addition, just 14% of all tanks are in states without legislation creating state assurance funds. The Agency also agrees that another extension hurts EPA credibility with regard to upcoming technical compliance dates and agrees that a later compliance date is unfair to owners and operators already in compliance. In addition, a 1998 compliance deadline for some local governments and petroleum marketers would create an administrative burden for states to implement, since some states would need to change their legislation or regulations in order to adopt the new deadline. EPA also acknowledges the difficulty in trying to define an appropriate subgroup and believes that inclusion of certain marketers and local governments in a new compliance group would create additional confusion in the regulated community. EPA agrees with commenters who feared that adoption of a 1998 deadline for certain gas stations and local governments might hurt the environment in the event that funds are not available to undertake corrective action. In adopting the phased compliance approach, the Agency wanted to achieve the best balance between the need to demonstrate financial responsibility for UST releases and the ability of different types of tank owners to obtain the assurance mechanisms. In deciding not to extend the compliance deadline for petroleum marketers and local governments, the Agency has decided that, since most marketers and local governments can comply, the balance has to be weighed in favor of demonstrating compliance. On the other hand, the current inability of Indian tribes to demonstrate compliance as explained in section IV.A above led the Agency to reach the opposite decision in that situation. EPA also received comments with regard to the criteria discussed in the proposed rule applicable to petroleum marketers and local governments. Most commenters supported the use of the Farmers Home Administration definition of rural, but felt that a hardship determination based on profit should be replaced with a measure of yearly throughput of gasoline through an UST system. V. Economic Impacts This section provides an estimate of the economic impacts of the proposed rule. Because the proposed rule will not cause an annual impact on the economy of $100 million or more and will not cause an increase in the costs of production or the prices charged by the affected community, a Regulatory Impact Analysis is not required. Instead, EPA has prepared an economic impact analysis to estimate the number of affected facilities that would benefit from this additional flexibility. A. Economic Impact Analysis The economic analysis examines the potential economic effects of adopting a new compliance category to 1998 and estimates the number of potentially affected entities. Overall, approximately 1.3 million USTs are subject to the technical and financial responsibility standards. The number of tribally-owned USTs that could be eligible for the 1998 compliance date numbers approximately 500. These 500 tribally-owned USTs represent approximately 10% of all active tanks on Indian lands. (The remainder of the tanks on Indian lands are owned by private individuals and firms, as opposed to Federally-recognized tribes.) The total number of tanks eligible for the 1998 compliance date would be reduced, however, with the inclusion of the technical compliance criterion. B. Regulatory Flexibility Analysis Pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq., when an Agency publishes a notice of rulemaking, for a rule that will have a significant effect on a substantial number of small entities, the agency must prepare and make available for public comment a regulatory flexibility analysis that considers the effect of the rule on small entities (i.e.: Small businesses, small organizations, and small governmental jurisdictions). EPA believes that this rule will not, if promulgated, have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The new compliance deadline to 1998 will provide relief to members of this compliance group by allowing them additional time to comply with the financial responsibility requirements. Accordingly, the Agency has concluded that the law does not require a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis, and certifies that this rule, if promulgated, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. C. Regulatory Impact Analysis 1. Executive Order 12866 Pursuant to the terms of Executive Order 12866, OMB has notified EPA that it considers this a ``significant regulatory action'' within the meaning of the Executive Order. EPA has submitted this action to OMB for review. Changes made in response to OMB suggestions or recommendations will be documented in the public record.
