FR940202-2-00157 FR940202-2-00072 (6) Specify that the institution will use funds under this part to strengthen the infrastructure in institutions of higher education. (7) With respect to projects involving delivery of service, specify projects that involve leadership development of school-age youth. Appendix 4 The Act requires that, in selecting projects for funding under Subtitle C, the Corporation consider whether the project would be conducted in areas of need, which are: (1) Communities designated by the Federal government or States as empowerment zones or redevelopment areas, targeted for special economic incentives, or otherwise identifiable as having high concentrations of low-income people. (2) Areas that are environmentally distressed. (3) Areas adversely affected by Federal actions related to the management of Federal lands that result in significant regional job losses and economic dislocation. (4) Areas adversely affected by reductions in defense spending or the closure or realignment of military installations. (5) Areas that have an unemployment rate greater than the national average unemployment rate for the most recent 12 months for which satisfactory data are available. Appendix 5 The Corporation is in the process of determining the advisability of requiring health care policies for Summer of Safety participants. That determination will be discussed with prospective grantees prior to entering into a final grant agreement. The Act requires that service programs make child care available or provide an allowance for child care for service participants. The Act further requires the Corporation to issue guidelines for child care and the child care allowance. Below is the guidance contained in the Corporation's proposed regulations, ยง2522.250, published in the Federal Register (Volume 59, No. 5) on January 7, 1994. This guidance is subject to change upon issuance of the Corporation's final regulations. (a) Child care . Grantees must provide child care through an eligible provider or a child care allowance in an amount determined by the Corporation to those full-time participants who need child care in order to participate. (1) Need . A participant is considered to need child care in order to participate in the program if he or she: (i) Is the parent or legal guardian of, or is acting in loco parentis for, a child under 13 who resides with the participant; (ii) Has a family income that does not exceed 75 percent of the State's median income for a family of the same size; (iii) At the time of acceptance into the program, is not currently receiving child care assistance from another source, including a parent or guardian, which would continue to be provided while the participant serves in the program; and (iv) Certifies that he or she needs child care in order to participate in the program. (2) Provider eligibility . Eligible child care providers are those who are eligible child care providers as defined in the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858n(5). (3) Child care allowance . The amount of the child care allowance will be determined by the Corporation based on payment rates for the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858c(4)(A). (4) Federal share . The Corporation will pay 100% of the child care allowance, or if the program provides child care through an eligible provider, the actual cost of the care or the amount of the allowance, whichever is less. BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;BA&hyph;M E:GRAPHICSEN02FE94.003 BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;BA&hyph;C Dated: January 27, 1994. Catherine Milton, Vice President and Director of National and Community Service Programs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2255 Filed 2&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;BA&hyph;M
