FR940208-2-00145 FR940208-2-00092 Subrule 77(6) has been added to specify the procedure a panel shall follow on a motion for re-examination of a decision, including a seven-day deadline to conform with the new scheme set forth in rule 79A. To prevent a situation in which fewer than all five panelists are available, subrule 77(7) has been added to provide that the concurrence of only three panelists is required to issue a decision or order on a motion for re-examination. Rule 79A Rule 79A provides for the issuance of a Notice of Final Panel Action. This rule has been added because the panel rules did not clearly set out when the time period begins to run for filing a Request for an Extraordinary Challenge Committee. Now, issuance of a rule 79A Notice will begin the time period for filing such a Request. Subrule 79A(1) provides that when a panel issues what it considers to be its last order or decision, the panel shall direct the responsible Secretary to issue a Notice of Final Panel Action on the eleventh day thereafter. Issuance of this Notice on the eleventh day is provided for because under subrule 77(1) participants may file a motion for re-examination of the panel's last decision within 10 days after a panel issues its decision. Subrule 79A(2) provides for the issuance of a Notice of Final Panel Action in cases where a motion for re-examination is filed pursuant to subrule 77(1). Rule 80 Rule 80, which provides for the publication of a Notice of Completion of Panel Review, has been amended as a result of the addition of rule 79A. Subrule 80(a) provides that a Notice of Completion of Panel Review is effective on the day on which a panel review is terminated by consent of all participants. Subrule (a) takes into account the fact that where all participants consent to termination of panel review, there is no reason to request the establishment of an Extraordinary Challenge Committee. Subrule (b) provides that in any other case, a Notice of Completion of Panel Review is effective on the 31st day following the date on which the responsible Secretary issues a Notice of Final Panel Action. Rules of Procedure for Article 1904 Binational Panel Reviews, United States-Canada Free Trade Agreement Contents Preamble Rule 1. Short Title 1A. Application 2. Statement of General Intent 3. Interpretation Part I_General 6. Duration and Scope of Panel Review 8. Responsibilities of the Secretary
