FR941205-0-00188 FR941205-0-00029 ยง266.505 Regulatory agreement requirements. (a) General. (1) The HFA must execute a Regulatory Agreement, in recordable form, between the mortgagor and the HFA to be in force for the duration of the insured mortgage and note or bond. The Regulatory Agreement must include a description of the property. The Regulatory Agreement must be incorporated by reference into the mortgage and recorded with the mortgage. (2) The Regulatory Agreement executed between the HFA and the mortgagor must be binding upon the mortgagor and any of its successors and assigns and upon the HFA and any of its successors for so long as the mortgage is insured by HUD or HUD holds an HFA debenture issued in connection with a claim arising from the insured mortgage. The HFA may not assign the Regulatory Agreement. (3) The HFA will enforce the Regulatory Agreement and take actions against any mortgagors who violate its provisions. Such actions may involve a declaration of default and application to any court for specific performance of the agreement. (b) Requirements. The Regulatory Agreement must require the mortgagor to comply with the provisions of this part and obligate the mortgagor, among other things, to: (1) Make all payments due under the mortgage and note/bond. (2) Where necessary, establish a sinking fund for future capital needs. (3) Maintain the project as affordable housing, as defined in ยง266.5. (4) Continue to use dwelling units for their original purposes. (5) Comply with such other requirements as may be established by the HFA and set forth in the Regulatory Agreement. (6) Maintain the project in good physical condition. (7) Maintain complete books and records established solely for the project and provide the HFA with an audited financial statement based on these books and records and performed in accordance with standards for financial audits of the U. S. General Accounting Office's government auditing standards, issued by the Comptroller of the United States. (8) Comply with the Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan and all other fair housing and equal opportunity requirements. (9) Operate as a single asset mortgagor. (10) Make books and records available for HUD or General Accounting Office (GAO) review with appropriate notification. (11) Permit HUD officials or employees to inspect the project upon request by the Commissioner. (c) Enforcement. The Regulatory Agreement shall be enforced by the HFA. ยง266.510 HFA responsibilities. (a) Inspections. The HFA must perform annual physical inspections of the projects and provide a copy of the inspection report to HUD. If a project is not in safe and sanitary condition, the HFA must provide a summary to HUD of actions required, with target dates, to correct unresolved findings. (b) Annual audits of projects. The HFA must analyze projects' annual audits and provide a copy to HUD along with a summary of unresolved findings and actions planned, with target dates, to correct unresolved findings. (c) HFA's annual financial statement. The HFA must provide HUD with an annual audited financial statement in accordance with the requirements of 24 CFR part 44. ยง266.515 Record retention. (a) Loan origination and servicing. Records pertaining to the mortgage loan origination and servicing of the loan must be maintained for as long as the insurance remains in force. (b) Defaults and claims. Records pertaining to a mortgage default and claim must be retained from the date of default through final settlement of the claim for a period of no less than three years after final settlement.
