FR941202-2-00189 FR941202-2-00098 (e) For a change in ownership, one of the following conditions must be in effect: i. The previous (transferring) owner must agree in writing, before the transfer of ownership takes place, to be responsible for any analyses, data and reports generated up to the time of legal transfer of ownership; or ii. The buyer (transferee) must agree in writing to be responsible for any analyses, data and reports generated before the legal transfer of ownership occurs. 4.1.9␣``Certification of Compliance'' Statement The following ``Certification of Compliance'' statement must accompany the application for laboratory accreditation. It must be signed and dated by both the laboratory management and the quality assurance officer for that laboratory. Certification By Applicant The applicant understands and acknowledges that the laboratory is required to be continually in compliance with the National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program's rules and regulations concerning laboratory accreditation and standards and will be subject to the penalty provisions provided therein. The applicant understands and acknowledges that accreditation is specifically subject to unannounced assessments. Authorized representatives of any state in which the laboratory is accredited may make an announced or unannounced inspection, search, or examination of an accredited or interim approved laboratory whenever the state, at its discretion, considers such an inspection, search or examination necessary to determine the extent of the laboratory's compliance with the conditions of its accreditation and these regulations. Any refusal to allow entry to the state's representatives shall constitute a violation of a condition of accreditation and grounds for revocation of accreditation or loss of accreditation. The applicant hereby certifies that all analyses performed are done in accordance with applicable U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Guidelines. I hereby certify that I am authorized to sign this application on behalf of the applicant/owner and that there are no misrepresentations in my answer to the questions on this application. Signature Quality Assurance Officer Officer Name of Quality Assurance Print Name of Applicant Laboratory (Legal Name) Date Signature Laboratory Management Representative Representative Name Laboratory Management. 4.2␣Period of Accreditation For a laboratory in good standing, the period for accreditation within categories for methods or analytes will be reevaluated yearly and will be considered to be ongoing once a laboratory has been accredited for that category, method, or analyte. The loss of accreditation for categories, methods or analytes will occur upon not fulfilling any of the conditions outlined below in the sections on maintaining accreditation and supervision, revocation and loss of accreditation. Additionally, failure to pay the required fees as determined by the participating states within the stipulated deadlines or by the stipulated dates will result in loss of accreditation. This information will be entered into the National Database. There is a separate process for accreditation for new categories, methods and analytes (vide supra: Application Process, 4.1.7). Each year the National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program will provide each laboratory with a current directory with information on what categories, methods, and analytes for which they are accredited. Additionally, new categories, methods, and analytes will appear on the actual certificate that is reissued as these items are added and/or deleted during the year. All new categories will be included in updates to the database. 4.3␣Maintaining Accreditation Accreditation remains in affect until revoked by the accrediting authority, until discontinued by the accredited laboratory, or until expiration of accreditation date. To maintain accreditation, the accredited laboratory shall complete or comply with elements 4.3.1 TO 4.3.7. Failure to complete or comply with these elements may be cause for downgrading or revoking accreditation.
