FR940223-2-00132 FR940223-2-00083 Environmental Impact Statement: Entrance to Aspen, State Highway 82, Pitkin County, CO AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The FHWA is issuing this notice to advise the public that an environmental impact statement (EIS) will be prepared for proposed transportation improvements in Pitkin County, Colorado. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Ronald A. Speral, Design/Environmental Coordinator, FHWA Colorado Division, 555 Zang Street, room 250, Lakewood, CO 80228, Telephone: (303) 969&hyph;6730, ext. 368. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FHWA, in cooperation with the Colorado Department of Transportation, Pitkin County, the City of Aspen, and Town of Snowmass Village, will prepare draft and final environmental impact statements for transportation improvements for the area of S.H. 82 known locally as the ``Entrance To Aspen'', including potential transit improvements to Snowmass Village. The proposed improvements involve the S.H. 82 corridor from about MP 38.80 (Tiehack Ski area) to MP 42.00 (7th and Main Street), a distance of approximately 3.20 miles. Transportation improvements to the area are considered necessary to provide for the existing and future travel demand. Also, included in this proposal is a transit/multi-modal center located between Brush Creek and Aspen and fixed guideway alternatives. Alternatives under consideration include: The Do-Nothing alternative; Improving the existing highway; Upgrading the highway with additional lanes in either the existing location or new alignments; fixed guideway; transit enhancements and/or a combination of several modes/types. Letters describing the proposed action and soliciting comments will be sent to appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies, and to private organizations and citizens who have previously expressed or are known to have interest in this proposal. A series of public meetings will be held during the development of the draft and final EIS. In addition, a public hearing will be held after the draft EIS is issued for public comment. Public notices will give the time and place of the scheduled meetings and hearings. A formal scoping meeting will also be held to ensure that the full range of issues related to this proposed action are addressed and all significant issues are identified. Comments and suggestions are invited from all interested parties. Comments or questions concerning this proposed action should be directed to FHWA at the address provided above. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.205, Transportation Planning and Construction. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation of Federal programs and activities apply to this program.) Issued on: February 14, 1994. Ronald A. Speral, Design/Environmental Coordinator, Lakewood. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4025 Filed 2&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;M
