FR941213-0-00017 FR941213-0-00003 Therefore, the agencies have not included School Bus Safety as a National Priority program at this time. The agencies wish to stress that this decision should not be construed to imply that the current resources focused upon School Bus Safety should be reduced or redirected. NHTSA and FHWA believe that all existing efforts in this area should be continued to maintain the impressive safety record associated with school bus transportation. Other Comments One commenter, a local health department in Reno, Nevada, urged the agencies to reinstate Emergency Medical Services (EMS) as a priority program under section 402. As mentioned earlier in this notice, EMS was designated as a priority program on April 1, 1982. It has not been removed from the list of priorities. In fact, every program that has been designated by the agencies as a priority program remains on the list. As explained above, ISTEA required that the Secretary of Transportation either designate six program areas as priority highway safety programs or submit a report to Congress describing the reasons for not establishing these programs as priorities. Four of the programs that NHTSA and FHWA had previously designated as priority areas (Traffic Records, Emergency Medical Services, Pedestrian and Bicycle Safety and Roadway Safety) were not listed in ISTEA. ISTEA continued to provide the agencies with authority, however, to include additional programs or maintain existing programs on the list of priority areas. Accordingly, these four programs continue to be included on the list of National Priority program areas. The National Sheriffs' Association recommended that the following be considered priority programs: (1) Speed Control; (2) Occupant Protection/Child Safety Protection; (3) DWI/DUI Detection and Standardized Field Sobriety Programs for law enforcement officers/deputies; (4) Conspicuity Markings at Railway/Railroad/Mass Transit Crossings and (5) Drug Evaluation, Classification, Drug Recognition Expert (DRE), and the Drug Recognition Technician (DRT) Programs for law enforcement officers/deputies. As explained above, this final rule designates Speed Control as a National Priority program area. Occupant Protection has been a National Priority area since 1982. It includes activities designed to protect occupants who are children. Alcohol and Other Drug Countermeasures has also been a National Priority since 1982. States and communities may conduct DWI/DUI Detection, Standardized Field Sobriety, Drug Evaluation and Classification (DEC), Drug Recognition Expert (DRE), and Drug Recognition Technician (DRT) Programs for law enforcement officers/deputies under this program area. The agencies do not see a need to emphasize these programs as separate priorities. Finally, States and communities can conduct certain activities to improve the conspicuity of markings at railway, railroad and mass transit crossings under Roadway Safety, a FHWA National Priority program. In addition, there are other sources of Federal assistance available from FHWA to improve safety in this area. FHWA does not believe there is reason to designate these activities as a separate priority program. Economic and Other Effects The agencies have considered the impacts associated with this action, and determined that it is not significant within the meaning of Executive Order 12866 and the DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures. The rulemaking does not affect the level of funding available in the highway safety program or otherwise have a significant economic impact. Accordingly, this rulemaking document was not reviewed under E.O. 12866. Small Entity Impact In compliance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act, the agencies have evaluated the effects of this action on small entities. Based on the evaluation, we certify that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. States are the recipients of any funds awarded under the section 402 program. Accordingly, the preparation of a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is unnecessary. Environmental Impacts The agencies have also analyzed this action for the purpose of the National Environmental Policy Act. The agencies have determined that this action will not have any effect on the human environment. Federalism Assessment This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612 and it has been determined that it has no federalism implication that warrants the preparation of a federalism assessment. Paperwork Reduction Act The requirement relating to this regulation, that each State must submit a highway safety plan to receive section 402 grant funds, is considered to be an information collection requirement, as that term is defined by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in 5 CFR part 1320. Accordingly, these requirements have been submitted to and approved by OMB, pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. ยง3501 et seq. ). These requirements have been approved through 11/30/95; OMB No. 2127&hyph;0501. This final rule establishes no new information collection requirement, as that term is defined by the OMB in 5 CFR part 1320. List of Subjects in 23 CFR Part 1205 Grant programs, Highway safety. In consideration of the foregoing, the agencies amend 23 CFR Part 1205 as follows: PART 1205_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for Part 1205 continues to read as follows: Authority: 23 U.S.C. 402; delegations of authority at 49 CFR 1.48 and 1.50. 2. In ยง1205.3, paragraph (c) is revised to read as follows: ยง1205.3 Identification of National Priority Program Areas. * * * * * (c) Under statutory provisions jointly administered by NHTSA and FHWA, the following highway safety program areas, jointly administered by NHTSA and FHWA, have been identified as encompassing a major highway safety problem which is of national concern, and for which effective countermeasures have been identified. Programs developed in such areas are eligible for Federal funding, pursuant to guidelines issued by NHTSA and FHWA and the review procedures set forth in ยง1205.4: (1) Pedestrian and Bicycle Safety (2) Speed Control Issued on: December 7, 1994. Rodney E. Slater, Administrator, Federal Highway Administration. Ricardo Martinez, Administrator, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30514 Filed 12&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;P
