FR940112-0-00109 FR940112-0-00024 In 1992, Congress amended the FPLA to require that the quantity disclosure on labels of consumer commodities be in both the SI metric system and the customary inch/pound system of measurement. This amendment is consistent with the overall policy that the metric system is the preferred system of weights and measures for commerce in the United States (Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act, Public Law 100&hyph;418, 15 U.S.C. 205b). Because of the metric amendments to the FPLA, the FTC has conducted this rulemaking to amend its regulations to reflect the requirement for dual disclosure. This rulemaking has been conducted pursuant to the Commission Rules prescribing special procedures for the promulgation and amendment of FPLA regulations. (16 CFR part 1, subpart C.) Pursuant to these procedures, interested parties were afforded the opportunity to participate in the proceeding through the submission of written data, views, or arguments. On August 17, 1993, the Commission published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPR) in the Federal Register that sought comment on the proposed dual disclosure amendments to the Commission's FPLA regulations. 1 The Commission also sought comments on its consideration of certain statutory and regulatory requirements relating to this rulemaking, such as the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321). In the NPR, the Commission tentatively concluded that the proposed amendments were not ``major'' rule amendments within the meaning of that statute; were not rules requiring the ``collection of information'' within the meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq .); and were in compliance with the metric usage requirements of the Metric Conversion Act (15 U.S.C. 205b). Further, as part of its ongoing regulatory review of existing and proposed regulations, the Commission sought comment about the overall costs and benefits of the regulations promulgated under the FPLA. Lastly, the Commission, based upon information currently available, stated its belief that it is unlikely that the proposed amendments would have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small firms. However, given the uncertainty on the question, the Commission published an initial regulatory analysis under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 603&hyph;604) and requested public comment on the potential costs of the amendments. 1 58 FR 43726. The Commission received 20 timely written comments, which are summarized in part III of this notice. The amendments that the Commission is adopting today are also discussed in part III. The text of the amendments appears at the end of this notice.
