FR940228-1-00056 FR940228-1-00007 (d) Decision to sanction. If the OIG decides that a violation of obligations has occurred, it will determine the appropriate sanction by considering_ (1) The recommendation of the PRO; (2) The type of offense; (3) The severity of the offense; (4 The previous sanction record of the practitioner or other person; (5) The availability of alternative sources of services in the community; (6) Any prior problems the Medicare or State health care programs have had with the practitioner or other person; (7) Whether the practitioner or other person is unable or unwilling to comply substantially with the obligations, including whether he, she or it entered into a corrective action plan prior to the PRO's recommendation and, if so, whether he, she or it successfully completed such corrective action plan; and (8) Any other matters relevant to the particular case. (e) Exclusion sanction. If the PRO submits a recommendation for exclusion to the OIG, and a determination is not made by the 120th day after actual receipt by the OIG, the exclusion sanction recommended will become effective and the OIG will provide notice in accordance with ยง1004.110(f). (f) Monetary penalty. If the PRO recommendation is to assess a monetary penalty, the 120-day provision does not apply and the OIG will provide notice in accordance with ยง1004.110(a)&hyph;(e). ยง1004.110 Notice of sanction. (a) The OIG must notify the practitioner or other person of the adverse determination and of the sanction to be imposed. (b) The sanction is effective 15 days from the date of receipt of the notice. The date of receipt is presumed to be 5 days after the date on the notice, unless there is a reasonable showing to the contrary. (c) The notice must specify_(1) The legal and factual basis for the determination; (2) The sanction to be imposed; (3) The effective date and, if appropriate, the duration of the exclusion; (4) The appeal rights of the practitioner or other person; (5) The opportunity to provide alternative notification; and (6) In the case of exclusion, the earliest date on which the OIG will accept a request for reinstatement. (d) Patient notification: (1)(i) The OIG will provide a sanctioned practitioner or other person an opportunity to elect to inform each of their patients of the sanction action. In order to elect this option, the sanctioned practitioner or other person must, within 30 calendar days from receipt of the OIG notice, inform both new and existing patients through written notification_based on a suggested (non-mandatory) model provided to the sanctioned individual by the OIG_of the sanction and, in the case of an exclusion, its effective date and duration. In addition, the practitioner or other person must notify all new patients orally at the time such prospective patients set an appointment for the provision of services. If the sanctioned party is a hospital, it must notify all physicians having privileges at the hospital, and must post a notice in its emergency room, business office and in all affiliated entities regarding the exclusion. The date of receipt is presumed to be 5 days after the date of the notice, unless there is a reasonable showing to the contrary. Within this time period, the practitioner or other person must also sign and return the certification that the OIG will provide with the notice. (ii) The certification will provide that the practitioner or other person_ (A) Has informed each of his, her or its patients in writing that the practitioner or other person has been sanctioned, or if a hospital, has informed all physicians having privileges at the hospital that it has been sanctioned; (B) If excluded from Federal programs, has informed his, her or its existing patients in writing that the programs will not pay for items and services furnished or ordered (or at the medical direction or on the prescription of an excluded physician) by the practitioner or other person until they are reinstated, or if a hospital, has provided this information to all physicians having privileges at that hospital;
