FR940722-1-00063 FR940722-1-00012 (b) Be installed so that a flightcrew member can, when seated at the flightcrew member's station, turn the illumination on and off. 16. Section 23.807 is amended by revising paragraphs (b) introductory text and (b)(5) and by adding new paragraphs (a)(4) and (b)(6) to read as follows: §23.807 Emergency exits. (a) *␣*␣* (4) Emergency exits must not be located with respect to any propeller disk or any other potential hazard so as to endanger persons using that exit. (b) Type and operation. Emergency exits must be movable windows, panels, canopies, or external doors, openable from both inside and outside the airplane, that provide a clear and unobstructed opening large enough to admit a 19-by-26-inch ellipse. Auxiliary locking devices used to secure the airplane must be designed to be overridden by the normal internal opening means. The inside handles of emergency exits that open outward must be adequately protected against inadvertent operation. In addition, each emergency exit must_ * * * * * (5) In the case of acrobatic category airplanes, allow each occupant to abandon the airplane at any speed between V SO and V D ; and (6) In the case of utility category airplanes certificated for spinning, allow each occupant to abandon the airplane at the highest speed likely to be achieved in the maneuver for which the airplane is certificated. * * * * * §23.841 [Amended] 17. Section 23.841 is amended in paragraph (a) by removing the number ``31,000'' and replacing it with ``25,000''. 18. Section 23.853 is amended by revising the section heading to read as follows: §23.853 Passenger and crew compartment interiors. * * * * * 19. A new §23.855 is added to read as follows: §23.855 Cargo and baggage compartment fire protection. (a) Sources of heat within each cargo and baggage compartment that are capable of igniting the compartment contents must be shielded and insulated to prevent such ignition. (b) Each cargo and baggage compartment must be constructed of materials that meet the appropriate provisions of §23.853(d)(3). (c) In addition for commuter category airplanes, each cargo and baggage compartment must: (1) Be located where the presence of a fire would be easily discovered by the pilots when seated at their duty station, or it must be equipped with a smoke or fire detector system to give a warning at the pilots' station, and provide sufficient access to enable a pilot to effectively reach any part of the compartment with the contents of a hand held fire extinguisher, or (2) Be equipped with a smoke or fire detector system to give a warning at the pilots' station and have ceiling and sidewall liners and floor panels constructed of materials that have been subjected to and meet the 45 degree angle test of Appendix F of this part. The flame may not penetrate (pass through) the material during application of the flame or subsequent to its removal. The average flame time after removal of the flame source may not exceed 15 seconds, and the average glow time may not exceed 10 seconds. The compartment must be constructed to provide fire protection that is not less than that required of its individual panels; or (3) Be constructed and sealed to contain any fire within the compartment. 20. Section 23.867 is amended by revising the heading that precedes the section and the section heading to read as follows: Electrical Bonding and Lightning Protection §23.867 Electrical bonding and protection against lightning and static electricity. * * * * * 21. Section 23.1303 is amended by revising the introductory text; by amending paragraph (d) by inserting the words ``reciprocating engine-powered airplanes of more than 6,000 pounds maximum weight and'' between the words ``For'' and ``turbine''; by amending paragraph (e) concluding text by adding a line to read, ``The lower limit of the warning device must be set to minimize nuisance warning;'' at the end of the paragraph and by adding new paragraphs (f) and (g) to read as follows: §23.1303 Flight and navigation instruments. The following are the minimum required flight and navigation instruments: * * * * * (f) When an attitude display is installed, the instrument design must not provide any means, accessible to the flightcrew, of adjusting the relative positions of the attitude reference symbol and the horizon line beyond that necessary for parallax correction. (g) In addition, for commuter category air planes: (1) If airspeed limitations vary with altitude, the airspeed indicator must have a maximum allowable airspeed indicator showing the variation of V MO with altitude. (2) The altimeter must be a sensitive type. (3) Having a passenger seating configuration of 10 or more, excluding the pilot's seats and that are approved for IFR operations, a third attitude instrument must be provided that: (i) Is powered from a source independent of the electrical generating system; (ii) Continues reliable operation for a minimum of 30 minutes after total failure of the electrical generating system; (iii) Operates independently of any other attitude indicating system; (iv) Is operative without selection after total failure of the electrical generating system;
