FR940930-2-00034 FR940930-2-00023 [ER&hyph;FRL&hyph;4715&hyph;8] Environmental Impact Statements and Regulations; Availability of EPA Comments Availability of EPA comments prepared September 12, 1994 through September 16, 1994 pursuant to the Environmental Review Process (ERP), under Section 309 of the Clean Air Act and Section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act as amended. Requests for copies of EPA comments can be directed to the Office of Federal Activities at (202) 260&hyph;5076. An explanation of the ratings assigned to draft environmental impact statements (EISs) was published in the Federal Register dated April 8, 1994 (59 FR 16807). Draft EISs ERP No. D&hyph;AFS&hyph;K65163&hyph;CA Rating EC2, Oregon Creek Ecosystem Management Project, Implementation, Tahoe National Forest, Downieville Ranger District, Yuba and Sierra Counties, CA. Summary EPA expressed environmental concerns regarding potential project impacts to water and air quality, as well as insufficient consideration in the document to mining activities and activities on non-Federal lands. EPA expressed particular concern regarding potential cumulative impacts from the proposed management proposals, mining activities, and actions on non-Federal lands. ERP No. D&hyph;AFS&hyph;L65231&hyph;ID Rating EC2, Charlie Tyson Ecosystem Management Project, Implementation, Idaho Panhandle National Forests, St. Maries Ranger District, Charlie Creek, Benewah County, ID. Summary EPA expressed environmental concern about fish habitat and recommended that the preferred alternative adopt a combination of forest health measures proposed in Alternative B and C. ERP No. D&hyph;COE&hyph;D28012&hyph;VA Rating EC2, Henrico County Water Treatment Plant (WTP), Construction and Operation, James River Water Supply Intake, Henrico, Goochland and Hanover Counties, VA. Summary EPA expressed environmental concern that the project was being developed prior to the completion of the James River Management Plan and recommended that any permit issued include appropriate conditions that would require the incorporation of the Plan into its design. A more detailed discussion of water needs, cumulative impacts, City of Richmond withdrawals, and canal diversions was requested. Conditions on withdrawals and wetland compensation were recommended. ERP No. D&hyph;COE&hyph;K36110&hyph;CA Rating EC2, Petaluma River Flood Control Improvements, Implementation, City of Petaluma, Sonoma County, CA. Summary EPA expressed environmental concerns pertaining to proposed mitigation, potential water quality impacts, hazardous waste management, and cumulative impacts from proposed upstream projects. EPA urged the Army Corps to continue to explore flood control techniques which minimize impacts to the aquatic environment and enhance water quality and river resources. ERP No. D&hyph;DOE&hyph;L09805&hyph;00 Rating EC1, Business Plan to Operate Electric Utility Market, Transmission Services and Fish and Wildlife Activities, Funding and Implementation, WA, OR, ID, CA, NV, AZ, MT, WY, UT, NM and British Columbia. Summary EPA recommended that BPA re-visit selection of market-driven alternative as proposed action and further evaluate compatibility of the alternative with conservation resource protection goals and policies. ERP No. D&hyph;FHW&hyph;L40193&hyph;ID Rating LO, Sandpoint North and South (NH&hyph;IR&hyph;F&hyph;CM&hyph;5116(68)) Projects, Construction, US 95 (Milepost 466.8 to Milepost 4786), Funding and COE Section 404 Permit, City of Sandpoint, Bonner County, ID. Summary EPA agrees that substantial direct and indirect effects were avoided with the rejection of the ``West'' Alternative, therefore EPA had no objections with the proposed action. Final EISs ERP No. F&hyph;AFS&hyph;L65146&hyph;ID, Van Camp Timber Sales and Winter Range Improvements, Road Construction/Reconstruction, Implementation, Clearwater National Forest, Lochsa Ranger District, Idaho County, ID. Summary EPA provided no formal written comments. EPA had no objection to the preferred alternative as described in the EIS. ERP No. F&hyph;APH&hyph;A82124&hyph;00, Logs, Lumber and Other Unmanufactured Wood Articles Importation, Improvements to the existing system to Prohibit Introduction of Plant Pests into the United States. Summary EPA was concerned that the rule, as proposed, does not specifically plan for the development of alternatives to methylbromide, a known ozone depleting substance currently planned to be phased out of use by the EPA. ERP No. F&hyph;BLM&hyph;K60023&hyph;CA, Rail-Cycle-Bolo Station Class III Nonhazardous Waste Landfill Project, Construction and Operation, Federal Land Exchange and Right-of-Way Grants, San Bernardino County, CA. Summary The final EIS satisfactorily responded to EPA's prior comments, therefore EPA had no objection to the proposed action. ERP No. F&hyph;DOE&hyph;L05205&hyph;00, PacifiCorp Capacity Power Sale Contract for 1100 Megawatts (MW) Long-Term Contract for Peaking Capacity, Implementation, WA, OR, ID, MT, WY, UT, CO, CA, NV, AZ, NM and British Columbia. Summary EPA provided no formal written comments and had no objection to the preferred alternative as described in the EIS. ERP No. F&hyph;FHW&hyph;K40201&hyph;AZ, Red Mountain Freeway (Loop 202) Transportation Facility, Construction from Salt River between the Price Freeway on the west and AZ&hyph;87 on the east, COE Section 404 and NPDES Permits, Phoenix Metropolitan Area, Maricopa County, AZ. Summary Review of the final EIS was not deemed necessary. No formal comment letter was sent to the preparing agency. ERP No. FS&hyph;COE&hyph;K32023&hyph;HI, Maalaea Harbor Improvements for Light-Draft-Vessels, Entrance Channel Realignment and Breakwater Modification, Updated Information, Island of Maui, Maui County, HI. Summary Review of the final EIS was not deemed necessary. No formal comment letter was sent to the preparing agency. ERP No. FS&hyph;FHW&hyph;D40072&hyph;VA, VA&hyph;234 Bypass Corridor Transportation Improvement, VA&hyph;619 at Independent Hill to US 15 at Woolsey, Updated and New Information, Funding, City of Manassas, Prince William County, VA. Summary EPA expressed environmental concerns regarding traffic estimates and recommended further analysis be done. EPA also, requested additional noise and habitat terrestrial mitigation. Dated: September 27, 1994. Richard E. Sanderson, Director, Office of Federal Activities. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24277 Filed 9&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;U
