FR941202-2-00203 FR941202-2-00098 5.9␣Sample Acceptance Policy and Sample Receipt Regardless of the laboratory's level of control over sampling activities, the following are essential to ensure sample integrity and valid data. 5.9.1␣Sample Acceptance Policy The laboratory shall have a written sample acceptance policy that clearly outlines the circumstances under which samples will be accepted. Data from any samples which do not meet the following criteria must be flagged in an unambiguous manner clearly defining the nature and substance of the variation. This document should be circulated to sample collecting personnel with other sampling instructions and shall include the following areas of concern: (a) Submittal of field quality control samples as required by the accrediting agency. The samples may include trip blanks, field blanks, equipment blanks, duplicates or other field-submitted quality control measures; (b) Proper, full, and complete documentation, which shall include sample identification, the location, date and time of collection, collector's name, preservative added, sample type and any special remarks concerning the sample; (c) Proper sample labeling to include unique identification and a labeling system for the samples with requirements concerning the durability of the labels (water resistant) and the use of indelible ink; (d) Evidence of proper preservation and use of appropriate sample containers. The type of sample containers and preservatives are as specified by the individual programs, a Performance Based Method System or NELAP; (e) Adherence to specified holding times. The maximum allowable holding time prior to analyses are as specified by individual Programs, a Performance Based Method System or NELAP; and (f) Adequate sample volume. Sufficient sample volume must be available to perform the necessary analysis. 5.9.2␣Sample Receipt Protocols Samples shall be checked upon receipt for thermal preservation (if applicable) and all other aforementioned items. Chemical preservation (e.g., appropriate Ph) shall be checked upon receipt or prior to sample preparation/analyses. The results of such checks shall be recorded. Data from any samples which do not meet the criteria must be flagged in an unambiguous manner clearly defining the nature and substance of the variation. If applicable, a complete chain of custody record (Section 5.11.3) shall be maintained. 5.9.3␣Storage Conditions The samples shall be properly preserved and stored in approved containers specified by the individual EPA or state programs, the Performance Based Method System or NELAP. Samples shall be stored in a secure area. 5.10␣Sample Tracking The laboratory shall design a system to unequivocally identify all samples, subsamples and subsequent extracts and/or digestates so that each aliquot is uniquely identified. The laboratory shall assign a unique identification (ID) code to each sample container received in the laboratory. Multiple aliquots of a sample that have been received for different analytical tests (e.g., nutrients, metals, VOCs, etc.) must be assigned a different ID code. The use of container shape, size or other physical characteristic (e.g., amber glass, purple top, etc.) is not an acceptable means of identifying the sample. This laboratory code shall maintain an unequivocal link with the unique field ID assigned each container. The laboratory ID number shall be placed on the sample container as a durable label. The laboratory ID number shall be entered into the laboratory records (see 5.11.2) and shall be the link that associates the sample with related laboratory activities (i.e., sample preparation, calibration, etc.). In cases where the sample collector and analyst are the same individual or the laboratory preassigns numbers to sample containers, the laboratory ID number may be the same as the field ID number. 5.11␣Record Keeping, Data Review and Reporting The laboratory shall implement protocols that will produce unequivocal, accurate records which document all laboratory activities associated with sample receipt, preparation, analysis, review and reporting. There are two levels of record keeping: (1) Sample custody or tracking and (2) legal or evidentiary chain of custody. All essential requirements for sample custody are outlined in Sections 5.11.1.1, and 5.11.1.2. The basic requirements for legal chain of custody (if required or implemented) are specified in Section 5.11.3. 5.11.1␣Sample Custody Requirements 5.11.1.1␣Essential Documentation (a) Sample Handling_Sample custody shall document all procedures and activities to which a sample is subjected. These activities shall include but are not limited to _Sample preservation including appropriate sample container and compliance with holding time; _Sample identification, receipt, acceptance or rejection and log-in; _Sample storage and tracking (includes shipping receipts, transmittal forms, and internal routing and assignment records);
