FR941028-2-00178 FR941028-2-00109 •If the history suggests that the HCW was exposed to and infected with M. tuberculosis outside the facility, no further epidemiologic investigation to identify a source in the facility is necessary. •If the history does not suggest that the HCW was exposed and infected outside the facility but does identify a probable source of exposure in the facility, contacts of the suspected source patient should be identified and evaluated. Possible reasons for the exposure and transmission should be evaluated (Table 4), interventions should be implemented to correct these causes, and PPD testing of PPD-negative HCWs should be performed immediately and repeated after 3 months. If no additional PPD test conversions are detected on follow-up testing, the investigation can be terminated. If additional PPD test conversions are detected on follow-up testing, the possible reasons for exposure and transmission should be reassessed, the appropriateness of and degree of adherence to the interventions implemented should be evaluated, and PPD testing of PPD-negative HCWs should be repeated after another 3 months. If no additional PPD test conversions are detected on the second round of follow-up testing, the investigation can be terminated. However, if additional PPD conversions are detected on the second round of follow-up testing, a high-risk protocol should be implemented in the affected area or occupational group, and the public health department or other persons with expertise in TB infection control should be consulted. •If the history does not suggest that the HCW was exposed to and infected with M. tuberculosis outside the facility and does not identify a probable source of exposure in the facility, further investigation to identify the probable source patient in the facility is warranted. The interval during which the HCW could have been infected should be estimated. Generally, this would be the interval from 10 weeks before the most recent negative PPD test through 2 weeks before the first positive PPD test (i.e., the conversion). Laboratory and infection-control records should be reviewed to identify all patients or HCWs who have suspected or confirmed infectious TB and who could have transmitted M. tuberculosis to the HCW. If this process does identify a likely source patient, contacts of the suspected source patient should be identified and evaluated, and possible reasons for the exposure and transmission should be evaluated (Table 4). Interventions should be implemented to correct these causes, and PPD testing of PPD-negative HCWs should be repeated after 3 months. However, if this process does not identify a probable source case, PPD screening results of other HCWs in the same area or occupational group should be reviewed for additional evidence of M. tuberculosis transmission. If sufficient additional PPD screening results are not available, appropriate personnel should consider conducting additional PPD screening of other HCWs in the same area or occupational group. BILLING CODE 4163&hyph;18&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEN28OC94.002 E:GRAPHICSEN28OC94.003 BILLING CODE 4163&hyph;18&hyph;C
