FR941027-2-00147 FR941027-2-00083 Instructions for Part IV_Budget Narrative The budget narrative should explain, justify, and, if needed, clarify your budget summary. For each line item (personnel, fringe benefits, travel, etc.) in your budget, explain why it is there and how you computed the costs. Please limit this section to no more than five pages. Be sure that each page of your application is numbered consecutively. Explanation of Budget Categories 1. Personnel: Show salaries to be paid to project personnel. 2. Fringe Benefits: Indicate the rate and amount of fringe benefits. 3. Travel: Indicate the amount requested for both inter- and intra-State travel of project staff. Include funds for at least one trip for two people to attend a project director's meeting in Washington, D.C. 4. Equipment: Indicate the cost of non-expendable personal property that has a useful life of more than one year and a cost of $300 or more per unit ($5,000 or more if State, Local or Tribal Government). 5. Supplies: Include the cost of consumable supplies and materials to be used during the project. 6. Contractual: Show the amount to be used for (1) Procurement contracts (except those which belong on other lines such as supplies and equipment; and (2) sub-contracts. 7. Construction: NOT ALLOWABLE. 8. Other: Indicate all direct costs not clearly covered by lines 1 through 7 above, including consultants. 9. Total, Direct Cost: Show the total for lines 1 through 8. 10. Indirect Costs: Indicate the rate and amount of indirect costs. NOTE: For training grants, the indirect cost rate cannot exceed 8%. 11. Training/Stipend Cost: (if allowable) 12. TOTAL, Federal Funds Requested: Show total for lines 9 through 11. Cost Sharing Indicate the actual rate and amount of cost sharing when there is a cost sharing requirement. If cost sharing is required by program regulations, the local share required refers to a percentage of Total Project Cost, not of Federal funds. Instructions for Part V_Program Narrative The program narrative will comprise the largest portion of your application. This part is where you spell out the who, what, when, where, why, and how of your proposed project. Although you will not have a form to fill out for your narrative, there is a format. This format is the selection criteria. Because your application will be reviewed and rated by a review panel on the basis of the selection criteria, your narrative should follow the order and format of the criteria. Before preparing your application, you should carefully read the legislation and regulations of the program, eligibility requirements, information on any priority set by the Secretary, and the selection criteria for this competition. Your program narrative should be clear, concise, and to the point. Begin the narrative with a one page abstract or summary of your proposed project. Then describe the project in detail, addressing each selection criterion in order. The Secretary strongly suggests that the applicant limit the program narrative to no more than 40 double-spaced, typed pages (on one side only), although the Secretary will consider applications of greater length. Be sure to number consecutively ALL pages in your application. You may include supporting documentation as appendices. Be sure that this material is concise and pertinent to this program competition and is numbered consecutively. Applicants are advised that: (a) The Department considers only information contained in the application in ranking applications for funding consideration. Letters of support sent separately from the formal application package are not considered in the review by the technical review panels. (34 CFR 75.217) (b) The technical review panel evaluates each application solely on the basis of the established technical review criteria. Letters of support contained in the application will strengthen the application only insofar as they contain commitments that pertain to the established technical review criteria, such as commitment and resources. Additional Materials Instructions for Estimated Public Reporting Burden Under terms of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, as amended, and the regulations implementing that Act, the Department of Education invites comment on the public reporting burden in this collection of information. Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 90 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. You may send comments regarding this burden to the U.S. Department of Education, Information Management and Compliance Division, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;4651; and to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project, OMB 1830&hyph;0013, Washington, DC 20503. (Information collection approved under OMB control number 1830&hyph;0013. Expiration date: 2/28/95.) BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEN27OC94.012 E:GRAPHICSEN27OC94.013 E:GRAPHICSEN27OC94.014 E:GRAPHICSEN27OC94.015 E:GRAPHICSEN27OC94.016 E:GRAPHICSEN27OC94.017 E:GRAPHICSEN27OC94.018 E:GRAPHICSEN27OC94.019 BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;C
