FR941206-1-00035 FR941206-1-00005 Under this interpretation, facilities located within two miles from one another, but in different contiguous nonattainment areas, could not trade credits with one another, but could trade credits with a facility located 100 miles away in the same nonattainment area. This is not consistent with the policy relating to stationary sources, which can trade offsets between one nonattainment area and another in the northeast ozone transport region. This policy was established in a March 31, 1993 letter from John Seitz, the Director of the Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards to Bruce S. Carhart, the Executive Director of the Ozone Transport Commission. Furthermore, EPA has no reason to believe that trading would not be equitable across the two nonattainment areas. Therefore, the Region's position is that since the New Jersey program exists in two contiguous severe nonattainment areas within the State, trading should be allowed across the nonattainment area boundaries in the New Jersey program, and EPA proposes to accept this provision of the New Jersey rule. 3. Giving Full Credit for Alternative Fuel Vehicles The State's rule allows for not including alternatively fueled vehicles as a vehicle in the calculation of occupancy rates. EPA's policy has been that alternatively fueled vehicles may be exempted from counting as a full vehicle. EPA believes that this provision of the New Jersey rule will have a minor impact on the program's effectiveness since it is unlikely that many employees will have access to alternative fueled passenger cars. It is more likely that some multi-passenger vans or buses will be alternatively fueled and these will be excluded from the count of vehicles because of their capacity even without the exclusion for alternative fuels. Therefore, EPA proposes to accept this provision of the New Jersey Rule. 4. Giving Full Credit for Seven and Eight Passenger Vehicles The State's rule counts vanpools arriving at the worksite with seven or eight employees as ``zero vehicles arriving.'' EPA's policy allows only nine passenger and greater vehicles not to be counted as a vehicle arriving at a worksite. EPA believes that although this provision in the rule will allow some smaller vans and larger station wagons carrying seven or eight employees to be excluded from the count of vehicles arriving at a worksite, that this will not be a significant number of vehicles beyond those already excluded by EPA's policy and will allow employers the flexibility to arrange for vehicles of a size which best fits their needs. Therefore, EPA proposes to accept this provision of the New Jersey Rule. IV. Conclusion In this proposal, EPA is proposing to approve the SIP revision submitted by the State of New Jersey which contains the ETR program. This submittal addresses and implements each of the program elements required by section 182(d)(1)(B) of the Clean Air Act. As a result, EPA is proposing to approve this submittal. Nothing in this proposed rule should be construed as permitting or allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any state implementation plan. Each request for revision to the state implementation plan shall be considered separately in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. SIP approvals under section 110 and subchapter I, part D of the Clean Air Act do not create any new requirements, but simply approve requirements that the State is already imposing. Therefore, because the federal SIP-approval does not impose any new requirements, I certify that it does not have a significant impact on any small entities affected. Moreover, due to the nature of the federal-state relationship under the Clean Air Act, preparation of a regulatory flexibility analysis would constitute federal inquiry into the economic reasonableness of state action. The Clean Air Act forbids EPA to base its actions concerning SIPs on such grounds. Union Electric Co. v US EPA, 427 US 246, 256&hyph;66 (S.Ct. 1976); 42 U.S.C. 7410(a)(2). The Office of Management and Budget has exempted this action from review under Executive Order 12866. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 52 Air pollution control, Carbon monoxide, Hydrocarbons, Incorporation by reference, Intergovernmental relations, Ozone, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Volatile organic compounds. Authority: 42 U.S.C 7401&hyph;7671q. Dated: November 17, 1994. William J. Muszynski, P.E., Deputy Regional Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29974 Filed 12&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
