FR940429-0-00244 FR940429-0-00015 (iii) Divide the number of students determined under paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section by the total obtained under paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section. (2) An institution shall document that each student described in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section obtained gainful employment in the recognized occupation for which he or she was trained or in a related comparable recognized occupation. Examples of satisfactory documentation of a student's gainful employment include, but are not limited to_ (i) A written statement from the student's employer; (ii) Signed copies of State or Federal income tax forms; and (iii) Written evidence of payments of Social Security taxes. (h) Eligibility for Federal Pell Grant and FSEOG programs. In addition to satisfying other relevant provisions of this section, an educational program qualifies as an eligible program for purposes of the Federal Pell Grant or FSEOG Program only if the educational program is an undergraduate program. (i) Flight training. In addition to satisfying other relevant provisions of this section, for a program of flight training to be an eligible program, it must have a current valid certification from the Federal Aviation Administration. (j) English as a second language (ESL). (1) In addition to satisfying the relevant provisions of this section, an educational program that consists solely of instruction in ESL qualifies as an eligible program if_ (i) The institution admits to the program only students who the institution determines need the ESL instruction to use already existing knowledge, training, or skills; and (ii) The program leads to a degree, certificate, or other recognized educational credential. (2) An institution shall test each student at the end of the educational program to substantiate that the student has attained adequate proficiency in written and spoken English to use already existing knowledge, training, or skills. The institution shall identify the test or tests given to the students and the basis for the judgment that the student has attained the adequate proficiency. (3) An institution shall document its determination that ESL instruction is necessary to enable each student enrolled in its ESL program to use already existing knowledge, training, or skills with regard to the students that it admits to its ESL program under paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section. (4) An ESL program that qualifies as an eligible program under this paragraph is eligible for purposes of the Federal Pell Grant Program only. (k) Undergraduate educational program in credit hours. If an institution offers an undergraduate educational program in credit hours, the institution must use the formula contained in paragraph (l) of this section to determine whether that program satisfies the requirements contained in paragraph (c)(3) or (d) of this section, and the number of credit hours in that educational program for purposes of the Title IV, HEA programs, unless_ (1) The program is at least two academic years in length and provides an associate degree, a bachelor's degree, or a professional degree; or (2) Each course within the program is acceptable for full credit toward that institution's associate degree, bachelor's degree, or professional degree, provided that the institution's degree requires at least two academic years of study. (l) Formula. For purposes of determining whether a program described in paragraph (k) of this section satisfies the requirements contained in paragraph (c)(3) or (d) of this section, and the number of credit hours in that educational program with regard to the Title IV, HEA programs_ (1) A semester hour must include at least 30 clock hours of instruction; (2) A trimester hour must include at least 30 clock hours of instruction; and (3) A quarter hour must include at least 20 hours of instruction. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070a, 1070b, 1070c&hyph;1070c&hyph;2, 1085, 1087aa&hyph;1087hh, 1088, 1091, and 1141; 42 U.S.C. 2753) 6. Section 668.9 is revised to read as follows: §668.9 Relationship between clock hours and semester, trimester, or quarter hours in calculating Title IV, HEA program assistance. In determining the amount of Title IV, HEA program assistance that a student who is enrolled in a program described in §668.8(k) is eligible to receive, the institution shall apply the formula contained in §668.8(l) to determine the number of semester, trimester, or quarter hours in that program, if the institution measures academic progress in that program in semester, trimester, or quarter hours. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1082, 1085, 1088, 1091, 1141) 7. Section 668.11 is revised to read as follows: §668.11 Scope. (a) This subpart establishes standards that an institution must meet in order to participate in any Title IV, HEA program. (b) Noncompliance with these standards by an institution already participating in any Title IV, HEA program or with applicable standards in this subpart by a third-party servicer that contracts with the institution may subject the institution or servicer, or both, to proceedings under subpart G of this part. These proceedings may lead to any of the following actions: (1) An emergency action. (2) The imposition of a fine. (3) The limitation, suspension, or termination of the participation of the institution in a Title IV, HEA program. (4) The limitation, suspension, or termination of the eligibility of the servicer to contract with any institution to administer any aspect of the institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1094) §§668.12&hyph;668.16 [Redesignated as §§668.14&hyph;668.18] 8. Sections 668.12 through 668.16 are redesignated as §§668.14 through 668.18, respectively. 9. A new §668.12 is added to read as follows: §668.12 Application procedures. (a) Applications for initial participation. An institution that wishes to participate in a Title IV, HEA program must first apply to the Secretary for a certification that the institution meets the standards in this subpart. (b) Applications for continued participation. A participating institution must apply to the Secretary for a certification that the institution continues to meet the standards in this subpart upon the request of the Secretary or if the institution wishes to_ (1) Continue to participate in a Title IV, HEA program beyond the scheduled expiration of the institution's current period of participation in the program; (2) Include in the institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program_ (i) A branch campus that is not currently included in the institution's participation in the program; or
