FR940505-1-00083 FR940505-1-00012 The proposed rule is expected to affect approximately 25 units in the Sacramento FIP area. As described in the technical support document, 1990 uncontrolled NO X emissions from these sources were 0.05 tpd or 19.2 tpy. Implementation of this proposed rule is projected to reduce those emissions by 9.2 tpy at an average estimated annual savings of $4,600 per ton of NO X reduced. The savings accrue from an estimated 10 percent reduction in fuel resulting from the installation of low-NO X burners. (p) Gas Turbines (Sacramento). Proposed 40 CFR 52.2961(o) controls NO X emissions resulting from gas turbines. A gas turbine is an internal combustion engine that operates with a rotary rather than a reciprocating motion. Compressed air and fuel are introduced to the combustor section were the fuel is burned. Hot combustion gases then enter the turbine section, where the gases rotate one or more shafts which power the compressor and electric generator. Electric utilities and cogenerators use gas turbines to produce electricity and useful thermal energy. Gas turbines can burn a variety of fuels including natural gas, waste process gases, or liquid fuels such as distillate oils. There are three generic control techniques available for controlling NO X emissions from gas turbines: (1) Injection of water or steam into the combustor; (2) add-on post combustion controls (e.g., selective catalytic reduction); and (3) modification to combustor designs. The proposed rule applies to any owner or operator of a stationary gas turbine with a rated heat output capacity equal to or greater than 0.3 megawatt (MW). After May 15, 1997, all stationary gas turbines rated equal to or greater than 0.3 but less than 2.9 MW shall meet a compliance limit based on 25 ppm NO X times a demonstrated percent efficiency. Stationary gas turbines rated equal to or greater than 2.9 MW shall meet a compliance limit based on 9 ppm NO X times a demonstrated percent efficiency. Peaking units and emergency standby units operated less than 200 hours per calendar year are exempt from the reduction requirements but must keep records to verify hour of operation. Additional exemptions are provided for very specialized uses. The proposed rule limits are based largely on SCAQMD Rule 1134, CARB RACT/BARCT guidance, and EPA's ACT guidelines. Evaluation of the environmental, economic, and other impacts are discussed in detail in EPA's technical support document. The proposed rule is expected to affect gas turbines at only one source (i.e., Proctor and Gamble) in the Sacramento FIP area. However, the Procter and Gamble unit is currently scheduled for replacement with a newer gas turbine which will operate at 5 ppm NO X . Although additional gas turbines are located in the FIP area, these units are already meeting the proposed FIP limits or are exempt from the proposed rule. As described in the technical support document, 1990 uncontrolled NO X emissions from this source was 0.43 tpd. Implementation of this proposed rule is projected to reduce those emissions by 0.2 tpd at an estimated cost of $6,700 per ton of NO X reduced. 4. Regulations Imposed Statewide a. Introduction_Rationale for Statewide Control._Section 110(a)(2)(A) of the Act directs states to include in a SIP those enforceable control measures necessary to demonstrate attainment. This requirement extends to development of federal plans. Paragraphs III.C.4.b&hyph;e of this NPRM describe a set of area source rules that EPA is proposing to implement on a statewide basis in order to assure compliance and emission reductions. In addition, an option for a statewide manufacturers rule is discussed for the solvents and coatings categories regulated under the proposed VOC cap rules (see section III.C.5). EPA is proposing statewide requirements for area source categories that consist of portable VOC-containing materials including architectural coatings, pesticides, aerosol paints and other consumer products. These categories differ from traditional point source categories for which emissions principally occur at a few stable locations where products are manufactured. In contrast, area sources are distributed widely and emit pollutants where products are used. EPA believes that regulations for these categories will be most effective if applied uniformly throughout the State. Most notably, EPA cannot assure compliance for these area source categories at the point of emissions as achieved with point sources. This would require routine inspection and enforcement against individual consumers for using, for example, high VOC house paints and bathroom cleansers. EPA has neither the resources for such a program, nor the expectation that individual consumers should be responsible for monitoring the VOC contents of their paints and cleansers. Instead, EPA must rely on compliance at point of sale or manufacture such as, in this example, paint and cleanser distributors. Unfortunately, because there is little threat of enforcement against actual product users, EPA believes that regulations affecting these categories would be routinely circumvented if standards varied in neighboring areas. If, for example, the architectural coating rule applied only in the narrow FIP areas, house painters in southern Sutter County (part of the nonattainment area) might drive to northern Sutter (outside the nonattainment area) to purchase cheaper paints, or lemon growers in Ventura might cross into Santa Barbara for a pesticide formulation they had used the year before. While EPA has not attempted to quantify the erosion in projected emission reductions that would occur if these FIP rules were implemented on an area rather than statewide basis, there is much anecdotal evidence to confirm that considerable circumvention of the rules would occur. California air pollution agencies, for example, believe such circumvention routinely erodes the effectiveness of existing architectural coating, automobile refinishing, and other local regulations. Such circumvention is an important force behind the ongoing national regulatory negotiation designed to establish consistent architectural coating standards. It is also a primary rationale for existing California legislation requiring statewide regulation of consumer products. One could extend this discussion to argue that these area source rules should be implemented on a national basis. Particularly along the northern and eastern State borders, EPA expects some circumvention of rules affective only in California. These borders are relatively scarcely populated, however, and fairly far from the FIP areas. EPA expects, therefore, minimal impact in the FIP areas and believe that the State of California is the most appropriate area in which to implement these rules. While the need for enforceability is the primary and independently legally sufficient justification for implementing these rules on a statewide basis, several additional benefits to this approach are discussed below: (i) Consistency. With the exception of architectural coatings, all the categories proposed as statewide measures in this NPRM are currently addressed in California on a statewide basis. 47 Statewide FIP measures maintain consistency with these regulations, minimizing unnecessary complexity for all concerned parties. 47 Pesticides are regulated statewide under the California Food and Agriculture Code, consumer products are regulated statewide under the California Code of Regulations, and aerosol paints are proposed for inclusion in the statewide consumer products regulations.
