FR941130-0-00023 FR941130-0-00002 (i) A full appraisal report on the value of the converting bank and the pricing of the stock to be sold in the conversion. The report must be prepared by an independent appraiser and must include a complete and detailed description of the elements that make up an appraisal report, justification for the methodology employed and sufficient support for the conclusions reached therein, including a full discussion of the applicability of each peer group member and documented analytical evidence supporting any variance (above or below) the institution proposing to convert may have from the peer group statistics and a complete analysis of the institution's pro forma earnings which should include its full potential once the institution fully deploys its new capital pursuant to its business plan; and (ii) A business plan which must include, in part, a detailed discussion of how the capital acquired in the conversion will be used, expected earnings resulting from the plan and a justification for any proposed stock repurchases. (e) Restriction on repurchase of stock. An insured mutual state savings bank that has converted from the mutual to stock form of ownership may not repurchase its capital stock within one year following the date of its conversion to stock form, except that stock repurchases of no greater than 5% of the bank's outstanding capital stock may be repurchased during this one-year period where compelling and valid business reasons are established, to the satisfaction of the FDIC. Any stock repurchases shall be subject to the requirements of section 18(i)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(i)(1)). (f) Stock benefit plan limitations. The FDIC will presume that a stock option plan or management or employee stock benefit plan that does not conform with the applicable percentage limitations of the regulations issued by the Office of Thrift Supervision constitutes excessive insider benefits and thereby evidences a breach of the board of directors' or trustees' fiduciary responsibility. In addition, no converted insured mutual state savings bank shall, for one year from the date of the conversion, implement a stock option plan or management or employee stock benefit plan, other than a tax-qualified employee stock ownership plan, unless each of the following requirements is met: (1) Each of the plans was fully disclosed in the proxy solicitation and conversion stock offering materials; (2) All such plans are approved by a majority of the bank's stockholders, or in the case of a recently formed holding company, its stockholders, prior to implementation at a duly called meeting of shareholders, either annual or special, to be held no sooner than six months after the completion of the conversion; (3) In the case of a savings bank subsidiary of a mutual holding company, all such plans are approved by a majority of stockholders other than its parent mutual holding company prior to implementation at a duly called meeting of shareholders, either annual or special, to be held no sooner than six months following the stock issuance; (4) For stock option plans, stock options are granted at no lower than the market price at which the stock is trading at the time of grant; and (5) For management or employee stock benefit plans, no conversion stock is used to fund the plans. By the order of the Board of Directors. Dated at Washington, D.C., this 22nd day of November, 1994. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Robert E. Feldman, Acting Executive Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29240 Filed 11&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6714&hyph;01&hyph;P
