FR940912-2-00079 FR940912-2-00056 Schedule A Roche shall divest all of the assets and businesses of the Syva Business pursuant to the terms of this order. The associated assets identified in Paragraph I. I . (2) of this order shall include all assets, properties, business and goodwill, tangible and intangible, of the Syva Company in and relating to the development, manufacture, sale, distribution and marketing of drugs of abuse reagent products in the United States, including without limitation, the following: Part 1 1. All rare reagent inventory (including antibody reagent pools, hapten conjugates, and detection labels), all inventory (finished and work in process), all sources of the antibodies (whether animals or cell lines), immunogens, commodities, cross-reactants, machinery, fixtures, equipment, vehicles, transportation facilities, furniture, tools, and other tangible personal property; 2. all customer lists, vendor lists, catalogs, sales promotion literature, advertising materials, technical information, management information systems, software, inventions, copyrights, trademarks, trade names, trade secrets, intellectual property, formulations, patents, technology know-how, specifications, designs, drawings, processes, quality assurance and control data, research materials, and information, relating to the manufacture and sale of the drugs of abuse reagent products, including without limitation information relating to FDA approvals and applications for FDA approvals, research and development data, data required under the Good Manufacturing Practices Guidelines, regulatory data packages, process validation, and documentation relating to Drug Enforcement Agency (``DEA'') approvals; 3. all rights, title and interest in and results of all research and development efforts of Syntex relating to improvements, developments, and variants of the Syva EMIT, EMIT II, and other drugs of abuse reagent product lines; 4. all rights, title and interest in and to the contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business with customers (together with associated bid and performance bonds), suppliers, sales representatives, distributors, agents, personal property lessors, personal property lessees, licensors, licensees, consignors, and consignees; 5. all rights under warranties and guarantees, express of implied; 6. all books, records and files; and 7. all items of prepaid expense. Part 2 1. All assets, properties, business and goodwill, tangible and intangible, of the Syva Company in and relating primarily to the development, manufacture, sale, distribution and marketing of any in vitro diagnostic products other than drugs of abuse reagent products, including therapeutic drug monitoring reagent products, infectious disease reagent products, endocrine (thyroid) testing reagent products, and reagents used on the VISTA system (e.g., hormone, cancer, anemia, protein, and hepatitis/HIV testing); 2. inventory and storage capacity; and 3. all rigths, title and interest in and to owned or leased real property, together with appurtenances, licenses and permits.
