FR940930-1-00056 FR940930-1-00016 17. Would such design requirements be appropriate for States to use as guidelines in conducting motor vehicle safety inspection programs: If not, what requirements would be more appropriate? Please describe them. EVs With GVWR Greater Than 4536 Kilograms In this section of the notice NHTSA requests comments in response to items 1 through 17 above, as they apply to original equipment EVs and EV conversions with GVWR greater than 4536 kilograms, excluding school buses. These include transit buses, intercity buses, trucks, and other heavy vehicles. NHTSA requests information on this group of vehicles separately, since there may be potential electrolyte spillage problems, and possible solutions, which are unique to such heavy vehicles. 18. Please provide the information requested in Questions 1&hyph;17 above, as it applies to EVs with a GVWR greater than 4536 kg, excluding school buses. Should these types of EVs be regulated for electrolyte spillage in a crash or rollover? Are there unique safety hazards among EVs of this size and type? 19. Should heavy EVs, other than school buses, be crash tested for electrolyte spillage in the same way as heavy school buses in FMVSS No. 301, Fuel System Integrity, where a contoured barrier traveling at 48 kph strikes the vehicle at any point and angle? Please discuss. Are there other approaches which would be more appropriate for addressing electrolyte spillage in heavy EVs? For example, what type of design standard or alternative approach would be necessary to provide a level of safety equivalent to that of FMVSS No. 301, and how would this be evaluated? B. Electric Shock Hazard Potential Safety Problem The electric propulsion systems for current technology EVs operate at a relatively high level of electric power. In the case of the two EV conversions which the agency crash tested in 1993, the nominal voltage levels for the electric propulsion systems were 120 and 144 volts with a maximum battery system current limit (controlled by fuse) of 400 and 350 amps for the Sebring and Solectria vehicles, respectively. Current technology EVs have battery voltage levels up to 400 volts or more, and maximum current ratings up to 400 amps. Because of these high levels of electric power, there is the potential for electric shock to occupants and rescue teams as a result of an EV crash or rollover. There is also the potential for electric shock to persons performing EV repair and maintenance. The agency requests information on the potential safety hazards of electric shock for EVs with a GVWR of 4536 kg or less, and all EV school buses regardless of weight. 20. What levels of voltage (volts) and current (amps) are expected to be used in EV propulsion systems over the next five and ten years? Do these levels depend on vehicle size or the type of electric drive system onboard the EV (AC or DC)? Please describe.
