FR940426-2-00101 FR940426-2-00063 REMIC issuances will be limited during the initial stage of the program. Once the REMIC program is fully established, however, GNMA anticipates that a substantial percentage of its annual production of GNMA single-class securities will be securitized by GNMA REMICs, resulting in perhaps 100 or more REMIC transactions per year. 3. PTC as GNMA REMIC Depository GNMA has requested that PTC serve as custodian of the new GNMA REMIC security and is designating PTC as depository for the GNMA REMIC securities. PTC currently acts as depository for the GNMA I and GNMA II securities and for VA REMIC securities. It is anticipated that each class of the GNMA REMIC securities will be issued initially in the form of one or more physical certificates registered in the name of the Mortgage Backed Securities Clearing Corporation, nominee for PTC, and held in physical form by PTC's custodian, with participants receiving and delivering REMIC securities by book-entry on PTC's books. REMIC securities may be held subsequent to original issuance in either certificated form, outside of PTC, or on PTC's book-entry system, as is currently the case with the GNMA I and GNMA II single-class MBS and the VA REMIC securities on deposit at PTC. PTC's current custody agreement with its custodian, Chemical Bank, accommodates the deposit of GNMA REMIC securities with the custodian. The REMIC securities will be supported entirely by the cash flows on the underlying GNMA-guaranteed GNMA I MBS. REMIC trustees will be required to pay principal and interest (``P&I'') on the REMIC securities in same day funds on the 16th day of the month, or the first business day thereafter if the 16th is not a business day. REMIC P&I will therefore be paid to REMIC holders on the same day that the P&I on the underlying MBS is paid to MBS holders. PTC will pass through the REMIC payment on the same day as received. Not later than the 14th day of each month, the trustee will deliver to PTC and Chemical Bank the factor information for payment on the REMIC securities. PTC will follow the instructions from the trustee for the disbursement of funds received on the GNMA MBS collateralizing the REMIC trust. The volume of the GNMA REMIC securities initially deposited at PTC will be modest compared to the total face amount GNMA securities now on deposit at PTC (approximately $880 billion) and is expected to have a comparably small impact on PTC's overall transaction volume. GNMA I's that constitute the corpus of a GNMA REMIC trust will remain immobilized at PTC and, therefore, will be removed from PTC's transactions volume after the creation of the REMIC. In addition, CMO/REMIC tranches historically have been less actively traded than single-class mortgage-backed securities. It is expected that PTC will utilize pricing sources and the methodology employed for the VA REMIC pricing at PTC for the GNMA REMIC product. As an eligible security, functionally and legally comparable to GNMA single-class and VA REMIC securities, PTC's Rules and Procedures are currently consistent with, and govern PTC's and its participants' rights and obligations with respect to, the GNMA REMIC securities. PTC end-of-day borrowing agreements also currently apply to GNMA REMIC securities without change. Finally, PTC anticipates that the fees imposed by PTC for providing depository services for GNMA REMIC securities will be the same as those in effect for GNMA MBS. PTC believes that since the proposed rule change provides for the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions it is consistent with section 17A of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to PTC. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition PTC does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants, or Others PTC has neither solicited nor received comments on this proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve such proposed rule change or, (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of PTC. All submissions should refer to file number SR&hyph;PTC&hyph;94&hyph;01 and should be submitted by May 17, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10007 Filed 4&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
