FR941219-0-00046 FR941219-0-00014 Service Response: DWR (1994) states that Federal and State pumps entrain delta smelt. A relationship has been found between the number of juvenile delta smelt salvaged at the State and Federal pumps and both the percent of inflow diverted and total Delta outflow (DWR 1994). Whether or not there is a statistical relationship between the number of delta smelt entrained at the State and Federal water project pumps and subsequent delta smelt abundance, water quality (salinity) is essential to the conservation of the delta smelt. Adequate salinity and flow provide the delta smelt with suitable habitat for all life stages, and will transport delta smelt away from major points of entrainment. The Service recognizes and has stated in previous rules that delta smelt are taken downstream of the Sacramento-San Joaquin River confluence in numerous agricultural, municipal and industrial diversions. Delta smelt are also taken upstream from the confluence in numerous (over one-thousand) agricultural diversions. Comment 24: One commenter thought the Montezuma Slough Control Structure might aid, rather than interfere, with the distribution of delta smelt within Suisun Marsh. Service Response: Based on the best available evidence, the Service maintains that operation of the Montezuma Slough Control Structure may result in the destruction or adverse modification of critical habitat. The Service is required by section 4(b)(8) of the Act to identify public or private activities that may result in destruction or adverse modification of critical habitat, and does so in the context of this rulemaking. Even though optimal operation of the Montezuma Slough Control Structure may provide valuable habitat to delta smelt, its operation for other purposes may interfere with the distribution of delta smelt to spawning and rearing habitat within Suisun Marsh. The effects of the salinity control structure on delta smelt are currently being investigated by the DWR, in coordination with the Bureau. Social Issues Comment 25: Some respondents believe humans are the real endangered species, and that neither delta smelt nor any other animal species should be considered more important than humans. Similarly, one commenter thought humans could survive just fine without delta smelt, but could not survive without farmers. Service Response: The Act recognizes that species of fish, wildlife, and plants are of aesthetic, ecological, educational, historical, recreational, and scientific value to the Nation and its people (section 2(a)(3)). Delta smelt possess these attributes. The delta smelt is the only smelt endemic to California and one of only two native estuarine smelt species (the other being longfin smelt) found in the Estuary. The purpose of the Act is to protect species in danger of becoming extinct in the immediate or foreseeable future. Humans are not in such danger. The number of humans has increased in the last century at a rapid rate. As pointed out in a report submitted by one commenter, total farm-related employment (agricultural services, food manufacturers, and agricultural chemicals) increased between 1977 and 1989 (Carter and Goldman 1992). Agricultural services provided 89,908 jobs in California in 1989, adding some 45,000 jobs and more than 4,000 agricultural firms in 12 years. Comment 26: Congressman Gary Condit and several other commenters thought the critical habitat proposal failed to account for the human element involved, especially the ``[E]ffect and toil of thousands of human hands and hearts to provide healthy and wholesome food for the United States and throughout the world''. Service Response: As required by the Act, the Service has adequately accounted for the ``human element'' by analyzing the economic impacts of designating critical habitat for the delta smelt. The draft economic analysis has been revised in response to public comments, in response to discussions held at five workshops sponsored by the EPA, and in light of additional research to better portray the economic reality of the critical habitat designation.
