FR941012-0-00074 FR941012-0-00011 [T]he use of low-kickback guide bars results in a tradeoff of some reduction in utility for an improvement in safety. Industry sources have suggested that this may be an acceptable tradeoff for the less powerful saws which are probably purchased by consumers. Since the tradeoff involves a marginal improvement in safety, however, manufacturers are probably less willing to equip the more powerful, more performance oriented saws with the low-kickback guide bars (Ex. 5&hyph;13). Finally, the potential for kickback can be reduced by the low- or reduced-kickback chain. This chain is commonly referred to as new generation chain. Low kickback chain can be identified by an idler or spacer link between each of the cutting links. In other words, the chain has a left hand cutter link on the right side of the chain, followed by a spacer link, followed by a right hand cutter link on the left side of the chain followed by another spacer link before the sequence begins again. Although the low-kickback chain can reduce kickback energy by 40 to 90 percent, there are drawbacks to its use, according to the CPSC report. These drawbacks include: (1) New technology chains generally exhibit some loss in cutting efficiency (speed and ease of cutting), (2) these chains make cutting more tiring for the operator thereby causing more operator fatigue, and (3) the loss of cutting efficiency may adversely affect the life of the chain. The loss of cutting efficiency has been estimated to be anywhere from a 10 to 25 percent. OSHA has no estimates of the increase in operator fatigue and the degradation in the service life of the chain. Of the four protective devices, most commenters said OSHA should require chain saws to be equipped with a chain brake because it is the most used and most effective for professional logging operations (Ex. 4&hyph;175, 5&hyph;17, 5&hyph;19, 5&hyph;21, 5&hyph;27, 5&hyph;34, 5&hyph;42, 5&hyph;46, 9&hyph;3, 9&hyph;4, 9&hyph;13, 9&hyph;15, 9&hyph;18, 9&hyph;20; Tr. OR 536&hyph;37). Several of these commenters said that all chain saws used at their establishments are equipped with chain brakes. These commenters also said that almost all manufacturers now produce chain saws with some kind of chain brake and that almost all chain saws manufactured for commercial logging operations now have chain brakes (Ex. 5&hyph;19; Tr. OR 185&hyph;87, 536). In addition, one commenter said that manufacturers have improved earlier mechanical problems with chain brakes so that they are reliable in preventing kickback (Ex. 9&hyph;4). With regard to the effectiveness of chain brakes, one commenter said: The chain brake is, I'd say, one of the most important chain saw protective devices developed in modern history. In Montana all of our current professional saws are equipped with chain brakes. Most of our saws are in the four to six cubic inch range, primarily, Stihl and Husqvarna with a few other minor brands and seldom on job visitations do I find anyone who has disconnected the chain brake. It's so uncommon that it's startling when I find that any more.
