FR940705-2-00153 FR940705-2-00090 Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-c. Signs (BL3&hyph;N) Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-c-(1). When the animal research requires special provisions for entry (e.g., vaccination), a warning sign incorporating the universal biosafety symbol shall be posted on all access doors to the animal work area. The sign shall indicate: (i) The agent, (ii) the animal species, (iii) the name and telephone number of the Animal Facility Director or other responsible individual, and (iv) any special requirements for entering the laboratory. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-d. Protective Clothing (BL3&hyph;N) Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-d-(1). Full protective clothing that protects the individual (e.g., scrub suits, coveralls, uniforms) shall be worn in the animal area. Clothing shall not be worn outside the animal containment area and shall be decontaminated before laundering or disposal. Personnel shall be required to shower before exiting the BL3&hyph;N area and wearing of personal clothing. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-d-(2). Special care shall be taken to avoid skin contamination with microorganisms containing recombinant DNA. Impervious and/or protective gloves shall be worn when handling experimental animals and when skin contact with an infectious agent is unavoidable. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-d-(3). Appropriate respiratory protection shall be worn in rooms containing experimental animals. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-e. Records (BL3&hyph;N) Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-e-(1). Documents regarding experimental animal use and disposal shall be maintained in a permanent record book. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-e-(2). Any incident involving spills and accidents that result in environmental release or exposure of animals or laboratory workers to organisms containing recombinant DNA shall be reported immediately to the Biological Safety Office, Animal Facility Director, Institutional Biosafety Committee, NIH/ORDA, and other appropriate authorities (if applicable). Reports to the NIH/ORDA shall be sent to the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, National Institutes of Health, Building 31, Room 4B11, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, (301) 496&hyph;9838. Medical evaluation, surveillance, and treatment shall be provided as appropriate and written records maintained. If necessary, the area shall be appropriately decontaminated. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-e-(3). When appropriate and giving consideration to the agent handled, baseline serum samples shall be collected and stored for animal care and other at-risk personnel. Additional serum specimens may be collected periodically depending on the agent handled or the function of the facility. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-f. Transfer of Materials (BL3&hyph;N) Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-f-(1). Biological materials removed from the animal containment laboratory in a viable or intact state shall be transferred to a non- breakable sealed primary container and then enclosed in a non-breakable sealed secondary container. All containers, primary and secondary, shall be disinfected before removal from the animal facility. Advance approval for transfer of material shall be obtained from the Animal Facility Director. Packages containing viable agents may be opened only in a facility having an equivalent or higher level of physical containment unless the agent is biologically inactivated or incapable of reproduction. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-f-(2). Special safety testing, decontamination procedures, and Institutional Biosafety Committee approval shall be required to transfer agents or tissue/organ specimens from a BL3&hyph;N animal facility to a facility with a lower containment classification. Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-g. Other (BL3&hyph;N) Appendix Q-II-C&hyph;1-g-(1). All genetically engineered neonates shall be permanently marked within 72 hours after birth, if their size permits. If their size does not permit marking, their containers should be marked. In addition, transgenic animals should contain distinct and biochemically assayable DNA sequences that allow identification of transgenic animals from among nontransgenic animals.
