FR940617-0-00178 FR940617-0-00026 (b) Follow good engineering practices for instrument start-up and operation. Adjust the analyzer to optimize performance. (c) Zero the oxides of nitrogen analyzer with zero-grade air or zero-grade nitrogen. (d) Connect the outlet of the NO X generator to the sample inlet of the oxides of nitrogen analyzer which has been set to the most common operating range. (e) Introduce into the NO X generator analyzer-system an NO-in-nitrogen (N 2 ) mixture with an NO concentration equal to approximately 80 percent of the most common operating range. The NO 2 content of the gas mixture shall be less than 5 percent of the NO concentration. (f) With the oxides of nitrogen analyzer in the NO mode, record the concentration of NO indicated by the analyzer. (g) Turn on the NO X generator O 2 (or air) supply and adjust the O 2 (or air) flow rate so that the NO indicated by the analyzer is about 10 percent less than indicated in paragraph (b)(5) of this section. Record the concentration of NO in this NO+O 2 mixture. (h) Switch the NO X generator to the generation mode and adjust the generation rate so that the NO measured on the analyzer is 20 percent of that measured in paragraph (b)(5) of this section. There must be at least 10 percent unreacted NO at this point. Record the concentration of residual NO. (i) Switch the oxides of nitrogen analyzer to the NO X mode and measure total NO X . Record this value. (j) Switch off the NO X generator but maintain gas flow through the system. The oxides of nitrogen analyzer will indicate the NO X in the NO+O 2 mixture. Record this value. (k) Turn off the NO X generator O 2 (or air) supply. The analyzer will now indicate the NO X in the original NO-in-N 2 mixture. This value should be no more than 5 percent above the value indicated in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. (l) Calculate the efficiency of the NO X converter by substituting the concentrations obtained into the following equation: E:GRAPHICSER17JN94.000 Where: a =concentration obtained in paragraph (i), b =concentration obtained in paragraph (j), c =concentration obtained in paragraph (g), d =concentration obtained in paragraph (h). If converter efficiency is not greater than 90 percent, corrective action will be required. ยง89.318&hyph;96 Analyzer interference checks.
