FR940324-2-00100 FR940324-2-00046 Notice of Availability of the Agency Draft Recovery Plan for White Irisette for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability and public comment period. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability for public review of an agency draft recovery plan the white irisette ( Sisyrinchium dichotomum ). This rare perennial herb grows on circumneutral soils on a few scattered mountain slopes in western North Carolina and northern South Carolina. Only seven populations of white irisette are currently known to exist. The Service solicits review and comments from the public on this draft plan. DATES: Comments on the agency draft recovery plan must be received on or before May 23, 1994, to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the agency draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contacting the Asheville Field Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 330 Ridgefield Court, Asheville, North Carolina 28806 (Telephone 704/665&hyph;1195). Written comments and materials regarding the plan should be addressed to the Field Supervisor at the above address. Comments and materials received are available on request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Nora Murdock at the address and telephone number shown above (Ext. 231). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring endangered or threatened animals or plants to the point where they are again secure, self-sustaining members of their ecosystems is a primary goal of the Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe actions considered necessary for conservation of the species, established criteria for recognizing the recovery levels for downlisting or delisting them, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) (Act), requires the development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that a public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan development. The Service will consider all information presented during a public comment period prior to approval of each new or revised recovery plan. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comments into account in the course of implementing approved recovery plans. The primary species considered in this draft recovery plan is white irisette ( Sisyrinchium dichotomum ). The areas of emphasis for recovery actions are mountain slopes with circumneutral soils in Polk and Rutherford Counties, North Carolina, and Greenville County, South Carolina. Habitat protection, reintroduction, and preservation of genetic material are major objectives of this recovery plan. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the recovery plan described. All comments received by the date specified above will be considered prior to approval of the plan. Authority The authority for this action is Section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1533(f). Dated: March 17, 1994. Brian P. Cole, Field Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6986 Filed 3&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
