FR940920-1-00008 FR940920-1-00002 In response to these comments and upon further consideration, the Commission has modified its proposal. Initially, the Commission had requested comments on the need to amend the Uniform System of Accounts to reflect the proposed changes to Form U&hyph;13&hyph;60. On balance, however, it does not appear necessary to amend the Commission's Uniform System of Accounts in the event that Form U&hyph;13&hyph;60 is amended. The Commission's Uniform System of Accounts follows the FERC System of Accounts, with modifications, and contemplates that accounts and financial statements of service companies will comply with that system. 9 As the commenters suggest, the proposed amendments to Form U&hyph;13&hyph;60 will effectively incorporate in the Uniform System of Accounts additional accounts corresponding to the FERC System of Accounts. 10 9 Specifically, §256.01&hyph;7(g) provides: The Uniform System of Accounts promulgated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, as amended from time to time, and the interpretations thereof adopted from time to time by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, .␣.␣. shall be complied with unless expressly inconsistent with the requirements of this system. 17 CFR 256.01&hyph;7(g). 10 See CNG, EUA and NEES. The Commission has modified its proposal to add several new schedules to Form U&hyph;13&hyph;60 and to modify the existing schedules by adding new accounts and other requirements. The amendments are intended to result in more detailed disclosure of certain categories of information, and to ensure generally that accounting for services rendered to a system utility is consistent with the accounting for such expenses on the utility's balance sheet and income statement. In addition, the amendments will reduce some regulatory burdens by creating or modifying dollar thresholds for reporting purposes and by simplifying the reporting requirements. 11 11 The amendments will also make certain changes in format to facilitate Commission review, and various other minor conforming revisions. The various accounts proposed to be added to Form U&hyph;13&hyph;60 correspond, in each instance, to accounts under the FERC System of Accounts. A. Instructions for Use of Form U&hyph;13&hyph;60 The Commission proposes to amend the instructions to provide that use of the new accounts is mandatory. The Commission has considered whether the use of the new accounts should be discretionary or mandatory. On the one hand, the mandatory use of these accounts could entail additional expense for some companies. 12 On the other hand, a requirement of mandatory use would help to ensure fuller identification of charges to facilitate accounting by the associate companies and regulatory examination. The Commission believes that the goal of improved disclosure should prevail, but invites particular comment on this aspect of the proposed amendments. 12 It would, however, conform to the current accounting practice of others. In addition, the amended instructions would require service company charges to be presented in the accompanying schedules on an ``as billed'' basis. 13 At present, the costs of a transaction may be classified differently on the financial statements of its associate company customers. For example, salary expenses associated with the construction of a transmission line may be classified as expenses on the income statement of the service company but as capital items on the balance sheet of the associate company. Consistent treatment of these items should aid ratemakers and others in identifying service company charges on the financial statements of associate public-utility companies. The Commission requests comment, in particular, on the need for a phase-in period of up to three years for this requirement. 13 ``As billed'' refers to the treatment of an item on the financial statements of an associate company customer.
