FR940114-1-00037 FR940114-1-00008 Provisions for program evaluation, beginning at the planning stage and carrying through implementation and final evaluation, essentially using the same types of data that were used in developing the programs implemented. IV. Managing Traffic Records Each State should have an organizational structure in place for effective administration of its traffic records program, at a minimum consisting of the following components: A permanent Traffic Records Committee, representing the principal users and custodians of the data in the State, that provides administrative and technical guidance. The Committee should be responsible for adopting requirements for file structure and linkage, assessing capabilities and resources, establishing goals for improving the traffic records program, evaluating the program, continuously developing cooperation and support from State and local agencies as well as the private sector, and ensuring that high quality and timely data are available to authorized persons or agencies for appropriate use; A single state agency with responsibility for coordinating the traffic safety-related data aspects of the various State information systems. This would include ensuring that the necessary data were available for use in safety and analyses; and Professional staff with analytical expertise to perform data analysis for program planning and evaluation, including a basic understanding of data processing as it relates to the use of personal computers (PCs) and the ability to use PC software application packages to perform problem identification and program evaluation tasks. Highway Safety Program Guideline No. 11 Emergency Medical Services Each State, in cooperation with its political subdivisions, should ensure that persons incurring traffic injuries (or other trauma) receive prompt emergency medical care under the range of emergency conditions encountered. Each of the component parts of a system should be equally committed to its role in the system and ultimately to the care of the patient. At a minimum, the EMS program should be made up of the components detailed in this chapter. I. Regulation and Policy Each State should embody comprehensive enabling legislation, regulations, and operational policies and procedures to provide an effective system of emergency medical and trauma care. This legal framework should: Establish the program and designate a lead agency; Outline the lead agency's basic responsibilities, including licensure and certification; Require comprehensive planning and coordination; Designate EMS and trauma system funding sources; Require data collection and evaluation; and Provide authority to establish minimum standards and identify penalties for noncompliance. Each of these components, which are discussed in different sections of this guideline, are critical to the effectiveness of legislation that is the legal foundation for a statewide EMS system. II. Resource Management Each State should establish a central lead agency at the State level to identify, categorize, and coordinate resources necessary for overall system implementation and operation. The lead agency should: Maintain a coordinated response and ensure that resources are used appropriately throughout the State; Provide equal access to basic emergency care for all victims of medical or traumatic emergencies; Provide adequate triage and transport of all victims by appropriately certified personnel (at a minimum, trained to the emergency medical technician [EMT] basic level) in properly licensed, equipped, and maintained ambulances; Provide transport to a facility that is appropriately equipped, staffed, and ready to administer to the needs of the patient (section 4: Transportation); and, Appoint an advisory council to provide a forum for cooperative action and maximum use of resources. III. Human Resources and Training Each State should ensure that its EMS system has essential trained human resources to perform required tasks. These personnel include: first responders (e.g., police and fire), prehospital providers (e.g., emergency medical technicians and paramedics), communications specialists, physicians, nurses, hospital administrators, and planners. Each State should provide a comprehensive statewide plan for stable and consistent EMS training programs with effective local and regional support. The State agency should: Ensure sufficient availability of adequately trained EMS personnel; Establish EMT-Basic as the state minimum level of training for all transporting EMS personnel; Routinely monitor training programs to ensure uniformity and quality control;
