FR940707-0-00022 FR940707-0-00008 Appendix D to Subpart M_Unauthorized Activities in Maneuver Training Areas 1. Fort Lewis: Civilian paramilitary activities and combat games. Off-pavement motorcycle riding. Off-road vehicle operation. Hang gliding. Ultralight aircraft flying. Hot air ballooning. Souvenir hunting and metal-detecting, including recovery of ammunition residue or fragments, archaeological or cultural artifacts, or geological specimens. Vehicle speed contests. Wood cutting or brush picking, without DEH or Corps of Engineer permit. Commercial activities conducted for profit, including horseback riding rentals or guide service, dog training for reimbursement, or fund-raising events for other than non-profit organizations working in the public good. Fund raisers require DEH Real Estate Agreement. For-profit activities require Corps of Engineer leases or permits, obtained through the DEH Real Estate Office. Overnight camping outside of DPCA sites (camping on DPCA sites is open to DoD members only, per above). Consumption of alcoholic beverages. 2. Yakima Training Center: Civilian paramilitary activities and combat games. Off-pavement motorcycle riding. Off-road vehicle operation. Hang gliding. Ultralight aircraft flying. Hot air ballooning. Souvenir hunting and metal-detecting, including recovery of ammunition residue or fragments, archaeological or cultural artifacts. Vehicle speed contests. Commercial activities conducted for profit, including dog training for reimbursement, or fund-raising events for other than non-profit organizations working in the public good. Fund raisers require DEH Real Estate Agreement. For-profit activities require Corps of Engineer leases or permits, obtained through the DEH Real Estate Office. Overnight camping except where specifically permitted as part of the activity by the Commander, Yakima Training Center. Consumption of alcoholic beverages. 3. Camp Bonneville: Civilian paramilitary activities and combat games. Off-pavement motorcycle riding. Off-road vehicle operation. Hang gliding. Ultralight aircraft flying. Hot air ballooning. Souvenir hunting and metal-detecting, including recovery of ammunition residue or fragments, archaeological or cultural artifacts, or geological specimens. Vehicle speed contests. Wood cutting or brush picking, without DEH or Corps of Engineer permit. Commercial activities conducted for profit, including horseback riding rentals or guide service, dog training for reimbursement, or fund-raising events for other than non-profit organizations working in the public good. Fund raisers require DEH Real Estate Agreement. For-profit activities require Corps of Engineer leases or permits, obtained through the DEH Real Estate Office. Overnight camping. Consumption of alcoholic beverages. Model airplane and rocket flying. Sport parachuting.
