FR940505-1-00453 FR940505-1-00012 (8) A certification that tests were performed in accordance with this section. (9) For vehicles that fail the tailpipe emission test, any available information on the possible causes of the specific pattern of high emission levels found during the test. (10) For vehicles that fail the enhanced I/M test, a description of the consumer complaint procedure, including a statement indicating that any administrative challenge regarding the performance or results of the test must be made by the vehicle owner or operator within 10 days of the failure of the emission inspection. (r) Retest. (1) Procedure. Vehicles that fail the initial test or a retest shall be retested after repair to determine if the repairs were effective for any portion of the inspection that was failed on the previous test. To the extent that repair to correct a previous failure could lead to failure of another portion of the test, that portion shall also be retested. Evaporative system repairs performed as a result of the vehicle's failing either the evaporative system purge or pressure test shall be cause for a complete retest covering all of the initial test requirements. (2) Prerequisites. For a retest, the vehicle owner or driver shall present to the inspection station the emission inspection test report and a completed repair data form. If the repairs were performed by the owner or someone other than a recognized repair technician, the repair data form shall be completed by the person performing the repair. If the repairs were performed at a recognized repair facility, the repair data form completed by the repair facility shall be presented to the emission inspection station. (3) Content of repair data form. The repair data form shall include the following: (i) The repairs performed. (ii) The cost of repairs. (iii) The repair technician's number or name if the person who made the repairs does not have a license number issued by the California Bureau of Automotive Repair. (iv) Any repairs recommended by the repair facility that were not performed. (v) The name, address and telephone number of the repair facility. (s) Issuance of a waiver. The emission inspection station shall issue a certificate of emission inspection with an indicator to show that the vehicle has received a waiver if all of the following are complied with: (1) The subject vehicle has failed the initial emission inspection, qualifying repairs have been completed and the subject vehicle has failed the retest. (2) Emission control devices, as originally equipped, are installed. Vehicles with emission devices which are obsolete and cannot be obtained through the original equipment manufacturer, aftermarket manufacturers or suppliers of used parts are exempt from this paragraph. (3) The amount spent on qualifying repairs shall: (i) Be at least $450 adjusted annually in January by the percentage by which the Consumer Price Index for the current year differs from the 1989 Consumer Price Index. (ii) Include parts costs and labor costs paid for qualifying emission repair services performed on the vehicle if paid by the vehicle owner and if the qualifying repairs were performed by a recognized repair technician. For qualifying emission repair services performed on pre-1980 vehicles, by someone other than a recognized repair technician, parts costs but not labor costs shall be counted toward the minimum cost limit. For qualifying emission repair services performed on 1980 and newer vehicles, by someone other than a recognized repair technician, neither parts costs nor labor costs may be counted toward the minimum cost limit. (iii) Be considered qualifying if they are appropriate to the cause of the test failure. (iv) Exclude expenses which are incurred in the repair of emission control devices which are found to be tampered with, rendered inoperative, or not installed. (v) Exclude costs recoverable under an emission warranty, insurance policy or prepaid maintenance agreement. These recoverable cost repairs shall be completed before necessary repair costs can be applied toward the waiver cost limitations. The operator of a vehicle within the statutory age and mileage coverage under section 207(b) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7525(b)) shall present a written denial of warranty coverage from the manufacturer or authorized dealer for this provision to be waived. (vi) Exclude the fee for emission inspection. (vii) Exclude charges for giving a written estimate of needed repairs. (viii) Exclude charges for checking for the presence of emission control devices. (ix) Exclude costs for repairs performed on the vehicle before the initial test failure. (4) The vehicle owner or driver shall present the original of repair bills to the inspection station to demonstrate compliance with the qualifying dollar amount for that year. The bills shall: (i) Include the name, address and phone number of the repair facility. (ii) Describe the repairs that were performed. (iii) State the labor and parts costs separately for each repair. (5) Upon completion of waiver requirements and a visual check to determine that repairs were actually made, a certification of emission inspection, with a waiver indicator, shall be made for the subject vehicle. (t) Onroad testing. Onroad testing of subject vehicles shall be conducted using RSD in each FIP I/M program area using a carbon monoxide (CO) cutpoint of 4 percent to screen for potential gross emitters. The onroad testing program will be aimed at identifying 10 percent of the subject fleet for follow-up, out-of-cycle confirmatory testing.
