FR940406-0-00058 FR940406-0-00004 During the period Santa Teresa has been operating as a temporary Customs station, Customs has achieved notable results in obtaining commitments from the trade community regarding their use of electronic data input for the processing of entries. Currently, most of the brokers or importers filing entries are automated. No current importer dominates the scene, and, as the surrounding infrastructure continues to improve, additional entities have expressed their intentions to utilize the port. Currently, the only port of entry along the New Mexico-Mexico border is located in the far western portion of the state. Diplomatic negotiations have been held with the Government of Mexico concerning the creation of a port of entry at Santa Teresa, and both governments are in agreement with such an action. Port of Entry Boundaries The boundaries of the port of entry of Santa Teresa are as follows: Beginning at the junction of the boundary between Texas and New Mexico with the U.S.-Mexico border, west, along the Mexico-U.S. border until it intersects the range line between Range 1 East and Range 2 East, New Mexico Principal Meridian; at that point, north along that range line until it reaches the line between Township 27 South and Township 28 South; then east along the Township line until it reaches the Texas-New Mexico border; then south-east along the Texas-New Mexico border to the beginning point. Santa Teresa Airport In this action, Customs is also amending ยง122.24(b) by adding the Santa Teresa Airport, which is within the boundaries of the port of entry, to the list of airports designated as airports at which private aircraft arriving in the Continental U.S. must report intended arrival pursuant to ยง122.23(b) and land for Customs processing in accordance with ยง122.24(b). Section 122.23(b) provides, essentially, that all private aircraft arriving in the Continental U.S. via the U.S.-Mexican border, from a foreign place in the Western Hemisphere south of 33 degrees north latitude, or from any place in Mexico, shall furnish notice of intended arrival to Customs at the nearest designated airport to the point of crossing for the first landing in the U.S. ยง122.24 provides that such aircraft shall land for Customs processing at the nearest designated airport to the border or coastline crossing point. At present, there is no designated airport in the State of New Mexico. The identification of the Santa Teresa Airport as a designated airport by Customs will benefit the flying public by increasing the options available for reporting arrival and obtaining Customs processing. The addition of this airport will also reduce delays at existing designated airports by permitting a better distribution of the inspection burden. Regulatory Flexibility Act and Executive Order 12866 Customs routinely establishes, expands, and consolidates Customs ports of entry throughout the United States to accommodate the volume of Customs-related activity in various parts of the country. Although this document is being issued after notice for public comment, it is not subject to the notice and public procedure requirements of 5 U.S.C. 553 because it relates to agency management and organization. Accordingly, this document is not subject to the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq .). Because this document relates to agency organization and management, it is not subject to Executive Order 12866. Drafting Information The principal author of this document was Peter T. Lynch, Regulations Branch, Office of Regulations and Rulings, U.S. Customs Service. However, personnel from other offices participated in its development.
