FR940622-2-00007 FR940622-2-00004 The Department has now conducted a review for this period in accordance with section 751 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (the Act). Scope of the Review The product covered by this administrative review is high-tenacity rayon filament yarn from Germany. During the review period, such merchandise was classifiable under the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) item number 5403.10.30.40. High-tenacity rayon filament yarn is a multifilament single yarn of viscose rayon with a twist of five turns or more per meter, having a denier of 1100 or greater, and a tenacity greater than 35 centinewtons per tex. The HTS item number is provided for convenience and U.S. Customs purposes. The written description remains dispositive as to the scope of the product coverage. The review covers Akzo and the period February 20, 1992 through May 31, 1993 (POR). United States Price In calculating USP, the Department treated Akzo's sales as purchase price (PP), as defined in section 772 of the Act, because the merchandise was sold to unrelated U.S. purchasers prior to importation. PP was based on the free-on-board (FOB) price to unrelated purchasers in the United States. We made adjustments, where applicable, for foreign brokerage and handling, foreign inland freight, ocean freight, U.S. duty, U.S. inland freight, foreign inland insurance, and U.S. brokerage. We made an addition to USP for taxes which were rebated upon exportation. On October 7, 1993, the United States Court of International Trade (CIT), in Federal-Mogul Corporation and The Torrington Company v. United States, Slip Op. 93&hyph;194 (CIT, October 7, 1993), rejected the Department's methodology for calculating an addition to USP under section 772(d)(1)(C) of the Act to account for taxes that the exporting country would have assessed on the merchandise had it been sold in the home market. The CIT held that the addition to USP under section 772(d)(1)(C) of the Act should be the result of applying the foreign market tax rate to the price of the U.S. merchandise at the same point in the chain of commerce that the foreign market tax was applied to the foreign market sales ( see Federal-Mogul, ) Slip Op. 93&hyph;194 at 12). In accordance with the Federal-Mogul decision, the Department added to USP the result of multiplying the foreign market tax rate by the U.S. price at the same point in the chain of commerce that the foreign market tax was applied to foreign market sales. The Department has also adjusted the USP tax adjustments and the amount of tax included in FMV to account for expenses that are later deducted from USP and FMV. These adjustments to the amount of the foreign market tax and the USP tax adjustment are necessary to prevent our new methodology for calculating the USP tax adjustment from creating antidumping duty margins where no margins would exist if not taxes were levied upon foreign market sales. Without the adjustments, margins would be artificially increased because both the amount of tax included in the price of the foreign market merchandise and the amount of the USP tax adjustment include many expenses that are later deducted when calculating USP and FMV. After deductions are made for these expenses, the amount of tax included in FMV and the USP tax adjustment still reflects the amounts of these expenses. Thus, a margin may be created that is not dependent upon a difference between USP and FMV, but rather is the result of the price of the U.S. merchandise containing more expenses than the price of the foreign market merchandise. The Department's policy of avoiding the creation of artificial margins is in accordance with court decisions. The United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit has held that the application of the USP tax adjustment under section 772(d)(1)(C) of the Act should not create an antidumping duty margin if pre-tax FMV does not exceed USP ( see Zenith Electronics Corp. v. United States, 988 F.2d 1573, 1581 (Fed. Cir. 1993)). In addition, the CIT has specifically held that an adjustment should be made to mitigate the impact of expenses that are deducted from FMV and USP upon the USP tax adjustment and the amount of tax included in FMV ( see Daewoo Electronics Co., Ltd. v. United States, 760 F. Supp. 200, 208 (CIT, 1991)). However, the mechanics of the Department's adjustments to the USP tax adjustment and the foreign market tax amount as described above are not identical to those suggested in Daewoo. In addition, the Department requested that Akzo submit information relating to all exporter's sales price (ESP) sales made during the POR. The Department analyzed data submitted by Akzo and determined that the ESP sales reported were entered and liquidated prior to the date of the Department's preliminary determination of sales at less-than-fair-value (LTFV). Because this merchandise was entered prior to the date of the preliminary determination, it was not covered by this order ( see Notice of Antidumping Duty Order: High-Tenacity Rayon Filament Yarn from Germany, 57 FR 29062 (June 30, 1992)). Therefore, we have excluded these sales from this review. No other adjustments to USP were claimed or allowed. Foreign Market Value Akzo had sufficient home market sales of the subject merchandise during the POR. Therefore, the sales of high-tenacity rayon filament yarn in the home market served as a viable basis for calculating FMV.
