FR940325-2-00195 FR940325-2-00091 13. The Underwriter will adopt compliance standards as to when each class of shares may appropriately be sold to particular investors. Applicants will require all persons selling shares of the Funds to agree to conform to such standards. Such compliance standards will require that all investors eligible to purchase Institutional Class shares be sold only Institutional Class shares, rather than any other class of shares offered by the Funds. 14. The conditions pursuant to which the exemptive order is granted and the duties and responsibilities of the directors of the Funds with respect to the multi-class distribution system will be set forth in guidelines which will be furnished to the directors. 15. Each Fund will disclose the respective expenses, performance data, distribution arrangements, services, fees, sales loads, deferred sales loads, and exchange privileges applicable to each class of shares, other than the Institutional Class, in every prospectus, regardless of whether all classes of shares are offered through each prospectus. The Institutional Class will be offered solely pursuant to a separate prospectus. The prospectus for the Institutional Class will disclose the existence of the Fund's other classes, and the prospectus for the Fund's other classes will disclose the existence of the Institutional Class and will identify the persons eligible to purchase shares of such class. Each Fund will disclose the respective expenses and performance data applicable to all classes of shares in every shareholder report. The shareholder reports will contain, in the statement of assets and liabilities and statement of operations, information related to the Fund as a whole generally and not on a per class basis. Each Fund's per share data, however, will be prepared on a per class basis with respect to the classes of shares of such fund. To the extent any advertisement or sales literature describes the expenses or performance data applicable to any class of shares (other than the Institutional Class), it will disclose the expenses and/or performance data applicable to all classes of shares. Advertising materials reflecting the expenses and performance data for the Institutional Class will be available only to investors eligible to invest in shares of the Institutional Class. The information provided by applicants for publication in any newspaper or similar listing of the Funds' net asset values and public offering prices will present each class of shares separately (other than the Institutional Class). 16. The applicants acknowledge that the grant of the exemptive order requested by the application will not imply SEC approval, authorization, or acquiescence in any particular level of payments that the Funds may make pursuant to its rule 12b&hyph;1 plans or shareholder services plans in reliance on the exemptive order. 17. The applicants will comply with the provisions of proposed rule 6c&hyph;10 under the Act, Investment Company Act Release No. 16619 (Nov. 2, 1988), as such rule is currently proposed and as it may be reproposed, adopted or amended. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7080 Filed 3&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
