FR941230-2-00008 FR941230-2-00005 International Trade Administration Annual Listing of Foreign Government Subsidies on Articles of Quota Cheese December 23, 1994. AGENCY: Import Administration, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce. ACTION: Publication of Annual Listing of Foreign Government Subsidies on Articles of Quota Cheese. SUMMARY: The Department of Commerce (the Department), in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, has prepared its annual list of foreign government subsidies on articles of quota cheese. We are publishing the current listing of those subsidies that we have determined exist. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 1, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Brian Albright or Maria MacKay, Office of Countervailing Compliance, Import Administration, International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20230, telephone: (202) 482&hyph;786. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 702(a) of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (the Act) requires the Department to determine, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, whether any foreign government is providing a subsidy with respect to any article of quota cheese, as defined in section 701(c)(1) of the Act, and to publish an annual list and quarterly updates of the type and amount of those subsidies. The Department has developed, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, information on subsidies (as defined in section 702(h)(2) of the Act) being provided either directly or indirectly by foreign governments on articles of quota cheese. The appendix to this notice lists the country, the subsidy program or programs, and the gross and net amounts of each subsidy for which information is currently available. The Department will incorporate additional programs which are found to constitute subsidies, and additional information on the subsidy programs listed, as the information is developed. The Department encourages any person having information on foreign government subsidy programs which benefit articles of quota cheese to submit such information in writing to the Assistant Secretary for Import Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230. This determination and notice are in accordance with section 702(a) of the Act. Dated: December 23, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration.
