FR940406-0-00039 FR940406-0-00002 (b) An agent of the class may file a request for review with the Commission of a dismissal of all or a portion of a class complaint rendered by the Board under §268.305(c) of this part, or a final decision of the Board accepting or rejecting all or a portion of a report of findings and recommendations of an administrative judge with regard to a class complaint pursuant to §268.305(i) of this part. A class member may file a request for review with the Commission of a final decision by the Board on a claim for individual relief under a class complaint pursuant to §268.305(k) of this part. Both an agent of the class and a class member may file a request for review with the Commission of a final decision of the Board on a petition pursuant to §268.305(f)(4) of this part. (c) A complainant, agent of the class or individual class claimant may file a request for review with the Commission of the Board's alleged noncompliance with a settlement agreement or final decision in accordance with §268.504 of this part. §268.402 Time limits for review by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. (a) Any dismissal of a complaint or a portion of a complaint, or any final decision of the Board, as set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of §268.209 of this part, may be reviewed by the Commission if a request for review is filed with the Commission within 30 days of the complainant's receipt of the dismissal or final decision. In the case of class complaints, any final decision of the Board received by an agent of the class, petitioner or any individual class claimant may be reviewed by the Commission if a request for review is filed with the Commission within 30 days of its receipt. Where a complainant has notified the EEO Programs Director of alleged noncompliance with a settlement agreement in accordance with §268.504 of this part, the complainant may file a request for review with the Commission within 35 days after notification to the EEO Programs Director under §268.504(a) of this part of such noncompliance, but the complainant must file a request for review within 30 days of receipt of the Board's determination. (b) If the complainant is represented by an attorney of record, then the 30 day time period provided in paragraph (a) of this section within which to file a request for review shall be calculated from the receipt of the notification required under §268.504(a) of this part by the attorney. In all other instances, the time within which to file a request for review with the Commission shall be calculated from the receipt of the notification required under §268.504(a) of this part by the complainant. §268.403 How to seek review. (a) The complainant must file a request for review with the Commission by sending EEOC Form 573, notice of Appeal/Petition, to the Director, Office of Federal Operations, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, P.O. Box 19848, Washington, DC 20036, or by personal delivery or facsimile. The complainant should indicate what matters he or she is requesting the Commission to review. (b) The complainant shall furnish a copy of the request for review to the Board's EEO Programs Director at the same time that he or she files the request for review with the Commission. In or attached to the request for review by the Commission, the complainant must certify the date and method by which service was made on the Board. (c) If a complainant does not file a request for review with the Commission within the time limits of this subpart D, the request for review shall be untimely and shall be dismissed by the Commission. (d) Any statement or brief in support of the request for review must be submitted to the Director, Office of Federal Operations, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and to the Board within 30 days of the filing of the request for review. Following receipt of the request for review, and any brief in support of the request for review, the Director, Office of Federal Operations, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, shall request the complaint file from the Board. The Board shall submit the complaint file and any Board statement or brief in opposition to the request for review to the Director, Office of Federal Operations, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, within 30 days of receipt of the Commission's request for the complaint file. A copy of the Board's statement or brief shall be served on the complainant at the same time.
