FR941028-0-00099 FR941028-0-00009 (b) If the review conducted under paragraph (a) of this section discloses any ownership or control link between the applicant and any person cited in a violation notice_ (1) The regulatory authority shall so notify the applicant and shall refer the applicant to the agency with jurisdiction over such violation notice; and (2) The regulatory authority shall not approve the application unless and until it determines, in accordance with the provisions of §§773.24 and 773.25 of this part (or the State program equivalent), (i) That all ownership or control links between the applicant and any person cited in a violation notice are erroneous or have been rebutted, or (ii) that the violation has been corrected, is in the process of being corrected, or is the subject of a good faith appeal, within the meaning of §773.15(b)(1) of this part (or the State program equivalent). (c) Following the regulatory authority's decision on the application (including unconditional issuance, conditional issuance, or denial of the permit) or following the applicant's withdrawal of the application, the regulatory authority shall promptly enter all relevant information related to such decision or withdrawal into AVS. 13. Section 773.24 is added as follows: §773.24 Procedures for challenging ownership or control links shown in AVS. (a)(1) Any applicant or other person shown in AVS in an ownership or control link to any person may challenge such link in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section and §773.25 of this part, unless such applicant or other person is bound by a prior administrative or judicial determination concerning the link. (2) Any applicant or other person shown in AVS in an ownership or control link to any person cited in a Federal violation notice may challenge the status of the violation covered by such notice in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section and §773.25 of this part, unless such applicant or other person is bound by a prior administrative or judicial determination concerning the status of the violation. (3) Any applicant or other person shown in AVS in an ownership or control link to any person cited in a State violation notice may challenge the status of the violation covered by such notice in accordance with the State program equivalents to paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section and §773.25 of this part for the State that issued the violation notice, unless such applicant or other person is bound by a prior administrative or judicial determination concerning the status of the violation. (b) Any applicant or other person who wishes to challenge an ownership or control link shown in AVS or the status of a Federal violation, and who is eligible to do so under the provisions of paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section, shall submit a written explanation of the basis for the challenge, along with any relevant evidentiary materials and supporting documents, to OSM, addressed to the Chief of the AVS Office, Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, U.S. Department of the Interior, Washington, D.C. 20240. (c) OSM shall review any information submitted under paragraph (b) of this section and shall make a written decision whether or not the ownership or control link has been shown to be erroneous or has been rebutted and/or whether the violation covered by the notice remains outstanding, has been corrected, is in the process of being corrected, or is the subject of a good faith appeal within the meaning of §773.15(b)(1) of this part. (d)(1) If, as a result of the decision reached under paragraph (c) of this section, OSM determines that the ownership or control link has been shown to be erroneous or has been rebutted and/or that the violation covered by the notice has been corrected, is in the process of being corrected, or is the subject of a good faith appeal, OSM shall so notify the applicant or other person and, if an application is pending, the regulatory authority, and shall correct the information in AVS. (2) If, as a result of the decision reached under paragraph (c) of this section, OSM determines that the ownership or control link has not been shown to be erroneous and has not been rebutted and that the violation covered by the notice remains outstanding, OSM shall so notify the applicant or other person and, if an application is pending, the regulatory authority, and shall update the information in AVS, if necessary. (i) OSM shall serve a copy of the decision on the applicant or other person by certified mail, or by any means consistent with the rules governing service of a summons and complaint under Rule 4 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Service shall be complete upon tender of the notice or of the mail and shall not be deemed incomplete because of a refusal to accept. (ii) The applicant or other person may appeal OSM's decision to the Department of the Interior's Office of Hearings and Appeals within 30 days of service of the decision in accordance with 43 CFR 4.1380 through 4.1387. OSM's decision shall remain in effect during the pendency of the appeal, unless temporary relief is granted in accordance with 43 CFR 4.1386.
