FR940513-0-00128 FR940513-0-00034 C. Requirements of Light Bulb Rule The Light Bulb Rule covers, with some exceptions, the category of general service incandescent (nonreflector) lamps. 11 It does not cover general service fluorescent lamps, medium base compact fluorescent lamps, or general service incandescent reflector lamps. The EPA 92 amendments require the Commission to issue labeling rules for all of these lamps. 12 11 16 CFR 409.1 n. 3. 12 Thus, today's amendments apply to: (1) General service incandescent (reflector and nonreflector) lamps; (2) medium base (integrally ballasted) compact fluorescent lamps; and (3) general service fluorescent lamps. The Light Bulb Rule requires that package containers disclose clearly and conspicuously the enclosed bulb's electrical energy consumption expressed in average initial wattage, light output expressed in average initial lumens, and average laboratory life expressed in hours. 13 It specifies placement and size of the disclosures on packages. 14 It also requires that the disclosures of the bulb's wattage, light output, and laboratory life be made in accordance with the requirements of a specific federal purchase specification, and that the disclosures be based upon ``generally accepted and approved test methods and procedures.'' 15 Finally, the Light Bulb Rule prohibits specific claims for these lamp products unless certain conditions are met. 16 13 16 CFR at 409.1(a). If lamps are sold without sleeves or packaging, or are sold in universal or interchangeable sleeves or packaging without the information listed above, then all these disclosures must appear clearly and conspicuously on the lamps themselves. Id. at 409.1(a)&hyph;(b). 14 Id. at 409.1 n. 4. 15 Id. at 409.1 n. 1. For multiple filament (``three-way'') lamps, it requires that wattage and lumen ratings be disclosed for operation at each level, and that the life rating be based on the life of the first filament that fails. Because the federal purchase specification cited in the Light Bulb Rule does not cover multiple filament lamps, that Rule allows industry members to substantiate wattage, light output, and laboratory life ratings using tests that are based upon generally accepted and approved test methods. It requires disclosure of the specific method used to determine the life rating, for example, that the lamp is burned on all three positions equally or that it is based on the life of the major filament (medium light level) of the lamp. Id. 16 Id. at 409.1(c)&hyph;(d). For example, ยง409.1(c) prohibits representations that savings either in lamp cost or cost of light will result from the use of certain lamps because of the lamps' life or light output unless specific factors are taken into account and clearly and conspicuously disclosed. The Light Bulb Rule remains effective notwithstanding the labeling rules for lamp products that the Commission now adopts. The Commission does, however, note two provisions of the Light Bulb Rule that are different from the lamp labeling rules. The first concerns the format requirements for disclosing the design wattage, light output and laboratory life ratings of general service incandescent nonreflector lamps. The second provision concerns the Light Bulb Rule's requirement that the testing for, and required disclosures of, wattage, light output and laboratory life ratings of general service nonreflector lamps be at the lamp's design voltage. The rules announced today also prescribe that these required ratings disclosures must be made in a specified manner and must be based on testing at 120 volts, regardless of the design voltage. Manufacturers are permitted to provide these ratings based on the design voltage. Because these different rule provisions are not contradictory, manufacturers will be able to comply with both without incurring significant additional costs. 17 Following this proceeding, the Commission will decide what further action, if any, it should take concerning the Light Bulb Rule. 17 The requirement to provide disclosures at 120 volts on lamps that have a different design voltage affects a very small segment of the market. Further, those manufacturers who make 125 or 130 volt lamps have a market incentive to provide the ratings at their design voltages whether or not it is required. Furthermore, the various size specifications set by the Light Bulb Rule only prescribe minimum sizes for these rating disclosures, which prevents the disclosures specified by today's rules from becoming too small. D. Procedures Used in Rulemaking Proceeding In the NPR, the Commission invited interested persons to submit by December 30, 1993, written comments on any issue of fact, law or policy that might have bearing upon the proposed lamp labeling rules. The Commission also announced in the NPR that the Commission's staff would conduct a Workshop, with the assistance of a neutral, third-party facilitator, to afford Commission staff and interested parties an opportunity to discuss issues raised in the rulemaking proceeding, particularly areas of significant controversy or divergent opinions that were raised in the written comments. The Commission announced that the discussion during the Workshop would be transcribed and the transcription would be placed on the public record. The NPR directed persons interested in participating in the Workshop to notify the Commission staff by December 15, 1993. 18 18 58 FR at 60163. The Workshop was to focus primarily on considering what information might be ``necessary to enable purchasers to select the most energy efficient lamps which meet their requirements,'' where the disclosures should be made, and the manner and layout for making the disclosures. Participants in the Workshop also were to be afforded an opportunity to address additional issues raised in the proceeding. The Workshop, however, was not intended to achieve a consensus among participants or between participants and Commission staff with respect to any issue raised in the rulemaking proceeding. The Workshop instead was intended to elicit information on the basis of which the Commission could determine how to design the lamp labeling rules.
