FR940527-2-00150 FR940527-2-00117 The NASD believes that the expanded Interpretation will provide qualified market makers with more certainty when they hedge transactions in one M&A stock with transactions in the other M&A stock. Moreover, the NASD believes that requiring market makers to adhere to the exchange ratios will help to ensure that market makers do not ``over short'' one M&A stock when hedging purchases in the other M&A stock. In addition, the NASD is proposing several minor changes to its short sale rule. First, the NASD proposes to amend Section (c)(7) of the short sale rule to clarify that the exemption from the rule afforded transactions in special international arbitrage accounts is available to non-NASD members as well as NASD members. Second, the NASD proposes to amend Section (k) of its short sale rule and Sections (h) and (i) of its proposed Primary Nasdaq Market Maker rule to reflect recent amendments to the NASD's By-Laws concerning the ability of the NASD's Board of Governors to adopt and amend NASD Rules of Fair Practice without a membership vote. 4 Lastly the NASD proposes to clarify that the review period for review of market maker performance in each of the Primary Nasdaq Market Maker qualification standards is one month. 4 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33737 (Mar. 8, 1994), 59 FR 12017 (Mar. 15, 1994). The NASD believes the proposed rule change is consistent with Sections 15A(b)(6) and 11A(c)(1)(F) of the Act. Section 15A(b)(6) requires that the rules of a national securities association be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in securities, and to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market. Section 11A(c)(1)(F) assures equal regulation of all markets for qualified securities and all exchange members, brokers, and dealers effecting transactions in such securities. Specifically, as noted in prior filings regarding the NASD's short sale rule, approval of the proposed short sale rule would result in equivalent short sale regulation in the exchange and Nasdaq markets and would work to prevent fraud and manipulation with respect to short sales in the Nasdaq market. Moreover, the NASD believes that allowing market makers to immediately register as qualified market makers in M&A stocks will promote market liquidity and enhance pricing efficiency at a time when they are most needed. In addition, the NASD believes that the three month restriction for premature, unexcused withdrawals in M&A stocks will help to ensure that market makers in M&A stocks do not enter the market merely to use the exemption to the rule to engage in aggressive short selling designed to drive down the price of a security. Finally, the NASD believes the additions to Interpretation A under the rule will provide market makers with more certainty regarding when they are entitled to an exemption from the rule, thereby promoting market efficiency and enhancing the orderliness of the market. With respect to the other proposed amendments discussed in this filing, the NASD believes they will serve to reduce investor confusion concerning the application and operation of the NASD's short sale rule, thereby promoting efficient and fair markets. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The NASD believes that the proposed rule change will not result in any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the NASD consents, the Commission will: A. by order approve such proposed rule change, or B. institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NASD. All submissions should refer to the file number SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;92&hyph;12 and should be submitted by June 17, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 5 5 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13039 Filed 5&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
