FR941216-0-00038 FR941216-0-00011 E. Other Natural or Manmade Factors Affecting Its Continued Existence Several other factors have also contributed to the decline of the species including drought, fire, and light and noise pollution. Additionally, there has been direct mortality of the toads due to road construction and maintenance, water inundation or drainage from dams and diversions, off-highway vehicle use, cattle and pig trampling, mining, and recreational activities. By far, the most significant natural factor adversely affecting the arroyo toad is drought and resultant deterioration of riparian habitats. Southern California recently experienced 5 consecutive years of lower than average rainfall. These drought conditions, when combined with human-induced water reductions (i.e., diversions of water from streams), have degraded riparian ecosystems and have created extremely stressful conditions for most aquatic species. Drought also affects arroyo toads in another manner. Female arroyo toads must feed for at least 2 months in order to develop the fat reserves needed to produce a clutch of eggs (Sweet 1992). In drought years, females may find insufficient insect prey to produce eggs before males cease their courtship behavior of calling, resulting in no reproduction in that year. The extremely low reproduction of 1990 was likely due to 4 years of severe drought (Sweet 1992). Although rainfall patterns in 1992 and 1993 returned to near normal levels, drought is a naturally recurring phenomenon in southern California. There is no doubt that arroyo toads evolved with periodic, severe drought. However, the recurrence of this natural event combined with the many manmade factors negatively affecting arroyo toad survival remains a significant threat to the species persistence. Periodic fires may adversely affect arroyo toads by causing direct mortality, destroying streamside vegetation, or eliminating vegetation that sustains the watershed. Recent natural and human-induced wildfires had devastating effects on populations of arroyo toads. The 1991 Lions Fire on upper Sespe Creek in the Los Padres National Forest destroyed habitat containing the largest known extant population of arroyo toads including 15 known breeding pools and over 50 percent of the known adult population on the Sespe drainage (Sweet 1991c). Surveys in 1992 revealed that the effects of the fire and subsequent flooding, erosion, and siltation caused the death of not less than 50 percent of the resident adult population of arroyo toads. The vocalizations of male toads are crucial to the breeding success of this species, as their calls are the key factor to finding mates. Light and noise pollution from adjacent developments or campgrounds may also reduce arroyo toad reproductive success by disrupting the vocalization behavior of males during the breeding season (M. Jennings, in litt. , 1993). Generally, the local population of arroyo toads declines as campground use increases (Sweet 1992). Unseasonal water releases from dams may prevent arroyo toads from breeding altogether, as discussed in Factor A, or may wash away eggs and larvae if releases are made after breeding has occurred (Sweet 1992). For example, large unscheduled releases from Pyramid Lake in May 1991 virtually eliminated all reproduction by arroyo toads below the dam in Piru Creek in what would have been the best year for reproduction following 5 years of drought (Sweet 1992). A proposal to convey State Water Project water from Pyramid Lake to Piru Lake via Piru Creek would also threaten arroyo toad survival on Piru Creek, if releases substantially alter natural flow regimes. Grazing brings another potential source of mortality to this species. Horses and cattle graze in riparian areas and may trample eggs and larvae of arroyo toads (S. Sweet, pers. comm., 1991). Grazing also increases levels of sedimentation in streams that can smother eggs and larvae (M. Jennings, in litt. , 1993) Off-highway vehicle use is believed to be the primary factor responsible for the decimation of the Mojave River population of the arroyo toad (Jennings 1991). On Memorial Day weekend in 1991, a fence protecting a breeding pool on Piru Creek was cut, and off-highway vehicles had access to the creek. The disturbance destroyed a small sand bar that maintained a shallow pool, resulting in the loss of 12,000 to 16,000 arroyo southwestern tadpoles (Sweet 1992). Recreational use of campgrounds is heaviest in early summer, when arroyo toad larvae and juveniles are present and most vulnerable. As the young toads are diurnal, sedentary, and live on the sand bars, they are often crushed. Recreational use has resulted in the alteration of stream and breeding pool morphology and trampling of juvenile toads (Sweet 1992). Adult arroyo toads, which forage in open areas in the campgrounds, are frequently killed on campground roads at night (Sweet 1992; M. Jennings, in litt. , 1993). Habitat loss, high mortality, and low reproduction from all of the sources discussed above also result in the fragmentation of surviving populations into isolated subpopulations. While these subpopulations may continue to survive and reproduce over the short term, their long- term survival is not secure, because little opportunity exists for natural dispersal and recolonization following local extirpations (Sweet 1991a). Habitat fragmentation increases the probability of local extirpation due to stochastic events and also likely results in reduction of genetic variability within the small, isolated subpopulations. The recent years of extremely low reproductive success have likely been a bottleneck in the remaining populations of arroyo toads, in which few individuals will reach sexual maturity until 1995 (Sweet 1992). As mature adults age and die in the next 2 years, little recruitment into the breeding population is likely, and numerous local extinctions of already small populations are probable. As individuals may not survive and reproduce due to detrimental events such as drought or road maintenance, and, as the population numbers are low and the range is restricted, such events could cause the extinction of the species.
