FR940222-1-00054 FR940222-1-00009 42 CFR Part 421 [BPO&hyph;111&hyph;P] RIN 0938&hyph;AG06 Medicare Program; Intermediary and Carrier Functions AGENCY: Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), HHS. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This proposed rule would bring certain sections of the regulations concerning Medicare fiscal intermediaries and carriers into conformity with the appropriate sections of Title XVIII of the Social Security Act. The rule would distinguish between those functions which applicable statutory authorities require to be included in agreements with fiscal intermediaries and those functions that, while not required to be performed by organizations that have entered into intermediary agreements with the Secretary pursuant to section 1816 of the Social Security Act, may be included in such agreements at our discretion. We would require that the intermediary agreements include, as functions, requirements that intermediaries determine proper payment amounts and pay bills. All other functions would be optional. We propose that all functions for carriers are optional. These changes would provide us with the flexibility to transfer functions from one intermediary or carrier to another or to otherwise limit the functions an intermediary or carrier performs when we determine to do so would result in more effective and efficient program administration. In addition, we propose a number of technical or clarifying revisions concerning carrier payment on a fee schedule basis and the distinction between nonrenewal and termination of intermediary agreements and carrier contracts. DATES: Comments will be considered if we receive them at the appropriate address, as provided below, no later than 5 p.m. on April 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Mail written comments to the following address: Health Care Financing Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, Attention: BPO&hyph;111&hyph;P, P.O. Box 26676, Baltimore, MD 21207. If you prefer, you may deliver your comments to one of the following addresses: Room 309&hyph;G, Hubert H. Humphrey Building, 200 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20201, or Room 132, East High Rise Building, 6325 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 21207. Due to staffing and resource limitations, we cannot accept facsimile (FAX) transmissions. In commenting, please refer to file code BPO&hyph;111&hyph;P. Comments received timely will be available for public inspection as they are received, generally beginning approximately 3 weeks after publication of a document, in room 309&hyph;G of the Department's offices at 200 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC, on Monday through Friday of each week from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. (phone: (410) 966&hyph;7411). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Alan Bromberg, (410) 966&hyph;7441 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background Intermediary Agreements and Carrier Contracts_Under sections 1816(a) and 1842(a) of the Social Security Act (the Act), public or private organizations and agencies may participate in the administration of the Medicare program under agreements or contracts entered into with us (on the Secretary's behalf). These Medicare contractors are known as fiscal intermediaries (section 1816(a) of the Act) and carriers (section 1842(a) of the Act). With certain exceptions, intermediaries perform bill processing and benefit payment functions for part A of the program (Hospital Insurance) and carriers perform claims processing and benefit payment functions for part B of the program (Supplementary Medical Insurance). Our regulations at 42 CFR 421.100, Intermediary functions, require that the agreement between us and a fiscal intermediary specify the functions the intermediary is to perform. In addition to any items specified by us unique to that intermediary, the regulations require that all intermediaries perform activities relating to Medicare coverage, fiscal management, provider audits, utilization patterns, resolution of cost report disputes, and reconsideration of determinations. In addition, the regulations require that all intermediaries furnish information and reports, undertake dual intermediary responsibilities for service to provider-based Home Health Agencies (HHAs) and provider-based hospices, and comply with all applicable laws and regulations and with any other terms and conditions included in their agreements.
