FR941222-0-00126 FR941222-0-00019 (iv) If the combined monthly repayment amount is less than $15, the borrowers are not required to make a payment. (v) The amount of a borrower's individual monthly payment is applied to the borrower's debt, except that the Secretary credits joint payments toward interest accrued on any loan before any payment is credited to principal. (c) Capped amount. (1) General. If a borrower's monthly payments calculated under the formula amount as determined in paragraph (b) of this section are greater than the capped amount calculated under paragraph (c)(2), the borrower may choose to repay the capped amount. (2) Calculation of the capped amount. (i) The capped amount is the amount that a borrower would repay monthly over 12 years using standard amortization or $15, whichever is greater. (ii) The amount of the cap is recalculated on an annual basis to include changes in the variable rate. (iii) After periods in which a borrower makes payments that are less than interest accrued on the loan, the amount of the cap is recalculated. If the new cap is larger than the existing cap, the new cap is applied. If the new cap is smaller than or equal to the existing cap, the existing cap is applied. (3) Exception to the calculation of the capped amount for certain married borrowers. The capped amount for married borrowers who repay jointly under paragraph (a)(4) of this section is the same amount as calculated under paragraph (c)(2) of this section except that the amount is based on the combined Direct Loan debt of the borrowers. (d) Other features of the income contingent repayment plan. (1) Alternative documentation of income. If a borrower's AGI is not available or if, in the Secretary's opinion, the borrower's reported AGI does not reasonably reflect the borrower's current income, the Secretary may use other documentation of income provided by the borrower to calculate the borrower's monthly repayment amount. (2) Repayment period. (i) The maximum repayment period under the income contingent repayment plan is 25 years. (ii) The repayment period includes periods in which the borrower makes payments under the standard repayment plan and under extended repayment plans in which payments are based on a repayment period that is up to 12 years. The repayment period does not include periods in which the borrower makes payments under the graduated and alternative repayment plans or periods of authorized deferment or forbearance. The repayment period also does not include periods in which the borrower makes payments under an extended repayment plan in which payments are based on a repayment period that is longer than 12 years. (iii) If a borrower repays more than one loan under the income contingent repayment plan, a separate repayment period for each loan begins when that loan enters repayment. (iv) If a borrower has not repaid a loan in full at the end of the 25-year repayment period under the income contingent repayment plan, the Secretary cancels the unpaid portion of the loan. (v) At the beginning of the repayment period under the income contingent repayment plan, a borrower shall make monthly payments of the amount of interest that accrues on the borrower's Direct Loans until the Secretary calculates the borrower's monthly repayment amount on the basis of the borrower's income. (3) Limitation on capitalization of interest. If the amount of a borrower's monthly payment is less than the accrued interest, the unpaid interest is capitalized until the outstanding principal amount is ten percent greater than the original principal amount. After the outstanding principal amount is ten percent greater than the original amount, interest continues to accrue but is not capitalized. For purposes of this paragraph, the original amount is the amount owed by the borrower when the borrower enters repayment. (4) Notification of terms and conditions. When a borrower elects or is required by the Secretary to repay a loan under the income contingent repayment plan, the Secretary notifies the borrower of the terms and conditions of the plan, including_ (i) That the Internal Revenue Service will disclose certain tax return information to the Secretary or the Secretary's agents; and (ii) That if the borrower believes that special circumstances warrant an adjustment to the borrower's repayment obligations, as described in §685.209(a)(3), the borrower may contact the Secretary and obtain the Secretary's determination as to whether an adjustment is appropriate. (5) Consent to disclosure of tax return information. (i) A borrower shall provide written consent to the disclosure of certain tax return information by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to agents of the Secretary for purposes of calculating a monthly repayment amount and servicing and collecting a loan under the income contingent repayment plan. The borrower shall provide consent by signing a consent form, developed consistent with 26 CFR 301.6103(c)-1 and provided to the borrower by the Secretary, and shall return the signed form to the Secretary. (ii) The borrower shall consent to disclosure of the borrower's taxpayer identity information as defined in 26 U.S.C. 6103(b)(6), tax filing status, and AGI. (iii) The borrower shall provide consent for a period of five years from the date the borrower signs the consent form. The Secretary provides the borrower a new consent form before that period expires. The IRS does not disclose tax return information after the IRS has processed a borrower's withdrawal of consent. (iv) The Secretary designates the standard repayment plan for a borrower who selects the income contingent repayment plan but_ (A) Fails to provide the required written consent; (B) Fails to renew written consent upon the expiration of the five-year period for consent; or (C) Withdraws consent and does not select another repayment plan. (v) If a borrower defaults and the Secretary designates the income contingent repayment plan for the borrower but the borrower fails to provide the required written consent, the Secretary mails a notice to the borrower establishing a repayment schedule for the borrower. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1840&hyph;0693) (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq. ) 4. Appendix B is removed, and Appendix A to part 685 is revised to read as follows: APPENDIX A_INCOME CONTINGENT REPAYMENT Examples of the Calculation of Monthly Repayment Amounts Example 1. A single borrower with $12,500 of Direct Loans and an Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) of $25,000. Step 1: Calculate the payback rate. Because the borrower's debt is greater than $1,000, the payback rate is calculated on the basis of the formula in §685.209(b)(2)(iii), as follows: •Subtract $1,000 from the total amount of the borrower's Direct Loans: ($12,500^$1,000=$11,500). •Multiply the result by 0.000002: ($11,500×0.000002=0.023).
