FR941222-2-00064 FR941222-2-00054 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Bureau of Land Management [WY&hyph;010&hyph;1610&hyph;00] Environmental Statements; Availability, etc.: Grass Creek Resource Area, WY AGENCY: Bureau of Land Management, Interior. ACTION: Notice of Availability of the Draft Environmental Impact Statement for the Grass Creek Resource Management Plan for public review and comment. SUMMARY: The draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the Grass Creek Resource Management Plan (RMP) describes and analyzes four alternative resource management plans, including the Bureau of Land Management's (BLM's) preferred alternative, developed through public scoping and in consultation with local Governments. The planning area includes portions of Big Horn, Hot Springs, Park, and Washakie counties in the Bighorn Basin of north central Wyoming. When completed, the Grass Creek RMP will provide the management direction for future land and resource management actions on approximately 968,000 acres of public land surface and approximately 1,171,000 acres of Federal mineral estate administered by the BLM. The draft EIS focuses on resolving three key issues identified through public scoping and analysis of current BLM management in the Grass Creek planning area. These issues are: 1. Vegetation management 2. Special management area designations 3. Public land and resource accessibility and manageability The proposed designation of three Areas of Critical Environmental Concern (ACECs) is addressed in the draft EIS. These are the Fifteenmile Creek Watershed proposed ACEC (274,300 acres), the Meeteetse Draw proposed ACEC (6,800 acres), and the Upper Owl Creek proposed ACEC (17,100 acres). Management of the Fifteenmile Creek Watershed proposed ACEC would emphasize a cooperative approach to improving riparian and upland areas, and reducing the amount of sediment delivered to the Bighorn River. State and local Government, private landowners, grazing permittees, and other interested parties would collaborate in managing the area. The Meeteetse Draw proposed ACEC would highlight the importance of Native American cultural values associated with this area. The primary emphasis of BLM's management would be to improve public education, interpretation, scientific research, and protection of Native American cultural values. Controlled management of this area would also allow Native Americans to have access to these sites for ritual purposes and aid in preserving aspects of their heritage. The Upper Owl Creek proposed ACEC would be managed to maintain important wildlife habitat, protect rare plants, maintain scenic quality, enhance recreation, and reduce erosion and natural hazards associated with the area's landslide potential. These proposed ACEC designations would highlight the three areas for management and funding, but would not increase the level of restrictions on land uses above that which would otherwise be appropriate for management. The special management designations also would not apply to State or private lands. In accordance with the provisions of 38 CFR Part 800, parties who are interested in and who wish to be involved in future activity planning and implementation of management actions that may involve or affect the archaeological and historical resources addressed in the proposed plan, are requested to identify themselves. Through contacting the Worland District Office at the below address, you will be placed on a future contact list. The coal screening process (including application of the coal unsuitability criteria under 43 CFR Part 3461) was not conducted for the planning effort. Any interest in coal exploration or leasing will be handled on a case-by-case basis. If an application for a coal lease is received sometime in the future, an appropriate land use environmental analysis will be conducted (which will include conducting the coal screening process) to determine whether or not the coal areas applied for are acceptable for development and leasing consideration. The RMP will be amended as necessary. In the course of conducting the planning effort and preparing the Grass Creek RMP EIS, public lands along all waterways in the planning area were reviewed to determine their eligibility for inclusion in the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. No public lands were found to meet the eligibility criteria. The draft EIS contains socio-economic information on the population, employment, and income of the planning area and describes the impacts on the local economy of implementing each of the four alternatives analyzed in the EIS.
