FR940727-0-00102 FR940727-0-00025 Figure C&hyph;3. Unsworn Declaration Under Penalty of Perjury Executed Within the United States Declaration Under Penalty of Perjury I am Private Paul Jones, currently assigned to Company B, 4th Battalion, 325th Parachute Infantry Regiment, Fort Bragg, North Carolina. I have personal knowledge of the following matters. On the evening of 3 June 1970, I was present at the company party at Lake Popolopen when the accident occurred. I saw a bright, full moon that evening. I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct. (28 U.S.C. ยง1746). Executed on: XXXXX Paul Jones, Private, U.S. Army. Figure D&hyph;1. Format for a Request for a Representation Using an Unsworn Declaration Under Penalty of Perjury Executed Within the United States Request for Representation I request that the Attorney General of the United States, or his agent, designate counsel to defend me in my official and individual capacities in the case of John Doe v. Private Paul Jones, now pending in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina. I have read the complaint filed in this case and I declare that all my actions were performed in my official capacity, within the scope of my official duties, and in a good faith belief that my actions conformed to the law. I am not aware of any pending related criminal investigation. I understand the following: if my request for representation is approved, I will be represented by a U.S. Department of Justice attorney; that the United States is not required to pay any final adverse money judgment rendered against me personally, although I can request indemnification; that I am entitled to retain private counsel at my own expense; and, that the Army expresses no opinion whether I should or should not retain private counsel. I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct. (28 U.S.C. ยง1746). Executed on: XXXXX Paul Jones, Private, U.S. Army. Figure D&hyph;2. Format for Scope of Employment Statement Using an Unsworn Declaration Under Penalty of Perjury Executed Outside the United States Declaration I am currently the Commander of HHC, 6th Armored Division, Bad Vilbel, Germany. I have read the allegations concerning Private Paul Jones in the complaint of John Doe v. Private Paul Jones, now pending in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina. At all times relevant to the complaint, I was Private Jones' company commander. His actions relevant to this case were performed within the scope of his official duties as Assistant Charge of Quarters, Company B, 4th Battalion, 325th Parachute Infantry Regiment, Fort Bragg, North Carolina. I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of America that the foregoing is true and correct. (28 U.S.C. ยง1746). Executed on: XXXXX John Smith, Captain, Infantry. Figure D&hyph;3. Format for Contractor Request for Representantion Request for Representation I am the President of the XYZ Corporation. I request the Attorney General of the United States designate counsel to defend me and my company in Doe v. XYZ, Inc., now pending in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina. I understand that the assumption by the Attorney General of the defense of this case does not alter or increase the obligations of the United States under United States Contract No. WP&hyph;70&hyph;660415. I further agree that such representation will not be construed as waiver or estoppel to assert any rights which any interested party may have under said contract. Executed on: XXXXX D.D. Tango, President, XYZ, Inc.
