FR940819-0-00065 FR940819-0-00017 7. Section 82.164 is amended by revising the introductory text and paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) and by redesignating paragraphs (e) and (f) as (f) and (g) and by adding a new paragraph (e) to read as follows: ยง82.164 Reclaimer certification. Effective October 18, 1994, persons reclaiming used refrigerant for sale to a new owner must certify to the Administrator that such person will: (a) Return refrigerant to at least the standard of purity set forth in appendix A (based on ARI Standard 700&hyph;1993, Specifications for Fluorocarbon and Other Refrigerants); (b) Verify this purity using the methods set forth in appendix A; (c) Release no more than 1.5 percent of the refrigerant during the reclamation process; and (d) Dispose of wastes from the reclamation process in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations. (e) The data elements for certification are as follows: (1) The name and address of the reclaimer; (2) A list of equipment used to reprocess and analyze the refrigerant; and (3) The owner or a responsible officer of the reclaimer must sign the certification stating that the refrigerant will be returned to at least the standard of purity set forth in appendix A, that the purity of the refrigerant will be verified using the methods set forth in appendix A, that no more than 1.5 percent of the refrigerant will be released during the reclamation process, that wastes from the reclamation process will be properly disposed of, and that the information given is true and correct. The certification should be sent to the following address: Section 608 Recycling Program Manager, Reclaimer Certification, Stratospheric Protection Division (6205J), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460. * * * * * 8. Section 82.166 is amended by revising paragraphs (a) and (b) to read as follows: ยง82.166 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. (a) Effective November 14, 1994, all persons who sell or distribute any class I or class II substance for use as a refrigerant must retain invoices that indicate the name of the purchaser, the date of sale, and the quantity of refrigerant purchased. (b) Purchasers of any class I or class II refrigerants who employ certified technicians may provide evidence that at least one technician is properly certified to the wholesaler who sells them refrigerant; the wholesaler will then keep this information on file and may sell refrigerant to the purchaser or his authorized representative even if such purchaser or authorized representative is not a properly certified technician. In such cases, the purchaser must notify the wholesaler in the event that the purchaser no longer employs at least one properly certified technician. The wholesaler is then prohibited from selling class I or class II refrigerants to the purchaser until such time as the purchaser employs at least one properly certified technician. At that time, the purchaser must provide new evidence that at least one technician is properly certified. * * * * *
