FR940527-2-00028 FR940527-2-00024 Department of the Army Availability of the Finding of No Significant Impact for the Proposed Theater High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) Initial Development Program Environmental Assessment AGENCY: Department of the Army, DOD. ACTION: Notice of availability. SUMMARY: Pursuant to the Council on Environmental Quality regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act (40 CFR parts 1500&hyph;1508), Department of Defense Directive 6050.1, and Army Regulation 200&hyph;2, the U.S. Army Space and Strategic Defense Command was tasked to conduct an assessment of potential environmental consequences of the THAAD Initial Development Program in support of the Theater Missile Defense (TMD) Initiative. A no-action alternative was also considered. The Program Executive Office, Missile Defense, has the responsibility for conducting the THAAD program, which is intended to demonstrate a high-altitude interceptor missile system. The THAAD program activities would include development and flight testing of the THAAD interceptor missile system against ballistic and maneuvering targets. Some targets could carry a chemical simulant payload to quantify THAAD lethality against chemical warheads. This EA and the decision it supports cover the first two demonstration flight test scheduled to be conducted at White Sands Missile Range (WSMR), New Mexico, beginning in late 1994. The THAAD EA also analyzes the construction of a target launch complex for the THAAD program in the Firing-In-Extension area north of WSMR. The remaining 18 flight tests involving missile intercepts of government-furnished target missiles will be covered in supplemental environmental documentation as information becomes available. All of the proposed locations were selected based on their ongoing work for similar programs and/or as a result of the competitive procurement process. Development and test activities for the THAAD program would be conducted at WSMR; Arnold Engineering and Development Center, Arnold Air Force Base, Tennessee; Holloman Air Force Base, New Mexico; Lyndon B. Johnson Test Center, WSMR; Lockheed Missiles and Space Company, Incorporated, Courtland, Alabama, and Santa Cruz and Sunnyvale, California; Naval Surface Warfare Center, White Oak, Maryland; Phillips Laboratory, Edwards Air Force Base, California; Rockwell International Corporation, Rocketdyne Division, Canoga Park, California; United Technologies Corporation, Chemical Systems Division, San Jose, California; and Stanford Research Institute, Tracy, California. most THAAD program activities are considered routine for proposed test locations and would use mostly existing personnel. Alternatives to this proposed system to be analyzed are: •Alternative test ranges. •Alternative interceptor launch locations. •Alternative target launch locations. •Alternative materials and manufacturing processes. •Conducting THAAD intercept testing against targets without chemical simulant payloads. •No-action alternative in which the TMD program would continue to be developed without the ability of the THAAD program to intercept and destroy high-altitude enemy tactical missiles. FINDINGS: To assess the significance of potential environmental impacts, a list of the site-specific activities necessary to accomplish the proposed action was first developed. The affected environment at all THAAD program activity locations was then described. Next, those activities with the potential for causing environmental impacts were identified. Each of these identified activities was subsequently evaluated in greater detail. Eleven broad environmental issue components were evaluated to provide a context for understanding the potential effects of the proposed action and to provide a basis for assessing the significance of potential impacts. The 11 areas of environmental consideration are air quality, biological resources, cultural resources, hazardous materials and waste, health and safety, infrastructure, land use, noise, physical resources, socioeconomics, and water resources. If a proposed activity was determined to present a potential for environmental impact, then the activity was evaluated by considering the intensity, extent, and context in which the impact would occur. As a result of the evaluation, impacts were assigned to one of three categories: No impact, not significant impact, or significant impact. Evaluation of the areas of environmental consideration for which a potential for impact was posed has shown that no significant impacts would occur from implementation of the THAAD Initial Development program activities at any of the proposed locations. The environmental consequences of all planned THAAD program activities evaluated were determined to be not significant for all locations. ADDRESSES: Written comments and requests for copies may be forwarded to: Ms. Sharon Mitchell, U.S. Army Space and Strategic Defense Command, CSSD&hyph;EN&hyph;V, P.O. Box 1500, Huntsville, AL 35807&hyph;3801. DATES: Written comments must be received on or before June 27, 1994. Dated: May 20, 1994. Lewis D. Walker, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army, (Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health) OASA(IL&E). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13121 Filed 5&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;08&hyph;M
