FR941125-1-00032 FR941125-1-00008 2.13␣Optical Density. A logarithmic measure of the amount of incident light attenuated. Optical Density (OD) is related to the transmittance and opacity as follows: OD = -log 10 (1&hyph;Op). 2.14␣Pathlength. The depth of effluent in the light beam between the receiver and the transmitter of a single-pass trans- missometer, or the depth of effluent between the transceiver and reflector of a double-pass transmissometer. Three pathlengths are referenced by this specification as follows: 2.14.1␣Emission Outlet Pathlength. The pathlength (depth of effluent) at the location where emissions are released to the atmosphere. For noncircular outlets, D = (2LW)/(L + W), where L is the length of the outlet and W is the width of the outlet. Note that this definition does not apply to positive pressure baghouse outlets with multiple stacks, side discharge vents, ridge roof monitors, etc. 2.14.2␣Installation Pathlength. The installation flange-to-flange distance. 2.14.3␣Monitoring Pathlength. The effective depth of effluent (the distance over which the light beam is actually evaluating the stack effluent) measured by the COMS at the installation location. Monitoring pathlength is to be used for the optical alignment, response, and calibration error tests of section 7 and calculation of the pathlength correction factor (PLCF). The effective depth of effluent measured by the COMS must be equal to or greater than 90 percent of the distance between duct or stack walls. 2.15␣Peak Spectral Response. The wavelength of maximum sensitivity of the transmissometer. 2.16␣Primary Attenuators. Primary attenuators are those calibrated by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). 2.17␣Response Time. The amount of time it takes the COMS to display on the data recorder 95 percent of a step change in opacity. 2.18␣Secondary Attenuators. Secondary attenuators are those calibrated against primary attenuators according to procedures in section 7.1.3. 2.19␣Transmissometer. That portion of the installed COMS that includes the sample interface and the analyzer. 2.20␣Transmittance. The fraction of incident light that is transmitted through an optical medium. 2.21␣Upscale Calibration Value. The opacity value at which a calibration check of the COMS is performed by simulating an upscale opacity condition as viewed by the receiver. An opacity value (corrected for pathlength) that is 150 to 190 percent of the applicable opacity standard. 2.22␣Zero Calibration Value. A value at which a calibration check of the COMS is performed by simulating a zero opacity condition as viewed by the receiver. An opacity value (corrected for pathlength) that is 0 to 10 percent of the applicable opacity standard. 2.23␣Zero Drift. The difference in the COMS output readings from the zero calibration value after a stated period of normal continuous operation during which no unscheduled maintenance, repair, or adjustment took place. 2.24␣Zero and Upscale Calibration Value Attenuator System. An inherent system of the COMS which can be an automatic electro-mechanical and filter system for simulating both a zero and upscale calibration value, providing an assessment and record on the calibration of the instrument. Optical filters or screens with neutral spectral characteristics, or other device that produces a zero or an upscale calibration value shall be used. 3. Apparatus 3.1␣Continuous Opacity Monitoring System. A COMS that meets the design and PS's of PS&hyph;1, including a suitable data recorder, such as an analog strip chart recorder or other suitable device (e.g., digital computer) with an input signal range compatible with the analyzer output. 3.2␣Calibration Attenuators. Minimum of three. These attenuators must be optical filters with neutral spectral characteristics selected and calibrated according to the procedures in sections 7.1.2 and 7.1.3 and of sufficient size to attenuate the entire light beam received by the detector of the COMS. 3.3␣Calibration Spectrophotometer. A laboratory spectrophotometer meeting the following minimum design specifications: ␣ 1Parameter 1Specification Wavelength range 300&hyph;800 nm. Detector angle of view <10 ○. Accuracy <0.5% transmittance, NIST traceable calibration. 3.4␣Spectral Response Measurement System. Equipment and procedures capable of providing an accurate evaluation and recording of the spectral response curve of the COMS. The equipment will include, but is not limited to, a Helium-Neon laser for calibration, a monochrometer capable of 10 nm incremental changes over a range of 300 to 800 nm, and other appropriate optical bench requirements. 3.5␣COMS Test Stands and Related Equipment. Equipment capable of allowing the accurate conduct of the performance tests to the necessary tolerances called for by these specifications. 4. Installation Specifications Install the COMS at a location where the opacity measurements are representative of the total emissions from the affected facility. This requirement can be met as follows: 4.1␣Measurement Location. Select a measurement location that is (a) at least 4 duct diameters downstream from all partic- ulate control equipment or flow disturbance, (b) at least 2 duct diameters upstream of a flow disturbance, (c) where condensed water vapor is not present, (d) free of interference from ambient light, and (e) accessible in order to permit maintenance.
