FR940607-2-00067 FR940607-2-00049 Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs Commonwealth Aluminum Corporation Reinstatement AGENCY: Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Labor. ACTION: Notice of Court Order Staying the Debarment Commonwealth Aluminum Corporation. SUMMARY: A previous notice in the Federal Register , appearing on May 27, 1994, at Vol. 59 No. 102, 59 FR 27581, advised of the court-ordered stay of debarment of Commonwealth Aluminum Corporation (hereafter ``Commonwealth Aluminum''), as an eligible bidder on Government contracts and subcontracts or other modifications of any existing Government contracts or subcontracts, and further advised that a copy of the Order would be published as soon as possible. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Annie Blackwell, Director Program Policy, Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Ave., NW., room C&hyph;3325, Washington, DC 20210 (202&hyph;219&hyph;9430). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A copy of the Order dated May 19, 1994, issued by Judge Jennifer Coffman of the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky, in Commonwealth Aluminum Corp. v. Reich, Case No. 94&hyph;0071&hyph;O(C), is attached hereto. Signed the 31st day of May 1994, Washington, DC. Shirley J. Wilcher, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Federal Contract Compliance Programs. United States District Court, Western District of Kentucky, Owensboro, Division Commonwealth Aluminum Corporation, Plaintiff v. United States of America; United States Department of Labor; Employment Standards Administration; Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs; Robert B. Reich, Secretary, United States Department of Labor; Bernard E. Anderson, Assistant Secretary, Employment Standards Administration; Shirley J. Wilcher, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Defendants. Case No. 94&hyph;0071&hyph;O(C); filed: May 23, 1994. Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law Preliminary Injunction and Stay Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 705 of the Administrative Procedure Act and F.R.C.P. 65, plaintiff, Commonwealth Aluminum Corporation (``Commonwealth'') moves the Court to stay the effectiveness of the Final Order and Decision issued by John R. Fraser, Acting Assistant Secretary for Employment Standards in the matter styled Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, United States Department of Labor, Plaintiff, v. Commonwealth Aluminum, formerly Martin-Marietta Aluminum of Kentucky, Inc., Defendant, Case No. 82&hyph;OFC&hyph;6 pending judicial review of that decision by this Court. The Court has considered the entire record herein including the affidavits submitted by plaintiff in support of its application. Now, therefore, the Court makes the following findings of fact, conclusions of law, and enters the following Preliminary Injunction and Stay of Agency Action: Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law Commonwealth is the corporate successor to Martin-Marietta Aluminum of Kentucky, Inc. On or about September 3, 1982, defendant, Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, United States Department of Labor (``OFCCP'') filed an administrative complaint against Commonwealth alleging that Commonwealth had violated provisions of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 793, et seq., and the regulations promulgated thereunder, in connection with its hiring practices at its aluminum plant in Lewisport, Hancock County, Kentucky. After the close of pleadings and discovery, the issues raised by the Administrative Complaint were tried before Administrative Law Judge Daniel J. Roketenetz on June 24, 1985 through June 27, 1985. Judge Roketenetz issued a Recommended Decision and Order on June 26, 1986. In his Recommended Decision and Order, Administrative Law Judge Roketenetz recommended dismissal of OFCCP's Administrative Complaint in its entirety. OFCCP took exception to the Recommended Decision and Order of Administrative Law Judge Roketenetz. The parties briefed the exceptions to the Assistant Secretary for Employment Standards. The Acting Assistant Secretary for Employment Standards, United States Department of Labor, issued a Final Decision and Order in Case No. 82&hyph;OFC&hyph;6 on or about February 10, 1994. The Acting Assistant Secretary for Employment Standards has ruled that Commonwealth violated ยง503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Concomitantly, the Acting Assistant Secretary has ordered that Commonwealth give five of the complainants in the proceedings offers of employment within sixty days of Commonwealth's receipt of the Order, and has ordered retroactive seniority and other benefits. In addition, the Acting Assistant Secretary has ordered that Commonwealth will be ineligible for the award of any government contracts or subcontracts and will be ineligible for extensions or other modifications of any existing government contracts or subcontracts if it does not comply with the other components of his Order. Commonwealth owns and operates and aluminum plant located near Lewisport in Hancock County, Kentucky. The plaintiff produces aluminum in sheet form which it sells and distributes to various customers. Employees who work in production and maintenance are members of the Local 7325, United Steel Workers of America and are hourly personnel. All complainants involved herein sought jobs in the production or maintenance area within the plant. Between 1980 and today, Commonwealth has had government contracts with a total value of $4,500,622.48. Commonwealth has had no direct government contracts since 1990. Commonwealth has one government subcontract which, when fulfilled, will have a total value of $4,805,129.40. OFCCP debarred Commonwealth as a government contractor and on April 29, 1994, OFCCP published a notice of Commonwealth's debarment in the Federal Register. Such debarment notice appears at 59 Federal Register 22178. The parties have advised the Court of the balancing factors under the Celebrezze case and several other Sixth Circuit cases with respect to temporary injunctions. The factors are: Likelihood of success, irreparable harm, public interest and looking at the harm to everyone. The Court will address each of those, albeit fairly briefly.
