FR940303-2-00163 FR940303-2-00091 Federal Highway Administration Environmental Impact Statement: McDonough County, IL AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The FHWA is issuing this notice to advise the public that an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) will be prepared for a proposed project in McDonough County, Illinois. The proposed project will evaluate bypass alternates in the area of Macomb, Illinois. Bypass alternates will consider possible connections of existing U.S. Route 67, U.S. Route 136, and proposed Illinois Route 336. The study area will encompass an area three miles south, five miles north, eight miles west, and five miles east of Macomb. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. James C. Partlow, Design Operations Engineer, Federal Highway Administration, Illinois Division, 3250 Executive Park Drive, Springfield, Illinois 62703, Telephone: (217) 492&hyph;4622 Mr. Dale E. Risinger, District Engineer, Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT), 401 Main Street, Peoria, Illinois 61602, Telephone: (309) 671&hyph;3333. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FHWA, in cooperation with the Illinois Department of Transportation, will prepare an Environmental Impact Statement on a proposal to improve traffic circulation around Macomb in McDonough County, Illinois. The proposed action involves the construction of a four-lane, access-controlled, divided highway. The length will be dependent on the results of the study and a chosen bypass location. The area being studied will encompass Macomb, Illinois for three miles to the south, five miles to the north, eight miles to the west, and five miles to the east. The proposed action will support economic development in west-central Illinois by providing improved traffic circulation, safer and more efficient access to the urban area, a divided highway design for high operating speeds and system continuity from Quincy to Macomb. Primary environmental resources that may be impacted are local property tax income, agricultural land, and wetlands. Alternatives under consideration include no action and a new four-lane, fully access-controlled facility on new alignment. Interchanges will be provided at major high-volume roadways. Several alignment alternatives will be evaluated for the proposed project to best serve traffic circulation to and around Macomb. The scoping process undertaken as part of this proposed project will include distribution of a scoping information packet, coordination with appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies, and review sessions as needed. A formal scoping meeting is not planned. Further details of the proposed project and a scoping information packet may be obtained from one of the contact persons listed above. To ensure that the full range of issues related to the proposed action are addressed and all significant issues identified, a comprehensive public involvement program will be undertaken. A public meeting concerning the proposed action will be held in the study area prior to the public hearing. Public notice will be given of the time and place of the meeting and hearing. The Draft EIS will be available for public agency review and comment and suggestions are invited from all interested parties. Comments or questions concerning this proposed action and the EIS should be directed to the FHWA or IDOT contact persons. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.205, Highway Planning and Construction. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation on Federal programs and activities apply to this program) Issued on: February 18, 1994. James C. Partlow, Design Operations Engineer, Federal Highway Administration, Illinois Division, Springfield, Illinois. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4792 Filed 3&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;M
