FR940722-0-00091 FR940722-0-00018 (d) Indirect costs of other State agencies and organizations are allowable if supported by a cost allocation plan and indirect cost proposal in accordance with OMB requirements. ยง420.213 Certification requirements. (a) Each State shall certify to the FHWA Division Administrator before June 30, 1995, that it is complying with the requirements of this subpart. For those States unable to meet full compliance by June 30, 1995, the FHWA Division Administrator may grant conditional approval of the State's RD&T management process. A conditional approval shall cite those areas of the State's management process that are deficient. All deficiencies must be corrected by January 1, 1996. A copy of the certification shall be submitted with each work program. A new certification will be required if the State significantly revises its management process for the RD&T program. (b) The certification shall consist of a statement signed by the Administrator, or an official designated by the Administrator, of the State transportation agency certifying as follows: I (name of certifying official), (position title), of the State (Commonwealth) of XXXX , do hereby certify that the State (Commonwealth) is in compliance with all requirements of 23 U.S.C. 307 and its implementing regulations with respect to the research, development and technology transfer program, and contemplate no changes in statutes, regulations, or administrative procedures which would affect such compliance. (c) The FHWA Division Administrator shall determine if the State is in compliance with the requirements of this subpart. ยง420.215 Procedure for withdrawal of approval. (a) If a State is not complying with the requirements of this subpart, or is not performing in accordance with its RD&T management process, the FHWA Division Administrator shall issue a written notice of proposed determination of noncompliance to the State. The notice shall set forth the reasons for the proposed determination and inform the State that it may reply in writing within 30 calendar days from the date of the notice. The State's reply should address the deficiencies cited in the notice and provide documentation as necessary. (b) If the State and Division Administrator cannot resolve the differences set forth in the determination of nonconformity, the State may appeal to the Federal Highway Administrator. (c) The Federal Highway Administrator's action shall constitute the final decision of the FHWA. (d) An adverse decision shall result in immediate withdrawal of approval of FHWA planning and research funds for the State's RD&T activities until the State is in full compliance. PART 511_RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R&D) STUDIES AND PROGRAMS; GENERAL [REMOVED] 3. Chapter I of title 23, CFR, is amended by removing and reserving part 511. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17908 Filed 7&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;P
