FR940419-1-00063 FR940419-1-00009 ยง905.962 Definitions. Family Investment Center. A Facility in or near Indian housing which provides families living in Indian housing with better access to educational and employment opportunities to achieve self sufficiency and independence. Management. All activities for which the HA is responsible to HUD under the ACC, within the definition of ``operation'' under the Act and the ACC, including the development of resident programs and services. Management contract. A written agreement between a resident management corporation and a HA, as provided by ยง905.969. Project. For purposes of this subpart, the term includes any of the following: (1) One or more contiguous buildings. (2) An area of contiguous row houses. (3) Scattered site buildings. (4) Scattered site single-family units. Resident management. The performance of one or more management activities for one or more projects by a resident management corporation under a management contract with the HA. Resident Management Corporation (RMC). A Resident Management Corporation is an entity that proposes to enter into, or enters into, a contract to manage HA property. The corporation must have each of the following characteristics: (1) It must be a nonprofit organization that is incorporated under the laws of the State or Indian tribe in which it is located. (2) It may be established by more than one resident organization, so long as each such organization both approves the establishment of the corporation and has representation on the Board of Directors of the corporation. (3) It must have an elected Board of Directors. (4) Its by-laws must require the Board of Directors to include representatives of each resident organization involved in establishing the corporation. (5) Its voting members are required to be residents of the project or projects it manages. (6) It must be approved by the resident organization. If there is no organization, a majority of the households of the project or projects must approve the establishment of such an organization. Resident Organization (RO). A Resident Organization (or ``Resident Council'' as defined in section 20 of the Act) is an incorporated or unincorporated nonprofit organization or association that meets each of the following criteria: (1) It must consist of residents only, and only residents may vote. (2) If it represents residents in more than one development or in all of the developments of a HA, it must fairly represent residents from each development that it represents. (3) It must adopt written procedures providing for the election of specific officers on a regular basis. (4) It must have a democratically elected governing board. The voting membership of the board shall consist solely of the residents of the development or developments that the RO represents. Resident participation. A process of consultation between residents and the HA concerning matters affecting the management of Indian housing. Resident-owned business. A Business staffed by residents that is related to the management of the IHA development(s). ยง905.963 HUD's role in activities under this subpart. (a) General. Subject to the requirements of this part and other requirements imposed on HAs by the ACC, statute or regulation, the form and extent of resident participation or resident management are local decisions to be made jointly by ROs and the HAs. (b) Duty to bargain in good faith. If a HA refuses to negotiate with a RMC in good faith or, after negotiations, refuses to enter into a contract, the corporation may file an informal appeal with HUD, setting out the circumstances and providing copies of relevant materials evidencing the corporation's efforts to negotiate a contract. HUD shall require the HA to respond with a report stating the HA's reasons for rejecting the corporation's contract offer or for refusing to negotiate. Thereafter, HUD shall require the parties (with or without direct HUD participation) to undertake or to resume negotiations on a contract providing for resident management, and shall take such other actions as are necessary to resolve the conflicts between the parties. If no resolution is achieved within 90 days from the date HUD required the parties to undertake or resume such negotiations, HUD shall serve notice on both parties that administrative remedies have been exhausted (except that, pursuant to mutual agreement of the parties, the time for negotiations may be extended by no more than an additional 30 days). ยง905.964 Resident participation requirements. (a) HA responsibilities. (1) A HA must provide the residents or any resident organization with current information concerning the HA's policies on resident participation in management, including guidance on information and recognition of a RO, and, where appropriate, a RMC. (2) A HA must consult with residents or resident organizations (if they exist), to determine the extent to which residents desire to participate in the management of their housing and the specific methods that may be mutually agreeable to the HA and the residents. (3) When requested by residents, a HA must provide appropriate guidance to residents to assist them in establishing and maintaining a RO, and, where appropriate, a RMC.
