FR940822-1-00005 FR940822-1-00002 Section 206(g) of the Clean Air Act (the Act), 42 U.S.C. 7525(g), requires EPA to issue a certificate of conformity for HDEs or HDVs which exceed an applicable section 202(a) emissions standard, but do not exceed an upper limit associated with that standard, if the manufacturer pays an NCP established by rulemaking. Congress adopted section 206(g) in the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1977 as a response to perceived problems with technology-forcing heavy-duty emissions standards. (It should be noted, however, that the existence of NCPs does not change the criteria under which the standards have been and will be set under section 202.) Following International Harvester v. Ruckelshaus, 478 F.2d 615 (D.C. Cir. 1973), Congress realized the dilemma that technology-forcing standards were likely to cause. If strict standards were maintained, then some manufacturers, ``technological laggards,'' might be unable to comply initially and would be forced out of the marketplace. NCPs were intended to remedy this potential problem. The laggards would have a temporary alternative that would permit them to sell their engines or vehicles by payment of a penalty. At the same time, conforming manufacturers would not suffer an economic disadvantage compared to nonconforming manufacturers, because the NCP would be based, in part, on money saved by the technological laggard and its customer from the nonconforming engine or vehicle. Under section 206(g)(1), NCPs may be offered for HDVs or HDEs. The penalty may vary by pollutant and by class or category of vehicle or engine. HDVs are defined by section 202(b)(3)(C) as vehicles in excess of 6,000 pounds gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR). The light-duty truck (LDT) classification includes trucks that have a GVWR of 8500 lbs or less. Therefore, certain LDTs may be classified as HDVs. Historically, LDTs up through 6000 lbs GVWR have been considered ``light light-duty trucks'' (LLDTs) and LDTs between 6,001 and 8,500 pounds GVWR have been considered ``heavy light-duty trucks'' (HLDTs). Based on various new requirements established by the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, each of these two light truck categories has been further subdivided into groups by weight. The LLDTs are classified by weight based on ``loaded vehicle weight,'' or LVW, which maintains its current definition: curb weight plus 300 lbs. The trucks up through 3750 lbs LVW make up a subclass called light-duty-trucks-1, or LDT1. Those greater than 3750 lbs LVW but less than or equal to 6000 lbs GVWR are the subclass light-duty-trucks-2, or LDT2. The HLDTs are divided at 5750 lbs ``adjusted loaded vehicle weight,'' or ALVW. Adjusted loaded vehicle weight is the average of the curb weight and the GVWR. The HLDTs that are up through 5750 lbs ALVW are called light-duty trucks-3, or LDT3. Those above 5750 lbs ALVW but less than or equal to 8500 lbs GVWR are light-duty-trucks-4, or LDT4. The LDT3 and LDT4 subclasses make up the HLDT vehicle class. Since NCPs are only offered for heavy duty vehicles or engines, this notice addresses only emission standards for light duty trucks of the LDT3 and LDT4 categories. Section 206(g)(3) requires that NCPs: •Account for the degree of emission nonconformity; •Increase periodically to provide incentive for nonconforming manufacturers to achieve the emission standards; and •Remove the competitive disadvantage to conforming manufacturers. Section 206(g) authorizes EPA to require testing of production vehicles or engines in order to determine the emission level on which the penalty is based. If the emission level of a vehicle or engine exceeds an upper limit of nonconformity established by EPA through regulation, the vehicle or engine would not qualify for an NCP under section 206(g) and no certificate of conformity could be issued to the manufacturer. If the emission level is below the upper limit but above the standard, that emission level becomes the ``compliance level,'' which is also the benchmark for warranty and recall liability; the manufacturer who elects to pay the NCP is liable for vehicles or engines that exceed the compliance level in-use, unless, for the case of HLDTs, the compliance level is below the in-use standard. The manufacturer does not have in-use warranty or recall liability for emissions levels above the standard but below the compliance level. II. Availability of Nonconformance Penalties A. Review of NCP Eligibility Criteria The generic NCP rule (Phase I) established three basic criteria for determining the eligibility of emission standards for nonconformance penalties in any given model year. See 40 CFR 1103&hyph;87. First, the emission standard in question must become more difficult to meet. This can occur in two ways, either by the emission standard itself becoming more stringent, or due to its interaction with another emission standard that has become more stringent. Second, substantial work must be required in order to meet the emission standard. EPA considers ``substantial work'' to mean the application of technology not previously used in that vehicle or engine class/subclass, or a significant modification of existing technology, in order to bring that vehicle/engine into compliance. EPA does not consider minor modifications or calibration changes to be classified as substantial work. Third, a technological laggard must be likely to develop. A technological laggard is defined as a manufacturer who cannot meet a particular emission standard due to technological (not economic) difficulties and who, in the absence of NCPs, might be forced from the marketplace. EPA will make the determination that a technological laggard is likely to develop, based in large part on the above two criteria. However, these criteria are not always sufficient to determine the likelihood of the development of a technological laggard. An emission standard may become more difficult to meet and substantial work may be required for compliance, but if that work merely involves transfer of well-developed technology from another vehicle class, it is unlikely that a technological laggard would develop. B. Phase II NCPs The above criteria were used to determine eligibility for NCPs during Phase II of the NCP rulemaking (50 FR 53454, December 31, 1985). NCPs were offered for the following 1987 and 1988 model year standards: the particulate matter (PM) standard for 1987 diesel-fueled light-duty trucks with loaded vehicle weight in excess of 3750 pounds (LDDT2s), the 1987 gasoline-fueled light HDE (LHDGE) HC and CO emission standards, the 1988 diesel-fueled HDE (HDDE) PM standard, and the 1988 HDDE NO X standard. As discussed in the Phase II preamble, NCPs were considered, but not offered, for the 1987 HLDT NO X standard and the 1988 (later, the 1990) gasoline-fueled HDE (HDGE) NO X standard.
