FR940921-0-00057 FR940921-0-00016 The general goal of today's emission standards is to provide a level playing field for gaseous-fueled vehicles relative to other currently regulated vehicles, and to remove a potential barrier to their commercial production. Thus, this rule is not intended to generate significant emission reductions beyond those achieved by vehicles operating on other fuel types. As such, the Agency has not attempted to accurately quantify the environmental effects of today's rule. However, there are likely to be some beneficial differences between the emissions from gaseous-fueled vehicles and conventional vehicles, including possible benefits in the areas of NMHC, CO and air toxics, as well as benefits associated with improved aftermarket conversions. For a complete discussion of these potential benefits please consult the discussion of environmental effects contained in the NPRM. 23 23 57 FR 52912, November 5, 1992. V. Economic Impacts The Agency expects the emission standards contained in this rule to be attainable using emission control technology which is similar to that used on current vehicles. Indeed, this has been the case thus far with the vehicles which have shown the ability to comply with the standards. Thus, EPA expects that the cost of emission controls for natural gas- and liquefied petroleum gas-fueled vehicles will be similar to that for current vehicles. There are two instances, however, where compliance with the standards may be less costly for gaseous-fueled vehicles than for current vehicles: evaporative emissions, and exhaust aftertreatment for gaseous-fueled heavy-duty diesel engines. For a complete discussion of these potential benefits please consult the discussion of economic impacts contained in the NPRM. 24 24 57 FR 52912, November 5, 1992. It is not expected that these regulations will have a significant impact on the cost of aftermarket conversions of conventional-fueled vehicles to operate on gaseous fuels. The chief area of change in response to these regulations will be in the area of durability improvements. This may involve some increase in cost, but overall the impacts should be small. Since the purpose of today's standards is to remove the regulatory uncertainty associated with gaseous-fueled vehicles and to place them on an equal footing with other vehicles, and not necessarily to achieve emission reductions, the Agency does not believe it is appropriate to perform a cost-effectiveness analysis for these standards. Although the Agency does expect some emission reductions to result from these standards, that is not the purpose of these regulations. Thus, the benefits cannot be readily quantified in terms of pollutant inventory reductions, nor is it appropriate to do this. For these reasons no cost effectiveness analysis was performed. VI. Statutory Authority Authority for the actions in this rule is granted to EPA by sections 202, 203 and 301(a) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7521 and 7601(a)). VII. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866, 25 the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: 25 58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993. (1) have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local or tribal governments or communities; (2) create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or
