FR940128-0-00054 FR940128-0-00022 Comment 6. The trawl industry generally supports Amendment 24 as a management measure that will support the stabilization of the Pacific cod fisheries provided that the annual process for apportioning the Pacific halibut trawl bycatch mortality limit among trawl fisheries is not used to undermine the intent of this amendment. Efforts by representatives for the fixed gear fisheries to restrict the amount of halibut annually apportioned to the Pacific cod trawl fishery would prevent the trawl gear allocation of Pacific cod from being harvested and result in a de facto preferential allocation of cod to the fixed gear fleet. The Council and NMFS must ensure that the annual process for the apportionment of PSC limits among trawl fisheries does not lead to the instability that Amendment 24 is intended to avoid. Response. NMFS acknowledges that significant flexibility exists on how PSC limits are annually apportioned among fisheries and seasons. The resulting apportionments must be justified based on regulatory intent to optimize the harvest of available groundfish under a given PSC limit (ยง675.21 (b)(1) and (b)(3)). NMFS believes that the annual prohibited species bycatch allowances specified for the Pacific cod trawl fishery should be based on anticipated prohibited species bycatch needs. NMFS has advised the Council that it should consider PSC limit apportionments among fisheries and seasons that are consistent with regulations implementing Amendment 24. Nonetheless, the PSC limits established for the BSAI trawl fisheries likely will continue to constrain the ability of trawl fisheries to harvest available groundfish. Comment 7. Amendment 24, as adopted by the Council, did not establish a fixed allocation of the BSAI trawl halibut bycatch limit to the Pacific cod trawl fishery and the proposed rule did not rectify this omission. This measure is necessary for reasons stated in Comment 6. The anticipated benefits under Amendment 24 in terms of fishery stability will not be realized as long as the possibility exists for fixed gear interests to continue to use the annual specification process to constrain the amount of halibut bycatch apportioned to the Pacific cod trawl fishery, thereby achieving a de facto preferential allocation to the fixed gear fleet. Response. A separate amendment to the FMP would be needed to establish a fixed allocation of the trawl halibut PSC limit to the BSAI Pacific cod trawl fishery. This measure could not be implemented as a regulatory amendment and included in the proposed rule to implement Amendment 24. The response to Comment 6 further describes NMFS's position on this issue. The Council may address this issue in the future. Comment 8. Pacific cod catch during the duration of Amendment 24 should not be considered in calculating quota shares under any individual transferrable quota (ITQ) program the Council may adopt in the future because gear allocations of Pacific cod under Amendment 24 may alter catch patterns or otherwise skew the proportion of Pacific cod harvested by any gear type. Response. ITQs are not the subject of this rulemaking. The Council and the Secretary have not determined whether access to the fishery will be controlled, or if a limited access system will be implemented. Once such determinations are made, eligibility criteria for participation in the fishery will be determined. Classification NMFS prepared a final regulatory flexibility analysis (FRFA), which concludes that this rule could have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. A copy of this analysis is available from the Council (see ADDRESSES ). List of Subjects in 50 CFR part 675 Fisheries, Reporting and recordkeeping. Dated: January 24, 1994. Nancy Foster, Deputy Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, National Marine Fisheries Service.
