FR940114-1-00099 FR940114-1-00018 (2) Suspension of collection activity. If the lender is notified that a borrower has filed a petition for relief in bankruptcy, the lender shall immediately suspend any collection efforts outside the bankruptcy proceeding against the borrower and_ (i) Against any co-maker or endorser if the borrower has filed for relief under Chapters 12 or 13; and (ii) Against any co-maker or endorser who has filed for relief in bankruptcy. (3) Determination of filing. The lender shall determine that a borrower has filed a petition for relief in bankruptcy on the basis of receiving a notice of the first meeting of creditors or other confirmation issued by the bankruptcy court. (4) Proof of claim. Unless instructed otherwise by the guaranty agency, the lender shall file a proof of claim with the bankruptcy court within_ * * * * * (g) Claim procedures for a loan held by a lender. (1) Documentation. A lender shall provide the guaranty agency with the following documentation when filing a death, disability, closed school, false certification, or bankruptcy claim: (i) The original promissory note, or, if the lender no longer has the original promissory note, a copy of the note certified by the lender as a true and accurate copy; * * * * * (vi) In the case of a closed school claim, the documentation described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, or any other documentation as the Secretary may require; (vii) In the case of a false certification claim, the documentation described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. (2) Filing deadlines. A lender shall file a death, disability, closed school, false certification, or bankruptcy claim within the following periods: (i) Within 60 days of the date on which the lender determines that a borrower (or the student on whose behalf a parent obtained a PLUS loan) has died, or the lender determines that the borrower is totally and permanently disabled. (ii) In the case of a closed school claim, the lender shall file a claim with the guaranty agency no later than 60 days after the borrower submits to the lender the written request and sworn statement described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section or after the lender is notified by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee or by the guaranty agency to do so. (iii) In the case of a false certification claim, the lender shall file a claim with the guaranty agency no later than 60 days after the borrower submits to the lender the written request and sworn statement described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section or after the lender is notified by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee or by the guaranty agency to do so. * * * * *
