FR940817-2-00072 FR940817-2-00043 B. Health Effects Assessment 1. Background The toxicity of Mn varies according to the route of exposure. By ingestion, Mn has relatively low toxicity at typical exposure levels due in part to a low rate of absorption from the gastrointestinal tract and in part to efficient regulation by homeostatic mechanisms. Manganese is considered a nutritionally essential trace element and is required for certain enzymes important for normal functioning of the central nervous system and other body organs. However, by inhalation, Mn has been known since the early 1800s to be toxic to workers. It should be noted that Mn occupational studies predominantly (and sometimes exclusively) involve men. Neurobehavioral, respiratory, and reproductive effects are the primary features of excessive occupational exposure to Mn. Manganism is characterized by various psychiatric and movement disorders, with some general resemblance to Parkinson's disease in terms of difficulties in the fine control of some movements, lack of facial expression, and involvement of underlying neuroanatomical and neurochemical factors. Neurobehavioral effects of Mn intoxication are generally more clinically prominent than respiratory or reproductive effects. However, respiratory effects (e.g., pneumonitis) and reproductive dysfunction (e.g., reduced libido) are also frequently reported features of occupational Mn intoxication. The available evidence is inadequate to determine whether or not Mn is carcinogenic; some reports suggest that it may even be protective against cancer. Based on this mixed but insufficient evidence, EPA has placed Mn in a Group D weight-of-evidence category, which signifies that it is not classifiable as to human carcinogenicity. Given these features of Mn toxicity, the health assessment focuses on the potential for chronic noncancer effects. Various epidemiological studies of male workers exposed to Mn at average levels below the current American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists Threshold Limit Value (TLV) (5 mg/m 3 ) 55 have shown neurobehavioral, reproductive, and respiratory effects, both by objective testing methods and by workers' self-reported symptoms on questionnaires. Neurobehavioral effects generally have reflected disturbances in the control of hand movements (e.g., tremor, reduced hand steadiness) and/or the speed of movement (e.g., longer reaction time, slower finger-tapping speed). Reproductive effects have included a decrease in the number of children born to Mn-exposed workers (compared to matched controls) and various self-reported symptoms of sexual dysfunction. In recent studies at low to moderate occupational exposure levels, respiratory effects have been reflected primarily in self-reported symptoms of respiratory tract illnesses rather than in differences between objective pulmonary function measurements in Mn-exposed and control workers. However, the lack of studies using more sensitive investigational methods and the existence of some limited evidence from an epidemiological study of school children raise a degree of concern about pulmonary function effects in relation to lower level Mn exposure. 55 The American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists (1992) has given notice of intent to lower the TLV to 0.2 mg/m3. The precise mechanisms of Mn neurotoxicity are not well understood, but it appears that Mn can affect several different aspects of central nervous system (CNS) function and structure. Some experimental evidence suggests that the mechanisms of Mn toxicity may depend on the oxidation state of Mn. However, both the trivalent form (Mn 3+ ) and the divalent form (Mn 2+ ) have been demonstrated to be neurotoxic. 56 Also, both forms of Mn can cross the blood-brain barrier, although research suggests that Mn 3+ is predominantly transported bound to the protein transferrin (Aschner and Gannon, 1994), whereas Mn 2+ may enter the brain independently of such a transport mechanism (Murphy et al., 1991). Unlike ingested Mn, inhaled Mn is transported directly from the respiratory system to the vicinity of the brain before its first pass by the liver. Depending on the form of Mn inhaled, its conversion to other oxidation states (e.g., oxidation of Mn 2+ to Mn 3+ or reduction of Mn 4+ to Mn 3+ ), and its ability to enter the brain (through a protein transport mechanism or otherwise), it is quite possible that a significant fraction of even small amounts of inhaled Mn would be able to reach target sites in the CNS. Thus, the apparently greater toxicity of inhaled versus ingested Mn may reflect important pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic differences of Mn that enters the body by different routes. A more definitive understanding of these issues will require more empirical information. 56 Various elements can exist in more than one form of charged atom, depending on the number of negatively charged and positively charged particles contained in the atom. Manganese is one such element where, depending on the number of charged particles associated with the atom, the atom may have a net charge of two or three ``plus'' charges resulting in a ``divalent'' or ``trivalent'' form, respectively. 2. Earlier Assessments Earlier ORD health assessments have been based on the RfC, which is defined as an estimate (with uncertainty spanning about an order of magnitude) of a continuous inhalation exposure level for the human population (including sensitive subpopulations) that is likely to be without appreciable risk of deleterious noncancer effects during a lifetime. The basic procedure for derivation of an RfC entails identifying a no-observed-adverse- effect level (NOAEL) and a lowest-observed-adverse-effect level (LOAEL) from a ``principal'' study, generally defined as the available study that best defines the highest NOAEL or lowest LOAEL for the most sensitive endpoint affected by a chemical. When an investigation of occupationally exposed humans is the principal study (as in the case of the Mn RfC), the NOAEL or LOAEL is adjusted for differences in ventilation rates and exposure durations between the occupational exposure scenario (10 m3 air breathed per 8-h workday, 5 days/week) and the ``general public'' scenario (20 m3 air breathed per 24-h day, 7 days/week). The adjusted NOAEL or LOAEL is then divided by uncertainty factors and a modifying factor. In the case of the original (1990) RfC for Mn, uncertainty factors of 10 each were used for extrapolating from a healthy worker population to the general population (including sensitive subpopulations) and for extrapolating from a LOAEL to a NOAEL. Also, an uncertainty factor of 3 (approximately one-half of 10 on a log scale) was used for extrapolating from subchronic to chronic exposure. A modifying factor of 3 was used because of statements by the authors of the principal study (Roels et al., 1987) that past exposure levels of workers in the subject study were probably lower than those measured at the time the study was conducted. The resulting RfC of 0.4 m g Mn/m3 was used for the earlier ORD risk assessment (U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1990) and was entered on EPA's IRIS computer database of human health risk and regulatory information in December 1990.
