FR940505-1-00177 FR940505-1-00012 In addition, the U.S. Coast Guard is directed to reconcile the need for safe access routes with the needs of all other reasonable uses of the area involved, and has the experience in the areas of vessel traffic management, navigation, and ship handling. Also, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) has been directed by the Department of Commerce (DOC) to identify and designate as national marine sanctuaries areas of the marine environment and implement coordinated plans for the protection and management of those areas. Finally, marine vessels operating in or near an IMO approved TSS (traffic separation scheme) are subject to Rule 10 of the International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea. EPA is working with all three groups to ensure that ships seeking to move further offshore can travel freely and safely. EPA is proposing two different discount strategies to encourage ships to move off Ventura's coast. The two methods are proposed because it is difficult to quantify the appropriate fee. First, EPA does not know the impact of any fee on shippers. Second, EPA cannot quantify the exact benefits of moving further from Ventura. Finally, EPA cannot compare effects of the discounting on emissions reductions for Los Angeles and Ventura. EPA requests comments on the fee most likely to move shippers offshore of Ventura while still maintaining an incentive to use low emission ships in the area. As described above, EPA will monitor the fee structure and change it to achieve the intended air quality benefits. The first option is a discount of 50 percent from the fee otherwise applicable to any ship (before the hotelling discount is applied) for ships staying 70 miles from shore and outside the Ventura Air Basin (under this option a 10 percent fee is applied to ships in the low emission category). The second option would restrict any discounts to those ships which avoided the Ventura Air Basin. Thus even a ship in the low emission category would pay the highest fee if it entered the Ventura Air Basin (under this option a 0 percent fee would be applied to ships in the low emission category). This option would also offer a 50 percent reduction to ships which avoided the basin. Under both options, any ship in the low fee category which cold ironed and stayed out of the Ventura Air Basin would pay no fee. EPA is also considering the option of requiring that shipping move outside of the air basin when not berthing or at port. To the extent that no fee structure is fully achieving its goals, such a requirement may be necessary. EPA requests comment on this option. (5) Other Non-Air Base Military Installation. EPA requests comment on the feasibility and desirability of implementing a similar emission control strategy for military bases in the FIP areas with non-aircraft mobile sources of emissions, such as the Navy's construction base at Port Hueneme (with the exception of military vessels due to national security concerns as described for military aircraft), which is similar to that proposed for military air bases. These bases could be included in the proposed military air base control program described in section III.D.4.e.(2)(c) simply by expanding the definition of covered facilities to include all sources operated by the Department of Defense in the control areas. 5. Impact of the Economic Incentive Programs Rule on Fee Programs in the FIP a. Introduction The fee programs contained in today's proposal will be impacted by the rules and procedures established in EPA's Economic Incentives Program (EIP) Rulemaking (NPRM_58 FR 11110, February 23, 1993; NFRM due March 15, 1994). The EIP includes the Agency's guidance on fee programs and the requirements that must be met in order for them to be approvable as a SIP revision. It is EPA's intention that the FIP abide by these guidance provisions. The EIP, as applied to the FIP, requires that emission reductions credited to an economic incentive program be surplus to the reductions required by, and credited to, other implementation plan provisions to avoid double counting of reductions; quantifiable; enforceable at both the State and federal levels; consistent with SIP attainment and RFP demonstrations; and permanent within the timeframe specified by the program. These provisions address primarily the case of an economic incentive program in which emission sources are allowed to generate and trade emission reduction credits to show compliance with emission targets. The proposed FIP does not contain such a credits trading program. In addition, and directly relevant to the fee programs in the proposed FIP, an approvable emissions fee program must contain a provision that accounts for the uncertainties inherent in such programs, an auditing procedure, and reconciliation procedures; and must also contain an implementation schedule and administrative procedures. Each of these requirements is summarized below.
