FR940414-2-00079 FR940414-2-00060 Advisory Committee on Nuclear Waste; Meeting The Advisory Committee on Nuclear Waste (ACNW) will hold its 63rd meeting on Wednesday and Thursday, April 20 and 21, 1994, in room P&hyph;110, 7920 Norfolk Avenue, Bethesda, Maryland. The entire meeting will be open to public attendance, with the exception of a portion that may be closed to discuss information the release of which would represent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(6). The agenda for the subject meeting shall be as follows: Wednesday, April 20, 1994_8:30 a.m. until 6 p.m.; Thursday, April 21, 1994_8:30 a.m. until 6 p.m. During this meeting the Committee plans to consider the following: A. Volcanism Studies Underway in the Characterization of the Yucca Mountain Site _Discuss site characterization studies related to volcanism with the DOE staff and gain additional insights into the NRC staff's volcanology research program. B. Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board Meeting on Saturated Zone Hydrology _Hear a report from ACNW members and staff that attended this meeting. C. Multi-Purpose Canister (MPC) Concept _Discuss with the DOE and NRC staffs the MPC concept which utilizes a single canister for spent fuel storage, transportation and disposal. D. Meet with the Director of the Waste Management Divisions, NMSS _Discuss the status of staff progress in resolving the ``important to safety'' issue as related to the DOE petition to revise the design basis accident for a high-level waste repository and other items of possible interest. E. Future Activities _Discuss topics proposed for consideration by the full Committee and working groups. F. New Members _Discuss matters related to the appointment of new members, and organizational and personnel matters related to the ACNW members and ACNW staff. Portions of this session may be closed to public attendance to discuss information the release of which would represent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(6). G. Miscellaneous _Discuss miscellaneous matters related to the conduct of Committee activities and organizational activities and complete discussion of matters and specific issues that were not completed during previous meetings, as time and availability of information permit. Procedures for the conduct of and participation in ACNW meetings were published in the Federal Register on June 6, 1988 (53 FR 20699). In accordance with these procedures, oral or written statements may be presented by members of the public, electronic recordings will be permitted only during those portions of the meeting that are open to the public, and questions may be asked only by members of the Committee, its consultants, and staff. The ACRS Office is providing staff support for the ACNW. Persons desiring to make oral statements should notify the Executive Director of the ACRS Office as far in advance as practical so that appropriate arrangements can be made to allow the necessary time during the meeting for such statements. Use of still, motion picture, and television cameras during this meeting may be limited to selected portions of the meeting as determined by the ACNW Chairman. Information regarding the time to be set aside for this purpose may be obtained by contacting the Executive Director of the office of the ACRS, Dr. John T. Larkins (telephone 301/492&hyph;4516), prior to the meeting. In view of the possibility that the schedule for ACNW meetings may be adjusted by the Chairman as necessary to facilitate the conduct of the meeting, persons planning to attend should check with the ACNW Executive Director or call the recording (301/492&hyph;4600) for the current schedule if such rescheduling would result in major inconvenience. Dated: April 8, 1994. John C. Hoyle, Advisory Committee Management Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8913 Filed 4&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
