FR941013-2-00144 FR941013-2-00100 (9) Audit Requirements. The proposal shall include the cost of an audit that: a. Complies with the requirements of OMB circular No. 1&hyph;133, Audits of Institutions of Higher Education and Other Nonprofit Institutions; b. Complies with the requirements of American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) statement of Position (SOP) No. 92&hyph;9; and c. Includes review by the recipient's independent auditor of a recipient-prepared supplemental schedule of indirect cost rate computation, if such a rate is being proposed. The audit costs shall be identified separately for: a. Preparation of basic financial statements, and other accounting services; and b. Preparation of the supplemental reports and schedules required by OMB Circular No. A&hyph;133, AICPA SOP 92&hyph;9, and the review of the supplemental schedule of indirect cost rate computation. 11. Cost-sharing is encouraged. Cost-sharing may be in the form of allowable direct or indirect costs. The Recipient must maintain written records to support all allowable costs which are claimed as being its contributions to cost participation, as well as costs to be paid by the Federal government. Such records are subject to audit. The basis for determining the value of cash and in-kind contributions must be in accordance with OMB Circular A&hyph;110, Attachment E, ``Cost-sharing and Matching'' and should be described in the proposal. In the event the Recipient does not provide the minimum amount of cost-sharing as stipulated in the Recipient's budget, the Agency's contribution will be reduced in proportion to the Recipient's, contribution. Please refer to the Application Package for complete budget guidelines. Review Process USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines stated herein and in the Application Package. Eligible proposals will be forwarded to panels of USIA officers for advisory review. All eligible proposals will also be reviewed by the Agency contracts office, as well as the USIA Office of East European and NIS Affairs and the USIA post overseas, where appropriate. Proposals may also be reviewed by the Office of the General Counsel or by other Agency elements. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the USIA Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for grant awards resides with the USIA grants officer. Review Criteria Technically eligible applications will be competitively reviewed according to the criteria stated below. These criteria are not rank ordered and all carry equal weight in the proposal evaluation: 1. Quality of the program idea: Proposals should exhibit originality, substance, precision, and relevance to Agency mission. 2. Program planning: Detailed agenda and relevant work plan should demonstrate substantive undertaking and logistical capacity. Agenda and plan should adhere to the program overview and guidelines described above. 3. Ability to achieve program objectives: Objectives should be reasonable, feasible, and flexible. Proposals should clearly demonstrate how the institution will meet the program's objectives and plan. 4. Multiplier effect/impact: Proposed programs should strengthen long-term mutual understanding, including maximum sharing of information and establishment of long-term institutional and individual linkages.
