FR940505-1-00283 FR940505-1-00012 Mobile equipment means self-propelled equipment which is physically capable of being driven on a highway. Mobile equipment includes: automobiles, motorcycles, trucks, vans, construction equipment (e.g., mobile cranes, bulldozers, concrete mixers), farming equipment (e.g., wheel tractors, pesticide sprayers), and miscellaneous equipment (e.g., street cleaners, golf carts, and hauling equipment used inside and around airports, docks, depots, and industrial and commercial plants). Motor vehicle means a vehicle which is self-propelled and physically capable of being driven on a highway. Motor vehicle or mobile equipment assembly line coating facility means a facility where parts are manufactured or finished for eventual inclusion into finished motor vehicles or mobile equipment ready for sale to motor vehicle or mobile equipment dealers. This definition does not include customizers, body shops, and/or other auto refinishing facilities. Motor vehicle or mobile equipment refinishing facility means a facility where all or any part of used motor vehicles or mobile equipment is refinished, or customized, by the application of paint. This definition includes motor vehicles or mobile equipment dealerships who purchase new motor vehicle or mobile equipment from Original Equipment Manufacturers. This definition does not include motor vehicle or mobile equipment assembly line coating facilities. Motorcycle means any motor vehicle other than a tractor having a seat or saddle for the use of the rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground and weighing less than 1,500 lbs, except that four wheels may be in contact with the ground when two of the wheels are a functional part of a sidecar. Offset means a blanket cylinder that is used to transfer ink from a plate cylinder to the substance to be printed. Open-top vapor degreasing means the batch process of cleaning and removing soils from surfaces by condensing hot solvent vapor on the colder metal parts. Oven means a chamber within which heat is used for one or more of the following purposes: to dry, bake, cure, or polymerize a coating or ink. Packaging rotogravure printing means rotogravure printing upon paper, paper board, metal foil, plastic film, and other substrates which are, in subsequent operations, formed into packaging products or labels for articles to be sold. Packaging rotogravure printing press means a rotogravure printing press in which surface coatings are applied to paper, paperboard, metal foil, plastic film, or other substrates which are to be used to produce containers, packaging products, or labels for articles. Paper coating facility means a facility that includes one or more paper coating unit(s). Paper coating unit means a web coating unit where coating is applied to paper. Printing presses are not considered paper coating units. Products produced on a paper coating unit include, but are not limited to, adhesive tapes and labels, book covers, post cards, office copier paper, drafting paper, and pressure sensitive tapes. Paper coating units include, but are not limited to, application by impregnation or saturation or by the use of roll, knife, or rotogravure coating. Printing unit means an operation consisting of a series of one or more roll printers and any associated roll coaters, drying areas, and/or ovens wherein one or more surface coatings are applied, dried, and/or cured. It is not necessary for an operation to have an oven, or flashoff area, or drying area to be included in this definition. Publication rotogravure printing unit means a rotogravure printing unit in which surface coatings are applied to paper which is subsequently formed into books, magazines, catalogues, brochures, directories, newspaper supplements, or other types of printed material. Refinish means to restore or replace coatings on Group I vehicles (large-sized trucks, buses, and mobile equipment) and Group II vehicles (passenger cars, small-sized trucks and vans, medium-sized trucks and vans, and motorcycles) and equipment, or their parts and components, except Original Equipment Manufacturer coatings applied at motor vehicle or mobile equipment assembly line coating facilities. Roll coater means an apparatus in which a uniform layer of coating material is applied by means of a roll or rolls across the entire width of a moving substrate which is fed from an unwinding roll. Roll printer means an apparatus in which a surface coating is applied by means of a roll or rolls with only partial coverage across the width of a moving substrate which is fed from an unwinding roll. The partial coverage results in the formation of words, designs, or pictures on the substrate. Rotogravure printing means the application of words, designs, and pictures to a substrate using a gravure cylinder by means of a roll printing technique in which the pattern to be applied is recessed relative to the nonimage area. Rotogravure printing unit means a printing unit in which each roll printer uses a roll with recessed areas for applying an image to a substrate. Screen printing unit means a printing unit in which the printing ink passes through a web or a fabric to which a refined form of stencil has been applied. The stencil openings determine the form and dimensions of the imprint. Solvent means a substance that is liquid at standard conditions that is used to dissolve or dilute another substance; this term includes, but is not limited to, organic materials used as dissolvers, viscosity reducers, degreasing agents, or cleaning agents. Solvent cleaning means the process of cleaning soils from surfaces by cold cleaning, open-top vapor degreasing, or conveyorized degreasing.
