FR941205-2-00160 FR941205-2-00074 Notices inviting applications under these competitions are published in separate notices in this issue of the Federal Register . Analysis of Comments and Changes In response to the Secretary's invitation in the notice of proposed priorities, 64 parties submitted comments. An analysis of the comments and of the changes in the priorities since publication of the notice of proposed priorities follows. Please note that this section addresses only those proposed priorities on which substantive comments were received or priorities that have been substantially changed as a result of the Secretary's review. Technical and other minor changes_and suggested changes the Secretary is not legally authorized to make under the applicable statutory authority_are also not addressed. General Comments Comments: Three commenters expressed concern that vocational evaluation and work adjustment, an important component of the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, is being eliminated by the Rehabilitation Services Administration (RSA) as a training focus from its discretionary grant programs in general and from these priorities in particular. Therefore, it was recommended that an additional priority be included to provide training for community rehabilitation personnel in the field of vocational evaluation and work adjustment. Discussion: An announcement to fund projects that will provide vocational evaluation and work adjustment training for FY 1995 was published on June 16, 1994. In addition, vocational evaluation and work adjustment training is not precluded under these priorities. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter recommended that every priority included in the notice, and every future RSA priority, provide training in access to assistive technology and devices. In addition, one of the same commenters proposed that two technology-specific priorities be added to this notice. Discussion: Training in this area is allowed under any of the priorities in this notice. The Secretary believes that training rehabilitation personnel in assistive technology can lead to increased choices and opportunities for persons with disabilities. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter suggested that a priority be added that would provide additional resources to State vocational rehabilitation agencies to facilitate ongoing career advancement opportunities on behalf of their clients. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that the facilitation of ongoing career advancement opportunities on behalf of clients of State vocational rehabilitation agencies is important. State vocational rehabilitation agencies are currently provided resources under the in-service training program to carry out post-employment programs, such as the development of career advancement opportunities for their clients.
