FR940825-1-00025 FR940825-1-00002 Material Provided in Support of the Proposed Alternate Standard to 29 CFR 1910.36(b)(8) A statement of why the agency cannot comply with the OSHA standard or wants to adopt an alternate standard. The existing alternate standard was proposed by the Department of Transportation (DOT) and accepted by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) for Airport Traffic Control Towers (ATCTs) in 1982 in recognition of the characteristic structure of ATCTs and the unique FAA mission to control aircraft from these buildings. Contributing factors in the DOT pursuit of an alternate standard included the feasibility of using alternate life safety measures which provided an equivalent level of protection for ATCT occupants, the enormous expense and impracticality of adding a second exit to existing ATCTs or constructing ATCTs with two remote exits, and the need to minimize disruption of the commercial and private aviation activities. DOT requests modification to the existing alternate standard for ATCTs for the reasons stated below. •A number of specifications established in the existing alternate standard for ATCTs require types of construction beyond those mandated in OSHA regulations or in life safety and building codes. •A licensed fire protection engineer has provided several alternative protection measures for ATCTs which were not included in the existing alternate standard. •The existing alternate standard does not address important operational ATCT requirements (e.g., 360 ○ field of vision at the cab level) or their relationship with protective structural or procedural features. A description of the alternate standard. The revision to the existing alternate standard provides types of ATCT construction and methods of operation which enhance the fire detection and notification, fire resistance, smoke control, and emergency response features for ATCTs. These features provide early warning of the presence of fire or smoke, flame and smoke spread control, and automatic notification of emergency response units such that a level of fire safety equivalent to two means of egress are afforded ATCT occupants. An explanation of how the alternate standard provides equivalent or greater protection for the affected employees. Enhancements to the alternate standard include: •an ATCT stairway smoke control system; •fire resistant rated materials for stairway enclosures and openings; •self-closing or automatic fire doors; •ATCT fire alarm system wiring in accordance with NFPA 72 reliability standards; •automatic smoke detection; •automatic fire detection, alarm, and signalling systems with automatic fire department and ATCT notification and ATCT cab annunciator panels with battery backup; •prohibition of storage of high hazard materials or use of more than minimal amounts of high hazard materials for specific duties; •occupancy above the level of exit discharge only by able-bodied persons; •prescribed quality and type of interior finish materials; •specified levels of fire resistant rated opening protectives to base buildings. These and other measures in the proposed revision to the alternate standard will provide equivalent or greater protection for ATCTs. A description of interim protective measures afforded employees. Pending approval of the proposed alternate standard, DOT has completed standard design ATCT structural fire safety enhancements proposed by the Rolf Jensen Associates licensed fire protection engineer. These enhancements comply with the proposed alternate standard. Other ATCTs are currently under going review by the licensed fire protection engineer contractor and up-grades are scheduled for completion by December 1994. In the interim, DOT has initiated a program in which ATCT employees are trained in emergency response techniques (evacuation plan, fire response techniques, and fire extinguisher use), agreements are made with local fire and rescue response units to ensure prompt fire control and medical service response, smoke detectors and fire alarms are installed, and housekeeping material and storage practices are improved. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20473 Filed 8&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;26&hyph;M
