FR940719-1-00061 FR940719-1-00015 Section 75.334␣Worked-out Areas and Areas Where Pillars Are Being Recovered MSHA is proposing to revise paragraph (e) and to repropose existing paragraph (f). A requirement would be added in paragraph (e) that provides that in addition to designing mining systems so that worked-out areas can be sealed, the location and sequence of construction of proposed seals would also be specified in the approved ventilation plan. Improper location and sequencing of seal construction can have a deleterious effect on mine air quality and ventilation and therefore the location and sequence of construction of these seals should be reviewed and approved as a part of the ventilation plan. Under the previous standard, the proposed location and sequence of construction of all necessary mine seals was required to be submitted for approval as part of the sealing plan required by §75.330. Under the existing standard, the location of proposed seals is required to be shown on the ventilation map required by §75.372. Showing the location on the map does not subject the location to approval and therefore the Agency agrees that it does not satisfy the objective of assuring proper location and sequencing. The proposal would rectify this situation. Through meetings with various segments of the mining community, the Agency also became aware of a concern that paragraph (f) of §75.334 may have been promulgated without the benefit of adequate comment. Paragraph (f) addresses mines with a demonstrated history of spontaneous combustion or those located in coal seams determined to be susceptible to spontaneous combustion. Although the Agency believes that the promulgation of paragraph (f) of this standard was done appropriately, it is being reproposed for the purposes of receiving and giving consideration to all pertinent comments. As discussed in the preamble to the existing standard, several commenters suggested that bleeder systems should not be required for all mines, stating that in some mines the practice of ventilating worked-out areas increases the risk of spontaneous combustion by supplying oxygen to combustion-prone materials in these areas. These commenters requested that the final rule include provisions to address spontaneous combustion. MSHA recognized the need to reduce the flow of oxygen to areas where there is a likelihood of spontaneous combustion and the existing rule requires the approved ventilation plan to address spontaneous combustion in mines with a demonstrated history of this hazard or mines that are located in coal seams determined to be susceptible to spontaneous combustion. Experience gained through application of this standard has demonstrated that paragraph (f) applies to only a few mines. However, studies by the Bureau of Mines have identified the volatile properties of coal seams and have determined that certain seams are susceptible to spontaneous combustion. The existing standard, as reproposed, is also directed to mines in these seams. Under paragraph (f) of the proposal, the approved ventilation plans for mines that are susceptible to spontaneous combustion must specify measures to detect methane, carbon monoxide, and oxygen concentrations in worked-out areas. These measures must be taken during and after pillar recovery and in worked-out areas where no pillars have been recovered. The purpose of these measures is to determine if worked-out areas must be ventilated or sealed. If the methane concentration or other hazards in the worked-out area cannot be controlled while the mine is limiting airflow to avoid spontaneous combustion, it may be necessary to ventilate or seal the worked-out area. These measures also help to determine the extent to which the worked-out areas can be ventilated without increasing the spontaneous combustion hazard. The Agency is concerned with the inability of some mines that have a spontaneous combustion problem to reduce the oxygen content to a sufficiently low level. It is well known that the oxygen level in a gob varies depending on the location where the measurement is made. For example, the periphery of a gob normally will have higher oxygen levels than the interior of the gob. The oxygen level in the interior of the gob is critical when dealing with spontaneous combustion. If conditions are such that the oxygen content in critical areas within a gob cannot be reduced below that necessary for a methane ignition to occur, a bleederless system may not be appropriate. The Agency solicits comments on this subject.
