FR940606-1-00005 FR940606-1-00003 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 89&hyph;NM&hyph;205&hyph;AD] Airworthiness Directives; Aerospatiale Model ATR 42, et al.; Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Proposed rule; withdrawal. SUMMARY: This action withdraws a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) that proposed a new airworthiness directive (AD), applicable to various smaller transport category airplanes certificated for operation with a main deck Class B cargo compartment. That action would have required either the conversion of all main deck Class B cargo compartments to the Class C configuration; or the use of flame penetration-resistant containers with smoke detection and fire extinguishing systems to carry all cargo; or the accomplishment of certain operational and equipment changes and design modifications to maximize cargo fire detection and control. Since the issuance of the NPRM, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has received new data and is undertaking alternative rulemaking action. Accordingly, the proposed rule is withdrawn. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mark Quam, Aerospace Engineer, Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2145; fax (206) 227&hyph;1320. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A proposal to amend part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations to add a new airworthiness directive (AD), applicable to various smaller transport category airplanes certificated for operation with a main deck Class B cargo compartment, was published in the Federal Register on September 5, 1990 (55 FR 36284). The proposed rule would have required either the conversion of all main deck Class B cargo compartments to a Class C configuration; or the use of flame penetration-resistant containers with smoke detection and fire extinguishing systems to carry all cargo; or the accomplishment of certain operational and equipment changes and design modifications to maximize cargo fire detection and control. That action was prompted by a report of an uncontained fire in a main deck cargo compartment on a transport category airplane. The proposed actions were intended to prevent an uncontrolled cargo fire that could cause extensive damage to the systems and structure of the airplane. Since the issuance of that NPRM, the FAA has received additional data and has initiated other rulemaking activity, which has caused it to reconsider its previous position on this rulemaking action. The FAA received over 128 comments and suggestions to the proposal, including ones from affected operators, aircraft manufacturers, industry representatives, and civil aviation authorities from around the world. The general nature of almost all of the comments received was in disagreement with the issuance of the proposed rule. One commenter requests that further action on this AD be postponed until the proposed actions have been carefully coordinated with the aviation authorities of the countries controlling the type certificates of the applicable aircraft. The FAA notes that, during the development of this proposal, it apprised foreign civil airworthiness authorities (FCAA) of the planned actions. The FAA has given due consideration to the comments and recommendations that were received from each of these FCAA's. Many commenters question the justification for the proposed rule and request that it be withdrawn. Five commenters question the FAA's method of requiring change via an AD. Several commenters consider that the proposed rule fails to meet the regulatory requirements of ยง39.1 (``Airworthiness Directives; Applicability'') of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 39.1); these commenters contend that the FAA has not established that the unsafe condition is likely to exist or develop on the affected airplanes. One commenter points out that a review of the FAA's Service Difficulty Reports (SDR) failed to disclose any problem with regard to detection, access to, or control of smoke or fires in baggage compartments of airplanes of the type and size affected by the proposal. One of these commenters points out that there is no service history to suggest that compartments of this size [under 400 cubic feet] have been or are likely to be a fire hazard. Four commenters consider that the FAA's intent in proposing the AD should instead be addressed either as a change to affected operators' Operation Specifications or as a change to part 121 (``Certification and Operations: Domestic, Flag, and Supplemental Air Carriers and commercial Operators of Large Aircraft'') of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 121). The FAA agrees with certain observations made by these commenters. The FAA has conducted a review the SDR's as well as the United Kingdom Civil Airworthiness Authority's (CAA) World Airline Accident Summary and found no reports of incidents or accidents caused by fire in the Class B cargo compartment of transport airplanes addressed by this notice. The historical data that was reviewed indicates only that there has not been a cargo compartment fire in the size of airplanes specified in the notice. However, the lack of incidents of fire does not establish that the Class B compartment, as defined in the existing certification regulations, has appropriate safeguards if a fire were to occur. It is this aspect that the proposed rule was meant to address.
