FR940429-0-00159 FR940429-0-00014 (e)(1) For the purposes of this section, an ownership interest is a share of the legal or beneficial ownership or control of, or a right to share in the proceeds of the operation of, an institution or institution's parent corporation. (2) The term ownership interest includes, but is not limited to_ (i) An interest as tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entireties; (ii) A partnership; and (iii) An interest in a trust. (3) The term ownership interest does not include any share of the ownership or control of, or any right to share in the proceeds of the operation of_ (i) A mutual fund that is regularly and publicly traded; (ii) An institutional investor; or (iii) A profit-sharing plan, provided that all employees are covered by the plan. (f) For the purposes of this section, the Secretary considers a member of a person's family to be a parent, sibling, spouse or child; spouse's parent or sibling; or sibling's or child's spouse. ( Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1088 and 1141) §600.31 Change in ownership resulting in a change of control. (a) General. (1) An institution that undergoes a change of ownership that results in a change of control ceases to qualify as an eligible institution upon the change of ownership and control. A change of ownership that results in a change in control includes any change by which a person who has or thereby acquires an ownership interest in the entity that owns the institution or the parent corporation of that entity, acquires or loses the ability to control the institution. (2) In order to reestablish eligibility and to resume participation in the title IV, HEA programs, the institution must demonstrate to the Secretary that after the change of ownership and control_ (i) The institution satisfies all the applicable requirements contained in §§600.4, 600.5, and 600.6, except that if the institution is a proprietary institution of higher education or postsecondary vocational institution, it need not have been in existence for two years before seeking eligibility; and (ii) The institution qualifies to be certified to participate under 34 CFR part 668, subpart B. (b) Definitions. The following definitions apply to terms used in this section: Closely-held corporation. Closely-held corporation (including the term close corporation) means_ (1) A corporation that qualifies under the law of the State of its incorporation as a closely-held corporation; or (2) If the State of incorporation has no definition of closely-held corporation, a corporation the stock of which _ (i) Is held by no more than 30 persons; and (ii) Has not been and is not planned to be publicly offered. Control. Control (including the terms controlling, controlled by and under common control with) means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise. Ownership. Ownership or ownership interest means a legal or beneficial interest in an entity, or a right to share in the profits derived from the operation of an entity. The term does not include the interests of a mutual fund that is regularly and publicly traded, of an institutional investor, or of a profit-sharing plan in which all employees of an entity may participate. Parent. The parent or parent corporation of a specified corporation is the corporation or partnership that controls the specified corporation directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries. Person. Person includes a legal person (corporation or partnership) or an individual. Wholly-owned subsidiary. A wholly-owned subsidiary is one substantially all of whose outstanding voting securities are owned by its parent together with the parent's other wholly-owned subsidiaries. (c) Standards for identifying changes of ownership and control _(1) Closely-held corporation. A change of ownership and control occurs when_ (i) A person acquires 50 percent or more of the total outstanding voting stock of the corporation; (ii) A person who holds an ownership interest in the corporation acquires control of 50 parent or more of the total outstanding voting stock of the corporation; or (iii) A person who holds or controls 50 percent or more of the total outstanding stock of the corporation ceases to hold or control that proportion of the stock of the corporation. (2) Publicly-traded corporation required to be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). A change of ownership and control occurs when a change of control of the corporation takes place that gives rise to the obligation to file a Form 8K with the SEC notifying that agency of the change in control. (3) Other corporations. A change of ownership and control of a corporation that is neither closely held nor required to be registered with the SEC occurs when_ (i) A person who has or acquires an ownership interest acquires both control of at least 25 percent of the total outstanding voting stock of the corporation and control of the corporation; (ii) A person who holds both ownership or control of at least 25 percent of the total outstanding voting stock of the corporation and control of the corporation, ceases to own or control that proportion of the stock of the corporation, or to control the corporation; or
