FR940713-2-00173 FR940713-2-00097 Appendix_Analysis of Comments and Changes The Department received 12 letters in response to the Notice of Proposed Priority. This Appendix contains an analysis of the comments and of the changes in the priority since the publication of the Notice of Proposed Priority. The Appendix does not address technical changes, suggested changes the Secretary is not legally authorized to make under applicable statutory authority, and comments that are outside the scope of the proposed priority such as the size of the award, the length of the project period, or the number of projects that will be awarded. Comment: One commenter suggested that the project research employment systems in the other countries. Discussion: The Secretary believes that applicants may propose to address employment systems that are related to rehabilitation issues, legislation, and programs. The Secretary believes that applicants should be given the discretion to propose issues that the project will address. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter suggested that the project should work in collaboration with other countries. Discussion: The Secretary agrees and points out that the priority requires the project to ``Establish an international exchange of research and technical assistance experts between foreign nations and the U.S.'' The Secretary does not believe any further requirements are necessary. Changes: None. Comment: Three commenters observed that the requirement to maintain a library was a significant expense that would consume a disproportionate amount of the project's resources. The commenters suggested requiring that the project maintain a database instead of a library. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that maintaining a library may be beyond the resources available to the project. The Secretary also agrees with the suggestion to require the project to maintain a database instead of a library. Changes: The project is required to maintain a database instead of a library. Comment: Two commenters suggested that the project's various activities address policy as well as programmatic issues. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the priority provides the project with the authority to address policy and programmatic issues. The Secretary does not believe that any further requirements are necessary. Changes: None. Comment: Two commenters observed that the requirement to ``Assist both foreign and domestic professionals or consumers to plan trips *␣*␣* through the development and listing of potential sites'' was a significant expense that would consume a disproportional amount of the project's resources. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the requirement to develop (emphasis added) and list potential sites may be interpreted to require the project to undertake activities that are beyond the resources that will be available to the project. The Secretary believes that the project should assist professionals and consumers to plan trips by identifying potential sites and contact persons at each site. Changes: The project is required to assist foreign and domestic professionals or consumers to plan trips by identifying potential sites and contact persons at each site. Comment: One commenter recommended that the priority be revised to require that the majority of people who are exchanged be individuals with disabilities. A second commenter observed that project activities that are directed by individuals with disabilities are the most effective. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the project should include individuals with disabilities to the maximum extent possible in all aspects of the project. Changes: The priority has been revised to require that the project include individuals with disabilities to the maximum extent possible in all project activities. Comment: One commenter suggested that the project provide training to mainstream international educational exchange programs on equalizing opportunities for young persons with disabilities to participate in existing international educational opportunities. Discussion: The Secretary recognizes the need to increase opportunities for young persons with disabilities to participate in existing international educational opportunities. However, the Secretary believes that such an activity is outside the scope of the priority. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter suggested that the international exchange of experts and technical assistance should address skills needed for creating policy and writing and passing legislation. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the priority authorizes an applicant to address creating policy and writing and passing legislation that bears upon rehabilitation issues. The Secretary does not believe that any further requirements are necessary. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter suggested that special emphasis should be given to activities that teach technical skills and provide employment opportunities for individuals with disabilities and that produce assistive technology that will improve access for individuals with disabilities. The commenter also suggested that special emphasis should be given to leadership training activities for individuals with disabilities and to women with disabilities in exchanges of information and expertise. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the areas of special emphasis suggested by the commenter are authorized by the priority. However, the Secretary believes that applicants should have the discretion to propose a special emphasis on one or more selected issues. Changes: None.
