FR940705-2-00182 FR940705-2-00091 Certain specified recombinant DNA molecules that ``consist entirely of DNA segments from different species that exchange DNA by known physiological processes, though one or more of the segments may be a synthetic equivalent are exempt from these NIH Guidelines (see Section III&hyph;E&hyph;5). Institutional Biosafety Committee registration is not required for these exempt experiments. A list of such exchangers will be prepared and periodically revised by the NIH Director with advice from the RAC after appropriate notice and opportunity for public comment (see Section IV&hyph;C&hyph;1&hyph;b&hyph;(1)&hyph;(c)). See Appendices A&hyph;I through A&hyph;VI for a list of natural exchangers that are exempt from the NIH Guidelines.'' Section III&hyph;E&hyph;5 describes recombinant DNA molecules that are: (1) composed entirely of DNA segments from one or more of the organisms within a sublist, and (2) to be propagated in any of the organisms within a sublist (see Classification of Bergey's Manual of Determinative Bacteriology; 8th edition, R. E. Buchanan and N. E. Gibbons, editors, Williams and Wilkins Company; Baltimore, Maryland 1984). Although these experiments are exempt, it is recommended that they be performed at the appropriate biosafety level for the host or recombinant organism (see Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories, 3rd edition, May 1993, U.S. DHHS, Public Health Service, Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta, Georgia, and NIH Office of Biosafety, Bethesda, Maryland). Appendix A&hyph;I. Sublist A Genus Escherichia Genus Shigella Genus Salmonella _including Arizona Genus Enterobacter Genus Citrobacter _including Levinea Genus Klebsiella_ including oxytoca Genus Erwinia Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Pseudomonas putida, Pseudomonas fluorescens, and Pseudomonas mendocina Serratia marcescens Yersinia enterocolitica Appendix A&hyph;II. Sublist B Bacillus subtilis Bacillus licheniformis Bacillus pumilus Bacillus globigii Bacillus niger Bacillus nato Bacillus amyloliquefaciens Bacillus aterrimus Appendix A&hyph;III. Sublist C Streptomyces aureofaciens Streptomyces rimosus Streptomyces coelicolor Appendix A&hyph;IV. Sublist D Streptomyces griseus Streptomyces cyaneus Streptomyces venezuelae Appendix A&hyph;V. Sublist E One way transfer of Streptococcus mutans or Streptococcus lactis DNA into Streptococcus sanguis Appendix A&hyph;VI. Sublist F Streptococcus sanguis Streptococcus pneumoniae Streptococcus faecalis Streptococcus pyogenes Streptococcus mutans Appendix B. Classification of Etiologic Agents and Oncogenic Viruses on the Basis of Hazard (See Appendix B&hyph;VI&hyph;A). Appendix B&hyph;I. Class 1 Agents All bacterial, parasitic, fungal, viral, rickettsial, and chlamydial agents not included in higher classes shall be considered Class 1 agents. Appendix B&hyph;II. Class 2 Agents Appendix B&hyph;II&hyph;A. Class 2 Bacterial Agents Acinetobacter calcoaceticus Actinobacillus_ all species Aeromonas hydrophila
