FR940817-1-00050 FR940817-1-00013 Subpart A_General §66.1 Applicability. (a) This part prescribes the requirements for issuing the following certificates and associated ratings and the general operating rules for the holders of those certificates and ratings: (1) Aviation Maintenance Technicians. (2) Aviation Repair Specialists. (b) [Reserved] §66.3 Certification of foreign aviation maintenance technicians. A person who is neither a U.S. citizen nor a resident alien is issued a certificate under subpart B of this part, outside the United States, only when the Administrator finds that the certificate is needed for the operation or continued airworthiness of a U.S.-registered civil aircraft. §66.11 Application and issue. (a) Application for a certificate and rating, or for an additional rating, under this part must be made on a form and in a manner prescribed by the Administrator. Each person who is neither a U.S. citizen nor a resident alien and who applies for a written or practical test to be administered outside the United States or for any certificate or rating issued under this part must show evidence that the fee prescribed in Appendix A of part 187 of this chapter has been paid. (b) An applicant who meets the requirements of this part is entitled to an appropriate certificate and rating. (c) Unless authorized by the Administrator, a person whose aviation maintenance technician certificate is suspended may not apply for any rating to be added to that certificate during the period of suspension. (d) Unless the order of revocation provides otherwise, a person whose aviation maintenance technician or aviation repair specialist certificate is revoked may not apply for either of those kinds of certificates for 1 year after the date of revocation. §66.12 Offenses involving alcohol or drugs. (a) A conviction for the violation of any Federal or state statute relating to the growing, processing, manufacture, sale, disposition, possession, transportation, or importation of narcotic drugs, marijuana, or depressant or stimulant drugs or substances is grounds for: (1) Denial of an application for any certificate or rating issued under this part for a period of up to 1 year after the date of final conviction; or (2) Suspension or revocation of any certificate or rating issued under this part. (b) The commission of an act prohibited by §91.19(a) of this chapter is grounds for: (1) Denial of an application for a certificate or rating issued under this part for a period of up to 1 year after the date of the act; or (2) Suspension or revocation of any certificate or rating issued under this part.
