FR940114-0-00045 FR940114-0-00020 The recommendations of the Advisory Council as a whole were included in a resolution. The resolution questioned the sufficiency of the evidence to support adoption of the proposed rule and recommended that: (1) The Department undertake negotiated rulemaking or other comparable process for this standard; (2) the costs of any rule be considered, both cumulatively and by zones; (3) the Department examine its legal and regulatory authority with respect to installation, if it finds that an installation standard would be an appropriate means of increasing wind safety; (4) the Department consider all nationally recognized model codes; (5) the Department make available documents relating to the development of new wind standards; (6) the Advisory Council be reconvened to review public comments and the Department's analysis; (7) the Department should promptly complete the process of updating the wind standards, considering the issues and questions raised by the Advisory Council and in public comments; and (8) the Department should prepare an adequate regulatory impact analysis upon which it can support the decisions to be made on implementation of new standards. The Department has considered the conclusions and recommendations of the Advisory Council in developing this final rule and the final regulatory impact analysis. The regulatory impact analysis is responsive to several of the Advisory Council's concerns, while this preamble addresses other points raised by the Advisory Council. With respect to the other points raised by the Advisory Council, many commenters also suggested that installation is a crucial factor in the safety of manufactured homes. The Department agrees that the installation of manufactured housing units may be an important factor in the safety of such housing and is initiating a review of the Department's authority and ability to influence tiedown requirements. However, the Department does not believe there is any significant advantage in, or that the public interest would be served by, reconvening the Advisory Council for the purpose of reviewing the public comments or the Department's compliance with its statutory responsibilities in the development of these standards. Nor does the Department believe there is any advantage to the public interest in undertaking negotiated rulemaking for these standards because they have been subject to an extensive notice and comment period and have been discussed with the Advisory Council, a body representative of the manufactured housing industry, government, and consumers. Major Differences From Proposed Rule As a result of the Department's review of public comments and consultation with the Advisory Council, at this time the Department has decided not to pursue substantial changes to the standards in areas of the country not generally subject to hurricanes (Wind Zone I). However, the Department recognizes that in many areas of the country the Federal standards applicable to the design and construction of manufactured housing are far below standards specified for site-built and modular housing by State and local codes. Thus, the Department shall initiate a new review of the standards for the rest of the country, and it expects to publish proposals for these areas next year. The Department has also decided not to include in the final rule the following items that were in the proposed rule: (1) Maximum dimension of 12 ’ ’ for roof overhangs; (2) Lower load duration factor than provided in the 1991 National Design Specification for Wood Construction (NDS); (3) Requirement for a 1.5 safety factor to calculate resistance of anchoring and foundation systems to higher design forces in Wind Zones II and III; (4) Manufacturer's design and details for a permanent foundation system (certified by a registered professional engineer or architect) applicable to each manufactured home design; and (5) Shortened period for implementation of the standards after publication. Relationship to Energy Rule On October 25, 1993, the Department published a final rule amending the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (FMHCSS) to include preemptive standards significantly upgrading the existing energy conservation requirements (58 FR 54975) (Energy Rule). The effective date of that rule is October 25, 1994. Several of the provisions to be affected by the Energy Rule are also affected by the rule published today. Because of the earlier effective date for those provisions in today's rule, the Department will publish technical amendments to the Energy Rule, before the effective date of that rule, that also will reflect the new requirements imposed under today's rule. In some minor instances, the changes adopted in today's rule already include requirements that otherwise would have been imposed upon the effective date of the Energy Rule. Those changes are identified further in the section-by- section analysis later in this preamble. Problem To Be Addressed Each year significant damage to manufactured housing is produced by straight winds, hurricanes, and tornadoes. Damage is primarily in the form of roof failure, loss of roof diaphragm material, connection failures, and tiedown/foundation failures. The most predictable areas for wind damage to manufactured housing are those subject most directly to hurricanes. Last year Hurricanes Andrew and Iniki provided dramatic examples of the destruction faced by housing in hurricane-prone areas.
