FR940318-0-00180 FR940318-0-00023 HCFC&hyph;123 is being proposed as a streaming agent to replace Halon 1211, both in pure form and in blends. HCFC&hyph;123 could replace Halon 1211 at a ratio of 1.8 by weight_a ratio considerably better than that of most other streaming substitutes. HCFC&hyph;123 has the lowest ODP of all the HCFCs proposed as halon substitutes, and its global warming potential (GWP) is half that of other HCFC substitutes. HCFC&hyph;124 is being proposed as both a total flooding agent and a streaming agent, both alone and in blends. HCFC&hyph;124 has relatively low ODP and GWP values. Animal testing indicates that the substance may be lethal to rats at a level greater than 23 percent over a four hour period. Due to its cardiotoxic profile, this agent is not suitable for use in total flooding applications in normally occupied areas. However, pending personal monitoring tests to assess actual exposure, it is possible that this agent could be used as a streaming agent. c. Hydrofluorocarbons. Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) have also been suggested as halon substitutes. HFCs are physical action agents and are less effective than halons or HBFCs. Due to their reduced efficacy, larger storage volumes are required for use in fire protection systems. Their great advantage over halons, HBFCs, and HCFCs is that HFCs have an ozone depletion potential of zero. However, when exposed to fires, HFCs potentially decompose into greater amounts of hydrogen fluoride (HF) than do HCFCs, depending on the number of fluorines in the molecule. Discharge of these chemicals onto a fire must be rapid or early to prevent the buildup of large amounts of these decomposition products. In addition, HFCs can potentially contribute to global climate change. Because of this potential, HFCs are included in President Clinton's Climate Change Action Plan (CCAP). Under this plan, EPA is directed to limit uses of greenhouse gases as substitutes for ozone-depleting compounds. Because EPA is simultaneously also interested in promoting the broader shift away from ozone-depleting compounds, any limits on use will be imposed wherever possible in ways that preserve as much flexibility for those trying to move to alternatives as possible. To minimize unnecessary emissions of greenhouse gases, EPA is recommending that users limit testing only to that which is essential to meet safety or performance requirements; recover HFCs from the fire protection system in conjunction with testing or servicing; and recycle recovered agent for later use or destruction. Manufacturers of these agents must recognize their responsibility to prevent unnecessary emissions of these gases. Product stewardship programs may be a useful mechanism to help users meet these requirements. EPA will reexamine how to control unnecessary emissions of greenhouse gases in the future. HFC&hyph;23, HFC&hyph;32, HFC&hyph;125, HFC&hyph;134a, and HFC&hyph;227ea have all been proposed as total flooding agents. HFC&hyph;134a and HFC&hyph;227ea have also been proposed as streaming agents. HFCs tend to possess less risk of acute cardiotoxicity than do the HCFCs or HBFC-22B1. HFC&hyph;32 has been determined to be flammable, with a large flammability range, and is therefore inappropriate as a halon substitute. In the next SNAP update, EPA intends to propose listing this agent as unacceptable in total flood applications. d. Perfluorocarbons. Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) are fully fluorinated compounds which do not contribute to ozone depletion. In addition, PFCs are nonflammable, essentially non-toxic, and are not VOCs. PFCs are effective fire protection agents, having the lowest required extinguishing concentration of any of the suggested substitutes other than HBFCs. However, these compounds have high molecular weights, which create weight and storage replacement ratios that are somewhat higher than the HCFCs and many of the HFC candidates. Two PFCs have been submitted as halon replacements: Perfluorobutane (C 4 F 10 ) as a total flood replacement for Halon 1301, and perfluorohexane (C 6 F 14 ) as a substitute for Halon 1211. In the NPRM, these agents were referred to as FC 3&hyph;1&hyph;10 and FC 5&hyph;1&hyph;14, respectively. The principal environmental characteristic of concern for PFCs is that they have long atmospheric lifetimes and have the potential to contribute to global climate change. PFCs are also included in the CCAP which broadly instructs EPA to use section 612, as well as voluntary programs, to control emissions. While PFCs are extremely persistent, their favorable toxicity profile makes these agents attractive for use in occupied areas. Thus, EPA believes that there are instances in which PFCs represent the only viable alternative to transition away from the CFCs or halons. The Agency is finding use of PFCs acceptable only for applications where reasonable efforts have been made to determine that no other alternatives are technically feasible due to performance or safety requirements. However, as with all of the substitutes which are greenhouse gases and ozone-depleting substances, EPA recommends that users limit testing only to that which is essential to meet safety or performance requirements; recover agent from the fire protection system in conjunction with testing or servicing; and recycle or destroy agent that is recovered from a system. In addition, EPA encourages manufacturers to develop aggressive product stewardship programs to help users avoid such unnecessary emissions. EPA will reexamine how to control unnecessary emissions of greenhouse gases in the future. e. Chlorofluorocarbons. Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) have also been proposed as halon alternatives, either individually or in blends. These compounds are also class I substances, however, and as a matter of policy EPA will not encourage shifting from one class I substance to another, despite the fact that the ODPs of the CFCs are significantly lower than those of Halons 1211 and 1301. EPA does not believe it is appropriate to encourage shifting to substitutes that are required to be phased out in the near term. In addition, the sale and distribution of CFCs in pressurized dispensers (in this sector, portable fire extinguishers) are controlled under section 610(b) of the CAA. f. Blends. A number of manufacturers have proposed proprietary blends of chemicals for fire protection applications. These blends combine a variety of CFCs, HCFCs, HFCs, PFCs, inert gases, and other additives to achieve desired levels of effectiveness, toxicity, and decomposition products. Most of these blends contain constituents that have non-zero ODPs and GWPs. In assessing the ODP and GWP of such blends, the Agency has examined both the weighted average of the constituents and the individual characteristics of the constituents. Because toxicity varies with the exact composition of the blend, EPA requires cardiotoxicity tests to be conducted on the blend itself, rather than being inferred from the constituents. g. Non-halocarbon alternative agents. Non-halocarbon alternative agents such as CO 2 , dry chemical, foams, and water that are currently in widespread use and that are covered in NFPA standards and OSHA regulations may also be used as substitutes for halon. These agents are not as widely applicable as the halocarbon substitutes, and must be used where recommended by the manufacturers and approved by standard-setting entities such as the NFPA. In addition, several manufacturers have developed new technologies to adapt traditional agents to the halon market. Two manufacturers have developed inert gas blends as Halon 1301 substitutes in total flood systems. One of them, containing CO 2 mixed with inert gases has already been included in the new NFPA 2001 standard. Water sprinkler systems are capturing part of the halon substitute market, often in conjunction with improved detection systems and risk management programs which isolate the degree of liability in a given fire event. A promising new water technology incorporates fine water droplets to create a water mist or fog. It has been suggested that water mist systems are safe for use on Class A and B fires, and even can be used on Class C electrical fires without causing secondary damage. Because the environmental, health and safety issues of the various types of water mist systems have not yet been fully addressed, EPA is listing water mist as pending in this rule, and will work with NFPA, manufacturers, and others in order to include it in the next SNAP update.
