FR940222-1-00057 FR940222-1-00009 The objective of these proposed changes is to make the regulations fully consistent with the relevant statutory authority and to provide, as necessary, clarification of the distinction between contract nonrenewals and terminations. In addition, the change to the regulations concerning mandatory and optional functions will provide us with the flexibility to shift non-mandatory functions among intermediaries and carriers so that the Medicare program may be administered in the most efficient and effective manner possible. We anticipate using the authority granted us by this change sparingly. Any transfer or consolidation of functions will be determined on a case-by-case basis, and, prior to taking action in any specific case, we will closely study the situation to determine whether the benefits to the effective administration of the Medicare program warrant the action. It is not our intent at this time to shift functions from intermediaries and carriers to any entities except other intermediaries and carriers. III. Response to Comments Because of the large number of items of correspondence we normally receive on a proposed rule, we are not able to acknowledge or respond to them individually. However, we will consider all comments that we receive by the date and time specified in the `` DATES '' section of this preamble, and we will respond to them in the preamble to the final rule. IV. Collection of Information Requirement This rule contains no information collection requirements. Consequently, this rule need not be reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget under the authority of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq .). V. Regulatory Impact Statement We generally prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis that is consistent with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) (5 U.S.C. 601 through 612) unless the Secretary certifies that a proposed rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. For purposes of the RFA, intermediaries and carriers are not considered to be small entities that will be affected as a result of these regulations. Individuals and States are not included in the definition of a small entity. Also, section 1102(b) of the Act requires the Secretary to prepare a regulatory impact analysis if a proposed rule may have a significant impact on the operations of a substantial number of small rural hospitals. This analysis must conform to the provisions of section 603 of the RFA. For purposes of section 1102(b) of the Act, we consider a small rural hospital as a hospital that is located outside of a Metropolitan Statistical Area and has fewer than 50 beds. This proposed rule would potentially affect the 47 Medicare part A intermediaries and 33 part B carriers with agreements or contracts with HCFA to make payments to Medicare providers and beneficiaries for covered services and to perform certain other functions currently described in ยง421.100 for intermediaries and ยง421.200 for carriers. Under this proposed rule, we would have authority to redefine intermediary agreement and carrier contract requirements and remove functions from some contractors and transfer them to other contractors. We would also be able to consolidate some tasks under one contractor in regions where several contractors are all performing the same functions simultaneously. The proposed rule would also add payment on a fee schedule basis as a function which may be included in carrier contracts and distinguishes between contract nonrenewals and terminations. This proposed rule would make the regulations more consistent with the relevant statutory authority and promote the more effective and efficient administration of the Medicare program. Service to beneficiaries and Medicare providers would not be disrupted in the affected regions.
