FR941102-2-00099 FR941102-2-00070 4. Ottoman Bank would accept deposits of Assets in Turkey pursuant to a written, three-party agreement (the ``Agreement''). The Agreement would be entered into by (a) Ottoman Bank, (b) Banque Paribas, and (c) an Investment Company or its custodian. The Agreement would provide that Ottoman Bank would act as custodian or subcustodian, and Banque Paribas would be liable for any loss to the same extent as if Banque Paribas had been required to provide custody services under such agreement. Banque Paribas would not be liable for losses resulting from political risk ( e.g., exchange control restrictions, confiscation, expropriation, nationalization, insurrection, civil strife, or armed hostilities) and other risks of loss (excluding bankruptcy or insolvency of Ottoman Bank) for which neither Banque Paribas nor Ottoman Bank would be liable ( e.g., loss despite the exercise of reasonable care, due to an act of God, or resulting from a nuclear incident). Applicants' Legal Analysis 1. Section 17(f) of the Act provides that a registered investment company may maintain securities and similar assets in the custody of a bank meeting the requirements of section 26(a) of the Act, a member firm of a national securities exchange, the investment company itself, or a system for the central handling of securities established by a national securities exchange. Section 2(a)(5) of the Act defines ``bank'' to include banking institutions organized under the laws of the United States, member banks of the Federal Reserve System, and certain banking institutions or trust companies doing business under the laws of any state or of the United States. Ottoman Bank does not fall within the definition of ``bank'' as defined in the Act and, under section 17(f), may not act as custodian for registered investment companies. 2. Rule 17f&hyph;5 under the Act permits certain entities located outside the United States to serve as custodian for investment company assets. One such entity is a banking institution or trust company that is incoroprated or organized under the laws of a country other than the United States, that is regulated as such by the country's government or an agency thereof, and that has shareholders' equity in excess of U.S.$200 million. Banque Paribas qualifies as an eligible foreign custodian under rule 17f&hyph;5. Ottoman Bank, however, does not qualify as an eligible foreign custodian because it does not meet the minimum shareholders' equity requirement. 3. Applicants request an order under section 6(c) of the Act that would exempt them from the provisions of section 17(f) to the extent necessary for Ottoman Bank to maintain custody of Investment Company Assets. Applicants believe that the exemption should be granted because it is necessary and appropriate in the public interest and is consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the Act. Applicants believe that the Agreement provides Investment Companies with the safety and security of an eligible foreign custodian under section 17(f) and rule 17f&hyph;5. Applicants' Conditions 1. The foreign custody arrangements with Ottoman Bank will comply with the provisions of rule 17f&hyph;5 in all respects, except those provisions relating to the minimum shareholders' equity requirement for eligible foreign custodians. 2. Banque Paribas currently satisfies and will continue to satisfy the minimum shareholders' equity requirement set forth in rule 17f&hyph;5(c)(2)(i). 3. An Investment Company or a custodian for an Investment Company will deposit Securities with Ottoman Bank only in accordance with a three-party contractual agreement that will remain in effect at all times during which Ottoman Bank fails to meet the requirement of rule 17f&hyph;5 relating to minimum shareholders' equity. Each agreement will be a three-party agreement among (a) Banque Paribas, (b) Ottoman Bank, and (c) the Investment Company or custodian of the Securities of the Investment Company. Under the agreement, Ottoman Bank will undertake to provide specified custodial or sub-custodial services. The agreement will further provide that Banque Paribas will be liable for any loss, damage, cost, expense, liability, or claim arising out of or in connection with the performance by Ottoman Bank of its responsibilities under the agreement to the same extent as if Banque Paribas had been required to provide custody services under such agreement. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27162 Filed 11&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
