FR940323-1-00029 FR940323-1-00005 We are proposing to impose these requirements on States under the authority of sections 1902(a) (4) and (19) of the Act. These provisions, respectively, require that the Medicaid State plan provide for such methods of administration as are found necessary by the Secretary for the proper and efficient operation of the plan, and provide such safeguards as may be necessary to assure that eligibility for care and services under the plan will be determined, and the care and services will be provided in a manner consistent with simplicity of administration and the best interests of recipients. We specially solicit comment on the proposal to require States to target potentially high risk pregnant women. Moreover, we are interested in comments on the effectiveness of a State plan amendment to achieve this goal. I. Clarification of Medicaid to Homeless Individuals Section 9405 of OBRA '86 revised section 1902(b)(2) of the Act to prohibit States from imposing any residence requirement that excludes from Medicaid an otherwise eligible individual who resides in the State, but does not maintain a residence permanently or at a fixed address. Before this provision was enacted, some States were requiring applicants for Medicaid to furnish a fixed address or evidence of a permanent residence in order to qualify for Medicaid, even though this was not a Federal requirement. In addition, section 11005 of the Homeless Eligibility Clarification Act added section 1902(a)(48) to the Act to require, as a State plan requirement, that States establish a method for making Medicaid eligibility cards available to an eligible individual who does not reside in a permanent dwelling or at a fixed address. This provision was effective on January 1, 1987. In the interest of affording States maximum flexibility in the administration of their Medicaid programs, we are not proposing to impose a specific method to be used to issue Medicaid eligibility cards to homeless individuals. However, the State would be required to describe the method in its State plan. The method, as part of the State plan, would be subject to approval by HCFA. HCFA will approve any reasonable method that ensures the timely issuance of cards and receipt of Medicaid and that does not impose an undue hardship on the homeless individual. We propose to_ •Amend §§435.403 and 436.403 to add the prohibition against requiring otherwise eligible homeless individuals to have a fixed address or reside in a permanent dwelling. •Add a new §435.932 to specify the State plan requirement that a State must establish and specify a method for issuing Medicaid eligibility cards to homeless individuals.
