FR940906-1-00020 FR940906-1-00008 II. Description of the Proposed Amendment By letter dated August 1, 1994, (Administrative Record No. KY&hyph;1305) Kentucky submitted a proposed amendment to its program pursuant to SMCRA. Kentucky submitted the proposed amendment at its own initiative. The provisions of the regulations that Kentucky proposes to amend are 405 KAR 16:010 and 405 KAR 18:010. At 405 KAR 16:010, Kentucky is requiring that surface mining activities not remove coal from outcrop barrier pillars left by underground mining, except in those circumstances where removal would have certain beneficial effects. State approval is required. Kentucky may approve the removal if it makes certain determinations that the removal would: (1) Completely eliminate existing underground workings, thereby eliminating all adverse conditions that might result from the underground workings; (2) eliminate or significantly reduce a threat to the health and safety of the public resulting from the underground workings; or (3) eliminate or significantly reduce existing or potential adverse impacts of the underground workings to the quantity or quality of ground or surface water. At 405 KAR 18:010, Kentucky is requiring that where the coal seam approaches the land surface, the underground mine must leave an unmined section of coal to create an outcrop barrier pillar. The pillar must be of sufficient width to support the overburden and prevent failure and sudden release of water due to water pressure against the outcrop barrier pillar. The State may determine the width of the outcrop barrier on a case-by-case basis. If the coal dips toward the land surface, the width must not be less than the width given by the formula: W = 50 + H, where W is the minimum barrier width in feet and H is the maximum hydrostatic head in feet that can build up on the outcrop barrier pillar. III. Public Comment Procedures In accordance with the provisions of 30 CFR 732.17(h), OSM is seeking comments on whether the proposed amendment satisfies the applicable program approval criteria of 30 CFR 732.15. If the amendment is deemed adequate, it will become part of the Kentucky program. Written Comments Written comments should be specific, pertain only to the issues proposed in this rulemaking, and include explanations in support of the commenter's recommendations. Comments received after the time indicated under DATES or at locations other than the Lexington Field Office will not necessarily be considered in the final rulemaking or included in the Administrative Record. Public Hearing Persons wishing to speak at the public hearing should contact the person listed under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT by 4:00 p.m., [E.D.T.] on September 21, 1994. The location and time of the hearing will be arranged with those persons requesting the hearing. If no one requests an opportunity to speak at the public hearing, the hearing will not be held. Filing of a written statement at the time of the hearing is requested as it will greatly assist the transcriber. Submission of written statements in advance of the hearing will allow OSM officials to prepare adequate responses and appropriate questions. The public hearing will continue on the specified date until all persons scheduled to speak have been heard. Persons in the audience who have not been scheduled to speak, and who wish to do so, will be heard following those who have been scheduled. The hearing will end after all persons scheduled to speak and persons present in the audience who wish to speak have been heard. Public Meeting If only one person requests an opportunity to speak at a hearing, a public meeting, rather than a public hearing, may be held. Persons wishing to meet with OSM representatives to discuss the proposed amendment may request a meeting by contacting the person listed under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT . All such meetings will be open to the public and, if possible, notices of meetings will be posted at the locations listed under ADDRESSES. A written summary of each meeting will be made a part of the Administrative Record. IV. Procedural Determinations Executive Order 12866 This rule is exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under Executive Order 12866 (Regulatory Planning and Review). Executive Order 12778
