FR941021-0-00181 FR941021-0-00022 3. Implementation Milestones 188. As proposed in the Notice, we will adopt a set of satellite construction milestones modeled on those used in the NVNG MSS service. All parties agree that implementation milestones to monitor the progress of system implementation are advisable, and most parties approve of the essential elements of our proposed milestones, with certain minor clarifications and modifications, some of which we are adopting. 189. Each licensee will be required to adhere to a strict timetable for the system implementation. Failure to meet this timetable will render the authorization null and void. We will generally require each licensee to begin construction of its first two satellites within one year of the unconditional grant of its authorization, and complete construction of those first two satellites within four years of that grant. Construction for the remaining authorized operating satellites in the constellation must begin within three years of the initial authorization, and the entire authorized system must be operational within six years. 257 While we do not intend to deviate from these requirements for commencing construction, we may authorize a different schedule if an applicant concretely demonstrates that its proposed system's size and/or complexity warrants additional time because of the size or complexity of its proposed system. 258 In every case, the licensee's individual milestone timetable will be set and become a condition of its authorization. Some parties propose that we consider granting extensions of time to a licensee that has launched at least part of its system. We will not adopt such a provision, which would suggest that we will not enforce strictly the system completion requirement. Incomplete systems will not justify the reservation of the orbit/spectrum resource from other potential users, and applicants should not anticipate that their authorization will require anything less than a complete commitment of those resources necessary to execute the full global system upon which their authorization is premised. 257 Some applicants' suggestions for additional milestones are based on their mistaken belief that the Notice did not include a final system completion requirement. 258 See Notice, note 2, supra at 1136. 190. We also will not impose a separate deadline for construction of in-orbit spares. We will leave the determination of what is an appropriate timetable for building or launching in-orbit spares to each licensee. It is reasonable to believe that if the rest of the system is implemented in a timely fashion, any in-orbit spares will also be put into place on a timetable deemed prudent by the operator. Moreover, we do not wish to discourage applicants from proposing as many in-orbit spares for inclusion in their initial blanket authorizations as they deem appropriate. 191. Some of the parties ask us to forego the construction commencement milestone in favor of a timetable that would focus only on the initiation of commercial service. They primarily contend that our milestones are unfair to those systems that could begin to provide service in stages (and, presumably, finance construction of the last satellites from initial revenue streams). We are concerned, however, that such a timetable would prevent prompt identification and elimination of those applicants that are not, for whatever reason, committed to building a system expeditiously that is capable of providing global service. 259 Most applicants fully support a global coverage requirement. 260 259 Any applicant whose financial capability would be so constrained by the proposed construction milestones likely will not meet our financial qualifications. The milestones and the financial requirements provide a balanced approach to determining the actual capability of the applicants to implement the system and service they propose. 260 See paras. 21&hyph;23, supra. 192. Several applicants suggest that we adopt a more detailed standard or a series of milestones to enable us to track implementation progress more closely. LQP argues that this could result in long undetected delays in progress. We do not believe interim milestones are necessary. The annual reporting requirements (further discussed below) and our ability to demand additional contract and construction information should enable us to respond promptly to any implementation failures. 193. Motorola suggests that we require a specific and significant portion of the ground segment to be constructed on the same timetable as the space segment. 261 Such a requirement, opposed by all other applicants, is undesirable. As noted, service provision in foreign countries will be subject to a particular country's authorization. We cannot require a licensee to meet an implementation milestone when its ability to do so is outside of its control. In any event, licensees that have launched enough satellites to provide service should have no difficulty constructing their corresponding earth segments. 261 Motorola would require a ground segment covering 75% of the world's population and 75% of the world's land area within six years of initial system authorization.
