FR941219-2-00089 FR941219-2-00053 A. First consideration will be given to preference entities. Interior will give added consideration to proposals that (1) are especially well-adapted to developing, conserving, and utilizing the water and natural resources; (2) are harmonious with CUP and SVP purposes; and (3) would provide significant economic benefits to the CUP, the SVP, and the United States. B. Second consideration will be given to non-preference entities. Interior will give added consideration to proposals that (1) are especially well-adapted to developing, conserving, and utilizing the water and natural resources; (2) are harmonious with CUP and SVP purposes; and (3) would provide significant economic benefits to the CUP, the SVP, and the United States. Power Purchasing and/or Marketing Considerations Western would have the first opportunity to purchase and/or market the power that would be generated by the Project under a lease(s) of power privilege. Western will consult with Interior on such power purchasing and/or marketing considerations. Western would determine its interest in purchasing the electric power from the lessee(s) as a replacement resource for its Salt Lake City Area Integrated Projects (SLCA/IP) under principles and processes being considered as part of Western's Replacement Power Process under the Grand Canyon Protection Act. Western would also apply Integrated Resource Planning principles in comparing this resource with all other potential resource purchases available to Western. Alternatively, Western may market the power available from the Project on a stand-alone basis, first to preference entities qualified under criteria established by Western and second to non-preference entities, by developing an individual marketing plan for this power. This marketing plan would be developed through a separate subsequent public process beginning with a notice in the Federal Register of Western's intent to market the power. The marketing plan would include all aspects of marketing the power, including assignment of power to qualified preference and/or non-preference entities, pricing, transmission, and delivery of power. Western would recover the costs it would incur in purchasing and/or marketing the power through the rates charged for the power. Firm power rates would be established through a public process, initiated by a notice in the Federal Register , separate from the marketing plan. In the event Western elects to not purchase and/or market the power generated by the Project or such a decision cannot be made prior to execution of the lease of power privilege, the lessee(s) would be responsible for marketing the power generated by the Project with priority given to preference entities as heretofore defined in PROPOSAL CONTENT GUIDELINES, paragraph A. Notification of Selection of Lessee and Negotiations for a Lease of Power Privilege After Interior selects a lessee, Interior will notify, in writing, all entities submitting proposals of Interior's decision regarding selection of the potential lessee(s). The selected potential lessee(s) will have five years from the date of such notification to enter into a lease(s) of power privilege for the site or sites identified in the proposal. Lease of power privilege negotiation sessions will be public. If Western elects to purchase and/or market the power, such lease(s) of power privilege will state how Western will be involved in purchasing and/or marketing the power. Any excessive delay resulting from compliance with the provisions of Federal environmental laws or administrative review by a Federal agency, pertaining to the Project, may extend the five year time period for a period equal to that of the delay. In the event of litigation related to the proposed Project, the five year time period will be extended for a period equal to that of the delay, provided such litigation was initiated by parties other than the selected potential lessee(s) or its employees, officers, agents, assigns, shareholders, customers or persons or groups served by or in privity with the potential lessee(s). Dated: December 13, 1994. Ronald Johnston, CUP Program Director, Department of the Interior. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31057 Filed 12&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;RK&hyph;P
