FR940616-2-00062 FR940616-2-00045 _All Minnesota Outstanding Resource Value Waters _All Minnesota designated trout streams and trout lakes _All Minnesota designated canoe trails _All Federal or Minnesota designated wild, scenic, and recreational rivers _All waterbodies within any National Wildlife Refuge _The entire length of the Mississippi River (presumed to include sections both upstream and downstream of the Minneapolis/St. Paul metropolitan area _Lake Superior As stated above, the resources and personnel necessary to develop TMDLs are largely under the control of the State. In addition, the State's proximity to its public allows it to evaluate priorities in light of the public need more readily than USEPA. Consequently the USEPA believes it is appropriate to defer to the State in the matter of prioritization of waterbodies for TMDL development. (B) Revisions to the Proposed Notice As a result of the public comments received and continuing review of the proposed notice by the USEPA, the following changes have been made to the final identification of the section 303(d) water quality-limited segments for the State of Minnesota: (1) The final list of waterbodies for which TMDL development would be appropriate has been revised to include the 23 additional steam segments which the State has requested be included on the list, due to proximity to, and influence upon, other waterbodies for which TMDLs are being developed. (2) Waterbodies for which fish consumption advisories exist, and for which remedial measures lie outside the control of the State of Minnesota have been separately identified. (3) The final list of waterbodies for which TMDL development is appropriate excludes 65 stream segments included in the proposed list, for which the State has provided documentation that the information leading to the USEPA's decision to include these segments on the proposed list was not based on the most current information, and the more current information reveals that TMDLs are no longer appropriate. (4) The final list excludes nine stream segments identified in the State's comments which were described as meeting the designated uses, since the exceedences of numeric water quality criteria noted by the USEPA as the basis for our proposal to include these segments on the 303(d) list were due to naturally occurring background concentrations. (C) Final Notice This notice is being issued pursuant to section 303(d)(2) of the CWA. Under this section, the USEPA is required to publish an identification of water quality-limited segments if a state submission is disapproved. The disapproval of the Minnesota submission occurred on August 9, 1993. This notice identifies 72 water quality limited waterbodies for which TMDL development is appropriate and further identifies three waterbodies for which TMDL development is scheduled to be initiated over the next two years. This notice further identifies 245 waterbodies for which TMDL development is not feasible at this time. This constitutes USEPA's final determination. Dated: June 2, 1994. David A. Ullrich, Acting Regional Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14536 Filed 6&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6050&hyph;50&hyph;P
