FR941110-2-00021 FR941110-2-00009 Because we use the original sum of the deviations model-match methodology, rather than the single greatest deviation methodology we used in conjunction with the 10-percent deviation cap in the less-than-fair-value (LTFV) investigation of TRBs over 4 inches, application of a 10-percent deviation cap to each physical criterion would mean that the best overall match could be eliminated simply because a single physical criterion deviated by more than 10 percent. By using the sum of the deviations methodology, all five matching criteria have equal weight. By contrast, the application of a 10-percent cap to each physical criterion represents a distortion of the model-match methodology, in that it establishes a randomly-selected hierarchy, rather than evaluating each criterion on an equal basis. The 10-percent cap can result in our inability to match some U.S. sales of TRBs which the Department considers most similar overall, but which have a greater than 10-percent deviation in only one criterion. This results in reliance on CV to a much greater degree when the statutory preference is for price comparisons. Furthermore, if the Department were to apply both the 10-percent cap and the 20-percent difmer cap, the methodology would become too restrictive, since in some cases the only matches passing the 20-percent difmer test may vary by more than 10 percent in one or more physical criteria. Using both tests might eliminate matches of otherwise comparable merchandise. Thus, this methodology would result not in more precise matches but in fewer matches to such or similar merchandise, and an overreliance on CV. Finally, although the CIT held in NTN Bearing Corp. v. United States, Slip Op. 94&hyph;25 (February 11, 1994), that the Department must apply the 10-percent cap to the sum of the deviations methodology, the Department respectfully disagrees with this decision. Because application of the 10-percent cap in that case does not alter the margins, the Department cannot appeal that case (see Zenith Electronic Corp. v. United States, 895 F.2d 291 (Fed. Cir. 1989)). However, we have appealed the next case involving this issue ( Koyo Seiko Co., Ltd and Koyo Corporation of U.S.A. v. United States, Slip Op. 93&hyph;185). Therefore, for all of these reasons, and for the reasons explained in the notices of prior TRB final results of review, we have not changed our methodology for these reviews. Comment 9: Koyo objects to the Department's use of set-splitting to create artificial home-market sales of cups and cones for comparison to sales of cups and cones sold separately in the United States. Koyo states that there are sufficient actual sales of cups and cones in the home market to allow the Department to avoid comparison with CV. In addition, the use of annual average FMVs in these reviews permits the Department to match a U.S. sale of a cup or cone to a home-market sale of a such or similar cup or cone made at any time in the home market, rather than within the six-month window the Department uses with monthly weighted-average FMVs. Koyo asserts that this fabrication of artificial sales by set-splitting violates the statute, skews the margins, and creates unnecessary work and expense. Koyo cites section 773(a)(1) of the Tariff Act as providing that ``[i]n the ascertainment of foreign market value, for the purpose of this title, no pretended sale or offer for sale, and no sale or offer for sale intended to establish a fictitious market, shall be taken into account.'' Koyo contends that there may have been a ``sale'', but not of the type of product to which it was matched in the U.S. market. Acknowledging that the CIT upheld the Department's splitting of sets in NTN Bearing Corp. of America v. United States, 747 F.Supp. 726 (CIT 1990)( NTN ), Koyo contends that the facts of that LTFV investigation are different from the facts of these reviews. Koyo explains that in the LTFV investigation, to avoid over-reliance on CV, the Department split home-market sales of TRBs into ``sales'' of cups and cones. Koyo contends, however, that in these reviews there were sufficient actual home-market sales of cups and cones to match with the U.S. sales of cups and cones. In addition, Koyo states that reliance on actual sales would simplify the calculations and lessen the administrative burden. If the Department determines that it is necessary to continue to split TRB sets, Koyo requests that the Department at least combine the sales of cups and cones in order to conduct a fair analysis, citing Timken Co. v. United States, 673 F.Supp. 495, 505 (CIT 1987) ( Timken II ). Timken asserts that a TRB set is nothing more than a cup or cone sold together as a unit. The practice of selling cups and cones as individual components in some markets does not render the components distinct articles of commerce. Timken challenges Koyo's contention that cups and cones have different commercial values than complete sets, when, in fact, Koyo points to no evidence in the administrative record to support its contention. Timken identifies several court cases where the CIT upheld the Department's set-splitting. For example, in Timken II, Timken notes that the CIT rejected NTN's argument that the Department was creating pretended sales of cups and cones in the home market. Timken also cites NTN as support for the Department's set-splitting methodology. Moreover, Timken notes that the CIT has upheld the Department's use of set-splitting in the context of using home-market annual average prices in NTN Bearing Corp. of America v. United States, 835 F.Supp. 646 (CIT 1993)( NTN I ). Although this issue was not specifically addressed in this case, Timken notes that the Department's consistent practice has been to split TRB sets, no matter how FMV was determined ( e.g., 1990/91 and 1991/92 TRBs, 58 FR 64720). Finally, Timken sees no merit in Koyo's argument that the Department and respondents would be spared the additional work necessary to split home-market set sales into cups and cones.
