FR940202-0-00019 FR940202-0-00003 (2) Sublimit for purchased credit card relationships. In addition to the aggregate limitation on qualifying intangible assets set forth in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, a sublimit shall apply to purchased credit card relationships. The maximum allowable amount of purchased credit card relationships shall be limited to the lesser of: (i) 25 percent of the amount of core capital, as computed before the deduction of any disallowed qualifying intangible assets; or (ii) The amount of qualifying intangible assets determined in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. (f) Tangible capital limitation. The maximum amount of purchased mortgage servicing rights that may be included in tangible capital shall be the same amount includable in core capital in accordance with the limitations set by paragraph (e)(1) of this section. (g) Grandfathering. (1) Notwithstanding the core capital and tangible capital limitations set forth in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, any otherwise disallowed purchased mortgage servicing rights that were acquired on or before February 9, 1990, and any otherwise disallowed purchased mortgage servicing rights for which a contract to purchase the servicing rights had been executed on or before February 9, 1990, may be grandfathered and recognized for regulatory capital purposes under this part to the extent permitted by the OTS. Grandfathered purchased mortgage servicing rights must be treated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. Grandfathered purchased mortgage servicing rights will count toward the core capital and tangible capital limitations described in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section. (2) (i) On a case-by-case basis, the OTS may extend grandfathered treatment prospectively to all or part of the purchased mortgage servicing rights acquired by an association to replace its grandfathered purchased mortgage servicing rights if OTS determines that: (A) The association is reducing, at an acceptable rate, its level of purchased mortgage servicing rights to the levels permitted by this section; and (B) The granting of such grandfathered treatment is consistent with the safe and sound operation of the association. (ii) The OTS may terminate or limit such grandfathered treatment at any time if it determines that either of the conditions in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section is not being satisfied. (3) Core deposit intangibles resulting from transactions consummated or under firm contract on the effective date of this rule may be grandfathered and recognized for capital purposes under this part, to the extent permitted by OTS, provided that such core deposit intangibles are valued in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, supported by credible assumptions, and have their amortization adjusted at least annually to reflect decay rates (past and projected) in the acquired customer base. (h) Exemption for certain subsidiaries. _(1) Exemption standard. An association holding purchased mortgage servicing rights in separately capitalized, nonincludable subsidiaries may submit an application for approval by the OTS for an exemption from the deductions and limitations set forth in this section. The deductions and limitations will apply to such purchased mortgage servicing rights, however, if the OTS determines that: (i) The thrift and subsidiary are not conducting activities on an arm's length basis; or (ii) The exemption is not consistent with the association's safe and sound operation. (2) Applicable requirements. If the OTS determines to grant or to permit the continuation of an exemption under paragraph (h)(1) of this section, the association receiving the exemption must ensure the following: (i) The association's investments in, and extensions of credit to, the subsidiary are deducted from capital when calculating capital under this part; (ii) Extensions of credit and other transactions with the subsidiary are conducted in compliance with the rules for covered transactions with affiliates set forth in sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, as applied to thrifts; and (iii) Any contracts entered into by the subsidiary include a written disclosure indicating that the subsidiary is not a bank or savings association; the subsidiary is an organization separate and apart from any bank or savings association; and the obligations of the subsidiary are not backed or guaranteed by any bank or savings association and are not insured by the FDIC. Dated: August 2, 1993. By the Office of Thrift Supervision. Jonathan L. Fiechter, Acting Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2297 Filed 2&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6720&hyph;01&hyph;P
