FR940414-0-00071 FR940414-0-00028 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 50 CFR Part 285 [Docket No. 940393&hyph;4093; I.D. 121393A] RIN 0648&hyph;AG14 Atlantic Tuna Fisheries AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Interim final rule. SUMMARY: The Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) issues this interim final rule to revise the regulations governing the Atlantic tuna fisheries to: Establish fishing category quota allocations for the 1994 fishing season; amend the specified amount of other species to be landed as a condition for landing an incidental bycatch of bluefin in the southern longline fishery; adjust the line that separates the northern and southern regulatory areas for vessels using longline gear and possessing an Incidental Catch permit for bluefin; and make technical corrections to clarify the regulatory text. This action is necessary to implement the recently adopted quota recommendation of the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT), to improve management and monitoring of the U.S. bluefin fisheries, to facilitate enforcement, and to enhance collection of data to improve assessment of the impacts of the fisheries. EFFECTIVE DATE: April 16, 1994. ADDRESSES: Copies of the Final Environmental Assessment/ Regulatory Impact Review, are available from Richard H. Schaefer, Director, Office of Fisheries Conservation and Management (F/CM), NMFS, 1315 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910. Comments regarding the burden-hour estimate or any other aspect of the collection-of-information requirement contained in this rule should be sent to Richard H. Schaefer at the above address and to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), Attention: NOAA Desk Officer, Washington, DC 20503. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Richard B. Stone, 301&hyph;713&hyph;2347. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Atlantic tuna fisheries are managed under regulations at 50 CFR part 285 implementing the recommendations of ICCAT and issued under the authority of the Atlantic Tunas Convention Act (ATCA), 16 U.S.C. 971 et seq . The ATCA authorizes the Secretary to implement regulations as may be necessary to carry out the recommendations of ICCAT. The authority to implement the ICCAT recommendations is delegated from the Secretary to the Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, NOAA (AA). Purpose of Current Action Background information about this action was provided in the proposed rule (59 FR 2813, January 19, 1994) and is not repeated here. Management Measures These regulatory changes will improve NMFS' ability to implement the ICCAT recommendations and further the management objectives for the domestic tuna fisheries: 1. Quota Allocations Quota allocations by permit category are maintained at the 1993 level. The required 1 percent overall reduction for the U.S. fishery is taken from the reserve category. 2. Boundary Adjustment The line designating the northern and southern management areas for the Incidental category is adjusted south to 34 ○ N. latitude. 3. Minimum Landings Requirement The directed fishery minimum poundage requirement of landing one bluefin tuna in the southern management area for vessels permitted in the Incidental category is decreased to 1,500 pounds (680 kg) during the months of January through April, and is increased to 3,500 (1,588 kg) pounds during the months of May through December. 4. Technical Corrections A number of technical corrections to the regulations at 50 CFR part 285 are made to: Add definitions for straight fork length and curved fork length; delete an obsolete reference to at-sea processing of bluefin tuna; adjust the conditions under which retention of small fish is authorized to account for the recently implemented Angling category permit and prohibit possession of small bluefin taken by unauthorized gear; clarify the catch limits which apply to vessels holding permits for both the Angling and General categories; define more clearly the biweekly reporting periods for bluefin tuna transactions; and instruct bluefin dealers to mail required reporting forms at the dealer's expense. These changes will not affect the conduct of the tuna fisheries except to facilitate enforcement. Without such changes, the fisheries cannot be monitored or enforced with maximum effectiveness.
