FR941202-0-00075 FR941202-0-00010 Cold cleaning machine means any device or piece of equipment that contains and/or uses liquid solvent, into which parts are placed to remove soils from the surfaces of the parts or to dry the parts. Cleaning machines that contain and use heated, nonboiling solvent to clean the parts are classified as cold cleaning machines. Consumption means the amount of halogenated hazardous air pollutant solvent added to the solvent cleaning machine. Cover means a lid, top, or portal cover that shields the solvent cleaning machine openings from air disturbances when in place and is designed to be easily opened and closed without disturbing the vapor zone. Air disturbances include, but are not limited to, lip exhausts, ventilation fans, and general room drafts. Types of covers include, but are not limited to, sliding, biparting, and rolltop covers. Downtime mode means the time period when a solvent cleaning machine is not cleaning parts and the sump heating coils, if present, are turned off. Dwell means the technique of holding parts within the freeboard area but above the vapor zone of the solvent cleaning machine. Dwell occurs after cleaning to allow solvent to drain from the parts or parts baskets back into the solvent cleaning machine. Dwell time means the required minimum length of time that a part must dwell, as determined by ยง63.465(d). Emissions means halogenated hazardous air pollutant solvent consumed (i.e., halogenated hazardous air pollutant solvent added to the machine) minus the liquid halogenated hazardous air pollutant solvent removed from the machine and the halogenated hazardous air pollutant solvent removed from the machine in the solid waste. Existing means any solvent cleaning machine the construction or reconstruction of which was commenced on or before November 29, 1993. Freeboard area means; for a batch cleaning machine, the area within the solvent cleaning machine that extends from the solvent/air interface to the top of the solvent cleaning machine; for an in-line cleaning machine, it is the area within the solvent cleaning machine that extends from the solvent/air interface to the bottom of the entrance or exit opening, whichever is lower. Freeboard height means; for a batch cleaning machine, the distance from the solvent/air interface, as measured during the idling mode, to the top of the cleaning machine; for an in-line cleaning machine, it is the distance from the solvent/air interface to the bottom of the entrance or exit opening, whichever is lower, as measured during the idling mode. Freeboard ratio means the ratio of the solvent cleaning machine freeboard height to the smaller interior dimension (length, width, or diameter) of the solvent cleaning machine. Freeboard refrigeration device (also called a chiller) means a set of secondary coils mounted in the freeboard area that carries a refrigerant or other chilled substance to provide a chilled air blanket above the solvent vapor. A primary condenser capable of meeting the requirements of ยง63.463(e)(2)(i) is defined as both a freeboard refrigeration device and a primary condenser for the purposes of these standards. Halogenated hazardous air pollutant solvent or halogenated HAP solvent means methylene chloride (CAS No. 75&hyph;09&hyph;2), perchloroethylene (CAS No. 127&hyph;18&hyph;4), trichloroethylene (CAS No. 79&hyph;01&hyph;6), 1,1,1-trichloroethane (CAS No. 71&hyph;55&hyph;6), carbon tetrachloride (CAS No. 56&hyph;23&hyph;5), and chloroform (CAS No. 67&hyph;66&hyph;3). Hoist means a mechanical device that carries the parts basket and the parts to be cleaned from the loading area into the solvent cleaning machine and to the unloading area at a controlled speed. A hoist may be operated by controls or may be programmed to cycle parts through the cleaning cycle automatically. Idling mode means the time period when a solvent cleaning machine is not actively cleaning parts and the sump heating coils, if present, are turned on.
