FR940429-0-00170 FR940429-0-00015 Section 668.16␣Standards of Administrative Capability In response to public comment, the Secretary has modified the proposed administrative standards significantly. The Secretary made some changes and clarified implementation of standards where commenters pointed out that the Secretary could achieve the same goal by requiring less detail or action by those institutions that have demonstrated a history of compliance with regulations governing the Title IV, HEA programs and by imposing more requirements or restrictions on institutions that either have no track record or have a record of problems administering the Title IV, HEA programs. The Secretary removed other sections of the proposed standards because there was overlap with the responsibilities of accrediting agencies or SPREs or duplication of other sections of the regulations. In response to public comment, §668.16(a) clarifies that an institution must administer the Title IV, HEA programs in accordance with all the statutory and regulatory provisions, and with any applicable special arrangement, agreement or limitation entered into under the authority of statutes applicable to Title IV of the HEA. In response to public comment, §668.16(b)(1) is amended by adding documented success in administering Title IV, HEA programs to the list of factors the Secretary may consider in determining whether an individual is capable. The Secretary intends to use the list of factors in §668.16(b)(2) primarily to assess the adequacy of staff levels at institutions that apply for initial participation, change of ownership, or the addition of a location or branch campus; institutions that make other changes that have an impact on the administrative capability of the institution, such as ceasing to use a financial aid servicer; and institutions with documented compliance violations. In the preamble to the February 28, 1994 NPRM, the Secretary solicited comment on the regulation of appropriate staffing levels at institutions. In response to public comment, the Secretary does not plan to specifically regulate in this area at this time. However, §668.16 has been amended to clarify that the Secretary will look at the number and distribution of financial aid staff when determining if an institution uses an adequate number of qualified persons to administer the Title IV, HEA programs. The Secretary believes this addition is inherent to this provision and should be clearly stated. However, the Secretary does not plan to closely scrutinize the number or distribution of financial aid staff at an institution unless the Secretary finds other indications that the institution may not be administratively capable due to understaffing or a poor distribution of staff at the institution. In response to public comment, use of third-party servicers is added to the list of factors in §668.16(b)(2). After consideration of public comment, the Secretary agrees that the burden to an institution of having to prepare written procedures for or written information indicating the nature and frequency of communication of pertinent information among all the offices that have an impact on the administration of the Title IV, HEA programs outweighs the benefit that this provision would provide to the Secretary. Therefore, proposed §668.16(b)(4)(i) has been removed from these final regulations. The Secretary also agrees that, unless compliance problems relevant to the listed responsibilities are identified, institutions may satisfy the requirement in §668.16(b)(4) that an institution have written procedures for or written information indicating the responsibilities of the various offices with respect to the approval, disbursement, and delivery of Title IV, HEA program assistance and the preparation and submission of reports to the Secretary by a general written description of the responsibilities of the various offices. In response to public comment, §668.16(e)(3)(B) is amended to clarify that a maximum time frame in which a student must complete his or her educational program must be no longer than 150 percent of the published length of the educational program for full-time students. This section is also amended to clarify that the time frame must be divided into increments of equal size. The Secretary is making this change, as well as the change from previous regulations that requires increments to be the lesser of an academic year or one-half of the length of the program, to make clear that no increment can coincide with the length of the maximum time frame. Some institutions have used the previous provision as a means of avoiding determining satisfactory academic progress for a student until the student completes his or her program. Increments of the maximum time frame are expected to coincide with an institution's payment period, however. For example, in a program of one academic year that is structured on a quarter basis, the increments would be expected to be the quarters. In response to public comment, §668.16(f)(3) has been modified to include documentation of a student's social security number in the information normally available to an institution and for which the institution must have a system to identify and resolve discrepancies. In response to public comment, §668.16(g) has been amended to clarify that an institution must only refer to the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Education credible information indicating fraud and abuse.
