FR940921-0-00112 FR940921-0-00016 (i) They are commercially available; (ii) Information, acceptable to the Administrator, is provided to show that only the designated fuel would be used in customer service; and (iii) Written approval from the Administrator of the fuel specifications must be provided prior to the start of testing. (f) Lubricants. (1) If the manufacturer specifies several lubricants to be used by the ultimate purchaser, the Administrator will select one to be used during service accumulation. (2) The same lubricant(s) shall be used for both service accumulation and emission testing. (g) The specification range of the fuels and of the engine lubricants to be used under paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this section shall be reported in accordance with §86.416. (h) Written approval from the Administrator of the fuel and lubricant specifications must be provided prior to the start of testing. 71. Section 86.521&hyph;90 of subpart F is amended by revising paragraphs (b) introductory text, (b)(2) and (c)(3), and adding a new paragraph (e), to read as follows: §86.521&hyph;90 Hydrocarbon analyzer calibration. * * * * * (b) Initial and periodic optimization of detector response. Prior to its introduction into service and at least annually thereafter, the FID hydrocarbon analyzer shall be adjusted for optimum hydrocarbon response. Analyzers used with petroleum fuels and liquefied petroleum gas-fuel shall be optimized using propane. Analyzers used with natural gas-fuel for measurement of hydrocarbons shall be optimized using methane. If a single analyzer is used for all measurements, it shall be optimized using propane and its response factor for methane shall be determined and accounted for in measurements of total hydrocarbons from natural gas-fuel. Alternate methods yielding equivalent results may be used, if approved in advance by the Administrator. * * * * * (2) Optimize on the most common operating range. Introduce into the analyzer a propane (methane as appropriate) in air mixture (methanol in air mixture for methanol-fueled vehicles when optional methanol calibrated FID procedure is used during the 1990 through 1994 model year) with a propane (or methane or methanol as appropriate) concentration equal to approximately 90 percent of the most common operating range. * * * * * (c) *␣*␣* (3) Calibrate on each normally used operating range with propane in air (or methanol or methane in air as appropriate) calibration gases having nominal concentrations of 15, 30, 45, 60, 75 and 90 percent of that range. For each range calibrated, if the deviation from a least squares best-fit straight line is two percent or less of the value at each data point, concentration values may be calculated by use of a single calibration factor for that range. If the deviation exceeds two percent at any point, the best-fit non-linear equation which represents the data to within two percent of each test point shall be used to determine concentration. * * * * * (e) FID response factor to methane. When the FID analyzer is to be used for the analysis of natural gas-fueled motorcycle hydrocarbon samples, the methane response factor of the analyzer shall be established. To determine the total hydrocarbon FID response to methane, known methane in air concentrations traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) shall be analyzed by the FID. Several methane concentrations shall be analyzed by the FID in the range of concentrations in the exhaust sample. The total hydrocarbon FID response to methane is calculated as follows: r CH4 = FIDppm/SAMppm Where: (1) r CH4 = FID response factor to methane. (2) FIDppm = FID reading in ppmC. (3) SAMppm = the known methane concentration in ppmC.
