FR940707-2-00194 FR940707-2-00099 During the eighteen-month temporary approval period for the proposal, the Commission and the NASD will have an opportunity to study the effects of the bid-test and market marker exemptions, and to determine whether the bid-test and exemptions are practicable and necessary on an ongoing basis. 61 The Commission expects the NASD to monitor the effects of its short sale rule on a continuing basis during the first 12 months of effectiveness, and expects a full report as soon as practicable thereafter. In particular, the NASD's study should address the following issues: 61 This 18-month pilot period also enables the Commission and the NASD to consider other alternatives to the rule. See e.g. supra Comment section of this order. • Effectis on Amount of Short-Selling: As noted, the bid-test will lead to prohibitions of short selling for longer time intervals than would a transaction price tick-test. The study should provide data on the length of these intervals. In addition, the study should evaluate the amount of non-market maker short selling permitted under the rule, the extent of short selling by market makers exempt from the rule, and any incidents of perceived ``abusive short selling.'' • Spreads and Volatility: The NASD has asserted that ``abusive short selling'' has increased volatility and spreads in Nasdaq stocks. The study should evaluate the effects of the rule on spreads and volatility. • Potential Bid Manipulation: As noted, the rule provides market makers with the opportunity to control short selling by moving their bids. The study should evaluate whether the behavior of bid prices has been significantly altered by the rule. Specifically, the study should compare the average time that short sales are prohibited after the rule is in place relative to the average time short sales would have been prohibited in the period prior to effectiveness, had the rule been in place. • Minimum Increment for Allowable Sales Above the Bid: The study should review the effects of permitting short selling based on a minimum bid increment of 1/16. 62 62 In this regard, the Commission notes that various proprietary trading systems may allow for finer pricing intervals. V. Conclusion For the reasons discussed above, the Commission has determined that the NASD's proposed short sale rule is designed to prevent manipulative acts and practices and protect investors and the public interest, and that these goals, on balance, outweigh any negative effects the rule may have on the market for Nasdaq National Market securities. Accordingly, the Commission finds that the rule change is consistent with the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the NASD and, in particular, Sections 15A(b)(6), 15A(b)(9), and 15A(b)(11). In addition, the Commission finds that the rule change is consistent with the Congressional objectives for the equity markets, set out in Section 11A, of achieving more efficient and effective market operations, fair competition among brokers and dealers, and the economically efficient execution of investor orders in the best market. It Is Therefore Ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the instant rule change SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;92&hyph;12 be, and hereby is, approved, effective September 6, 1994, on a temporary eighteen-month basis through March 5, 1996. By the Commission. Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16372 Filed 7&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
