FR940414-2-00013 FR940414-2-00007 ( Note: If the offense was committed in time of war or in a hostile fire pay zone, add the following element) (3) That the offense was committed (in time of war) (in a hostile fire pay zone). c. Explanation. (1) Nature of offense. This offense differs from malingering (see paragraph 40) in that for this offense, the accused need not have harbored a design to avoid performance of any work, duty, or service which may properly or normally be expected of one in the military service. This offense is characterized by intentional self-injury under such circumstances as prejudice good order and discipline or discredit the armed forces. It is not required that the accused be unable to perform duties, or that the accused actually be absent from his or her place or duty as a result of the injury. For example, the accused may inflict the injury while on leave or pass. The circumstances and extent of injury, however, are relevant to a determination that the accused's conduct was prejudicial to good order and discipline, or service-discrediting. (2) How injury inflicted. The injury may be inflicted by nonviolent as well as by violent means and may be accomplished by any act or omission which produces, prolongs, or aggravates a sickness or disability. Thus, voluntary starvation which results is debility is a self-inflicted injury. Similarly, the injury may be inflicted by another at the accused's request. d. Lesser included offense. Article 80_attempts. e. Maximum punishment. (1) Intentional self-inflicted injury. Dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances, and confinement for 2 years. (2) Intentional self-inflicted injury in time of war or in a hostile fire pay zone. Dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay and allowances, and confinement for 5 years. f. Sample specification. In that XXXX (personal jurisdiction data), did, (at/on board_location) (in a hostile fire pay zone) on or about XXXX 19 XX , (a time of war,) intentionally injure himself/herself by XXXX (nature and circumstances of injury).'' These amendments would take effect upon approval by the President, subject to the following: a. The amendments to Rules for Courts-Martial 1110(g)(1) and 1201(b)(3)(A) would apply only to cases in which a waiver is entered on or after (effective date). b. The amendments made to paragraph 4c of Part IV would apply only to cases convened on or after (effective date). The Discussion to R.C.M. 1201(b)(3)(A) be amended to read as follows: ``When an accused has previously waived or withdrawn appellate review under R.C.M. 1110, the accused may not file an application for relief under this rule. An accused may file only one application for relief within the two-year filing period.'' Appendix 12, the Maximum Punishment Chart, to the Manual for Courts-Martial, United States, 1984 be amended by adding after Art. 134 (Seizure, destruction, removal, or disposal of property to prevent) the following: ␣ 1␣ 1␣ 1␣ 1␣ ``Self-injury without intent to avoid service in time of war, or while receiving special pay under 37 U.S.C. 310 DD 5 yrs Total Other DD 2 yrs Total'' The Analysis accompanying R.C.M. 1110(g) be amended as follows: ``g. Effect of waiver of withdrawal, substantial compliance required. Subsection (1) is based on Article 61(c). Subsections (2) and (3) are based on Article 64. Subsection (3) also recognizes that, once an appeal is filed (i.e., not waived in a timely manner) there may be a point at which it may not be withdrawn as of right. Cf. Sup. Ct. R. 53; Fed.R.App.P. 42; Hammett v. Texas , 448 U.S. 725 (1974); Shellman v. U.S. Lines, Inc., 528 F. 2d 675 (9th Cir. 1975), cert. denied, 425 U.S. 936 (1976). Subsection (4) is intended to protect the integrity of the waiver or withdrawal procedure by ensuring compliance with this rule. The accused should be notified promptly if a purported waiver or withdrawal if defective.'' The Analysis accompanying R.C.M. 1110(g) be amended by inserting the following at the end thereof:
