FR940317-2-00082 FR940317-2-00054 JR: A person other than a dean, faculty member, or other college official who can evaluate the applicant's personal strengths and personal limitations (i.e., of character, intelligence, personality, and ability) and the applicant's commitment to civic activities and public service. Evaluator should discuss the applicant's strengths and weaknesses, as well as knowledge of and efforts to overcome those weaknesses, in the following areas: intellect, character, and vision; academic abilities and completion of a graduate school program; abilities and commitment as a secondary school teacher of American history, American government, or social studies; ability to work with others. How long and in what capacity have you known the applicant? Please rate the applicant in relation to other individuals you have known under similar circumstances (approximately XX individuals over approximately XX years) on the following grounds_historical knowledge, intellectual curiosity, independence of thought, involvement in civic activities, oral and written communication skills, motivation and energy, interpersonal skills_and on the following scale: outstanding (top 5%), unusual (top 10%), very good (top 25%), above average (top 40%), average (middle 20%), below average (lowest 40%), no knowledge. Evaluator's name, title, affiliation, address, signature and date: Voluntary Survey Form Check one box beside the category providing descriptions of the race or national origin with which you most closely identify yourself: America Indian or Alaskan Native; Asian or Pacific Islander; Black, not of Hispanic origin; Hispanic; White, not of Hispanic origin; other (please specify). Source(s) from which you learned about the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Program (check one): Faculty Representative; Career Counseling Office; Financial Aid Office; Department Chair in History, Political Science, or Education; School Social Studies Coordinator; a James Madison Fellow; colleague; periodical or newsletter; campus newspaper advertisements; other (please specify). Fellowship applied for (check one): Senior, Junior. Name: Paul A. Yost, Jr., President. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6387 Filed 3&hyph;16&hyph;93; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;05&hyph;M
