FR941216-2-00070 FR941216-2-00043 Comment 16: Walt Disney World (WDW) Company, by letter dated October 18, 1994, submitted comments on the Reissuance of the NPDES General Permit for the State of Florida. WDW made general comments concerning the proposed effluent limitations for (1) Total Organic Carbon and (2) pH, for discharge of uncontaminated produced groundwater. WDW mentioned most of the uncontaminated groundwater below their property exceeds EPA's proposed total organic carbon (TOC) limitation solely because of its naturally ocurring properties. WDW indicated that only lakes on the property fall below the 10 mg/l requirement and four isolated wetlands had TOC values averaging better than 90 mg/l or better, with all other TOC values ranging between 10 and 65 mg/l. WDW mentioned that these organic compounds are naturally occurring and large; greater than 500 molecular weight, most of which consist of humic acids which generally come from the decomposition of organic matter. Response: EPA concurs that some elevated TOC levels are the result of naturally occurring conditions. Therefore, EPA will revise the language in Part A.3 to read as follows: If any of the analytical test results, (except TOC, benzene or naphthalene), exceed the above screening values the discharge is not authorized by this general permit. For excessive benzene or naphthalene concentrations, see Part A.3(a) below. For initial excessive TOC values that may be caused by naturally-occurring, high molecular weight organic compounds, the permittee may submit additional information which describes the method used to prove that these compounds are naturally occurring compounds. This additional information shall be submitted to EPA during the filing of the NOI request for coverage under the general permit. EPA will review this data and determine if coverage under the general permit is appropriate. Comment 17: Walt Disney World (WDW) made comments concerning the pH limitation as proposed in the NPDES general permit. WDW mentioned that the pH of the waters on the WDW property range between 3.7 and 7.7 standard units. WDW mentioned that the general permit should allow discharge of uncontaminated produced groundwaters into any receiving waters so long as the produced groundwater pH falls within the lower and upper background pH limits of the receiving waters as determined from sampling data submitted by the applicant in the Notice of Intent (NOI) request. Response: Since the pH requirements as proposed are based on Florida Administrative Code (FAC) Section 17&hyph;302.530(52)(c), EPA will retain the language in the final NPDES general permit. Comment 18: The Florida Chemical Industry Council (FCIC), by letter dated October 21, 1994, mentioned that the proposed permit requires all produced groundwater discharges to submit analytical results to EPA, regardless of project size or duration even if contamination is undetected. FCIC mentioned the permit should allow a de minimis limit, so that very small construction projects will not be required to report and would eliminate small projects that do not involve cleanup at uncontaminated sites. Response: The Clean Water Act (CWA) does not allow for exclusion based on the volume of the discharge. However, having all potential permittees perform the analytical screen for any produced groundwater discharge to surface waters of the U.S., places the burden on the potential discharger to verify that the groundwater is uncontaminated prior to discharge regardless of the length of discharge. The CWA requires that all point source discharges of pollutants to waters of the U.S. be authorized by NPDES permits. Comment 19: The United States, Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) submitted general comments on the NPDES general permit No. FLG830000. The FWS recommended that the permit be denied unless it includes discharge limitations and other appropriate permit conditions that will assure the maintenance of natural pre-project habitat quality, including: (a) Water quality, (b) sediment quality and, (c) vegetative species diversity and abundance, plus the best available technology and scientific data be utilized to avoid any adverse effects on fish and wildlife, their behavior, and the reproduction of any species. Response: Since some technology based limits in this general permit are more stringent than Florida's water quality standards, and the Water Quality-based limits are based on Florida's water quality standards, EPA believes that the maintenance of pre-project water quality will be maintained. Additionally, the requirement to perform acute toxicity testing on more sensitive organisms assures that adequate monitoring is in place to avoid potential adverse impacts on fish and wildlife. III. Other Changes to Final NPDES General Permit at Issuance: 1. The word ``Dewatering'' was added to the title of the final issued permit to indicate that the permit covers general dewatering.
