FR940819-0-00047 FR940819-0-00016 F. Return to Duty Testing. Each employer shall ensure that before an individual is returned to duty to perform a safety-sensitive function after refusing to submit to a drug test required by this appendix or receiving a verified positive drug test result on a test conducted under this appendix the individual shall undergo a drug test. No employer shall allow an individual required to undergo return to duty testing to perform a safety-sensitive function unless the employer has received a verified negative drug test result for the individual. G. Follow-up Testing. Each employer shall implement a reasonable program of unannounced testing of each individual who has been hired to perform or who has been returned to the performance of a safety-sensitive function after refusing to submit to a drug test required by this appendix or receiving a verified positive drug test result on a test conducted under this appendix. 2. The number and frequency of such testing shall be determined by the employer's Medical Review Officer. In the case of any individual evaluated under this appendix and determined to be in need of assistance in resolving problems associated with illegal use of drugs, follow-up testing shall consist of at least six tests in the first 12 months following the employee's return to duty. 3. The employer may direct the employee to undergo testing for alcohol, in addition to drugs, if the Medical Review Officer determines that alcohol testing is necessary for the particular employee. Any such alcohol testing shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of 49 CFR part 40. 4. Follow-up testing shall not exceed 60 months after the date the individual begins to perform or returns to the performance of a safety-sensitive function. The Medical Review Officer may terminate the requirement for follow-up testing at any time after the first six tests have been conducted, if the Medical Review Officer determines that such testing is no longer necessary. VI. Administrative and Other Matters A. Collection, Testing, and Rehabilitation Records. Each employer shall maintain all records related to the collection process, including all logbooks and certification statements, for two years. Each employer shall maintain records of employee confirmed positive drug test results, SAP evaluations, and employee rehabilitation for five years. The employer shall maintain records of negative test results for 12 months. The employer shall permit the Administrator or the Administrator's representative to examine these records. B. Laboratory Inspections. The employer shall contract only with a laboratory that permits pre-award inspections by the employer before the laboratory is awarded a testing contract and unannounced inspections, including examination of any and all records at any time by the employer, the Administrator, or the Administrator's representative. C. Employee Request for Test of a Split Specimen. Not later than 72 hours after receipt of notice of a verified positive test result, an employee may request that the MRO arrange for testing of the second, ``split'' specimen obtained during the collection of the primary specimen that resulted in the confirmed positive test result. 2. The split specimen shall be tested in accordance with the procedures in 49 CFR part 40. 3. The MRO shall not delay verification of the primary test result following a request for a split specimen test unless such delay is based on reasons other than the pendency of the split specimen test result. If the primary test result is verified as positive, actions required under this rule (e.g., notification to the Federal Air Surgeon, removal from safety-sensitive position) are not stayed during the 72-hour request period or pending receipt of the split specimen test result. D. Release of Drug Testing Information. An employer shall release information regarding an employee's drug testing results, evaluation, or rehabilitation to a third party in accordance with the specific, written consent of the employee authorizing release of the information to an identified person, to the National Transportation Safety Board as part of an accident investigation upon written request or order, to the FAA upon request, or as required by this appendix. Except as required by law or this appendix, no employer shall release employee information. E. Refusal To Submit to Testing. Each employer shall notify the FAA within 5 working days of any employee who holds a certificate issued under part 61, part 63, or part 65 of this chapter who has refused to submit to a drug test required under this appendix. Notification should be sent to: Federal Aviation Administration, Aviation Standards National Field Office, Airmen Certification Branch, AVN&hyph;460, P.O. Box 25082, Oklahoma City, OK 73125. 2. Employers are not required to notify the above office of refusals to submit to pre-employment or return to duty testing. F. Permanent Disqualification From Service. An employee who has verified positive drug test results on two drug tests required by appendix I to part 121 of this chapter and conducted after September 19, 1994 is permanently precluded from performing for an employer the safety-sensitive duties the employee performed prior to the second drug test. 2. An employee who has engaged in prohibited drug use during the performance of a safety-sensitive function after September 19, 1994 is permanently precluded from performing that safety-sensitive function for an employer. VII. Medical Review Officer/Substance Abuse Professional The employer shall designate or appoint a Medical Review Officer (MRO) who shall be qualified in accordance with 49 CFR part 40 and shall perform the functions set forth in 49 CFR part 40 and this appendix. If the employer does not have a qualified individual on staff to serve as MRO, the employer may contract for the provision of MRO services as part of its drug testing program.
