FR940602-1-00055 FR940602-1-00013 (a) Traffic control system. An organized system of vehicular and pedestrian traffic control shall be established and maintained at each entrance/exit ramp and on ramps within the vessel as traffic flow warrants. (b) Ramp load limit. Ramps shall be plainly marked with their load capacity. The marked capacity shall not be exceeded. (c) Pedestrian traffic. Stern and side port ramps also used for pedestrian access shall meet the requirements of §1918.21. Such ramps shall provide a physical separation between pedestrian and vehicular routes. When the design of the ramp prevents physical separation, a signalperson shall direct traffic and shall not allow concurrent use. (d) Ramp maintenance. Ramps shall be properly maintained and secured. (e) Hazardous routes. Prior to the start of Ro-Ro operations the employer shall ascertain any hazardous routes or areas that could be mistaken for normal drive-on/drive-off routes. Such hazardous routes shall be clearly identified and barricaded. (f) Air brake connections. Each tractor shall have all air lines connected when pulling trailers equipped with air brakes and shall have the brakes tested before commencing operations. (g) Trailer load limits. Flat bed and low boy trailers shall be marked with their cargo capacities and shall not be overloaded. (h) Cargo weights. Cargo to be handled via a Ro-Ro ramp shall have its weight plainly marked in pounds (kilograms). Alternatively, the cargo stow plan or equivalent record containing the actual gross weight of the load may be used to determine the weight of the cargo. (i) Tractors. Tractors used in Ro-Ro operations shall have: (1) sufficient power to ascend ramp inclines safely; and (2) sufficient braking capacity to descend ramp inclines safely. (j) Safe speeds. Power driven vehicles used in Ro-Ro operations shall be operated at safe speeds compatible with prevailing conditions. (k) Ventilation. Internal combustion engine driven vehicles shall be operated only where adequate ventilation exists or is provided. (Air contaminant requirements are found in §1918.94 and part 1910, subpart Z of this chapter.) (l) Securing cargo. Cargo loaded or discharged during Ro-Ro operations shall be secured to prevent sliding loads. (m) Authorized personnel. Only authorized persons shall be permitted on any deck while loading or discharging operations are being conducted. Such authorized persons shall be equipped with high visibility vests (or equivalent protection). (n) Signalling requirement. When a driver is maneuvering a vehicle into a stowage position while other personnel, such as lashers, are working in the adjacent vicinity: (1) the driver shall be under the direction of a signaller; and (2) No driver shall be signalled to advance or reverse motion while any personnel are in positions where they could be struck. §1918.87 Ship's cargo elevators. (a) Safe working load. The safe working loads of ship's cargo elevators shall be ascertained and adhered to. (b) Load distribution. Loads shall be evenly distributed on the elevator's platform. (c) Elevator personnel restrictions. Drivers of vehicles who remain at the controls of those vehicles shall be the only persons permitted to travel on the elevator's platform with the vehicle. (d) Open deck barricades. During elevator operation, each opened deck which presents a fall hazard to employees shall be effectively barricaded. §1918.88 Log operations. (See also §1918.38.) (a) Working in holds. In holds where logs are being loaded, no employee shall remain in spaces for the placement of logs using dumper devices when the possibility of logs striking, rolling upon, or pinning them exists. (b) Footwear. The employer shall provide employees that are working logs appropriate footwear, such as spiked shoes.
