FR940524-0-00019 FR940524-0-00007 41. To prevent unjust enrichment by women and minorities trafficking in licenses acquired through the use of bidding credits, we will impose a forfeiture requirement on transfers of such licenses to entities that are not owned by women or minorities. The penalty required will be reimbursement to the government for the amount of the bidding credit, plus interest, before transfer will be permitted. The amount of the penalty will be reduced over time. To ensure that only legitimate minority and women-owned firms are able to take advantage of bidding credits, strict eligibility criteria have been adopted (in the Second Report and Order). Also, to ensure that our rules are narrowly tailored while meeting the statutory goal of providing opportunities for women and minorities to participate in the telecommunications industry, publicly-traded companies are prohibited from taking advantage of bidding credits. 42. Tax certificates. Tax certificates will be issued to initial investors in minority and female-owned enterprises upon divestiture of their interests, and to licensees who transfer their authorizations to minority and female-owned businesses. In implementing this program, we will borrow from our existing tax certificate program and grant tax certificates, upon request, that will enable the licensees and investors to defer the gain realized upon a sale either by: (1) Treating it as an involuntary conversion under 26 U.S.C. 1033, with the recognition of gain avoided by the acquisition of qualified replacement property; or (2) electing to reduce the basis of certain depreciable property, or both. 43. Tax certificates will be available to initial investors who provide ``start-up'' financing and investors who purchase shares within the first year after license issuance. To be eligible for a tax certificate, such investor transactions must not reduce minority or female ownership or control in the entity below 50.1 percent. To prevent unjust enrichment, we will impose a one-year holding requirement on the transfer or assignment of narrowband PCS licenses obtained thorough the benefit of tax certificates. 44. Installment payments. We adopt installment payments for small businesses_including small businesses owned by women and minorities and rural telephone companies that meet the small business definition_bidding for any of the BTA, MTA or regional narrowband PCS licenses. These licenses are appropriately sized for development by bona fide small businesses. We estimate that the cost to build-out these licenses will be between $50,000 and $1.25 million. 45. The installment payment option will enable all small businesses to pay the full amount of their winning bid in installments (less the upfront payment, which must be paid in full, and the down payment, half of which is due five days after the auction closes and the other half five days after the application is granted). Generally, interest charges will be fixed at the time of licensing at a rate equal to the rate for 10 year U.S. Treasury obligations. Payments of interest only will be due for the first two years. Principal and interest will be amortized over the remaining years of the license. Timely payment of all installments will be a condition of the license grant. If a small business making installment payments seeks to transfer a license to a non-small business entity during the term of the license, we will require payment of the remaining principal balance as a condition of the license transfer. Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis Need for and Purpose of the Action 46. This rulemaking proceeding was initiated to implement section 309(j) of the Communications Act, as amended. The rules adopted herein will carry out Congress' intent to establish a system of competitive bidding for narrowband PCS licenses. The rules adopted herein also will carry out Congress' intent to ensure that small businesses, rural telephone companies, and businesses owned by women and minorities are afforded an opportunity to participate in the provision of spectrum-based services. Issues Raised in Response to the Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis 47. The IRFA noted that the proposals under consideration in the NPRM included the possibility of new reporting and recordkeeping requirements for a number of small business entities. No commenters responded specifically to the issues raised in the IRFA. We have made some modifications to the proposed requirements as appropriate. Significant Alternatives Considered and Rejected All significant alternatives have been addressed in the Second Report and Order. Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary. List of Subjects 47 CFR Part 0 Organization and functions (Government agencies). 47 CFR Part 24 Communications common carriers, Communications equipment, Radio, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Amendatory Text Parts O and 24 of chapter I of title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations are amended as follows: PART O_COMMISSION ORGANIZATION 1. The authority citation for part O continues to read as follows: Authority: Sec. 5, 48 Stat. 1068, as amended; 47 U.S.C. 155. 2. Section 0.91 is amended by adding a new paragraph (n) to read as follows: ยง0.91 Functions of the Bureau. * * * * * (n) Develops, in coordination with the Office of Plans and Policy, policies for the selection of licenses from mutually exclusive applicants in the Common Carrier Service subject to competitive bidding; issues Public Notices announcing auctions for Common Carrier Service Licenses; specifies the licenses to be auctioned; the deadlines for filing short-form applications, filing fees, and submission of upfront payments; the time and place of the auction; the method of competitive bidding to be used; competitive bidding procedures including, but not limited to, designated entity preferences, applicable bid submission procedures, upfront payment requirements, activity rules, stopping rules, and bid withdrawal procedures. PART 24_PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES 3. The authority citation for part 24 is revised to read as follows:
