FR940927-0-00103 FR940927-0-00016 To correct minor errors and to reflect renewal requirements for certificates of registry, the Coast Guard is updating the table in 46 CFR 10.203. Additionally, numerous non-substantive editorial changes have been made to the final rule in order to improve its clarity, and to ensure that the public understands the requirements set forth. Regulatory Evaluation This final rule is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). A final Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT has been prepared and is available in the docket for inspection or copying where indicated under ADDRESSES. The Evaluation is summarized as follows. 1. Government/Coast Guard cost. Government and Coast Guard costs attributable to implementing renewal requirements for merchant mariner credentials will be primarily incurred by the 17 Coast Guard Regional Examination Centers (RECs). Cost incurring activities will consist of evaluating renewal applications, administering examinations, and issuing renewed CORs and MMDs. Projections of costs and impacts for renewal of CORs and MMDs are based upon a calculation of the current merchant marine licensing and documentation program costs. Data used in this calculation included: information from a workload analysis study; hourly standard rates provided in the Coast Guard Standard Rate Instruction (COMDTINST 7310); and the Coast Guard Staffing Standards Manual (COMDTINST M5312.11A). The Coast Guard calculates the projected personnel and associated infrastructure costs for COR and MMD renewal activities to be approximately $1.23 million annually, which will be offset by approximately $1.16 million annually in user fees. User fee receipts will be deposited in the general fund of the U.S. Treasury as offsetting receipts of the Department of Transportation and ascribed to Coast Guard activities. 2. Costs to the public. The Coast Guard estimates a total pool of 1,500 active staff officers and 88,500 active MMD holders who may seek renewal of CORs or MMDs respectively. One-fifth of the total pool is expected to renew each year, resulting in 300 COR and 17,700 MMD renewals annually. Because the renewal process occurs once every 5 years, total costs can be divided by 5 to determine an annualized cost. Costs incurred by merchant mariners seeking renewal of CORs or MMDs will consist of user fees, photographs for MMDs, physical examinations, and time spent in the renewal process itself. This aggregate cost represents the highest average amount a mariner may expect to pay. However, variations in fees and renewal requirements will result in significantly lower costs for many mariners. The cost estimates are as follows: 1␣ 1␣ 1Total cost 1Annualized Individual Mariner = $278.84 $55.77 Whole Pool Impact = 25,095,600 5,019,120 3. Benefits. Direct and societal benefits resulting from periodic renewal of CORs and MMDs may be substantial. The renewal process will eventually include three additional regulatory initiatives to implement OPA 90, and to ensure continuing qualification of merchant mariners. These initiatives are: (1) criminal record reviews, (2) national driver register checks, and (3) chemical drug testing. Licensed, certificated, or documented merchant mariners play crucial and responsible roles in the safe operation of vessels, and they have important responsibilities during vessel emergencies. It is imperative that merchant mariners know that they are going to sea with a competent crew and that other vessels are operated by equally competent mariners. This rule will protect employees, employers, the marine environment, and the general public. Some of the direct benefits will include the following: a. Employment protections and preferences, identification, proof of citizenship, proof of physical and other competency qualifications. Merchant mariners get employment benefits and know that shipmates to whom they entrust their lives at sea are qualified; and b. Potentially fewer personal injuries. In addition, society may benefit indirectly through potentially fewer groundings, accidents, losses of property, and releases of oil and hazardous materials into the marine environment. There is insufficient historical data to quantify the benefits of the regulations. However, should this program manage to save even two lives per year at $2.6 million per statistical life saved (which recent research shows is a reasonable estimate of people's willingness-to-pay for safety), its benefits would exceed its cost. If maritime accidents were reduced even by a small percentage, savings would accrue to the maritime industry through lower repair and medical costs and to the public through environmental protection. Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), the Coast Guard must consider whether this proposal, if adopted, will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. ``Small entities'' may include (1) small businesses and not-for-profit organizations that are independently owned and operated and are not dominant in their fields and (2) governmental jurisdictions with populations of less than 50,000. Individual applicants are responsible for payment of issuance and renewal fees of CORs and MMDs to the Coast Guard. However, some firms in the maritime industry now voluntarily pay their employees' fees for obtaining CORs and MMDs. Some firms may choose to pay part or all of their employees' additional fees which will result from this rulemaking. However, the regulations do not require firms to pay for document issuance or document renewal fees for any applicant in whom the final rule vests responsibility. Consequently, small entities_for example, the 355 inland barge operators with fleets of 10 or fewer barges_are not, and will not be required to incur costs for applicant renewals of CORs and MMDs. Because it expects the impact of this proposal to be minimal, the Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this proposal, if adopted, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Collection of Information This rule contains collection-of-information requirements. The Coast Guard has submitted the requirements to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review under section 3504(h) of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), and OMB has approved them. The section numbers are 10.209 and 12.02&hyph;27 and the corresponding OMB Control Number is 2115&hyph;0514. Federalism The Coast Guard has analyzed these regulations under the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612 and has determined that the regulations do not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Environment The Coast Guard considered the environmental impact of these regulations and concluded that, under section 2.B.2 of Commandant Instruction M16475.1B, the regulations are categorically excluded from further environmental documentation. Section 2.B.2.1 of that instruction excludes administrative actions and procedural regulations and policies which clearly do not have any environmental impact. A Categorical Exclusion Determination is available in the docket for inspection or copying where indicated under ADDRESSES. List of Subjects 46 CFR Part 10 Fees, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Schools, Seamen. 46 CFR Part 12 Fees, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Seamen. For the reasons set out in the preamble, the Coast Guard amends 46 CFR parts 10 and 12 as follows: PART 10_LICENSING OF MARITIME PERSONNEL 1. The authority citation for part 10 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 31 U.S.C. 9701; 46 U.S.C. 2103, 7101, 7106, 7107; 49 CFR 1.45, 1.46; Section 10.107 also issued under the authority of 44 U.S.C. 3507. 2. Section 10.109 is amended by adding paragraph (d)(3) to read as follows: §10.109 Fees. * * * * * (d) *␣*␣* (3) For renewal of a Certificate of Registry: (i) For evaluation for renewal of a certificate of registry, no fee.
