FR940928-0-00008 FR940928-0-00002 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Agricultural Marketing Service 7 CFR Part 51 [Docket Number FV&hyph;92&hyph;303] Apricots: Grade Standards AGENCY: Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule revises the United States Standards for Grades of Apricots. The revision specifies definitions that do not appear in the standard but are described in the inspection instructions and brings up to date any obsolete terms and definitions. In addition, the revision will provide metric equivalents for dimensions given in terms of U.S. Customary units and contains conforming and editorial changes. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 28, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Frank O'Sullivan, Fresh Products Branch, Fruit and Vegetable Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, P.O. Box 96456, Washington D.C. 20090&hyph;6456, (202) 720&hyph;2185. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This rule is exempt from Executive Order 12866 review. Pursuant to the requirements set forth in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) has determined that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This final rule for the revision of U.S. Standards for Grades of Apricots will not impose substantial direct economic cost, recordkeeping, or personnel workload changes on small entities, and will not alter the market share or competitive position of these entities relative to large businesses. In addition, under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, the use of these standards is voluntary. This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This action is not intended to have retroactive effect. This rule will not preempt any State or local laws, regulations, or policies, unless they present an irreconcilable conflict with this rule. There are no administrative procedures which must be exhausted prior to any judicial challenge to the provisions of this rule. Agencies periodically review existing regulations. An objective of the review is to ensure that the grade standards are serving their intended purpose, the language is clear, and the standards are consistent with AMS policy and authority. The United States Standards for Grades of Apricots became effective on May 25, 1928, and has not been revised since then. In June 1992, the Washington Apricot Marketing Committee (WAMC) requested the USDA to revise the standard. Consisting of producers from various districts throughout the State, the WAMC recommends minimum size, pack, and grade requirements each year for the Federal Marketing Order on Washington State grown apricots. Specifically, the WAMC requested that skin breaks (cuts and stem punctures), and stem pulls be changed from ``free from'' defects to ``free from damage'' or ``serious damage'' defects in the U.S. No. 1 and U.S. No. 2 grades, respectively. Such changes would have the effect of allowing these defects on fruit in various degrees without being scored against the grade (versus ``free from'' which means they are scored on sight). According to the WAMC, ``This will provide the industry with the opportunity to expand markets into Canada.'' WAMC also suggested that the Department should make any other revisions deemed necessary. AMS reviewed these issues to ascertain the need for the change proposed by WAMC as well as other technical changes or updates that the Agency believed may be helpful. Many suggestions and comments were received pertaining to an informal market survey by AMS. These comments reinforced that updating changes were necessary to bring the standard in line with today's marketing practices. These changes as well as the request by the WAMC pertaining to skin breaks were incorporated in the proposed rule, United States Standards for Grades of Apricots [7 CFR 51.2925&hyph;51.2934], which was published in the Federal Register on January 11, 1994 [59 FR 1490]. The 60-day comment period ended March 14, 1994, and a total of fourteen comments were received concerning the proposal.
