FR941216-2-00102 FR941216-2-00055 •Potential impacts to raptors, raptor breeding and nesting habitat. •Potential impacts to migratory birds. •Potential impacts to vegetation and reclamation problems associated with arid, saline or highly erosive soils. •Potential impacts to air quality. •Potential impacts to petrified wood collecting areas. •Potential impacts to intermittent streams. •Potential impacts on steep slopes. •Potential impacts to cultural resources, including historic trails. •Potential impacts to wetlands and riparian areas. •Potential impacts to surface and groundwater quality. •Potential impacts associated with hazardous materials and spills. •Reclamation, revegetation and restoration of disturbed areas. •Potential impacts to federally-listed threatened and endangered species and Federal candidate species (plant and animal), including the black-footed ferret, peregrine falcon, bald eagle, ferruginous hawk, and sensitive fish species within the Green River. •Potential impacts to State Priority 1 bird and mammal species. •Potential impacts on the Green River and Seedskadee National Wildlife Refuge. •Potential conflicts with livestock, wild horses and range improvements. •Potential impacts to visual resource qualities. •Potential impacts to recreation opportunities. •Potential impacts caused by increased traffic. •Potential royalty and tax revenues. •Potential impacts on housing. •Potential social and economic effects on local communities. •Potential impacts associated with increased public access and road density. •Compliance with Federal, State and local permit requirements. •Compatibility with BLM management plans and resource management objectives. •Monitoring and enforcement of mitigation measures. •Cumulative impacts. •Opportunities that may be derived from the proposed projects include: •Increased royalties and tax revenues to local, State, and Federal Governments. •Added employment and economic benefits to communities. •An increase in Wyoming's share of new and existing natural gas markets. •Development of additional supplies of natural gas that would assist in the attainment of clear air in conformance with Federal air quality standards. Dated: December 9, 1994. Alan K. Kesterke, Associate State Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30807 Filed 12&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;22&hyph;P
