FR940805-1-00084 FR940805-1-00013 (10) Logs . The facility shall maintain a permanent log of significant events and activities of juveniles in special management confinement. The log shall document: (i) the person who authorized the confinement; (ii) the date and time of confinement; (iii) persons visiting the juvenile; (iv) the person authorizing the release from confinement; and (v) the date and time of release. (e) Juvenile rights _(1) Access to courts, counsel and legal materials . Juveniles shall have the right to have access to attorneys, legal representatives, the courts and legal materials and to address uncensored communications to governmental authorities. (2) Freedom from discrimination . Juveniles shall have the right to be free from discrimination based on race, religion, national origin, tribal affiliation, sex, disability, political beliefs, favoritism or nepotism. Juveniles shall have the right to equal access to programs and work assignments as provided in the classification program. (3) Equal access for women . Male and female juveniles shall have the right to equal access to programs and services. (4) Right to communicate . Juveniles shall have the right to communicate or correspond with persons or organizations, subject only to the limitations necessary to maintain order and security and protect the juvenile's rights. (5) Protection from harm . Juveniles shall have the right to protection from personal abuse, corporal punishment, personal injury, disease, property damage and harassment, by either staff or juveniles. (6) Freedom of personal grooming . Juveniles shall have the right to determine the length and style of scalp or facial hair, unless health and safety reasons exist. (7) Treatment . Juveniles shall have the right to medical, dental, mental health and substance abuse treatment and rehabilitative services as directed by the health authority. (f) Intake decision process _(1) Designated intake officer . The administrator shall designate an intake officer on each shift. The intake officer shall be delegated the specific power to make decisions regarding juvenile intake. The intake process shall operate twenty-four hours a day. (2) Advisement of intake process . The administrator or designee shall inform juveniles of the steps in the admission process when the admission process begins. (3) Referral for non-court services . The administrator shall specify the authority and responsibility of the intake officer to refer juveniles named in complaints and, if indicated, their parents for noncourt services. Referrals for such services shall be voluntary, shall be agreed to by both the juvenile and parents, shall be documented in writing and can be completed within a specific period of time. (4) Referral for 99&hyph;570 assessment . The intake officer shall refer juveniles who are arrested or detained for offenses involving or related to alcohol or substance abuse or who are under the influence of these substances to the health authority or designated substance abuse program according to criteria established by the health authority in the written plan for provision of emergency care. (5) Court referral . The administrator or designee shall bring any juvenile placed in detention before the appropriate court within forty-eight hours of admission. (6) Independent review of intake decisions . The administrator shall provide for a process of independent review of intake decisions. (7) Authority of the intake officer . The administrator shall specify the authority and responsibility of the intake officer to order unconditional or conditional release of a juvenile prior to a detention hearing and to order non-secure or secure shelter care according to criteria established by the appropriate court. (8) Conditional release plan . The administrator or designee, in conjunction with the appropriate court and service providers, shall develop a written plan for the conditional release of juveniles. The plan shall specify criteria for conditional release, alternative resources and the referral process. The plan shall be updated as needed and reviewed at least annually. (9) Prohibition against detention of abused, dependent and neglected children _The administrator shall prohibit the placement in detention of children who are runaways because of abuse, neglect or abandonment. (10) Criteria for secure detention . The administrator shall limit the use of detention to cases involving protection of the public, prevention of self-injury, ensuring the presence of the juvenile at subsequent court hearings and transfers to other jurisdictions. (11) Criteria for detention of probation or valid court order violators . Juveniles alleged to have violated conditions of their probation or valid court order shall not be placed in detention unless it is necessary to protect the public safety, prevent self-injury, facilitate transfer, or ensure the presence of the juvenile at subsequent court hearings. (g) Admission _(1) Admission process. Written procedures for admitting new juveniles shall include, at a minimum: (i) determination that the juvenile is legally committed; (ii) complete search of the individual and possessions; (iii) inventory and storage of clothing and personal property; (iv) health screening, including tests for infectious diseases as required by the health authority; (v) emergency health assessment, as required by law, regulations or policies of the health authority; (vi) assistance in or arrangements for contacting families regarding admission and the procedures for mail and visiting; (vii) opportunity to make local or collect long-distance telephone calls to family members, legal representatives, or other approved individuals during admission; (viii) shower, hair care and treatment for ectoparasites if necessary; (ix) issue of clean clothing and personal hygiene items; (x) completion of an admission form as required by these standards;
