FR940819-2-00101 FR940819-2-00066 5. That the plaintiff recover the cost of this action. Dated: July 15, 1994. Anne K. Bingaman, Assistant Attorney General. Robert E. Litan, Mark C. Schechter, Richard L. Rosen, James D. Bates, Assistant U.S. Attorney, Chief, Civil Division, District of Columbia, Washington, DC 20001. Samuel R. Miller, Donald J. Russell, Joyce Bartoo, Robert J. Zastrow, Richard L. Irvine, Peter A. Gray, Justin M. Dempsey, Gilad Y. Ohana, Lawrence M. Frankel, Attorneys, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, 555 4th Street NW., (202) 514&hyph;2401. United States District Court for the District of Columbia, United States of America, Plaintiff vs. Microsoft Corporation, Defendant. Civil Action No. 94&hyph;1564, July 15, 1994. Stipulation It is stipulated by and between the undersigned parties, by their respective attorneys, that: 1. The Court has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this action and over each of the parties hereto, and venue of this action is proper in the District of Columbia. 2. The parties consent that a Final Judgment in the form hereto attached may be filed and entered by the Court, upon the motion of any party or upon the Court's own motion, at any time after compliance with the requirements of the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act (15 U.S.C. 16), and without further notice to any party or other proceedings, provided that Plaintiff has not withdrawn its consent, which it may do at any time before the entry of the proposed Final Judgment by serving notice thereof on the Defendant and by filing that notice with the Court; and 3. Defendant agrees to be bound by the provisions of the proposed Final Judgment pending its approval by the Court. If the Plaintiff withdraws its consent or if the proposed Final Judgment is not entered pursuant to this Stipulation, this Stipulation shall be of no effect whatsoever, and the making of this Stipulation shall be without prejudice to any party in this or in any other proceeding. Dated This 15th day of July 1994. For The Plaintiff The United States Of America. Anne K. Bingaman, Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice. For The Defendant Microsoft Corporation. William H. Neukom, Senior Vice President, Law and Corporate Affairs, Microsoft Corporation.
