FR940426-2-00006 FR940426-2-00002 B. Pure Magnesium For the PRC, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine, petitioners based United States price (USP) on 1993 country-specific Customs unit values for entries of pure primary magnesium. For all three countries, petitioners contend that the FMV of imports subject to these investigations must be determined in accordance with section 773(c) of the Act, which concerns NME countries (see ``Non-Market Economy Determination'' section of the notice, above). Accordingly, petitioners calculated FMV on the basis of the valuation of the factors of production. The factors of production used by petitioners were based on Magcorp's experience with a production process similar to that used in the PRC, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine. Petitioners' FMV consisted of the sum of materials, labor, energy, overhead, general expenses, profit, and packing. To value the factors of production, petitioners relied where possible on publicly available information from an appropriate surrogate country. Where such information was unavailable, petitioners resorted to publicly available information from the United States and proprietary information based on their own experience. For one production factor, petitioners also relied on an export price from the PRC. For purposes of these initiations, we have accepted, pursuant to section 773(c)(4) of the Act, petitioners' view that India (for the PRC) and Brazil (for the Russian Federation and Ukraine) are appropriate surrogate countries. We have disregarded factor values based on prices in the United States because (1) petitioners have failed to follow the Department's established hierarchy with respect to factor valuation, and (2) petitioners provide no basis for determining that United States values are representative of the appropriate surrogate country values. In addition, we have disregarded the factor value based on an export price in the PRC since the PRC is an NME and cannot be an appropriate surrogate to value factors of production. Pursuant to section 773(c)(1) of the Act, petitioners added to the labor and material costs the percentage for overhead based on their own experience and the statutory minima of ten percent for general expenses and eight percent for profit, as well as an amount for packing (which, because it was based on U.S. values, was disallowed). C. Alloy Magnesium For the PRC, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine, petitioners based USP on 1993 country-specific Customs unit values for entries of alloy primary magnesium. For each country, petitioners calculated FMV for alloy primary magnesium using the same factors of production as were used for pure primary magnesium. Petitioners contend that the pure primary magnesium must be manufactured and then mixed with an alloy to create alloy primary magnesium, and that this process involves additional cost. Therefore, the use of the pure primary magnesium factor values to determine an alloy primary magnesium FMV produces a conservative estimate. See, e.g., Final Affirmative Determination; Rescission of Investigation and Partial Dismissal of Petition: Pure and Alloy Magnesium from Canada, 57 FR 30939 (July 13, 1992). Fair Value Comparisons A. Pure Magnesium Based on a comparison of USP and FMV, petitioners' alleged dumping margins, as corrected by the Department for methodological errors and/or unsupported data, are as follows: ␣ 1Country 1Revised range PRC 75.67% to 92.01%. Russian Federation 43.37% to 64.12%. Ukraine 40.15% to 53.99%. B. Alloy Magnesium Based on a comparison of USP and FMV, petitioners' alleged dumping margins, as corrected by the Department for methodological errors and/or unsupported data, are as follows: ␣ 1Country 1Revised range PRC 46.14% to 47.44%. Russian Federation 48.49% to 107.89%. Ukraine 21.10%. Initiations of Investigations We have examined the petitions on pure and alloy magnesium and have found that they meet the requirements of section 732(b) of the Act. Therefore, we are initiating antidumping duty investigations to determine whether imports of pure and alloy magnesium from the PRC, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine are being, or are likely to be, sold in the United States at less than fair value. ITC Notification Section 732(d) of the Act requires us to notify the International Trade Commission (ITC) of these actions, and we have done so. Preliminary Determination by the ITC The ITC will determine by May 16, 1994, whether there is a reasonable indication that imports of pure and alloy magnesium from the PRC, the Russian Federation, and Ukraine are materially injuring, or threaten material injury to, a U.S. industry. Any ITC determination which is negative will result in the respective investigation being terminated; otherwise, these investigations will proceed according to statutory and regulatory time limits. This notice is published pursuant to section 732(c)(2) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.13(b). Dated: April 20, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10067 Filed 4&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;M
