FR941028-0-00097 FR941028-0-00009 (2) Any permit that is issued on the basis of a presumption supported by certification under §778.14 of this chapter that a violation is in the process of being corrected, on the basis of proof submitted under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section that a violation is in the process of being corrected, or pending the outcome of an appeal described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, shall be conditionally issued. * * * * * 8. Section 773.20 is amended by revising paragraphs (b) and (c) to read as follows: §773.20 Improvidently issued permits: General procedures. * * * * * (b) Review criteria. (1) A regulatory authority shall find that a surface coal mining and reclamation permit was improvidently issued if_ (i) Under the violations review criteria of the regulatory program at the time the permit was issued: (A) The regulatory authority should not have issued the permit because of an unabated violation or a delinquent penalty or fee; or (B) The permit was issued on the presumption that a notice of violation was in the process of being corrected to the satisfaction of the agency with jurisdiction over the violation, but a cessation order subsequently was issued; and (ii) The violation, penalty, or fee: (A) Remains unabated or delinquent; and (B) Is not the subject of a good faith appeal, or of an abatement plan or payment schedule with which the permittee or other person responsible is complying to the satisfaction of the responsible agency; and (iii) Where the permittee was linked to the violation, penalty, or fee through ownership or control under the violations review criteria of the regulatory program at the time the permit was issued, an ownership or control link between the permittee and the person responsible for the violation, penalty, or fee still exists, or where the link has been severed, the permittee continues to be responsible for the violation, penalty, or fee. (2) The provisions of §773.25 of this part shall be applicable when a regulatory authority determines: (i) Whether a violation, penalty, or fee existed at the time that it was cited, remains unabated or delinquent, has been corrected, is in the process of being corrected, or is the subject of a good faith appeal, and (ii) Whether any ownership or control link between the permittee and the person responsible for the violation, penalty, or fee existed, still exists, or has been severed. (c) Remedial measures. (1) A regulatory authority which, under paragraph (b) of this section, finds that because of an unabated violation or a delinquent penalty or fee a permit was improvidently issued shall use one or more of the following remedial measures: (i) Implement, with the cooperation of the permittee or other person responsible, and of the responsible agency, a plan for abatement of the violation or a schedule for payment of the penalty or fee; (ii) Impose on the permit a condition requiring that in a reasonable time the permittee or other person responsible abate the violation or pay the penalty or fee; (iii) Suspend the permit until the violation is abated or the penalty or fee is paid; or (iv) Rescind the permit. 2. If the regulatory authority decides to suspend the permit, it shall afford at least 30 days' written notice to the permittee. If the regulatory authority decides to rescind the permit, it shall issue a notice in accordance with §773.21 of this part. In either case, the permittee shall be given the opportunity to request administrative review of the notice under 43 CFR 4.1370 through 4.1377, where OSM is the regulatory authority, or under the State program equivalent, where a State is the regulatory authority. The regulatory authority's decision shall remain in effect during the pendency of the appeal, unless temporary relief is granted in accordance with 43 CFR 4.1376 or the State program equivalent. 9. Section 773.21 is amended by replacing the reference to ``§773.20(c)(4)'' in the introductory paragraph with ``§773.20(c)(1)(iv)'' and by revising the introductory language contained in paragraph (a) to read as follows: §773.21 Improvidently issued permits: Rescission procedures. * * * * * (a) Automatic suspension and rescission. After a specified period of time not to exceed 90 days the permit automatically will become suspended, and not to exceed 90 days thereafter rescinded, unless within those periods the permittee submits proof, and the regulatory authority finds, consistent with the provisions of §773.25 of this part, that_
