FR941220-0-00038 FR941220-0-00005 (c) Standard: Conformance with physician orders. Drugs and treatments are administered by agency staff only as ordered by the physician. Oral orders are put in writing and signed and dated with the date of receipt by the registered nurse or qualified therapist (as defined in §484.4 of this chapter) responsible for furnishing or supervising the ordered services. Oral orders are only accepted by personnel authorized to do so by applicable State and Federal laws and regulations as well as by the HHA's internal policies. Agency staff check all medicines a patient may be taking to identify possible ineffective drug therapy or adverse reactions, significant side effects, drug allergies, and contraindicated medication, and promptly report any problem to the physician. 3. In §484.36, paragraphs (b)(2)(iii), (c) and (d) are revised to read as follows: §484.36 Condition of participation: Home health aide services. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (2) *␣*␣* (iii) The home health aide must receive at least 12 hours of in-service training during each 12-month period. The in-service training may be furnished while the aide is furnishing care to the patient. * * * * * (c) Standard: Assignment and duties of the home health aide. (1) Assignment. The home health aide is assigned to a specific patient by the registered nurse. Written patient care instructions for the home health aide must be prepared by the registered nurse or other appropriate professional who is responsible for the supervision of the home health aide under paragraph (d) of this section. (2) Duties. The home health aide provides services that are ordered by the physician in the plan of care and that the aide is permitted to perform under State law. The duties of a home health aide include the provision of hands-on personal care, performance of simple procedures as an extension of therapy or nursing services, assistance in ambulation or exercises, and assistance in administering medications that are ordinarily self-administered. Any home health aide services offered by an HHA must be provided by a qualified home health aide. (d) Standard: Supervision. (1) If the patient receives skilled nursing care, the registered nurse must perform the supervisory visit required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section. If the patient is not receiving skilled nursing care, but is receiving another skilled service (that is, physical therapy, occupational therapy, or speech-language pathology services), supervision may be provided by the appropriate therapist. (2) The registered nurse (or another professional described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section) must make an on-site visit to the patient's home no less frequently than every 2 weeks. (3) If home health aide services are provided to a patient who is not receiving skilled nursing care, physical or occupational therapy or speech-language pathology services, the registered nurse must make a supervisory visit to the patient's home no less frequently than every 62 days. In these cases, to ensure that the aide is properly caring for the patient, each supervisory visit must occur while the home health aide is providing patient care. (4) If home health aide services are provided by an individual who is not employed directly by the HHA (or hospice), the services of the home health aide must be provided under arrangements, as defined in section 1861(w)(1) of the Act. If the HHA (or hospice) chooses to provide home health aide services under arrangements with another organization, the HHA's (or hospice's) responsibilities include, but are not limited to_ (i) Ensuring the overall quality of the care provided by the aide; (ii) Supervision of the aide's services as described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section; and (iii) Ensuring that home health aides providing services under arrangements have met the training requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. * * * * * 5. In §484.48, the introductory paragraph is revised to read as follows: §484.48 Condition of participation: Clinical records. A clinical record containing pertinent past and current findings in accordance with accepted professional standards is maintained for every patient receiving home health services. In addition to the plan of care, the record contains appropriate identifying information; name of physician; drug, dietary, treatment, and activity orders; signed and dated clinical and progress notes; copies of summary reports sent to the attending physician; and a discharge summary. The HHA must inform the attending physician of the availability of a discharge summary. The discharge summary must be sent to the attending physician upon request and must include the patient's medical and health status at discharge. * * * * * (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program No. 93.773, Medicare_Hospital Insurance; and Program No. 93.774, Medicare_Supplementary Medical Insurance Program) Dated: May 31, 1994. Bruce C. Vladeck, Administrator, Health Care Financing Administration. Dated: June 24, 1994. Donna E. Shalala, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31065 Filed 12&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4120&hyph;01&hyph;P
