FR941222-2-00108 FR941222-2-00092 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. IC&hyph;20772; 812&hyph;9192] The Charles Allmon Trust, Inc., et al.; Notice of Application December 15, 1994. agency: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). action: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). applicants: The Charles Allmon Trust, Inc. (the ``Trust'') and Liberty Asset Management Company (``LAMCO''). relevant act sections: Order requested under section 6(c) for an exemption from section 15(a) of the Act. summary of application: The Trust and LAMCO, for themselves and on behalf of present and future sub-advisers of the Trust, request a conditional order of exemption from section 15(a) of the Act with respect to the portion of the Trust's assets subject to LAMCO's supervision. The requested order would let the Trust and LAMCO change or add sub-advisers, or continue the services of a sub-adviser following an assignment of its sub-advisory agreement, and delay shareholder approval of the new sub-advisory agreements with such sub-advisers until the Trust's next annual meeting of shareholders. filing dates: The application was filed on August 22, 1994, and an amendment to the application was filed on November 3, 1994. hearing or notification of hearing: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on January 9, 1995, and should be accompanied by proof of service on Applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. addresses: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants: The Trust, 4405 East-West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814; LAMCO, Federal Reserve Plaza, Boston, MA 02210. for further information contact: H.R. Hallock, Jr., Special Counsel, at (202) 942&hyph;0564, or Barry D. Miller, Senior Special Counsel, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Office of Investment Company Regulation, Division of Investment Management). supplementary information: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. The Trust is a closed-end diversified management investment company whose shares are listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange (``NYSE''). In accordance with NYSE rules, the Trust holds annual meetings of shareholders. LAMCO, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Liberty Mutual Insurance Company, is a registered investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. 2. From its inception in 1986 through May 27, 1994, the Trust's sole investment manager and administrator was Growth Stock Outlook Inc. (``GSO''). On May 27, 1994, following shareholder approval, the Trust entered into a fund management agreement with LAMCO. Under the terms of that agreement, LAMCO provides a ``multi-manager'' methodology of portfolio management with respect to an initial amount equal to 20% of the Trust's total net assets (the ``Multi-Managed Assets''). The remainder of the Trust's assets are managed by GSO acting under a separate investment advisory agreement. 3. The Multi-Managed Assets may be increased or decreased as a result of investment income, gains or losses on such assets, and dividends, distributions and operating expenses payable on such assets. In addition, under the terms of an Asset Acquisition and Fund Management Transition Agreement dated February 9, 1994, among LAMCO, GSO and GSO's principal stockholder, it is contemplated that, subject to certain conditions that must be met prior to the Trust's 1996 annual meeting of shareholders, a new fund management agreement may be entered into with LAMCO with respect to all the assets of the Trust. 4. LAMCO has allocated the Multi-Managed Assets on an approximately equal basis among three independent investment management firms (the ``Sub-Advisers'') acting under identical sub-advisory agreements with the Trust and LAMCO approved by shareholders at their May 27, 1994 meeting. LAMCO selected and recommended the Sub-Advisers using certain specific criteria. In that regard, each of the present and future Sub-Advisers must consistently employ a distinct, identifiable investment style that differs from those of the other Sub-Advisers. Further, the range of styles must be sufficiently broad so that at least one of them may be expected to be in favor in all reasonably foreseeable market conditions. Finally, each Sub-Adviser's longer-term investment performance must be satisfactory when compared to other investment management firms employing a similar style. The goal of this multi-manager methodology as applied to the Multi-Managed Assets is to produce better investment performance over time with less volatility than that of the average single-manager fund with the same investment objective and policies. 5. LAMCO continuously reviews the performance of the Sub-Advisers to identify the presence of factors or conditions that would tend to neutralize the effect of the multi-management methodology as applied to the Multi-Managed Assets, such as a departure by a Sub-Adviser from its investment style, a deterioration in its investment performance relative to that of other investment management firms employing similar styles, or an adverse change in its personnel or organization. Based upon its review, LAMCO recommends appropriate changes in Sub-Advisers.
