FR940819-0-00118 FR940819-0-00020 The alcohol testing requirements of Part 40 currently call on employers or their agents to keep records of breath alcohol technician (BAT) training and proficiency for two years. The Department is concerned that, for BATs who work as such for longer than two years, this record retention requirement may not be sufficient. The Department requests comment on whether this record retention requirement should be extended (e.g., to require retention of records of the training of a BAT for as long as that BAT works for the employer). Such an extension would not apply, presumably, to BATs who were no longer working for the employer. Regulatory Analyses and Notices This is not a significant rule under Executive Order 12866 or under the Department's Regulatory Policies and Procedures. It does not impose costs on regulated parties and may, to a limited extent, reduce regulatory burdens (e.g., the provisions concerning reporting and post-test air blanks). Consequently, a regulatory evaluation has not been prepared. The Department finds, for purposes of the Administrative Procedure Act, that issuance of a notice of proposed rulemaking on these subjects is unnecessary, impracticable, or contrary to the public interest. This is because the amendments are conforming changes to actions of the Department of Health and Human Services or joint DOT/DHHS actions (the change in the marijuana initial test level, the new Federal drug testing custody and control form), important clarifications the rapid issuance of which is in the public interest (the clarifications to the split sample collection procedures, the chain of custody requirements, and the laboratory reporting procedures regarding consortia), or a correction of what we have come to regard as a mistake in procedures that have not been implemented (removal of the post-test air blank requirement). The particular effective dates are established for the following reasons. The 180-day effective date for the requirement to use the new drug testing custody and control form is established in order to give participants time to exhaust stocks of existing forms and also to give interested persons a 60-day opportunity to comment on this matter. The August 15 effective date for amendments pertaining to split sample testing procedures was established in view of the August 15 starting date for mandatory split sample testing in the aviation, motor carrier, and railroad industries. The September 1 effective date for the amendments to the initial test level for marijuana is established to be consistent with the September 1 effective date of the revised DHHS guidelines, with which the Department's requirements in this matter should be consistent. The immediate effective date for the amendments to the chain of custody is established because of the necessity of immediately correcting an error that could create potentially serious damage to the program. List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 40 Drug testing, Alcohol testing, Laboratories, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Safety, Transportation. Issued this 10th day of August 1994, at Washington, DC. Federico Peña, Secretary of Transportation.
