FR940128-0-00012 FR940128-0-00002 §1717.85 [Amended] 4. Section 1717.851 is amended by adding the following new definition: * * * * * Capital investment. For the purposes of §1717.860, capital investment means an original investment in an asset that is intended for long-term continued use or possession and, for accounting purposes, is normally depreciated or depleted as it is used. For example, such assets may include land, facilities, equipment, buildings, mineral deposits, patents, trademarks, and franchises. Original investments do not include refinancings or refundings. * * * * * §1717.852 [Amended] 5. Section 1717.852 is amended in the second sentence of paragraph (a)(1)(ii) by removing the word ``and'' after ``coal handling facilities,'' and by adding after the words ``for generation'' the following words: ``, programs of demand side management and energy conservation, and on-grid and off-grid renewable energy systems;''. 6. Section 1717.852 is further amended by revising paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) to read as follows: §1717.852 Financing purposes. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* (ii) *␣*␣* (A) Renewable energy systems and REA-approved programs of demand side management and energy conservation; and * * * * * 7. New §1717.860 is added to read as follows: §1717.860 Lien accommodations and subordinations under section 306E of the RE Act. (a) General. Under section 306E of the RE Act, when requested by a private lender providing financing for capital investments by a borrower whose net worth exceeds 110 percent of the outstanding principal balance of all loans made or guaranteed to the borrower by REA, the Administrator will, without delay, offer to share the government's lien on the borrower's system or subordinate the government's lien on the property financed by the private lender, provided that the security, including the assurance of repayment, for loans made or guaranteed by REA will remain reasonably adequate. To qualify for a lien accommodation or subordination under this section, the investment must be an original capital investment, i.e., not a refinancing or refunding. (See §1717.851 for the definition of capital investment.) (b) Determination of net worth to REA debt ratio. (1) In the case of applications for a lien accommodation, a borrower's net worth will be based on the borrower's most recent financial and statistical report, the data in which shall not be more than 60 days old at the time the application is received by REA, and the outstanding debt owed to or guaranteed by REA will be based on latest REA records available. The financial and statistical reports (Form 7 for distribution borrowers and Form 12a for power supply borrowers) are subject to REA review and revision, and they must comply with REA's system of accounts and accounting principles set forth in 7 CFR part 1767. Since sinking fund depreciation is not approved under part 1767, net worth for borrowers using sinking fund depreciation will be calculated as if the borrower had been using straight line depreciation. (2) Net worth shall be calculated by taking total margins and equities (Line 33 of Part C of REA Form 7 for distribution borrowers, or Line 34 of Section B of REA Form 12a for power supply borrowers) and subtracting assets properly recordable in account 182.2, Unrecovered Plant and Regulatory Study Costs, and account 182.3, Other Regulatory Assets, as defined in 7 CFR part 1767. (c) Application requirements and process. (1) If a borrower's net worth to REA debt ratio exceeds 110 percent, as determined by REA, and the borrower is in compliance with all requirements of its mortgage, loan agreement with REA, and any other agreement with REA that have not been exempted in writing by REA, if requested REA will expeditiously approve a lien accommodation or subordination for 100 percent private financing of capital investments, provided that the security, including the assurance of repayment, for loans made or guaranteed by REA will remain reasonably adequate. REA's approval will be conditioned upon execution and delivery by the borrower of a security instrument satisfactory to REA, if required, and such additional information, documents, and opinions of counsel as REA may require. (2) The application must include the following: (i) A resolution of the borrower's board of directors requesting the lien accommodation and including the amount and maturity of the proposed loan, a general description of the facilities or other purposes to be financed, the name and address of the lender, and an attached term sheet summarizing the terms and conditions of the proposed loan; (ii) A certification by an authorized official of the borrower that the borrower is in compliance with all requirements of its mortgage, loan agreement with REA, and any other agreement with REA that have not been exempted in writing by REA; (iii) The borrower's financial and statistical report, the data in which shall not be more than 60 days old when the complete application is received by REA;
