FR941130-1-00052 FR941130-1-00011 (b) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for approval under this part, the application shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL. (c) An applicant may request testing and evaluation to other testing and evaluation requirements which have been determined by MSHA to be equivalent under ยง6.20 of this chapter. 8. Section 20.14 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: ยง20.14 Instructions for handling future changes in lamp design. * * * * * (a)(1) The manufacturer shall write to the Approval and Certification Center, Box 201 B, Industrial Park Road, Dallas Pike, Triadelphia, WV 26059, requesting an extension of the original approval and describing the change or changes proposed. With this letter the manufacturer should submit a revised drawing or drawings showing the changes in detail, and one of each of the changed lamp parts. (2) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for approval under this part, the applicant shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL. * * * * * PART 21_[AMENDED] 9. Section 21.4 is revised to read as follows: ยง21.4 Applications. (a) Before MSHA will undertake the active investigation leading to approval of any lamp, the manufacturer shall make application by letter for an investigation of the lamp. This application in duplicate, accompanied by a check, bank draft, or money order, payable to the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration, to cover all the necessary fees, shall be sent to Approval and Certification Center, Box 201 B, Industrial Park Road, Dallas Pike, Triadelphia, WV 26059, together with the required drawings, one complete lamp, and instructions for its operation. (b) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for approval under this part, the application shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL. (c) An applicant may request testing and evaluation to other testing and evaluation requirements which have been determined by MSHA to be equivalent under ยง6.20 of this chapter.
