FR940603-1-00041 FR940603-1-00009 Each borrower is responsible for the planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of its electric system. REA, as a secured lender, has a legitimate interest in accomplishing REA's programmatic objectives, and in assuring that the costs of construction, materials, and equipment are reasonable and economical and that the property securing the loans is constructed adequately to serve the purposes for which it is intended. §1726.12 Applicability. The requirements of this part apply to the procurement of materials and equipment for use by electric borrowers in their electric systems and to the construction of their electric systems if such materials, equipment, and construction will or may be financed, in whole or in part, with loans made or guaranteed by REA. In order for general fund expenditures for procurement or construction to be eligible for reimbursement from loan funds, in addition to other requirements of this chapter, the borrower must demonstrate to the satisfaction of REA that the procedures required by this part were followed. §1726.13 Waivers. The Administrator may waive, for good cause on a case by case basis, certain requirements and procedures of this part. REA reserves the right, as a condition of providing financial assistance, to require any borrower to make any specification, contract, or contract amendment subject to the approval of the Administrator. The Administrator may, on a case by case basis, waive certain requirements of this part for major storm damage repair work. §1726.14 Definitions. Terms used in this part have the meanings set forth in 7 CFR 1710.2. References to specific REA forms and other REA documents, and to specific sections or lines of such forms and documents, shall include the corresponding forms, documents, sections and lines in any subsequent revisions of these forms and documents. In addition to the terms defined in 7 CFR 1710.2, the following terms have the following meanings for the purposes of this part: Approval of proposed construction means REA approval of a construction work plan or other appropriate engineering study and REA approval, for purposes of system financing, of the completion of all appropriate requirements of part 1794 of this chapter. Architect means a registered or licensed person employed by the borrower to provide architectural services for a project and duly authorized assistants and representatives. Bona fide bid means a bid which is submitted by a contractor on the borrower's list of qualified bidders for the specific contract, prior to bid opening. ``Buy American'' certificate means a certification that the contractor has complied with the ``Buy American'' requirement (see §1726.15). Competitive procurement means procurement of goods or services based on the lowest evaluated bid for similar products or services when three or more bids are received. Construction unit means a specifically defined portion of a construction project containing materials, labor, or both, for purposes of bidding and payment. Contracting committee means the committee consisting of three to five members representing the borrower's management and board of directors and the engineer. The contracting committee represents the borrower during contract clarification discussions or negotiations. Engineer means a registered or licensed person employed by the borrower to provide engineering services for a project and duly authorized assistants and representatives. Equipment means a major component of an electric system, e.g. , a substation transformer, heat exchanger or a transmission structure. Financial assistance means loans or grants made or guaranteed by REA, or lien accommodations or lien subordinations granted and approved by REA. Force account construction means construction performed by the borrower's employees. Formal competitive bidding means the competitive procurement procedure wherein bidders submit sealed proposals for furnishing the goods or services stipulated in the specification. Bids are publicly opened and read at a predetermined time and place. If a contract is awarded, it must be to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder (see §1726.201). Goods or services means materials, equipment, or construction, or any combination thereof.
