FR941205-0-00087 FR941205-0-00024 16. The Administrative Procedure Act (``APA'') requires an agency, when issuing a general notice of proposed rule making, to provide the public with ``either the terms or the substance of a proposed rule or a description of the subject and issues involved.'' The APA, however, ``does not require an agency to publish in advance every precise proposal which it may ultimately adopt as a rule.'' 17. The Notice, 57 FR 56298 (11/27/92), set forth the 1992 Cable Act's direction that such markets would be determined primarily in the manner provided in ยง73.3555(d)(3)(i) of the Commission's rules, (which section uses Arbitron-defined ADIs), and specifically sought comment from the public concerning the Congressionally recognized need for adjustments to or modifications of television markets. 7 The Commission specifically stated that ``it may determine that particular communities are part of more than one television market,'' and further explained that it would act upon written requests to add or delete communities to a station's market ``to better reflect market realities and effectuate the purposes of this Act.'' We believe that it was apparent that the Commission was likely to receive comments and suggestions regarding methods to assure that television stations' must-carry markets, both generally and in individual cases, best reflect market realities and the objective of localism underlying broadcast signal carriage obligations. While the Notice did not specifically seek comment on the home county exception, we believe that the home county exception is a ``logical outgrowth'' of the Notice. 7 Section 614(h)(1)(C)(i) states that a broadcasting station's market shall be determined in the manner provided in ยง73.3555(d)(3)(i) of the Commission's rules, except that the Commission may include or exclude additional communities to better effectuate the purposes of Section 614. 47 U.S.C. 534(h)(1)(C)(i). 18. The home county exception does not violate either the spirit or letter of the 1992 Cable Act. Specifically, we disagree with the proposition that although a television station's must-carry rights are defined primarily by Arbitron ADIs, there can be no must-carry rights beyond the ADI to which a station is assigned by Arbitron. Section 614(h)(1)(C)(i) recognizes a potential, but easily corrected, deficiency in the use of Arbitron ADIs to define a station's must-carry market. We find no basis to presume that the Commission may not adjust ADIs generally to ensure that stations have must-carry rights in those areas where their service is appropriately ``local.'' We agree with Granite that adoption of the home county exception is separate and apart from the procedure established to make individual station market adjustments based on particular situations. 19. Modification of ADI Markets. As noted in the Report and Order, the 1992 Cable Act permits the Commission to add or subtract communities from a television station's market to better reflect marketplace conditions or to promote the goal of localism underlying the signal carriage provisions. In its petition, INTV requests that the Commission add or subtract a community for all stations in the market, not for an individual station. INTV suggests that upon the addition of a community to a market, every station in the community would attain must-carry rights in that market. 20. The Commission has already addressed this subject in the Report and Order in response to parties' contentions that ADI modification should be made on a community, rather than on a station, basis. Both the 1992 Cable Act and our rules require, for each broadcast station, an evidentiary showing from an interested party, with opportunity for comment. INTV's request would not meet this requirement and therefore must be rejected. We reiterate our statement in the Report and Order that we will accept joint filings by a group of stations or a single request from a cable operator for changes for more than one station licensed to the same community, so long as the submitted information demonstrates that each station is entitled to have its market modified. The relief procedures will ensure that the 1992 Cable Act's objectives of promoting localism and reflecting market realities are achieved. 8 8 The same logic applies to a single station requesting the addition of multiple communities.
