FR941222-1-00057 FR941222-1-00008 Information on the percentage of these wastewaters currently pretreated and discharged to a POTW, and on the percentage treated in a biological treatment system and discharged to a surface water under the NPDES system is not included at the present time due to business confidentiality concerns. As discussed earlier under Section II.D, Description of Health and Risk Assessments, the risk assessment for these wastewaters was performed using treatment in tanks and surface impoundments as the baseline and plausible management practices, respectively. The Agency believes that the three wastewater samples collected from the manufacture of triarylmethane dyes and pigments are representative of the industry, in part, because wastewater samples were collected from the two largest triarylmethane dye producers in the country. Furthermore, the chemical analyses conducted on this waste encompassed the most important raw materials used in the manufacture of triarylmethane dyes and pigments, and these compounds were not detected at concentrations that pose a significant risk. For example, N,N-dimethylaniline is a large volume raw material used in the manufacture of triarylmethane dyes and pigment, and was analyzed using the Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrophotometry analytical method. In addition to the GC/MS analysis, specific analyses were conducted in order to look for two additional toxic raw materials for triarylmethane dyes and pigments; chloranil and another raw material that cannot be identified due to business confidentiality concerns. As shown in Table II&hyph;8, N,N- dimethylaniline and the other raw material that cannot be identified were not found in these wastewaters at concentrations that pose a significant risk, and chloranil was not detected at all in the wastewaters. Table II&hyph;8 presents eight constituents, obtained from three wastewater samples which were collected at three out of 14 facilities that manufacture triarylmethane dyes or pigments. These eight compounds are the constituents that were found to be attributable to the triarylmethane processes, and six of the eight compounds were dropped following the risk assessment screening (see the Listing and Risk Assessment for Dye and Pigment Waste Listing Determination Background Documents for this proposed rule, located in the RCRA Docket for this rulemaking (see ADDRESSES section) for the process used in identifying attributable constituents and for the process used for dropping compounds after risk screening, respectively). Because these compounds are not expected to bioaccumulate, the maximum measured concentrations of those constituents with HBLs in this wastestream were compared to their HBLs, and the ratio of concentrations to HBL values was less than 1, indicating that the concentrations of these compounds in the waste are not expected to pose a risk to human health or the environment. The two remaining constituents, 4-nitroaniline and a constituent that cannot be identified at the present time due to confidentiality concerns, were detected at low concentrations and do not have HBLs needed to conduct a risk assessment. The risks posed by these two constituents, however, were assessed using surrogate compounds. Neither of the compounds are expected to be potential carcinogens. Furthermore, the Agency selected surrogate compounds that are structurally similar to the compounds detected in the waste, and are estimated, by means of structural activity relationships (SARs), to be more toxic than the subject compounds. Nitrobenzene was selected as a surrogate for 4-nitroaniline. Surrogate information on the second constituent cannot be included at the present time due to business confidentiality concerns. The ratios of concentration to HBL (HQ) determined by this analysis were also less than 1, indicating that, if the contaminant concentrations found in the waste were actually present in drinking water, the risks posed by ingesting the drinking water would be insignificant. More detailed discussions on the risk assessment screening and surrogate compounds are presented in the Dye and Pigment Listing Support Health Effects Background Document, which is located in the RCRA Docket for this rulemaking (see ADDRESSES section). In conclusion, because the constituents in this waste were observed at concentrations that present low risk levels, and no other hazardous constituents attributed to triarylmethane dye or pigment production were detected, the Agency is proposing not to list wastewaters from the manufacture of triarylmethane dyes and pigments as hazardous. 4.Wastes from the production of triarylmethane pigments using aniline as a feedstock. Triarylmethane pigments using aniline as a feedstock currently are produced at two domestic facilities. These facilities each produce a single product which is manufactured throughout the year using aniline as the major feedstock. The two processes are markedly different from other dye and pigment processes in the industry. Most dye and pigment processes manufacture numerous products on a batch basis, using different raw materials for each product. The wastes generated from typical dye manufacturing plants vary in composition over time due to the constant changes in raw materials. In contrast, triarylmethane pigments using aniline as a feedstock are generated at facilities that are dedicated to the manufacture of one product continuously throughout the year, and use only two raw materials, aniline and formaldehyde, at the site. In addition, aniline is used in excess in the process. These differences have a significant impact on the compositions of the waste. Such wastes were expected, and found, to contain high concentrations of aniline. The listing Background Document, found in the RCRA docket (see ADDRESSES section) for this proposed rulemaking, contains details on the process for manufacturing triarylmethane (TAM) pigments using aniline as a feedstock.
