FR940712-2-00121 FR940712-2-00087 OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE [Docket No. 301&hyph;92] Identification of Priority Foreign Country and Initiation of Section 302 Investigation AGENCY: Office of the United States Trade Representative. ACTION: Notice of the identification of China as a priority foreign country pursuant to section 182(c) of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (Trade Act), the initiation of an investigation pursuant to section 302(b)(2)(A) of the Trade Act, and request for public comment. SUMMARY: Pursuant to section 182(c) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2242), the USTR has identified China as a priority foreign country based on its failure to provide adequate and effective protection of intellectual property rights and fair and equitable market access to persons relying on intellectual property protection. Pursuant to section 302(b)(2)(A) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2412(b)(2)(A)), the USTR has initiated an investigation of the acts, policies and practices that led to the identification of China as a priority foreign country. EFFECTIVE DATE: The USTR's identification of China and initiation of the related investigation took place on June 30, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lee Sands, Deputy Assistant USTR for China and Mongolian Affairs (202) 395&hyph;5050, Deborah Lehr, Director for China and Mongolian Affairs (202) 395&hyph;5050, or Thomas Robertson, Assistant General Counsel (202) 395&hyph;6800, 600 17th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20506. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 182(a) of the Trade Act requires the USTR annually to identify foreign countries that deny adequate and effective protection or enforcement of intellectual property rights or that deny fair and equitable market access to persons that rely on intellectual property protection. On April 30, 1994, the USTR identified China as being among the group of 36 foreign countries that fall into this category. At that time, the USTR noted that China's failures in this regard were particularly problematic, and that its status under special 301 would be reviewed again in 60 days. A U.S. government interagency team traveled to China in June to seek elimination or modification of the acts, policies, and practices of concern, but found little movement from the Chinese government on these issues. Section 182(c) of the Trade Act permits the USTR at any time during the year to identify as priority foreign countries those trading partners that have the most onerous or egregious acts, policies, and practices that have the greatest adverse impact (actual or potential) on relevant U.S. products. Section 302(b)(2)(A) of the Trade Act requires the initiation of an investigation of the acts, policies, and practices which were the basis for the priority foreign country identification unless the acts, policies, and practices are already the subject of an investigation or action under the section 301 provisions of the Trade Act. Because of the severe problems with intellectual property protection and market access for persons that rely on intellectual property protection in China, and the unwillingness of the Chinese government to address these problems through productive consultations over the last 60 days, the USTR has designated China a priority foreign country and has initiated an investigation under section 301 of the Trade Act of its acts, policies, and practices in this area. While China has implemented most of its commitments under the 1992 Memorandum of Understanding Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the Protection of Intellectual Property, it has failed to create an effective intellectual property rights enforcement regime. Copyright piracy in China is particularly acute, and trademark infringement remains a serious concern, with little indication of their willingness to address these problems. Appropriate implementation of China's new patent law and administrative protection program for pharmaceuticals and agricultural chemicals is also of concern. Particular problems with China's present enforcement regime include, among other things, internally inconsistent laws; a lack of transparency in the enforcement structure; a lack of protection for existing works; gaps in responsibility in the enforcement structure; a lack of consistent application of the laws throughout the central, provincial and local governments; a lack of funding, training and education; the absence of clear and effective criminal penalties; possible conflicts of interest; burdensome and discriminatory agency requirements; overly-broad compulsory licensing provisions; a failure of enforcement authorities to coordinate; and the absence of an effective border control mechanism. China also fails to provide fair and equitable market access for persons who rely on intellectual property protection. The most serious market access problems are found in the areas of audiovisual products, sound recordings, and published written materials. Particular concerns include a hidden system of internal quotas, a lack of transparency, a lack of consistency in application, monopoly control over the importation and distribution of products embodying intellectual property, and a prohibition on the production or distribution of products embodying intellectual property that is not related to the content of those products.
