FR940526-2-00182 FR940526-2-00064 (2) Provides for joint training for teachers from all participating instructional and service providers; and (3) May provide training on weekends, evenings, or during the summer in the form of sessions, institutes, or workshops. (e) Training activities for counselors designed to enable counselors to more effectively_ (1) Recruit students for tech-prep education programs; (2) Ensure that students successfully complete tech-prep education programs; and (3) Ensure that students are placed in appropriate employment. (f) Equal access to all tech-prep education programs to students who are members of ``special populations'' as that term is defined in 34 CFR 400.4(b). A project under this priority may also_ (a) Provide for the acquisition of tech-prep education program equipment; and (b) Acquire, as a part of the planning activities, technical assistance from sources that have successfully designed, established, and operated tech-prep programs. Selection Criteria The Secretary uses the following selection criteria in 34 CFR 401.21 to evaluate applications for new grants under this competition. The maximum score for each criterion is indicated in parentheses. The program regulations in 34 CFR 401.20(b) provide that the Secretary may award up to 100 points for the selection criteria in 34 CFR 401.21, including a reserved 15 points that may be assigned by the Secretary among the published criteria in the notice for each program competition. For this competition, the Secretary distributes the 15 points reserved in 34 CFR 401.20(b), as follows: Need (34 CFR 401.21(b)). Five points are added to this criterion for a possible total of 20 points. Plan of operation (34 CFR 401.21(c)). Five points are added to this criterion for a possible total of 20 points. Budget and cost effectiveness (34 CFR 401.21(e)). Five points are added to this criterion for a possible total of 10 points. (a) Program factors. (20 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which it_ (1) Proposes measurable goals for student enrollment, completion, and placement (including placement in jobs or military specialties and in continuing education or training opportunities) that are realistic in terms of stated needs, resources, and job opportunities in each occupation for which training is to be provided; (2) Proposes goals that take into consideration any related goals or standards developed for Job Opportunities and Basic Skills (JOBS) programs (42 U.S.C. 681 et seq .) and Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA) (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq. ) training programs operating in the area, and, where appropriate, any goals set by the State Board for vocational education for the occupation and geographic area; (3) Describes, for each occupation for which training is to be provided, how successful program completion will be determined in terms of academic and vocational competencies demonstrated by enrollees prior to completion and any academic or work credentials acquired by enrollees upon completion; (4) Demonstrates the active commitment in the project's planning and operation by advisory committees, tribal planning offices, the JOBS program office, the JTPA program director, and potential employers such as tribal enterprises, private enterprises (on or off the reservation), and other organizations; (5) Is targeted to individuals with inadequate skills to assist those individuals in obtaining new employment; and (6) Includes a thorough description of the approach to be used, including some or all of the following components: (i) Methods of participant selection. (ii) Assessment and feedback of participant progress. (iii) Coordination of vocational instruction, academic instruction, and support services such as counseling, transportation, and child care. (iv) Curriculum and, if appropriate, approaches for providing on-the-job training experience. (b) Need. (20 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which the project addresses specific needs, including_ (1) The job market and related needs (such as educational level) of the target population; (2) Characteristics of that population, including an estimate of those to be served by the project; (3) How the project will meet the needs of the target population; and (4) A description of any ongoing and planned activities relative to those needs, including, if appropriate, how the State plan developed under 34 CFR 403.30&hyph;403.34 is designed to meet those needs. (c) Plan of operation. (20 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the plan of operation for the project, including_ (1) The establishment of objectives that are clearly related to projects goals and activities and are measurable with respect to anticipated enrollments, completions, and placements; (2) A management plan that describes the chain of command, how staff will be managed, how coordination among staff will be accomplished, and timelines for each activity; and (3) The way the applicant intends to use its resources and personnel to achieve each objective.
