FR941220-1-00071 FR941220-1-00010 DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 34 CFR Parts 85, 668, and 682 RIN 1880&hyph;AA51 ADDRESSES: All comments concerning these proposed regulations should be addressed to Mary Jane Kane, U.S. Department of Education, 600 Independence Avenue, S.W., Room 3636 ROB&hyph;3, Washington, D.C. 20202&hyph;4700. Comments may also be sent through the internet to ``Debarment X Suspension@ed.gov.'' FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mary Jane Kane. Telephone: 708&hyph;7802. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. ADDITIONAL SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In addition to the amendments proposed by all participating agencies for the common rule, the Secretary proposes to amend the Department's debarment and suspension procedures to reflect certain changes made by 1992 amendments to those provisions of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (title IV, HEA), that govern administrative proceedings to limit or terminate the eligibility of participants in programs under that title. The Secretary also proposes to amend subpart G of part 668, which contains the Department's procedures for fine, limitation, suspension, and termination proceedings, to make technical amendments to reflect the 1992 amendments to the HEA, to amend Subpart G of Part 682 in order to apply the same procedures to debarments or suspensions of lenders or loan servicers under the Federal Family Education Loan Programs (FFELP), and to limit a hearing officer's discretion in termination and suspension actions under both subparts when the termination or suspension is based on an action under Executive Order 12549 (3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189) or the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4. In 1988, when the governmentwide nonprocurement debarment and suspension regulations were first published, the Department established procedures to ensure that debarment actions would trigger actions by the Department under part 668 to consider termination of institutions participating in Title IV, HEA. Those special rules were needed because section 487(c) of the HEA, 20 U.S.C. 1094(c), provided that actions to limit, suspend or terminate the eligibility of a school in the Title IV, HEA programs be conducted with an opportunity for a hearing ``on the record'' under 5 U.S.C. 554&hyph;557 while debarment and suspension actions did not have to comply with these ``on-the-record'' hearing requirements. In 1992 Congress amended the HEA to eliminate the need for these procedures to include an opportunity for a hearing ``on-the-record.'' However, Title IV, HEA suspension or termination procedures include notice and procedural requirements that are different than those required under the debarment and suspension common rule. Therefore, the Secretary proposes to give direct effect with respect to eligibility to participate in a Title IV, HEA program only to those debarment and suspension actions that have been imposed under procedures that provide equivalent due process protections to those afforded under the procedural standards in Subparts G of Parts 668 and 682. The Secretary recognizes that the procedures applied by the Department or by another agency may differ in some particulars from Subpart G procedures, but provide the same level of procedural due process, and where the Secretary so determines, that debarment or suspension will apply with respect to participation in Title IV, HEA programs without further administrative appeal. Also, the Secretary proposes to amend those Subparts to provide that a hearing officer must terminate or limit an entity if the designated Department official proves that the entity has been debarred. The addition of this as a mandatory ground for termination reflects the Secretary's recognition of the compelling government interest underlying debarment and suspension decisions in ensuring protection of public funds and deterring their misuse; the adoption of a binding rule that debarment or suspension warrants termination or suspension is consistent with similar determinations compelled under the regulations in cases in which there has been a failure to submit timely required audits, or loss of required accreditation or State licensure. Regarding suspensions, the Secretary has concluded that there are significant legal differences between suspensions under part 85 and emergency actions under parts 668 and 682.
