FR940323-0-00018 FR940323-0-00010 The Section 8 Housing Assistance Program for the Disposition of HUD-owned Projects (24 CFR part 886, subpart C) involves existing housing in addition to substantially rehabilitated housing. The Additional Assistance Program for Projects with HUD-Insured and HUD-Held Mortgages (24 CFR part 886, subpart A) involves only existing housing. Under both subparts, the assistance is project based. In implementing the existing regulations, the Department previously determined administratively that project-based assistance should be treated similarly to new construction and substantial rehabilitation for the purposes of this rule. As such, any contracts entered into after October 3, 1984 (the effective date of the current regulations) already are subject to the requirement that Owners make available all assisted units for eligible families. Since application of this final rule to an owner of existing housing is not mandated by section 555 of NAHA, this rule would not affect the obligation of a section 8 project owner of existing housing assisted under part 886 who executed a Contract before October 3, 1984. Finally, this rule does not change the section 202 loan program regulations. The changes in this rule are consistent with the current regulations for the section 202 handicapped housing program, and so no changes are necessary for that program. Moreover, no regulations currently exist on this matter for the Section 202 elderly housing loan program. However, the Department is preparing a separate regulation amending part 885 which, among other matters, will incorporate this amendment into that part. II. Discussion of Public Comments The Department received one public comment from a housing development authority in response to the proposed rule published on July 1, 1993 (58 FR 35416). The commenter suggested that the Department exempt rural housing developments from the 100% occupancy by income eligible families requirement since there is a limited number of 50&hyph;80% of median income eligible tenants to fill the units. The Department appreciates the difficulty that some rural housing developments may experience with regard to filling projects with income eligible families. However, section 555 of NAHA does not provide for an exemption for rural housing developments, and so the Department does not have the discretion to create such an exemption. Moreover, the regulations which allow an owner to rent to an ineligible family if the owner is temporarily unable to fill all units with eligible families remain unchanged by this final rule. Finally, the regulations continue to allow formerly eligible tenants who are currently income ineligible to continue to remain in their units subject to paying the market rent. III. Other Matters A. Environmental Impact At the time of publication of the proposed rule, a finding of no significant impact with respect to the environment was made in accordance with HUD regulations in 24 CFR part 50 that implement section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332). The proposed rule is adopted by this final rule without change. Accordingly, the initial finding of no significant impact remains applicable, and is available for public inspection between 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. weekdays in the office of the Rules Docket Clerk at the above address. B. Executive Order 12612, Federalism The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under section 6(a) of Executive order 12612, Federalism, has determined that the policies contained in this rule will not have substantial direct effects on states or their political subdivisions, or the relationship between the Federal government and the states, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Specifically, the rule is directed to owners of multifamily housing projects, and will not impinge upon the relationship between the Federal Government and State and local governments. As a result, the rule is not subject to review under the order. C. Executive Order 12606, the Family The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under Executive Order 12606, The Family , has determined that this rule does not have potential for significant impact on family formation, maintenance, and general well-being, and, thus, is not subject to review under the order. No significant change in existing HUD policies or programs will result from promulgation of this rule, as those policies and programs relate to family concerns. D. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Secretary, in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)) has reviewed and approved this rule, and in so doing certifies that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This rule reflects a statutory requirement which applies to all section 8 newly constructed or substantially rehabilitated housing without regard to the size of entities involved. E. Regulatory Agenda This final rule was listed as sequence number 1543 in the Department's Semiannual Agenda of Regulations published on October 25, 1993 (58 FR 56402, 56431) in accordance with Executive Order 12291 and the Regulatory Flexibility Act.
