FR940525-1-00031 FR940525-1-00007 It is hereby certified that the proposed changes to the Agencies' risk-based capital standards will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, in accord with the spirit and purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ). Most of the transactions that will be affected by the proposed changes are conducted by large banking organizations and large thrifts. In addition, consistent with current policy, the FRB's revised guidelines generally will not apply to bank holding companies with consolidated assets of less than $150 million. The intent of the proposal is to correct certain inconsistencies in the Agencies' risk-based capital standards and to allow banking organizations to maintain lower amounts of capital against low-level recourse obligations by adopting the current OTS capital treatment of those transactions. Accordingly, a Regulatory Flexibility Act Analysis is not required. VIII. Executive Order 12866 OCC and OTS have determined that the proposed rule described in this notice is not a significant regulatory action under Executive Order 12866. Accordingly, a regulatory impact analysis is not required. The intent of the proposal is to correct certain inconsistencies in the Agencies' risk-based capital standards and to allow banking organizations to maintain lower amounts of capital against low-level recourse obligations by adopting the current OTS capital treatment of those transactions. Under the proposal, each institution's measured risk-based capital ratio may change. However, this change in measured capital ratios should have no material effect on the safety and soundness of the banking and thrift industries. Most banks and thrifts have capital ratios much in excess of minimum requirements. Of the 11,071 commercial banks in operation at the end of September 1993, 10,824 were well-capitalized (risk-based capital ratios in excess of 10 percent). For the thrift industry, as of June 30, 1993, 1,561 of 1,752 savings associations were similarly well-capitalized. Given the high level of capitalization in the industry, the net effect on the safety and soundness of the banking industry and the overall economy should be minimal. IX. Paperwork Reduction Act The following information about paperwork relates only to Federal Reserve (FR) reports, which are approved by the Federal Reserve Board under delegated authority from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). The proposed amendments to the Capital Adequacy Guidelines may require reporting revisions to the Consolidated Financial Statements for Bank Holding Companies With Total Consolidated Assets of $150 Million or More or With More Than One Subsidiary Bank (FR Y&hyph;9C; OMB No. 7100&hyph;0128). Any revisions will be determined by the Federal Reserve Board under delegated authority from OMB. Description of Affected Report Report Title: Consolidated Financial Statements for Bank Holding Companies With Total Consolidated Assets of $150 Million or More, or With More than One Subsidiary Bank. This report is filed by all bank holding companies that have total consolidated assets of $150 million or more and by all multibank holding companies regardless of size. The following bank holding companies are exempt from filing the FR Y&hyph;9C, unless the FRB specifically requires an exempt company to file the report: bank holding companies that are subsidiaries of another bank holding company and have total consolidated assets of less than $1 billion; bank holding companies that have been granted a hardship exemption by the FRB under section 4(d) of the Bank Holding Company Act, 12 U.S.C. 1843(d); and foreign banking organizations as defined by section 211.23(b) of Regulation K. List of Subjects 12 CFR Part 3 Administrative practice and procedure, Capital risk, National banks, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 12 CFR Part 208 Accounting, Agriculture, Banks, Banking, Branches, Capital adequacy, Confidential business information, Currency, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities, State member banks. 12 CFR Part 225 Administrative practice and procedure, Banks, Banking, Capital adequacy, Holding companies, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities. 12 CFR Part 325 Bank deposit insurance, Banks, Banking, Capital adequacy, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Savings associations, State nonmember banks. 12 CFR Part 567 Capital, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Savings associations. DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY 12 CFR Chapter I Authority and Issuance
