FR940119-0-00041 FR940119-0-00013 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 49 CFR Part 571 [Docket No. 85&hyph;07; Notice 8] RIN 2127&hyph;AD27 Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards; Air Brake Systems_Control Line Pressure Balance AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), Department of Transportation. ACTION: Denial of petition for reconsideration. SUMMARY: This notice denies a petition submitted by Mr. Robert Crail requesting the agency to reconsider a final rule that added control line pressure balance requirements to the pneumatic timing requirements applicable to air brake systems. Mr. Crail's petition was based on his allegations that NHTSA had not adequately considered the added costs to trailer manufacturers imposed by the rulemaking, including the hardware costs to achieve compliance with the new control line pressure balance requirements and the costs associated with certifying compliance with those requirements. In response to this petition, the agency has reexamined the final rule's evaluation of additional costs for this requirement and again concludes that those additional costs are not excessive or unreasonable. Therefore, Mr. Crail's petition is denied. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Richard C. Carter, Office of Vehicle Safety Standards, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590 (202&hyph;366&hyph;5274). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On August 21, 1992, NHTSA published a final rule amending the pneumatic timing requirements of Standard No. 121, Air Brake Systems, with respect to the control line pressure balance for tractor trailer combinations (57 FR 37902). In that notice, the agency adopted a dynamic test procedure for determining the control signal pressure differential. In comments to the notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) that preceded this final rule, Mr. Crail and the Truck Trailer Manufacturers Association (TTMA) stated that they believed that measuring control line pressure balance in a dynamic test instead of in a static test would result in excessive costs. Mr. Crail, who is employed by a trailer manufacturer, stated that the total cost of a dynamic test would be approximately $6,000, as compared to his estimated cost of $900 for a static test. Similarly, TTMA believed that a dynamic test procedure would require trailer manufacturers to purchase expensive equipment, such as transducers and recording equipment, costing as much as $6,000. TTMA estimated that the static test apparatus would cost about $300 per manufacturer. Notwithstanding these comments, NHTSA adopted a dynamic test procedure to evaluate control line pressure differential in the August 1992 final rule. The agency concluded that the static control line pressure differential test advocated by Mr. Crail and TTMA would not adequately evaluate the pressure differential problem. The agency also determined that the costs associated with the new dynamic test were reasonable and would be well below the levels estimated by Mr. Crail and TTMA. The agency explained this determination as follows: The agency notes that most trailer manufacturers already own the most expensive portion of this test equipment for conducting timing tests (i.e., the data recorder/power supply/signal conditioning apparatus), and that the mini-tractor test rigs that are currently used in compliance testing with Standard No. 121 could be readily upgraded to check for pressure differentials for an additional cost of $300. Of this cost figure, $100 would cover the hose, gladhands, and air flow restrictor and $200 would cover the cost of upgrading the software of the test rig. NHTSA notes that the practical effects of these requirements are limited to only those trailer manufacturers who build towing trailers (i.e., trailers used in doubles or triples operations). Such towing trailers currently constitute a very small percentage of the trailer market. 57 FR 37904. In short, the agency concluded that most trailers would not be subject to the new dynamic test for control line pressure balance and those that were would face added costs of about $300. Mr. Robert Crail filed the lone petition for reconsideration of this rule. Mr. Crail stated that the agency did not adequately consider the cost impact that would be imposed on trailer manufacturers to equip trailers with new hardware necessary to achieve compliance with the new requirements. The petitioner also believed that NHTSA did not adequately consider the cost impact on manufacturers to obtain or adapt test equipment to test trailers for compliance with the new requirements. The agency will address each of these assertions in turn. Relay Booster Valves In his petition for reconsideration, Mr. Crail contends that NHTSA seriously underestimated the cost impact per trailer of adding additional equipment to comply with the final rule. According to Mr. Crail, trailer manufacturers could comply with Standard 121 prior to this amendment without incorporating a relay booster valve on their trailers. However, again according to Mr. Crail, the August 1992 final rule in effect requires the use of relay booster valves on trailers. Mr. Crail estimates that the cost to the trailer manufacturer to add these valves would range from $26 to $54.
