FR940603-1-00052 FR940603-1-00009 The borrower or its engineer must contact at least three suppliers or contractors and, on the basis of written unit price quotations, select the supplier or contractor based on the lowest evaluated cost. §1726.205 Multiparty lump sum quotations. The borrower or its engineer must contact at least three suppliers or contractors and, on the basis of written lump sum quotations, select the supplier or contractor based on the lowest evaluated cost. §§1726.206&hyph;1726.249 [Reserved] Subpart H_Modifications to REA Standard Contract Forms §1726.250 General. REA provides standard contract forms for procurement of materials, equipment, and construction, for contract amendments and subcontracts, and various related forms for use by REA borrowers. See §1726.300 for a listing of these forms and how to obtain them. The standard contract forms shall be used by the borrowers in accordance with the provisions of this part. REA will give prior approval to certain modifications to these forms without changing the applicable requirements for REA approval. Such approved modifications are set forth in this subpart. These are the only modifications given prior REA approval. §1726.251 Prior approved contract modification related to price escalation on generation contracts. (a) General. Where the borrower encounters reluctance among manufacturers, suppliers, and contractors to bid a firm price on equipment, materials or construction of generation facilities, modifications may be made in the REA standard form of contracts. These modifications if applicable, may include, as an alternative to the standard form, provisions for adjusting a base price either upward or downward as determined by changes in specified indexes between the time of the bid and the time the work is performed or materials are procured by the contractor for such work. A large number of labor and materials indexes are published monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). The borrower, on the advice of its engineer, will select the indexes for the particular item to be used in the price adjustment clause. Suppliers' corporate indexes may not be used. Labor and materials indexes are reported in the BLS's monthly publications entitled ``Employment and Earnings'' and ``Producer Prices and Price Indexes.'' These publications may be ordered through the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, telephone (202) 720&hyph;3238, or any of the BLS regional offices. (b) Material and equipment contracts. The approved provisions needed to reflect the modifications to provide for price escalation in the material or equipment contract forms for generation facilities are as follows: (1) Insert new paragraphs in the Notice and Instructions to Bidders as follows:
