FR940328-2-00121 FR940328-2-00068 Concept papers may also be submitted describing activities that meet needs of AmeriCorps or Learn and Serve programs not described in this Notice. Guidelines are described in the ``Invitation for Original Concept Papers'' section. In all cases, applicants should demonstrate an understanding of and commitment to the Corporation's mission and goals, a need that relates to that mission and goals, a sound plan for accomplishing the activity, and a fulfillment of the selection criteria listed below. Eligibility Public agencies (including federal, state, and local agencies and other units of government), non-profit organizations (including youth-serving groups, community-based organizations, service organizations, etc.), institutions of higher education, Indian tribes, and for-profit companies are eligible to apply. State and federal agencies and non-governmental organizations that intend to operate AmeriCorps or Learn and Serve programs are also eligible. Organizations may apply to provide T/TA in partnership with organizations seeking other Corporation funds. Applications for Continuation of Assistance for Current Technical Assistance Grantees The former Commission on National and Community Service issued a number of technical assistance grants to organizations in fiscal years 1992 and 1993. Pursuant to the National and Community Service Trust act of 1993, the administration of these grants transferred to the Corporation for National and Community Service. Existing technical assistance grantees interested in the continuation of funding or undertaking new technical assistance activities may submit competitive applications in accordance with the applicable due dates and activities described in this Notice. Objectives of the Training and Technical Assistance Activities The goal of training and technical assistance is to improve the ability of AmeriCorps programs and participants to ``get things done'' by achieving direct and demonstrable results in communities, fostering civic responsibility, and strengthening the ties that bind communities together. To best support programs, the Corporation will fund technical assistance that strengthens program performance and effectiveness in the short term and builds leadership and permanent resources in the long term. Technical assistance must be relevant to program needs, responsive to changing needs, and easily accessed by states and grantees. Training and technical assistance providers will build a strong infrastructure by_ _Increasing the effectiveness and capacity of programs and states; _Increasing the resources available to support high quality work; and _Developing leaders at all levels. Training and technical assistance providers will also foster a national identity and common understanding of the goals and mission of national service among AmeriCorps participants, programs, and states. In addition, the Corporation is committed to strengthening service nationwide. Although technical assistance providers should show preference to AmeriCorps program grantees (except where activities pertain to Learn and Serve grantees), T/TA providers may be expected to serve those who wish to become grantees as well. (For more on this, see ``Requirements'' section below). These principles guide the Corporation's technical assistance strategy: _Treat technical assistance as a full partnership among the Corporation, states, and programs, with roles for all in designing and delivering technical assistance. _Encourage collaboration among partners, especially efforts that team service programs and those experienced in working in the issue areas. _``Train the trainers''_focus on developing resource capacity in local areas. _Instead of repeating the excellent work of others, build on existing training, materials, and expertise. _Focus on the most pressing needs to have the greatest impact. _Invest sufficiently to provide adequate technical assistance support in the first years. Application Guidelines Applications can be of two kinds as specified: full proposals and concept papers. While many of the same elements will be addressed in these two types of applications, proposals ask applicants to give a much more comprehensive and detailed overview of planned activities, organizational capacity, budget, and workplan than do concept papers. After reviewing concept papers, the Corporation may ask for full proposals from a select number of applicants based on program need, availability of funds, and the strength of concept paper ideas received by the Corporation. Where specified, a full proposal should be submitted for each activity, unless the proposal thoughtfully combines activities into a single coordinated initiative. A full proposal must include: _A cover page listing: the title of the organization applying; the amount of funds requested; a brief summary of the proposed T/TA program or activity; the name, address, phone number, and fax number of the organization; and the name and title of a contact person. _A narrative of no more than 10 double-spaced typed pages in 12-point font, describing_ (a) The scope of activity being proposed, e.g., number of trainers hired and programs served by them, relative to the amount of the grant requested;
