FR941205-2-00055 FR941205-2-00039 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION [Docket Nos. 50&hyph;282 and 50&hyph;306] Northern States Power Company; Prairie Island Nuclear Generating Plant, Units 1 and 2 Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an exemption from Facility Operating License Nos. DPR&hyph;42 and DPR&hyph;60, issued to Northern States Power Company (the licensee), for operation of the Prairie Island Nuclear Generating Plant, Units 1 and 2, located in Goodhue County, Minnesota. Environmental Assessment Identification of the Proposed Action By letter dated May 2, 1994, the licensee requested an exemption from 10 CFR Part 50, Appendix R, Section III.G.1, to the extent that it requires that one train of systems needed for hot shutdown be free of fire damage. Specifically, the licensee requested an exemption from the Section III.G.1 requirement for performing proposed hot shutdown repairs which will allow the licensee to remove fuses from the power operated relief valves (PORV) control circuit as a means of ensuring the reactor coolant system (RCS) inventory in the event of a control room fire. The Need for the Proposed Action The licensee has stated that satisfying Appendix R criteria in this circumstance would require plant hardware modifications; for example, installation of switches outside of the control room to de-energize the circuit in this scenario. The licensee states that the current operator actions provide an adequate substitute response, and that expending the resources to perform the hardware changes are not justified. Therefore, the licensee requests an exemption from the Appendix R criteria in order to allow removal of the fuses in the power operated relief valve (PORV) control circuit as a means of ensuring that proper reactor coolant system inventory is maintained. Environmental Impact of the Proposed Action The Commission has completed its evaluation of the proposed action and determined that the granting of this exemption will not present an undue risk to the public health and safety. The licensee's proposal to isolate the PORVs by removing the subject control circuit fuses provides reasonable assurance that safe shutdown can be achieved in the event of a control room fire. Furthermore, the modifications required to meet 10 CFR Part 50, Appendix R, Section III.G.1 would not enhance fire protection safety levels above that currently provided by the licensee. Therefore, post-accident radiological releases are not expected to exceed previously determined values as a result of the proposed action. Further, the exemption is not expected to have an impact on plant radiological effluent releases. The change will not increase the probability or consequences of any accidents, no changes are being made in the types of any effluents that may be released offsite, and there is no significant increase in the allowable individual or cumulative occupational radiation exposure. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that there are no significant radiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed action.
