FR940617-2-00169 FR940617-2-00094 The Exchange believes that the Index is a Stock Index Option under Amex Rule 901C(a) and a Broad Stock Index Group under Amex Rule 900C(b)(1). With respect to Amex Rule 903C(b), the Exchange proposes to list near-the-money ( i.e., Within ten points above or below the current index value) option series on the Index at 21/2 point strike (exercise) price intervals when the value of the Index is below 200 points. In addition, the Exchange proposes to establish, pursuant to Amex Rule 904C(b), a position limit of 50,000 contracts on the same side of the market, provided no more than 30,000 of such contracts are in series in the nearest expiration month. In anticipation of substantial customer activity in the options on this Index (including institutional activity), the Exchange seeks to have the ability to utilize its Auto-Ex system for orders in the Index options of up to 50 contracts. Auto-Ex is the Exchange's automated execution system which provides for the automatic execution of market and marketable limit orders at the best bid or offer at the time the order is entered. The Exchange believes that the ability to use Auto-Ex for orders of up to 50 contracts will provide customers with deep, liquid markets, as well as expeditious executions. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with section 6(b) of the Act in general, and furthers the objectives of section 6(b)(5) in particular, in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in facilitating transactions in securities, and to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Amex does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period: (i) As the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding, or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve such proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC. Copies of such filing also will be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the Amex. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;19 and should be submitted by July 8, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 4 4 17 CFR ยง200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14739 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
