FR940228-1-00083 FR940228-1-00010 The Amendments of 1992 require that an institution comply with the institutional refund policy established in accordance with §668.22. The Secretary considers this provision to be self-explanatory and proposes to add this statutory requirement to the regulations without substantive modifications. Finally, in addition to the statutory requirements for program participation agreements, an institution would have to agree to be liable for all improperly spent or unspent funds received under the title IV, HEA programs, including funds administered by a third-party servicer, and refunds that the institution or its servicer may be required to make. This provision was proposed and discussed in the NPRM published on February 17, 1994 (in part II) that deals with third-party servicers. The Amendments of 1992 and the Technical Amendments of 1993 amended the HEA to require that an institution that has a change in ownership resulting in a change in control reestablish institutional eligibility and undergo a certification review before it may participate in any title IV, HEA programs. Therefore, the Secretary is proposing to remove the provision in current regulations that permitted the new participation agreement of an institution that changed ownership to be effective on the date of the change of ownership. Instead, under the proposed regulations, the program participation agreement of an institution that changes ownership would be effective on the date that the Secretary signs the agreement, just as any other new program participation agreement would. The Secretary proposes to specify that a program participation agreement expires if the institution's participation ends because: (1) The institution closes or stops providing educational programs for a reason other than a normal vacation period or a natural disaster that directly affects the institution or the institution's students; (2) the institution loses its institutional eligibility under 34 CFR part 600; (3) the institution's period of participation, as specified under §668.13, expires (that is, the four-year limit on participation, the limits on participation established pursuant to provisional certification, or shorter periods established by the Secretary), or the institution's provisional certification is revoked under §668.13; (4) the Secretary determines under §668.13(c) that the institution that is applying for certification has jeopardized its ability to perform its financial responsibilities by not meeting the factors of financial responsibility under §668.15 or the standards of administrative capability under §668.16 (in the case of an institution whose participation has been limited or suspended under subpart G of this part, or voluntarily enters into provisional certification); or (5) the Secretary receives a notice from the appropriate SPRE that the institution's participation should be withdrawn. These provisions would conform to the provisions in proposed §668.26 governing the end of an institution's participation in a title IV, HEA program. The first of these circumstances listed above is purely a clarification of existing practice. The last three describe circumstances mandated by the change made to the HEA by the Amendments of 1992. Section 668.15␣Factors of Financial Responsibility The Secretary proposes to redesignate §668.13 as §668.15. This section includes provisions dealing with third-party servicers that were proposed in the NPRM published on February 17, 1994 (in part II). The Secretary will not repeat the discussion of those provisions here. However, this third-party servicer NPRM proposed to apply the general standards of financial responsibility that are proposed in this NPRM to third-party servicers that contract with lenders or guaranty agencies to administer any aspect of the title IV, HEA programs. General Section 487 of the HEA requires the Secretary to develop regulations to determine the financial responsibility of an institution as a part of the Secretary's determination that an institution is able to participate in a title IV, HEA program. Section 498 of the HEA mandates some of the standards that the Secretary must use in making a determination of financial responsibility. In general, section 498 of the HEA adopted, with modifications, the standards used by the Secretary in current §668.13 of the Student Assistance General Provisions regulations. The Secretary proposes to require an institution to demonstrate that it is financially responsible under the proposed requirements in this section.
