FR940627-0-00252 FR940627-0-00019 (3) Evans, H.J. ``Cytological Methods for Detecting Chemical Mutagens.'' Chemical Mutagens: Principles and Methods for Their Detection, Vol. 4. Ed. A. Hollaender (New York and London: Plenum Press, 1976) pp. 1&hyph;29. (4) Heddle, J.A., et al. ``The Induction of Micronuclei as a Measure of Genotoxicity. A Report of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Gene-Tox Program.'' Mutation Research, 123:61&hyph;118 (1983). (5) Preston, J.R. et al. ``Mammalian In Vivo and In Vitro Cytogenetics Assays: Report of the Gene-Tox Program.'' Mutation Research, 87:143&hyph;188 (1981). (6) Schmid, W. ``The micronucleus test for cytogenetic analysis'', Chemical Mutagens, Principles and Methods for their Detection. Vol. 4 Hollaender A, (Ed. A ed. (New York and London: Plenum Press, (1976) pp. 31&hyph;53. (7) Tice, R.E., and Al Pellom ``User's guide: Micronucleus assay data management and analysis system'', NTIS Order no. PB&hyph;90&hyph;212&hyph;598AS. ยง79.65 In vivo sister chromatid exchange assay. (a) Purpose. The in vivo sister chromatid exchange (SCE) assay detects the ability of a chemical to enhance the exchange of DNA between two sister chromatids of a duplicating chromosome. The most commonly used assays employ mammalian bone marrow cells or peripheral blood lymphocytes, often from rodent species. (b) Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply: C-metaphase means a state of arrested cell growth typically seen after treatment with a spindle inhibitor, i.e., colchicine. Sister chromatid exchange means a reciprocal interchange of the two chromatid arms within a single chromosome. This exchange is visualized during the metaphase portion of the cell cycle and presumably requires the enzymatic incision, translocation and ligation of at least two DNA helices. (c) Test method_ (1) Principle of the test method. (i) Groups of rodents are exposed by the inhalation route for a minimum of 6 hours/day over a period of not less than 28 days to three or more concentrations of a test substance in air. Groups of animals are sacrificed at the end of the exposure period and blood lymphocyte cell cultures are prepared from study animals. Cell growth is suspended after a time and cells are harvested, fixed and stained before scoring for SCEs. Researchers may need to run a trial at the highest tolerated concentration of the test atmosphere to optimize the sample collection time for second division metaphase cells. (ii) This assay may be done separately or in combination with the subchronic toxicity study, pursuant to the provisions in ยง79.62. (2) Description. (i) The method described here employs peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) of laboratory rodents exposed to the test atmosphere. (ii) Within twenty-four hours of the last exposure, test animal lymphocytes are obtained by heart puncture and duplicate cell cultures are started for each animal. Cultures are grown in bromo-deoxyuridine (BrdU), and then a spindle inhibitor (e.g., colchicine) is added to arrest cell growth. Cells are harvested, fixed, and stained and their chromosomes are scored for SCEs. (3) Species and strain. The rat is the recommended test animal. Other rodent species may be used in this assay, but use of that species will be justified by the tester. (4) Animal number and sex. At least five female and five male animals per experimental and control group shall be used. The use of a single sex or different number of animals shall be justified.
