FR940617-1-00076 FR940617-1-00012 (5) Food and Drug Administration, ``General Guidelines for OTC Drug Combination Products,'' September 1978, Docket No. 78D&hyph;0322, Dockets Management Branch. 25. One comment submitted data on a combination drug product containing calomel (mercurous chloride) 30 percent, oxyquinoline benzoate, and trolamine (triethanolamine) combined with fatty acids to form a soap compound, plus a phenol derivative that is currently marketed over-the-counter and is indicated for use in the prevention of venereal disease (syphilis and gonorrhea) (Ref. 1). The comment included a historical review and information on in vitro activity of one of the ingredients. According to the comment, in 1905 the discovery was made that calomel in combination with fats is an effective germicide against Treponema pallidum ( T. pallidum ), the causative organism of syphilis. Later, calomel was stated to be active against Neisseria gonorrhoeae ( N. gonorrhoeae ) (the causative organism of gonorrhea). This combination of ingredients and the indication of prevention of syphilis and gonorrhea have not been reviewed by any OTC advisory review panel. However, because a claim is made indicating antimicrobial activity and the product contains calomel, which is already included in the rulemaking for OTC topical antimicrobial drug products, the agency believes it is appropriate to review this combination and labeling claim in this amended tentative final monograph. The in vitro effectiveness test described in the comment (Ref. 1) is a zone of inhibition test comparing the germicidal activity of calomel, phenol, and organic silver salts against S. aureus as an indicator of activity against syphilis ( T. pallidum ) and gonorrhea ( N. gonorrhoeae ). According to the submission, the causative organisms are not viable in vitro and were not used in the testing. The agency points out that it is possible to isolate and subculture isolates of N. gonorrhoeae for in vitro antimicrobial testing (Ref. 2), but T. pallidum cannot be grown in vitro (Ref. 3). The agency does not consider the in vitro test against S. aureus to be adequate to support a claim of prevention of syphilis and gonorrhea. In a separate rulemaking for mercury-containing drug products for topical antimicrobial use, calomel was reviewed by the Miscellaneous External Panel (47 FR 436 at 440). That Panel did note that calomel ``has been used in the past by inunction (rubbing into the skin) as a prophylactic against venereal disease *␣*␣*'' but placed the ingredient in Category II because ``calomel may be safe as a topical antimicrobial agent, but it is not effective for this purpose.'' Although it is apparent that calomel 30 percent would be considered an active ingredient, it is not clear from the available information whether the other ingredients in the combination (oxyquinoline benzoate, trolamine, and phenol derivative) are also considered active ingredients, nor are the concentrations of these other ingredients stated in the submission and no data have been submitted to the OTC drug review on these ingredients in relation to the prevention of venereal disease. In the absence of any data, none of these ingredients are considered safe and effective for this use. The comment did not submit any in vivo data from clinical studies to demonstrate that the combination of calomel, oxyquinoline benzoate, trolamine, and phenol derivative is safe and effective for use in the prevention of syphilis and gonorrhea. Preliminary in vitro testing against N. gonorrhoeae should be conducted before any human clinical trials are done. Then, favorable results from two well-controlled clinical studies in humans conducted by qualified investigators in two geographic locations (at least one should be within the United States of America) are needed before any drug product can be recognized to be safe and effective in preventing syphilis and gonorrhea. Interested individuals should consult with the agency before initiating any testing. In conclusion, the agency is proposing that this combination of ingredients indicated for the prevention of syphilis and gonorrhea be classified Category II in this amended tentative final monograph. The agency's detailed comments and evaluation on the data are on file in the Dockets Management Branch (Ref. 4). References (1) Comment No. C158, Docket No. 75N&hyph;0183, Dockets Management Branch.
