FR940405-2-00157 FR940405-2-00067 [Release No. 34&hyph;33824; File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;2] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to an Interpretation With Respect to Rule 409 (``Statements of Accounts to Customers'') March 28, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on February 22, 1994, the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (``NYSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. On March 2, 1994, the NYSE submitted to the Commission Amendment No. 1 to the proposal. 2 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1). 2 See letter from Patricia Dorilio, Senior Special Counsel, Rule and Interpretive Standards, NYSE to Cheryl Dunfee, Attorney, Exchange Branch, Division of Market Regulation, Commission, dated March 1, 1994. This letter enclosed four new pages to the proposal. The NYSE sent new pages 3, 4, 13, and 14 to replace those in the original proposal. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change consists of an interpretation with respect to the meaning and administration of existing Exchange Rule 409 (``Statements of Accounts to Customers''). II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B) and (C) below, of the most significant aspect of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The purpose of the proposed rule change is to set forth an interpretation concerning the meaning and administration of Exchange Rule 409 with respect to the establishment of standards for Exchange members and member organizations holding foreign customer accounts. It is intended that this interpretation will be published as an Interpretation Memorandum for inclusion in the Exchange Interpretation Handbook. Exchange Rule 409 addresses the requirement of member organizations to send statements of accounts and confirmations to customers. One of the purposes of Rule 409 is to ensure that member organization's communications to customers are sent to appropriate and/or authorized persons. Rule 409(b)(2) provides that customer mail (i.e. statements, confirmations and other communications) may not be addressed to any member, member organization or in care of an employee of any member organization. This, in effect, prohibits the receipt and retention by a member, member organization, registered representative or other associated person, of customer mail. The rule, however, does permit the Exchange to waive the rule's requirements, upon written request. The Exchange has received requests from member organizations to permit them to hold mail for certain foreign customers who have represented in writing that they do not wish to receive such correspondence. Reasons for such requests have included inefficient local mail services (resulting in misrouted mail or opened mail) or unstable political climates. In order to review and approve such requests, the Exchange has established guidelines. The Exchange is proposing this written interpretation to codify the procedures and standards for reviewing requests from member organizations to hold foreign customer mail. The proposed interpretation provides that the Exchange will consider written requests from members and member organizations for the implementation of procedures for temporarily holding foreign customer mail. Such requests will be required to provide certain details and representations concerning supervisory procedures that the member or member organization will have in place with respect to holding mail. Specifically, members and member organizations will be required to obtain, at least on an annual basis, a written request from the customer to have mail temporarily held at the premises of the firm and providing appropriate reasons for such request. Additionally, the organization's written procedures must address, at a minimum that: such accounts will receive frequent supervisory review with special attention given to discretionary accounts; the communications will be reviewed annually by the compliance/internal audit department or by person(s) delegated such responsibility pursuant to Exchange Rule 342 (independent of the branch), and such review will include a test that the communications are held pursuant to written customer instructions; a log of the communications will be maintained which shows the date of transmittal of the communications to the customer; and that endeavors will be made to orally communicate the substance of the communications directly to the customer and that a written record is kept of all meetings and conversations with the customer. The Exchange believes that this proposed interpretation will give members and member organizations the flexibility to hold mail upon customer request, while providing appropriate safeguards through enhanced supervisory procedures. 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of Section 6(b)(5) of the Act, which requires that the rules of the Exchange be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, and in general, to protect investors and the public interest, in that it establishes standards that enable members and member organizations to meet customer requests yet provide customer protection through appropriate monitoring and supervision.
