FR940216-0-00205 FR940216-0-00010 (2) Relative range is calculated as follows: E:GRAPHICSER16FE94.004 where: R r =relative range R=range C o =concentration of the original sample C d =concentration of the duplicate sample (3) If the limits in paragraph (g)(8)(ii)(K)( 1 ) of this section are exceeded, the sources of error in the analysis should be determined, corrected, and all analyses subsequent to and including the last duplicate analysis confirmed to be within the compliance specifications must be repeated. The specification limits for the range and relative range of duplicate analyses are minimum performance requirements. The performance of individual laboratories may indeed be better than these minimum requirements. For this reason it is recommended that control charts be utilized to monitor the variability of measurements in order to optimally detect abnormal situations and ensure a stable measurement process. For reference purposes, a single laboratory study of precision (approximately 35 replicates) yielded the following estimates of method precision: ␣ 1Oxygenate 1Concentration (weight percent) 1Repeatability (volume percent) 1(Percent) Methanol 2.0 3.7 0.11 Ethanol 2.0 5.4 0.24 t-Butanol 2.0 8.8 0.39 MTBE 2.0 11.0 0.37 (4) Repeatability is defined as the half width of the 95 percent confidence interval for a single analysis at the stated concentration. (iii) The laboratory shall routinely monitor the accuracy of its analyses. At a minimum this shall include: (A) Calibration check standards and calibration standards may be prepared from the same oxygenate stocks and by the same analyst. However, calibration check standards and calibration standards must be prepared from separate batches of the final diluted standards. For the specification limits listed in paragraph (g)(8)(iii)(C) of this section, the concentration of the check standards should be in the range given in paragraph (g)(8)(iii)(C) of this section. (B) Calibration check standards shall be analyzed at a rate of one per analysis batch or at least one per ten samples, whichever is more frequent. (C) If the measured concentration of a calibration check standard is outside the range of 100% # 10% percent of the theoretical concentration for methanol and ethanol, or 100% # 13% for t-butanol and MTBE, the sources of error in the analysis should be determined, corrected, and all analyses subsequent to and including the last standard analysis confirmed to be within the compliance specifications must be repeated. The specification limits for the accuracy of calibration check standards analyses are minimum performance requirements. The performance of individual laboratories may indeed be better than these minimum requirements. For this reason it is recommended that control charts be utilized to monitor the variability of measurements in order to optimally detect abnormal situations and ensure a stable measurement process. (D) Independent reference standards shall be purchased or prepared from materials that are independent of the calibration standards and calibration check standards, and must not be prepared by the same analyst. For the specification limits listed in paragraph (g)(8)(iii)(F) of this section, the concentration of the reference standards should be in the range given in paragraph (g)(8)(iii)(C) of this section. (E) Independent reference standards shall be analyzed at a rate of one per analysis batch or at least one per 100 samples, whichever is more frequent. (F) If the measured concentration of an independent reference standard is outside the range of 100% # 10% of the theoretical concentration for methanol and ethanol, or 100% # 13% for t-butanol and MTBE, the sources of error in the analysis should be determined, corrected, and all analyses subsequent to and including the last independent reference standard analysis confirmed to be within the compliance specifications in that batch must be repeated. The specification limits for the accuracy of independent reference standards analyses are minimum performance requirements. The performance of individual laboratories may indeed be better than these minimum requirements. For this reason it is recommended that control charts be utilized to monitor the variability of measurements in order to optimally detect abnormal situations and ensure a stable measurement process. (G) If matrix effects are suspected, then spiked samples shall be prepared and analyzed as follows: (1) Spiked samples shall be prepared by adding a volume of a standard to a known volume of sample. To ensure adequate method detection limits, the volume of the standard added to the sample should be minimized to 5% or less of the volume of the sample. The spiked sample should be carried through the same sample preparation steps as the background sample. (2) The percent recovery of spiked samples should be calculated as follows:
