FR941222-0-00014 FR941222-0-00003 Response. The specific rationale that forms the basis of the statement in the Wisconsin Public Service Commission's draft EIS for Point Beach was not documented. The decontamination requirements for the two designs are comparable. The VSC&hyph;24 DSC is loaded into the ventilated concrete cask (VCC) forming the VSC. The VSC is then transported from inside the reactor auxiliary building to the storage pad. During moving and storage of the VCC, the exterior surface remains clean because it has not been exposed to contamination in the spent fuel pool. The NUHOMS DSC is moved in the transfer cask from the reactor building to the horizontal storage module in the field. Because the transfer cask has been in the spent fuel pool, it may have small amounts of external contamination that have the potential to spread during transit. However, any potential contamination of this type could not be significant. The NRC requires that the limits for surface contamination, workers' dose, and environmental dose must all be met for the operation of the ISFSI, including during any transfer operations. Each 10 CFR Part 50 licensee must have a radiation protection program to monitor operations to ensure that surface contamination and worker and public exposure to radiation are below acceptable levels and as low as is reasonably achievable (ALARA). Past operation of the NUHOMS shows that the doses are well below all NRC limits. B.4. Comment. One commenter ``is concerned that heat generated by fission product decay may provide the driving force, the presence of free moisture in water-logged fuel may, in a non-mechanistic way, provide a transport mechanism for fission product release and the ambient air circulating through the cask concrete structure may provide (an unmonitored) pathway to the biosphere.'' One commenter remained concerned about the possibility of insufficient drying of the fuel before placement in the DSC. Another commenter, citing the Battelle Pacific Northwest Laboratory Report PNL&hyph;5987 on the removal of moisture from degraded fuel during vacuum drying, contends that the mechanism for free moisture and radionuclide release that pertain in normal or upset conditions, such as conditions caused by sabotage, have not been simulated adequately. Response. The DSC is a closed vessel. There is no path available for release of fission products from inside the DSC to the atmosphere. During normal operation, the circulating air, as it passes through the HSM and around the outside of the DSC to remove the heat, never comes in contact with fission products and therefore, could not remove these products from the cavity of the DSC. Moreover, design basis accidents under upset conditions were postulated and analyzed in the SAR and SER. These analyses show that the heat generated from fission product decay is not capable of breaching the DSC and could not provide the driving force for a release of radioactivity. Further, it is not expected that any significant amount of moisture will remain in the fuel after it is loaded into the DSC. The fuel is dried after it has been loaded into the DSC and the topcover plate seal welded to the DSC shell. The Certificate of Compliance requires two pump-downs to a vacuum pressure of less than 3 mm Hg each with a holding time of greater than 30 minutes. A stable vacuum pressure of less than 3 mm Hg further assures that all liquid water has evaporated in the DSC cavity. The safeguards issue of radiological sabotage of storage casks has been reviewed previously and assessed in the 1989 proposed rule to add Subparts K and L to 10 CFR Part 72 (54 FR 19379). The NRC has determined that the Standardized NUHOMS is sufficiently robust such that the effects of a successful attack would have low health consequences and are similar to the results presented in the 1989 proposed rule. (see also response to comment N.1) C. A number of comments were received that focused on monitoring, surveillance, and inspection activities associated with dry cask storage of spent fuel, particularly as they relate to the Standardized NUHOMS. C.1. Comment. One commenter stated that there are neither active nor passive systems in place to mitigate barrier breaches, nor are there active radiation monitors that would indicate a breach has occurred. There are no monitored drains and sumps nor are there retention basins. The commenter stated that the cask is insufficient to be relied upon for the health and safety of Ohioans. Response. The Certificate of Compliance (Section 1.3) for the Standardized NUHOMS includes surveillance and monitoring requirements that are more than sufficient to detect cask degradation in time to ensure that adequate corrective actions can and will be taken. In addition, radiation monitoring and environmental monitoring programs would detect any radiation leak in excess of NRC limits from an NRC-approved cask. In some instances, the NRC has required continuous monitoring where it is needed to determine when corrective action needs to be taken. Under a general license, to date, the NRC has accepted continuous pressure monitoring of the inert helium atmosphere as an indicator of acceptable performance of mechanical closure seals for dry spent fuel storage casks. However, the NRC does not consider continuous monitoring for the Standardized NUHOMS double-weld seals to be necessary because:
