FR940128-2-00101 FR940128-2-00065 (5) How do you propose that EPA measure the success of its efforts? Technology Program Focus Areas for FY 1995 The Technology Innovation Strategy will be used to guide the Agency's planning and budgeting for specific projects in both base programs and under the President's Environmental Technology Initiative during this fiscal year and in future years. The Environmental Technology Initiative (ETI) FY 1994 Program Plan, described later in this notice, provides detailed descriptions of the ETI budget themes and projects being funded this fiscal year. Planning for FY 1995 is now underway and EPA is interested in receiving comments from the public on specific focus areas that should be emphasized in funding projects next year. These focus areas may be within the broad context of an entire technology innovation area or may be specific to one facet of EPA's Strategy. An example of a broad focus area recommendation would be the need for EPA assistance in all aspects of encouraging the development and use of more cost-effective technologies for small businesses. An example of a focus area recommendation specific to one part of the Strategy (e.g., Objective # 2) would be the need for EPA to help assure the quality and credibility of performance data for new technologies by creating more locations for safe technology testing. The President's Environmental Technology Initiative In his State of the Union speech on February 17, 1993, President Clinton outlined a new initiative to improve environmental quality and strengthen the American economy. The goal of the President's Environmental Technology Initiative (ETI) is to spur the development and use of more advanced environmental systems and treatment techniques that can yield domestic environmental benefits and increase exports of American technologies to other countries. ``Dark green'' environmental technologies are being emphasized in the Initiative that is, technologies, goods, and services whose development is triggered primarily by environmental improvement objectives. ``Dark green'' technologies include: products and services to monitor and assess pollutant releases and exposure levels; innovative technologies which prevent pollution, control air and water pollution levels, and remediate contaminated soil and groundwater; and, manage environmental data. The Initiative is funded at $36 million in FY 1994 and, in the President's plan, is to be funded at $80 million in FY 1995, with overall funding projected to be $1.8 billion over nine years. In approving funding for Fiscal Year 1994, the Senate Appropriations Committee instructed the Agency to develop a detailed program plan 2 . Today, EPA is announcing the availability of the Environmental Technology Initiative: FY 1994 Program Plan (S/N 055&hyph;000&hyph;00465&hyph;8) which describes 73 specific projects that will be initiated by the end of September, 1994. These projects span four general areas outlined below: 2 U.S. Senate, 103rd Congress, Appropriations Committee report 103&hyph;137, September 9, 1993, p. 105, Washington, DC. 1. Accelerating the development and use of innovative environmental and restoration technologies; 2. Fostering clean technologies through pollution prevention for small businesses; 3. Fostering the use of U.S. technologies to solve international environmental problems; 4. Defining technology gaps, and identifying barriers to, and incentives for developing and commercializing environmental technologies. The Program Plan released today is not a solicitation or request for proposals for grants or contracts from EPA . It describes the nature and scope of work in each project area and invites interested parties to contact individual project managers, especially if they are working on a similar project or they are interested in becoming a project partner. Project managers will, in turn, be developing partnerships among interested parties who can share in the projects' activities and results. EPA anticipates that federal agencies, state and local governments, tribes, educational institutions, non-profit and not-for profit entities, and private sector parties may be interested in discussing partnership opportunities. By this approach, EPA is seeking to engage and leverage the creativity, expertise, and resources of other government agencies and the private sector in areas of mutual interest. Both the Administration and the Congress have stressed the need for partnerships that provide both direct support to private sector innovation and close coordination with other Federal agencies. These partnerships may take many forms. For example, in the ``Clean Car Technology Demonstration Program'' (Project No. 11), EPA's National Vehicle and Fuel Emissions laboratory and Office of Air and Radiation, the Department of Energy, and the National Institute for Science and Technology, other Federal laboratories, and domestic manufacturers are demonstrating ways to improve passenger car and light truck fuel economy and technologies which lower carbon dioxide emissions. To promote technologies that prevent pollution in small businesses, EPA, the International Fabricare Institute, Neighborhood Cleaners Association, Greenpeace, and the Occupational Health Foundation are working on dry and wet cleaning technologies that do not use perchloroethylene (Project No. 33). To improve the U.S. environmental technology industry's competitiveness abroad, EPA, the Agency for International Development, the U.S. Trade and Development Agency, the Export-Import Bank and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation are proposing ways to demonstrate the performance of pollution control, monitoring and pollution prevention technologies globally and at sites to be selected in Asia, Central or Eastern Europe or Mexico (Project No. 53).
