FR940810-2-00127 FR940810-2-00076 3. Each applicant has adopted a rule 12b&hyph;1 plan (the ``Plan''). Although shareholders have approved each Plan, some of the Plans are not yet effective. The Plans of the FESC Funds except Investment Trust provide that, when shares are sold above $1 million, the applicable Fund will pay at the time of sale to Lord Abbett in its capacity as principal underwriter a one-time distribution fee equal to 1% of the net asset value of the shares sold. The Plan of Investment Trust provides that Investment Trust will pay, with respect to sales above $1 million, a one-time distribution fee of 1% of the first $3 million, plus .50% of the next $7 million, plus .25% of the remainder, of the net asset value of shares sold. The Plans of all FESC Funds also provide for annual service fees payable by the FESC Fund to Lord Abbett in its capacity as principal underwriter of up to .25% of the average daily net asset value of shares held in broker-dealer accounts. 4. The Plan of Money Market Fund does not impose a rule 12b&hyph;1 fee at the time of sale, but provides for payment of an annual rule 12b&hyph;1 service fee equal to .15% of the average daily net asset value of shares held in broker-dealer accounts; however, this fee has been suspended. The Plans of the Securities Trust Funds provide that such Funds pay Lord Abbett a distribution fee and service fee of .75% and .25%, respectively, of the net asset value of all shares sold other than in connection with the reinvestment of dividends or other distributions, or the exchange of shares from another Securities Trust Fund. The Plans also provide for annual distribution and service fees, beginning one year after shares are sold, equal to .75% and .25%, respectively, of the average daily net asset value of shares held in broker-dealer accounts. 5. Applicants had been imposing a CDSC in reliance on the no-action position taken by the Division of Investment Management in Flag Investors Fund, Inc. (`` Flag ''). 3 By letter dated September 22, 1993, 4 the Division withdrew the Flag letter, effective March 22, 1994. By letter dated March 31, 1994, 5 the Division advised applicants that it would not recommend enforcement action against the Funds if they temporarily continued to impose a CDSC in reliance of the withdrawn Flag position, pending receipt of exemptive relief. Applicants currently are imposing a CDSC in reliance on the letter of March 31, 1994. 3 Flag Investors Fund, Inc. (pub. avail. Oct. 1, 1984) (stating that the Division would not recommend enforcement action if requestors imposed a 1% ``redemption fee'' similar in nature to a CDSC). 4 Flag Investors Fund, Inc. (pub. avail. Sept. 22, 1993). 5 Lord Abbett Funds (pub. avail. Mar. 31, 1994). 6. Under the requested order, a Fund will impose a CDSC of 1% upon the redemptions of shares (a) of an FESC Fund when shares were purchased at or above $1 million and redeemed within 24 months following the month the shares were purchased, or (b) of a Securities Trust Fund when shares are redeemed within 12 months following the month of their purchase. The CDSC is received and retained by the Fund that paid the initial rule 12b&hyph;1 fee. 7. In no event does the CDSC exceed 1% of the lesser of the net asset value of the shares redeemed or the original cost of the shares. No CDSC is imposed when the investor redeems shares (a) derived from increases in net asset value per share, (b) where no rule 12b&hyph;1 fee was paid on issuance (including shares acquired through reinvestment of dividends and capital gains distributions), or (c) which, together with exchanged shares, have been held continuously for a certain number of months following the month of purchase (24 months with respect to shares of an FESC Fund, and 12 months with respect to shares of a Securities Trust Fund). 8. In determining whether a CDSC is payable, it is assumed that a redemption is made first of shares originally not subject to a CDSC and then of shares subject to a CDSC. With respect to shares subject to a CDSC, it is assumed that the shares held the longest are the first to be redeemed. No CDSC is charged upon exchanges of shares between (a) FESC Funds, (b) an FESC Fund and Money Market Fund, or (c) Securities Trust Funds. If the shares being exchanged are subject to a CDSC, the CDSC and the original acquisition dates carry over to the shares being acquired in the exchange. Applicants will comply with rule 11a&hyph;3 under the Act with regard to all exchanges. 9. The Funds may waive the CDSC upon redemptions by tax-qualified plans under section 401 of the Internal Revenue Code due to plan loans, hardship withdrawals, death, retirement, or separation from service with respect to plan participants. 10. Upon their redemption, shares will be subject to the CDSC schedule in effect at the time of their purchase, except that applicants may apply a CDSC schedule that has been changed subject to the purchase of shares if such changes confer a benefit to the shareholder ( e.g. , lower fees). Applicants' Legal Analysis 1. Applicants submit that the requested exemption to permit the Funds to implement the proposed CDSC is appropriate, in the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the Act. The proposed CDSC arrangements will provide shareholders the option of having greater investment dollars working for them from the time of their purchase than if a sales load had been imposed at such time. 2. Applicants believe that the purposed CDSC waiver is fair, equitable, and in the public interest and the interest of shareholders because the redeeming shareholders are members of a class favored under federal tax and securities laws. Applicants' Condition If the requested order is granted, applicants expressly agree to the following condition: Applicants will comply with proposed rule 6c&hyph;10 under the Act, Investment Company Act Release No. 16619 (Nov. 2, 1988), as such rule is currently proposed and as it may be reproposed, adopted, or amended. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19522 Filed 8&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
