FR941004-1-00043 FR941004-1-00015 Each of these 10 plant species exhibits strong substrate preferences. Allium tuolumnense, Brodiaea pallida, and Verbena californica are associated with serpentine soils in an elevational range from 260 to 600 m (850 to 2,000 ft) in the Red Hills and near Rawhide Hill in Tuolumne County. Serpentine soils are derived from ultramafic rocks such as serpentinite, dunite, and peridotite, which are found in discontinuous outcrops in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada and in the Coast Ranges from Santa Barbara County to British Columbia, Canada. Although the ultramafic rocks may be of igneous origin (peridotite, dunite, or harzburgite) or metamorphics (serpentine), the major constituent of the parent rock is some variant of iron-magnesium silicate. Serpentine and other ultramafics weather into shallow, rocky, and highly erodible soils. Typically, these soils are rich in magnesium, iron, chromium, nickel, and silicates and are deficient in nitrogen, calcium, phosphorus, and molybdenum (Kruckeberg 1984). The unique mineral nutrition and cation status of serpentine soils are inhospitable for the growth of most plants. Nevertheless, serpentine soils support a diversity of plants, some of which are restricted entirely to these soils. Allium tuolumnense is associated with sunny, rocky, often south-facing slopes. Brodiaea pallida and Verbena californica are often found in the blue oak ( Quercus douglasii ) or digger pine ( Pinus sabiniana ) woodland communities. Calyptridium pulchellum, Lupinus citrinus var. deflexus, and Mimulus shevockii are associated with sandy, decomposed granitic soils in foothill woodlands. Fritillaria striata and Navarretia setiloba are found in heavy clay soils in the openings of blue oak woodland. Clarkia springvillensis most often is found on roadbanks and openings in blue oak woodlands. Marion Ownbey first recognized Allium sanbornii var. tuolumnense in ``A California Flora'' (Munz 1959). The first validly published description of the plant was Hamilton P. Traub's 1972 treatment. Stella Denison and Dale McNeal (1989) revised the A. sanbornii complex and elevated the variety to a species based upon the position of stamens and styles and the length and shape of perianth (sepals and petals) segments.
