FR940419-1-00051 FR940419-1-00008 ( 3 ) It physically inspects no less than 40 percent of the crocodilian skin and product shipments imported into that country to verify compliance with the CITES marking and tagging requirements and to ensure proper identification of specimens indicated on CITES documents; and ( 4 ) If it is a country of manufacture, it requires its manufacturers to maintain an inventory control system which accounts by tag number for each crocodilian skin received and the type and quantity of the crocodilian products produced, and has provided copies of laws, regulations or decrees implementing such a control system to the Office of Management Authority. (iv) Importation of crocodilian skins directly from country of origin. The importation of Nile crocodile skins for commercial purposes from countries where the Nile crocodile is listed in Appendix II of CITES, and the importation of skins of the saltwater crocodile from Australia and Papua New Guinea, will be allowed without permits for individual shipments otherwise required by 50 CFR part 17, if imported directly from the country of origin (including shipments transited or transshipped through a third country while under customs control) into the United States if the crocodilian skin bears an intact, uncut tag from the country of origin in compliance with 50 CFR part 23, including those provisions implementing the CITES resolution on the universal tagging system. (v) Noncommercial accompanying baggage. The conditions of paragraphs (c)(3)(ii) (A) and (B) of this section for products made of Nile crocodile or of saltwater crocodile from Australia or Papua New Guinea shall not apply to noncommercial accompanying personal baggage. Furthermore, no permits required by 50 CFR part 17 will be required for import of crocodilian skins and parts of Nile crocodile listed on Appendix II or of saltwater crocodile from Australia or Papua New Guinea when imported as non-commercial accompanying personal baggage. (4) Publication of information. The Service shall publish appropriate notices of information in the Federal Register that shall list the countries that meet the conditions described in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section. Based on the notices published pursuant to this section, the Service will maintain a current list of countries that meet the conditions described in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section, and from which import or re-export of Nile crocodile from countries where this species is listed in Appendix II of CITES and the saltwater crocodile from Australia and Papua New Guinea will be allowed with proper CITES export permits. A list of these countries is available by writing: The Office of Management Authority, ARLSQ Room 420, 4401 N. Fairfax Drive, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Arlington, Virginia, 22203. Dated: March 23, 1994. George T. Frampton, Jr., Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and Parks. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9395 Filed 4&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;P
