FR940208-0-00123 FR940208-0-00031 Service Response: Section 7(a)(4) of the Act and 50 CFR 402.10 of the regulations require Federal agencies to confer with the Service on any action that is likely to result in destruction or adverse modification of proposed critical habitat. With designation of critical habitat, Federal agencies will be required to enter into formal consultation with the Service for any actions that may affect desert tortoises or their critical habitat. Issue 64: One letter stated that the public did not receive an adequate opportunity to review the maps upon which the proposed rule was based because the maps provided in the Federal Register notice were too small to be useful. Service Response: The Service provided opportunities for the public to review maps at a scale of 1:100,000 at each of three public hearings and made the maps available at the field offices located in Arizona, California, Nevada, and Utah. Due to the court-mandated time frame for development of the proposed rule, the Service was unable to provide copies of these larger-scaled maps to other agencies. Issue 65: There was an insufficient amount of time for comment and review between the critical habitat proposal and final designation. Service Response: The Service provided 60 days for public comment on the critical habitat proposal, which included three public hearings. The schedule for designation of critical habitat follows a stipulation and order of dismissal filed on August 3, 1993, in two lawsuits filed against the Service ( Natural Resources Defense Council, et al., v. Bruce Babbitt et al. and Desert Tortoise (Gopherus agassizii) a threatened species; et al., v. Manual Lujan, Jr. ). This court-mandated schedule requires publication of the final critical habitat rule by December 15, 1993. This short time frame for finalizing the rule does not allow for an extension of the public comment period. Issue 66: One letter stated that Tribal economic costs resulting from critical habitat designation were not considered in the proposal. Service Response: For a 60-day period after the draft economic analysis was made available to the public, the Service collected and considered other responses from State and Federal agencies, private land holders, the Tribe, and other entities regarding economic effects they might experience from the proposed designation. All responses that identified specific economic impacts were considered in completing the final economic analysis. During the public comment period, the Tribe commented that the proposed designation ``could eliminate or reduce economic development and other opportunities,'' but did not identify or describe specific effects that allowed estimation of economic impacts. Issue 67: The Aerojet-General Corporation and Wyle Laboratories have requested that the 42,800 acres that they have purchased (28,800 acres) and leased (14,000 acres) from the BLM be excluded from critical habitat designation. The basis for the request was the Environmental Stipulations contained in the Land Exchange and Lease Agreements signed pursuant to the Nevada-Florida Land Exchange Authorization Act of 1988, which established a detailed plan for the conservation of the desert tortoise on these lands. In addition Aerojet-General Corporation felt that statements that critical habitat does not affect private lands are misleading, because designation of critical habitat will affect these lands and their future use either through the section 7 process or through the section 10 permit process. Service Response: The Service recognizes the desert tortoise management plan for this area but does not believe that it adequately addresses the potential impacts of the transmission lines that are proposed through Coyote Spring Valley. Therefore, the Service has included this area in the designation of critical habitat. Whether or not critical habitat is designated, lands containing desert tortoises and their habitat are still subject to section 9 of the Act, which prohibits unauthorized take of listed species. The only avenues for authorizing take that is incidental to otherwise lawful activities are the section 7 process for activities that are authorized, funded, or carried out by Federal agencies, and the section 10(a)(1)(B) permitting process for non-Federal actions on private or State lands. National Environmental Policy Act The Service has determined that an Environmental Assessment and/or an Environmental Impact Statement, as defined under the authority of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, need not be prepared in connection with regulations adopted pursuant to section 4(a) of the Act. A notice outlining the Service's reasons for this determination was published in the Federal Register on October 25, 1983 (48 FR 49244). Regulatory Flexibility Act and Executive Order 12866 This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The Department of the Interior has determined that the final rule will not have a significant economic effect on a substantial number of small entities under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ). Based on the information discussed in this rule concerning public projects and private activities within CHUs, significant economic impacts will not result from the critical habitat designation. Also, no direct costs, enforcement costs, information collection, or recordkeeping requirements are imposed on small entities by this designation. Further, the rule contains no recordkeeping requirements as defined by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. Takings Implications Assessment The Service has analyzed the potential takings implications of designating critical habitat for the desert tortoise in a Takings Implications Assessment prepared pursuant to requirements of Executive Order 12630, ``Governmental Actions and Interference with Constitutionally Protected Property Rights.'' The Takings Implications Assessment concludes that the designation does not pose significant takings implications. References Cited A complete list of all references cited herein is available upon request from the Field Supervisor, Nevada Field Office (see ADDRESSES section).
