FR940304-2-00165 FR940304-2-00086 The instant proposed rule change will amend subsection .30 by adding language that will enable a specialist unit to use a telephone linkage at the specialist post to enter options or futures hedging orders through a member (on the floor) of an options or futures exchange. This would be in addition to the current language of subsection .30 which permits entry of such orders through a telephone linkage to the specialist unit's off-floor offices or its clearing firm. The NYSE states that the purpose of this amendment is to provide a faster means for specialists to enter options or futures hedging orders and to expand a specialist's ability to enter such orders from its post location on the Exchange floor directly with a member on the floor of an options or futures exchange. The Commission, in originally approving the use of options by specialists for hedging their specialty stocks, was sensitive to concerns over the potential for specialist frontrunning, 5 tape racing, or other abuses arising from the specialist's informational advantage. 6 In order to allay these concerns, the NYSE rule permitting options hedging by specialists places restrictions on the size, timing and purpose of the options transactions. 7 The proposal being approved does not affect the restrictions currently in place for placing options orders. The proposal only provides a more efficient means for specialists to relay hedging orders to options and futures exchanges. Further, the NYSE has implemented surveillance procedures to monitor specialists' use of options to ensure they are consistent with these restrictions. For example, specialists are required to submit Form 81&hyph;O to report their options transactions. 8 With respect to futures hedging orders, the NYSE through an agreement with the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, which currently trades futures on the Standard & Poor's (``S & P'') 500, Midcap 400 and the Major Market Index, exchange information relating to futures transactions on these indexes in addition to options on any of the aforementioned index futures and stock programs. 9 5␣With respect to futures, the Commission notes that the NYSE has adopted a policy that prohibits intermarket frontrunning between the NYSE equities market and any futures exchange. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 27047 (July 19, 1989), 54 FR 31131. 6␣See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 21710 (February 4, 1985), 50 FR 5708 (February 11, 1985). 7␣See NYSE Rule 105 and the NYSE's ``Guidelines for Specialists Specialty Stock Option Transactions Pursuant to Rule 105.'' 8␣See NYSE Rule 104A.50 (requirement that specialists submit options data trading reports). 9␣We also note that surveillance information is also shared through the Intermarket Surveillance Group (``ISG''). ISG was formed on July 14, 1983 to, among other things, coordinate more effectively surveillance and investigative information sharing arrangements in the stock and options markets. See Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, July 14, 1983. Because of potential opportunities for trading abuses involving stock index futures, stock options and the underlying stock and the need for greater sharing of surveillance information for these potential intermarket trading abuses, the major stock index futures exchanges ( e.g., CME & CBT) joined the ISG as affiliate members in 1990. IV. Conclusion The Commission has reviewed closely the proposed NYSE rule change and believes that it is consistent with the requirements of the Act and, accordingly, should be approved. In particular, the Commission believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirement of section 6(b)(5) of the Act in that it will facilitate transactions in securities by providing specialists with the ability to hedge their positions more rapidly by enabling them to communicate directly with a member on the floor of an option or futures exchange. The current process, which forces the specialist to route a hedging order through an off-floor office or clearing firm, can make the execution of the hedging order more cumbersome and less timely. By improving the process by which specialists can transfer the risk of their market making responsibilities, specialists would be better able to fulfill these responsibilities. Finally, the Commission believes that any potential for frontrunning, tape racing, or other abuses by specialists that may be created by the proposed rule change is minimal, due in most part to the restrictions placed on the specialists' options activity and the NYSE surveillance. In addition, as noted above, the NYSE has some access through its agreement with the CME, and as an ISG member, to receive information on orders entered by the specialist on stock index futures and options on stock index futures that should allow it to surveil for potential abuses. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 10 that the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;88&hyph;14) is approved. 10 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 11 11 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1991). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4999 Filed 3&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
