FR940610-2-00057 FR940610-2-00049 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Administration on Aging; Statement of Organization, Functions, and Delegations of Authority This notice amends Part B of the Statement of Organization, Functions, and Delegations of Authority of the Department of Health and Human Services (``HHS''), Administration on Aging (``AoA''), as follows: Continues the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Aging; establishes two new Offices, the Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Program Operations and Intergovernmental Affairs, and the Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Program Development and Elder Rights Programs; places all units of AoA, except the Office of Field Operations, the Regional Offices and the Office of Administration and Management, under the two new Offices; establishes a new Office of Elder Rights Protection; retitles the Division of Research, Demonstration and Training and the Division of Dissemination and Utilization as the Office of Research, Demonstration and Training and the Office of Dissemination and Utilization, respectively; retitles the Division of Eldercare Service Implementation as the Division of Community-Based Services; establishes a new Division of Information Resources Management within the Office of Administration and Management; and abolishes the Office of External Affairs. The language to implement these changes is as follows: Part B, Chapter B, ``The Administration on Aging,'' as published in the Federal Register on September 13, 1991 (56 FR 46620); amended on December 24, 1992 (57 FR 61433); and further amended on March 2, 1993 (58 FR 12040) is amended as follows: Delete B.00 and replace with the following: B.00 Mission. The Administration on Aging, an Operating Division of the Department of Health and Human Services, is the principal agency designated to carry out the provisions of the Older Americans Act (``OAA'' or ``The Act'') of 1965, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 3001 et seq. Serves as the effective and visible advocate for older persons within the Department of Health and Human Services and with other Federal departments and agencies. Directly assists the Secretary in all matters pertaining to problems of the aging. Advocates for the needs of older persons in program planning and policy development within the Department and in other Federal agencies. Gives priority to older persons in greatest economic or social need. Develops standards and issues best practice guidelines; disseminates information; provides technical assistance; and initiates policy related to services funded by the Department and provided to older persons. Advises the Secretary, Department components and other Federal departments and agencies on the characteristics, circumstances and needs of older people and develops policies, plans and programs designed to promote their welfare; under Title III of the Act (45 CFR part 1321) administers a program of formula grants to States to establish State and community programs for older persons; administers a program of grants to American Indians, Alaskan Natives and Native Hawaiians to establish programs for older Native Americans under Title VI of the Act (45 CFR parts 1326 and 1328). Provides policy and procedural direction, advice and assistance to States and Native American grantees to promote the development of State and Native American administered, community-based systems of comprehensive social services for older persons. Administers long term care ombudsman and protective services programs, legal services development programs, and outreach, counseling and assistance programs for older people under Title VII of the Act. Approves or disapproves State plans and Native American funding applications. Administers programs of training, research and demonstration under Title IV of the Act. Administers national centers for service development and assistance, and information dissemination benefitting older persons. Promotes through the State and Area Agencies on Aging and Indian Tribal Organizations a national community-based long term care program for older persons. Develops and issues program designs, guidelines, standards and assistance to State and Area Agencies, Indian Tribal Organizations and nutrition providers to support Titles III and VI nutrition services and disseminate nutrition education material. Delete B.10 and replace with the following: B.10 Organization. The Administration on Aging is headed by the Assistant Secretary for Aging and consists of: Office of the Assistant Secretary Office of Field Operations Regional Offices Office of Administration and Management Division of Budget and Finance Division of Management Systems Division of Grants Management Division of Information Resources Management Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Program Operations and Intergovernmental Affairs Executive Secretariat Office of State and Community Programs Division of Program Management and Analysis Division of Community-Based Services Office for American Indian, Alaskan Native and Native Hawaiian Programs Office of Policy Coordination and Analysis Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Program Development and Elder Rights Programs Office of Research, Demonstration and Training Office of Dissemination and Utilization Office of Elder Rights Protection Delete B.20, A&hyph;I, and replace with the following: B.20. Functions. A. Office of the Assistant Secretary (BA) The Office of the Assistant Secretary serves as the focal point for OAA programs through the development, coordination and administration of those programs nationwide. Serves as the effective and visible advocate within the Federal government to ensure the rights and entitlements of the elderly. Conducts active public education of officials, citizens, and the aged to ensure broad understanding of the needs and capabilities of the aged.
