FR940506-0-00028 FR940506-0-00012 The Commission finds that the flag proposal identifying when interruptible capacity is flowing at constraint points provides a reasonable compromise between informing users that firm capacity may be available at certain locations and the costs of providing that information. With the addition of information on interruptible capacity provided by the ``flag,'' shippers will have a sufficiently broad range of information about capacity availability. They will know the amount of capacity available at points (operationally available capacity), whether firm capacity is available at constraint points (interruptible flag), the firm capacity available through posted release transactions, and the unsubscribed firm capacity available from the pipeline. This information should be sufficient for shippers to make reasonable decisions about the transportation option to select. The Working Groups must include the interruptible flag in the next iteration of the data sets. V. Electronic Data Interchange A. ASCII Flat File Downloads In addition to adopting the consensus agreement to require EBB operators to provide for electronic file downloading using EDI, the Commission also required pipelines to make the data sets available in a standardized ASCII flat file format in an effort to ease the transition to EDI for those not familiar with this technology. The Gas*Flow group, which was to develop the EDI implementation guide, also was to provide the ASCII flat file formats. A number of parties seek rehearing or modification of the requirement to provide downloads in a standardized ASCII flat file format. 26 They contend the requirement for ASCII flat file downloads goes beyond the consensus agreement of Working Group 4, which left the provision of ASCII flat file downloads up to the pipeline. They assert that imposing a redundant download capability is costly and provides little benefit. Natural and INGAA contend the requirement is unjustified since only two comments on the NOPR requested ASCII flat file downloads and the Commission failed to make an effort to estimate the number of customers wanting to use ASCII flat files. Tenneco Gas maintains ASCII flat file downloads pose a risk to the receiver of information, because they do not contain the safeguards inherent in the ASC X12 process. AER/MRT assert the Commission should limit the requirement to provide ASCII flat file downloads to seven months, which will provide a sufficient transition period while reducing the burden on the pipeline to maintain two formats indefinitely. A number of parties also argue that Gas*Flow will not be supporting ASCII flat file standards because such an effort goes beyond its charter. 27 26 AER/MRT, INGAA, Natural, PEC Pipeline Group, Tenneco Gas, TGPL, Working Groups 1 & 2. 27 Natural, TGPL, Tenneco Gas, Working Groups 1 & 2.
