FR941004-1-00050 FR941004-1-00015 Small scale logging on the privately-owned lands within the boundary of the Sierra National Forest has destroyed some plants and continues to threaten some populations of Carpenteria californica (J. Clines, pers. comm., 1993). Heavy equipment is driven across the plant populations to access the logging sites, and some plants are destroyed. Proposed placer gold mining for a mining operation on private land threatens several populations of Allium tuolumnense (Robin Wood, in. litt., 1993; Pat Stone, in. litt., 1993). The proposed project is currently on hold. If planning were to resume, the resulting operation would adversely affect this plant through the placement of overburden on the plants occurring at these sites. Recreational gold mining and trampling associated with that activity adversely affects the four populations of Verbena californica at Six Bit Gulch, which contain 15 percent of the total individuals of the species (B. Rogers, pers. comm., 1992; CDFG 1993). Conversion of land to agricultural uses threatens three of the subject species. Fritillaria striata was once known from the Frazier Valley, Porterville, Lindsay, and Strathmore. Agricultural land conversion has extirpated four populations of F. striata from those areas (Stebbins 1989). Most of the existing known populations of F. striata are threatened by agricultural land conversion, overgrazing, competition from nonnative grasses, and urbanization (Stebbins 1989). The spread of citrus orchards threatens three populations of F. striata at the lower elevations on the slopes of Lewis Hill near Frazier Valley (Stebbins 1989, 1991). One population of Mimulus shevockii is threatened with agricultural land conversion (CNDDB 1993). The type locality of Navarretia setiloba was extirpated by agricultural land conversion. B. Overutilization for commercial, recreational, scientific, or educational purposes. Overutilization is not currently known to be a factor for these 10 plants but unrestricted collecting for scientific or horticultural purposes or excessive visits by individuals interested in seeing rare plants could result from increased publicity following publication of this proposal. Carpenteria californica is well established in the cultivation and horticultural trade both in California and England. The plant is propagated by cuttings and is not threatened by collecting in the wild. C. Disease or predation. One population of Calyptridium pulchellum is potentially threatened by grazing (CNDDB 1993). Two populations of Verbena californica and eight populations of Allium tuolumnense that occur on lands managed by BLM in the Red Hills are grazed by cattle. Observations in Andrews Creek in the Red Hills indicate that Verbena californica is able to withstand only light grazing before it disappears (Rogers 1983). Plants of V. californica were heavily cropped and noticeably smaller than in ungrazed sites (BioSystems Analysis 1984). Although current grazing levels do not appear to be adversely affecting these species, changes in timing or an increase in the number of animals grazing in the area is a potential threat to these populations. Moderate to heavy grazing adversely affects Clarkia springvillensis and Lupinus citrinus var. deflexus at five sites (CDFG 1987, CNPS 1990). The largest population of C. springvillensis, containing more plants than the other six populations combined, is protected in a 1.8 hectare (4.5 acre) ecological preserve owned by the California Department of Fish and Game (CNDDB 1993). The preserve boundary was not surveyed. The original fence was placed some distance off the boundary line and included some adjacent land. This error has protected a substantial portion of the currently extant population of C. springvillensis from the heavy grazing that occurs outside the fenced exclosure. If, in the future, the fence is placed on the actual boundary, livestock grazing could adversely impact approximately half the remaining C. springvillensis on this site (CDFG 1989). Another population of C. springvillensis on the Sequoia National Forest is potentially threatened by overgrazing (CNDDB 1993). Heavy grazing by domestic livestock and rodents adversely affects three of four populations of Fritillaria striata in Kern County and a fourth population in Tulare County (Stebbins 1989, CNDDB 1993). In addition to grazing, trampling of individual plants by livestock in populations in Kern County also negatively affects this species (Stebbins 1989, CNDDB 1993). Overgrazing currently adversely affects portions of two populations of Carpenteria californica in Fresno County (CNDDB 1993). Clarkia springvillensis is susceptible to predation by the larvae of sphinx moths (Sphingidae). Larvae of this moth were observed feeding on the plant at one site (CDFG 1987). Sphinx moth predation may occur at other sites as well. However, the extent to which this factor threatens the plant is not known. High numbers of California ground squirrels ( Spermophilus beecheyi ) frequently are associated with heavily grazed areas in the southern San Joaquin Valley and adjacent foothills. Ground squirrels likely feed on the subject plant species in addition to cattle in heavily grazed areas.
