FR940110-1-00059 FR940110-1-00006 The Board has determined that an estimate for reasonable utility costs should be included in the determination of rents charged to households under this section, if they are not already included in the projected rents. Including utility costs would reduce the housing cost burden for very low-income households under the AHP, and would allow all rental projects to be treated equally, since some projects include the cost of utilities in the rent, while others do not include such costs in the rent. Including utility costs would be consistent with the treatment of rents in other federal housing programs, such as HUD's Section 8 program and the LIHTC program. It also would be consistent with the treatment of rents under the AHP's 20 percent requirement, which is currently an interim rule of the Board, and which is incorporated in §960.9(c) of this proposed rule. (See discussion of 20 percent requirement below.) The definition of ``affordable for low- or moderate-income households'' in §960.1 of the proposed rule is similar to the above definition, except that the household must have an income of 80 percent, instead of 50 percent, of the median income for the area, since the Act defines a ``low- or moderate-income household'' as any household which has an income of 80 percent or less of the area median. 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(13)(A). (ii) Sale of AHP-assisted rental housing project. Section 960.5(a)(3) of the proposed rule provides that an owner of an AHP-assisted rental housing project may sell the project prior to the end of the long-term period during which the project's rental units, or applicable portion thereof, must remain affordable for and occupied by households with incomes at or below the levels committed to in the AHP application; however, either: a. The purchaser must agree to continue the project's rental units, or applicable portion thereof, as affordable for and occupied by households with incomes at or below the levels committed to in the AHP application for the remainder of the long-term period committed to in the AHP application, and must agree to be subject to the same restrictions on resale that applied to the seller; or b. If the purchaser does not satisfy the requirements in paragraph a. above, and if the Bank provided a direct subsidy to the applicant which was passed on as a grant to the seller, the seller must repay a pro rata portion of the grant as provided in §960.16(d)(1); or c. If the purchaser does not satisfy the requirements in paragraph a. above, and if the Bank provided a subsidized advance to the applicant which in turn provided a below market rate loan to the seller, then the provisions of §960.16(d)(2) shall apply. Proposed §960.5(b) further provides that the Bank's AHP implementation plan shall permit the owner of an AHP-assisted rental housing project to sell such project as provided for in paragraph (a)(3). D. Establishment of AHP Funding Cycles and Available AHP Subsidies Section 960.6(a)(1) of the proposed rule requires each Bank to establish at least two but no more than four AHP funding cycles per year during which applications for AHP subsidized advances or direct subsidies will be accepted. This is a change from the Board's existing AHP regulation, which provides that the Banks may accept AHP applications during two of four quarterly periods each year. See 12 CFR 960.4(a). Section 960.6(a)(1) of the proposed rule also provides that the AHP funding cycle schedule, including application due dates, is to be determined by the Bank in its discretion, but shall allow for sufficient time intervals to ensure an adequate pool of applicants to compete in each funding cycle. The funding cycles schedule, including application due dates, shall be described in detail in the Bank's AHP implementation plan. This is also a change from the Board's existing AHP regulation, which sets forth specific application due dates. See 12 CFR 960.4(a). Section 960.6(a)(2) of the proposed rule provides that each Bank shall inform the general public and its members of the number and dates of its AHP funding cycles for the year and the approximate amount of available AHP subsidies for each funding cycle at least 45 calendar days before the due date for AHP applications for the first funding cycle for the year. This is a change from the Board's existing AHP regulation, which requires each Bank to announce its funding cycles by December 1 of the preceding year, and to notify only its members of the approximate amount of AHP subsidies to be offered in each funding cycle. See 12 CFR 960.4(a), (b).
