FR941102-1-00019 FR941102-1-00005 Although the two proposals vary in some details, they share many fundamental characteristics. Basically, the poolco would be an independent entity that would not own any (or would own only a limited number of) facilities, but would control the operation of some or all generators, and all transmission facilities, in a region. The poolco would be open to all generators connected to the grid, who would automatically receive any transmission service needed to sell power into the regional pool. In effect, the poolco would be responsible for creating and maintaining a regional spot market for electricity. The spot price in each trading period (perhaps hour-by-hour) would be readily available and made known to all market participants. Generating resources would be centrally dispatched on an hourly basis by the poolco in much the same way as in current power pools. The principal difference appears to be that generators would be dispatched based on the bid price they submit to the poolco, rather than on their running costs. The poolco would operate a least-cost (in the sense of lowest bid) dispatch that accounts for any transmission constraints in the same manner as an existing power pool or a single utility dispatch center. Generators would be paid the market-clearing price 6 during each hour, as opposed to the bid price that each generator submitted to the poolco. 7 Likewise, distributors would pay the market-clearing price in each hour. Consequently, the poolco would break even in its basic dispatch function, since distributors would pay to the poolco what the generators would receive from the poolco. 6 The market-clearing price is the highest bid price of any generator that is selected to provide service to the poolco in an hour. Each successful bidder would receive this price, regardless of whether its bid price was less than the market-clearing price. 7 This method of pricing creates an incentive for each generator to bid near its marginal running cost, since it would risk losses if it bids less than its running costs and the poolco selects it to run, and it would risk losses if it bids more than its running costs and the poolco does not select it to run. In effect, the poolco would become the market clearinghouse for the hourly energy market. Under the poolco concept, dispatch benefits are implicitly allocated among sellers and buyers by the spot trading at a market-clearing price. The poolco would have no further role in dividing or allocating benefits. Also, the proposed poolco would have no role in long-term energy or capacity markets. Generators and distributors could enter into contracts outside the poolco. Under San Diego's poolco concept as currently proposed, 8 spot prices would vary from one geographical location to another to reflect transmission constraints. 9 This would allow the spot trading to be conducted at a price that reflects the real ability and limitations of the grid to move power from low-cost to high-cost areas. The proposal includes opportunity cost pricing for grid congestion, as well as tradable capacity rights. 8 We understand that both San Diego's and Edison's proposals continue to be revised, and that the two proposals may become more similar as details are worked out. 9 Under Edison's proposal, in contrast, spot prices would not reflect transmission constraints. While the poolco concept contains many similarities to existing power pools, it appears that significant differences exist between a traditional power pool and a poolco, particularly with respect to both generation and transmission pricing. Although a traditional power pool generally has flexible cost-based pricing schemes, 10 we understand that a fundamental characteristic of the California poolco concept is that all short-term power sales would occur at a market-clearing price. In other words, whereas in a traditional power pool the offer-price mechanisms are cost-based, in the California poolco proposal they would be based on economic bids with an incentive to bid at or near the utility's marginal running costs. 10 These range from split-savings ( e.g. , Pennsylvania-New Jersey-Maryland Interconnection (PJM)) to a rate that falls under a price cap based on pool members' composite costs (Mid-Continent Area Power Pool (MAPP)). Another difference between traditional power pools and the California poolco proposals is their membership. Today, some power pool agreements include explicit membership criteria. Most include no explicit provisions addressing the admission of new members. However, most existing pools to some extent limit membership. On the other hand, the California poolco proposals, as we understand them, would require open membership for at least all bulk power participants.
