FR940926-1-00028 FR940926-1-00010 Participants in the CDQ pollock fisheries include the Western Alaska community groups that have been allocated pollock quota and the processors with which they contract for the harvest and processing of the quota. In 1993 and 1994, the roe season CDQ pollock fisheries occurred immediately after the close of the open access roe season, when the proportion of mature roe produced was still quite high. Under the proposed action, CDQ harvests likely would occur between January 20 and January 26 and after the offshore component fishery closed. In either case, if the offshore component roe season delay achieves the primary objective of allowing this fishery to be prosecuted when pollock roe maturity is optimum, the overall gross wholesale value of the pollock CDQ fishery would be reduced. However, based on the volume of pollock harvested and the number of participants in the fisheries, an increase in the value of roe production during the offshore component fishery (due to increased roe quality) probably would be greater than the decrease in the value of roe production in the CDQ fisheries. Allocation, coordinated season timing, and impacts on other fisheries. The proposed action is intended to discourage vessels participating in the offshore component pollock fishery from contributing to increased fishing effort in other fisheries prior to the start of the offshore component roe season on January 26. Under the proposed action, vessels used to participate in a BSAI groundfish fishery, a GOA groundfish fishery, or the BSAI king or Tanner crab fishery would be prevented from entering the offshore component pollock fishery until February 5_10 days after the opening of the offshore component roe season. The intent of this action is to encourage vessel owners to choose between fishing for pollock or for another species, thus minimizing any preemptive impacts on other fisheries that may otherwise occur under the proposed delay of the pollock roe season. Costs. Vessels used to participate in a BSAI or GOA groundfish fishery or the BSAI king or Tanner crab fisheries prior to January 26 would be prohibited from participating in the offshore pollock fishery before February 5. This limitation could impose costs on those vessels that target on more than one species during the pollock roe season. These vessels would be precluded from participating in other fisheries prior to the roe season if they also wanted to continue their pollock target fisheries. If approved by NMFS, the Council's recommended action to delay the offshore component pollock roe season would be effective only through December 31, 1995, when regulations authorizing the allocation of pollock between the inshore and offshore component expire. Continued effectiveness of the proposed delay would require new rulemaking contingent on the implementation of a separate FMP amendment that would authorize inshore/offshore groundfish allocations beyond 1995. Classification NMFS prepared an IRFA as part of the RIR, which concludes that this proposed rule, if adopted, could have significant effects on a substantial number of small entities (i.e., small businesses, small organizations, and small governmental jurisdictions with limited resources). The Western Alaska community groups that have received CDQs in the pollock fishery are considered small entities, because they are government jurisdictions with populations less than 50,000. The proposed action would delay the start date of the offshore pollock roe season in the BSAI in order to increase the wholesale value of roe production in the open access fishery. If this action is successful in its purpose, the value of roe production in the CDQ pollock fisheries would probably decline, thereby reducing revenue to the Western Alaska community groups. The reduction in revenue generated from the CDQ program could have a ``significant impact'' on these small entities by reducing their annual gross revenues by more than 5 percent. This proposed rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 675 Fisheries, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: September 20, 1994. Gary Matlock, Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service.
