FR941005-0-00002 FR941005-0-00001 OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 5 CFR Part 846 RIN: 3206&hyph;AE01 Deemed Elections of Coverage Under the Federal Employees Retirement System AGENCY: Office of Personnel Management. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) is adopting, as final, its interim regulations to allow employees to remain covered by the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS), if their employing agency erroneously placed them under FERS during the period when they would have had the opportunity to elect FERS coverage. These regulations deem employees to have elected FERS coverage unless they notify the employing agency that they do not want to be deemed to have elected FERS. These regulations are necessary to prevent the agency error from depriving such employees of their statutory right to have elected FERS coverage. EFFECTIVE DATE: November 4, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Harold L. Siegleman, (202) 606&hyph;0299. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On September 13, 1993, we published (at 58 FR 47821) interim regulations to allow employees to remain covered by the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS), if their employing agency erroneously placed them under FERS during the period when they would have had the opportunity to elect FERS coverage. The interim regulations establish a procedure under which employees (who were denied the opportunity to elect FERS coverage because their employing agency erroneously placed them under FERS) would be deemed to have elected FERS coverage unless they notify the employing agency that they do not want to be deemed to have elected FERS. We designed the procedure to minimize the actions that both an agency and an employee would be required to perform to correct records. We received four comments on the interim regulations. All of the comments were supportive of the concept of allowing this group of employees the opportunity to have FERS coverage. The commenters expressed their concerns with specific aspects of our interim method for choosing FERS coverage. One commenter expressed concern that our proposal was too narrow because it failed to cover employees who were correctly placed under full CSRS, CSRS offset, or social security only, but were incorrectly or never informed of their opportunity to elect FERS. We believe that the decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Killip v. Office of Personnel Management, 991 F.2d 1564 (Fed. Cir. 1993), leaves us without authority to permit coverage elections except for the situation of employees who were incorrectly denied any right of election whatsoever during the election period provided by statute. Specifically, the court determined that OPM did not have authority to allow retroactive belated FERS elections made after June 30, 1988, on the basis that the employing agency provided incomplete information to the employee, or that the employee was otherwise prevented form making an informed election by circumstances beyond the employee's control. Although the court decision technically applies only to elections that should have been made during the 1987 open season, the court's analysis is equally applicable to cases of employees rehired after the open season. We believe that the court decision prevents us from allowing retroactive transfers by any employees who did have an opportunity to make an election, regardless of circumstances that may have prevented the employee from making an informed election. Accordingly, we could not adopt this suggestion. Three commenters requested that we provide more information about the procedures that agencies will be expected to follow when implementing the regulations. We will provide agencies with instructions on documenting elections and correction of records under these regulations in the usual manner, through a payroll office letter. Three commenters objected to the interim procedure that deems the employee to have elected FERS coverage unless the employee informs the agency of the desire not to be covered by FERS. Each objected for different reasons.
