FR940706-0-00079 FR940706-0-00015 (4) Comparison of outlays with budget amounts for each award. Whenever appropriate, financial information should be related to performance and unit cost data. (5) Written procedures to minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds to the recipient from the U.S. Treasury and the issuance or redemption of checks, warrants or payments by other means for program purposes by the recipient. To the extent that the provisions of the Cash Management Improvement Act (CMIA) (Pub. L. 101&hyph;453) govern, payment methods of State agencies, instrumentalities, and fiscal agents shall be consistent with CMIA Treasury-State Agreements or the CMIA default procedures codified at 31 CFR Part 205_Withdrawal of Cash from the Treasury for Advances under Federal Grant and Other Programs. (6) Written procedures for determining the reasonableness, allocability, and allowability of costs in accordance with the provisions of the applicable Federal cost principles and the terms and conditions of the award. (7) Accounting records including cost accounting records that are supported by source documentation. (c) Where the Federal Government guarantees or insures the repayment of money borrowed by the recipient, the Secretary may require adequate bonding and insurance if the bonding and insurance requirements of the recipient are not deemed adequate to protect the interest of the Federal Government. (d) The Secretary may require adequate fidelity bond coverage where the recipient lacks sufficient coverage to protect the Federal Government's interest. (e) Where bonds are required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the bonds shall be obtained from companies holding certificates of authority as acceptable sureties, as prescribed in 31 CFR Part 223_Surety Companies Doing Business with the United States. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110) ยง74.22 Payment. (a) Payment methods shall minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds from the United States Treasury and the issuance or redemption of checks, warrants, or payment by other means by the recipients. Payment methods of State agencies or instrumentalities shall be consistent with Treasury-State CMIA agreements or default procedures codified at 31 CFR Part 205. (b)(1) Recipients are paid in advance, provided they maintain or demonstrate the willingness to maintain_ (i) Written procedures that minimize the time elapsing between the transfer of funds and disbursement by the recipient; and (ii) Financial management systems that meet the standards for fund control and accountability as established in ยง74.21. (2) Cash advances to a recipient organization are limited to the minimum amounts needed and be timed to be in accordance with the actual, immediate cash requirements of the recipient organization in carrying out the purpose of the approved program or project. (3) The timing and amount of cash advances are as close as is administratively feasible to the actual disbursements by the recipient organization for direct program or project costs and the proportionate share of any allowable indirect costs. (c) Whenever possible, advances are consolidated to cover anticipated cash needs for all awards made by the Secretary. (1) Advance payment mechanisms include, but are not limited to, Treasury check, and electronic funds transfer. (2) Advance payment mechanisms are subject to 31 CFR Part 205. (3) Recipients are authorized to submit requests for advances and reimbursements at least monthly when electronic fund transfers are not used. (d) Requests for Treasury check advance payment shall be submitted on SF&hyph;270_Request for Advance or Reimbursement_or other forms as may be authorized by OMB. This form is not to be used when Treasury check advance payments are made to the recipient automatically through the use of a predetermined payment schedule or if precluded by ED instructions for electronic funds transfer. (e) Reimbursement is the preferred method when the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section cannot be met. The Secretary may also use this method on any construction agreement, or if the major portion of the construction project is accomplished through private market financing or Federal loans, and the Federal assistance constitutes a minor portion of the project. (1) When the reimbursement method is used, the Secretary makes payment within 30 days after receipt of the billing, unless the billing is improper. (2) Recipients are authorized to submit request for reimbursement at least monthly when electronic funds transfers are not used. (f) If a recipient cannot meet the criteria for advance payments and the Secretary has determined that reimbursement is not feasible because the recipient lacks sufficient working capital, the Secretary may provide cash on a working capital advance basis. Under this procedure, the Secretary advances cash to the recipient to cover its estimated disbursement needs for an initial period generally geared to the awardee's disbursing cycle. Thereafter, the Secretary reimburses the recipient for its actual cash disbursements. The working capital advance method of payment is not used for recipients unwilling or unable to provide timely advances to their subrecipient to meet the subrecipient's actual cash disbursements. (g) To the extent available, recipients shall disburse funds available from repayments to and interest earned on a revolving fund, program income, rebates, refunds, contract settlements, audit recoveries, and interest earned on these funds before requesting additional cash payments.
