FR940414-0-00047 FR940414-0-00019 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Office of the Secretary 43 CFR Part 12 RIN 1090&hyph;AA37 Administrative and Audit Requirements and Cost Principles for Assistance Programs AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, Interior. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This action finalizes a rule implementing for grants and cooperative agreements, the Secretarial Outreach Issue Paper Decision_Issue 4_Endorsement of Commercial Products or Services. Former Secretary Lujan determined that as a matter of Departmental policy, there should be a provision in all contracts (exceeding $25,000), assistance agreements, and Memoranda of Understanding/Agreement (MOAs) which would prevent the nongovernmental party from using the arrangement to imply Government endorsement of a product, service or position which the recipient represents in its commercial advertising. EFFECTIVE DATE: May 16. 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dean A. Titcomb, (Chief, Acquisition and Assistance Division), (202) 208&hyph;6431. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Department published a notice of proposed rulemaking in the August 6, 1992, Federal Register (57 FR 34755&hyph;34756). Bureaus and offices within the Department are entering into a variety of partnership agreements with profit and nonprofit organizations, through which the bureaus receive support of various kinds. This may include dissemination of information about programs, promotion of activities of mutual interest which further those programs, and generation of financial and other types of support, where authorized. These types of agreements are consistent with a Department emphasis on partnerships and cooperative efforts to accomplish public purposes, and therefore are encouraged. However, under these agreements, there is risk that certain promotional material produced under the agreement, such as publications, advertisements in newspapers, magazines, and on television, might improperly infer agency endorsement of a product, service, or position which the recipient represents. Following the consideration of several alternative policies and procedures to ensure compliance with these provisions in various types of contracts and agreements, the former Secretary decided to adopt the policy of including a provision that prohibits the recipient/contractor from using improper endorsements in promotional material in all contracts (exceeding $25,000), assistance agreements, and Memoranda of Understanding/Agreement. Comments on the Proposed Rule One public comment was received by the Department. The commenter stated that, as a private nonprofit organization, it serves as an adviser to the Federal Government and that their credibility is maximized by the recognized impartiality of the institution. In order to maintain this objectivity, it has been their long-standing policy not to accept contractual provisions that would permit a sponsor to control either the timing of the release or the information contained in their final reports. Copies of the reports are provided to sponsors up to fourteen days before release to the public, but there is no obligation on their part to accept comments or to incorporate suggested changes. The commenter also stated that the proposed coverage in §12.2(d)(2)(i) for non-research awards which would require prior Government approval for public information releases, would not be acceptable for work done by their organization and would require time consuming waivers on each instrument awarded by the Department prior to acceptance by them. The suggestion was made to include nonprofit organizations, in addition to *␣*␣* ``a Sate or local government *␣*␣*,'' as an exception to the coverage in §12.2(d)(2), or to authorize the use of the wording in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) for research awards in all of their agreements. The Department does not accept the suggestion to exclude nonprofit organizations from coverage, because this would be contrary to the basic intent of the policy to exclude only governmental parties. The commenter stated that the proposed coverage for research awards was acceptable.
