FR940119-0-00048 FR940119-0-00014 Response: The Council must provide the appropriate rationale and economic and biological analysis when determining whether adjustments, or additional management measures, are necessary to meet the goals and objectives of the rebuilding program of the FMP. Comment: An industry association requested clarification of the regulations relating to when a DAS starts and ends. Response: §650.24(c)(2) has been modified to explain more clearly how DAS accrue under both the VTS and the call-in monitoring system. Comment: An industry association requested that the Regional Director send notices to permit holders regarding VTS performance criteria and approval, including costs. Response: In addition to publishing a list of approved VTS vendors in the Federal Register , all sea scallop permit holders will receive the information by letter from the Regional Director. As to costs, vessel owners will have to contact the individual vendors. Comment: An industry association questioned the necessity for VTS vendors to have the capacity to archive vessel position histories and suggested that the requirement, with its related cost imposed on a non-fishing industry, is not within the realm of the Magnuson Act. Response: This requirement only applies to vendors that volunteer to meet the specifications and provide VTS units to vessels in the fishery. The specification is necessary to comply with the Council's intent to provide NMFS with the capability to monitor and enforce the number of DAS used by each individual vessel issued DAS allocations. Changes From the Proposed Rule Changes were made to several sections of the proposed rule to clarify the measures and to ensure consistency with other regulations. In addition, substantive changes were made to the following sections: In §650.2, the definitions for Authorized officer, Fishing, or to fish, and NMFS were deleted because they are set forth in 50 CFR part 620, which provides general Magnuson Act provisions. In §650.2, the definition of an Operator was modified to add the phrase ``or other individual on board'', to clarify further the person in charge of the vessel while fishing. In §650.2, the definition of a Vessel Tracking System was modified to add the phrase ``as set forth in §650.25(a)(2) and approved ``, to clarify further the meaning of a Vessel Tracking System. In §650.3, paragraph (b) was added to clarify the relationship between state and Federal regulations for Atlantic sea scallops. In §650.4, the narrative within the first paragraph and paragraph (a) was modified to add the phrase ``and carry on board an authorizing letter issued under §650.4(a)(9)(vi)(D),'' to clarify how vessels appealing a denial of a limited access scallop permit may continue to fish. In §650.4, paragraph (a)(1)(i), the phrase ``and its owner'' was added in order to be consistent with following sections that refer to both vessel and vessel owner. In §650.4, paragraph (a)(1)(i)(D), the phrase ``and the vessel meets the criteria described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.'' was deleted because it was not accurate. In §650.4, paragraph (a)(1)(iii) and (d), the phrase ``Applications for limited access scallop permits under this section will not be accepted after 12 months after the effective date of the final regulations for Amendment 4.'' was replaced with ``Applications for limited access scallop permits under this section will not be accepted after December 31, 1994.'', to clarify that applications for 1994 permits must be received by the end of the calendar year. In §650.4, paragraph (a)(4)(ii), the sentence ``For undocumented vessels, net tonnage does not apply.'' was added to clarify further the requirements for replacement vessels. In §650.4, paragraph (a)(5)(ii) was modified to add the sentence, ``This type of upgrade may be done separately from an engine horsepower upgrade.'', in order to clarify further the requirements for upgrading a vessel. In §650.4, paragraph (a)(7) (i) and (ii), ``March 1, 1994,'' was added for clarification and consistency with the beginning effective date of the moratorium on limited access scallop permits. In §650.4, paragraph (a)(9)(vi), the heading was modified to add the phrase ``of a limited access scallop permit denial'' in order to clarify that the appeal process under this paragraph applies only to limited access scallop permit denial. The paragraph was further modified to add the phrase ``if the vessel has on board a letter of authorization from the Regional Director'' to clarify the requirements that vessels fishing under appeal must carry on board the letter issued under §650.4(a)(9)(vi)(D). In §650.4, paragraph (a)(9)(vi)(D) was modified to add the sentence, ``If the appeal is denied, The Regional Director shall send a notice of denial to the vessel owner; the authorizing letter becomes invalid 5 days after receipt of the notice of denial.'', to clarify how vessel owners will be notified in the event of a denial of the appeal of a limited access scallop permit. In §650.5, paragraph (c) was modified to add the sentence, ``Further, such operators must agree as a condition of this permit that if the permit is suspended or revoked pursuant to 15 CFR part 904, the operator cannot be on board any fishing vessel issued a Federal Fisheries Permit or any vessel subject to Federal fishing regulations while the vessel is at sea or engaged in offloading.'' This phrase was included under §650.5(n) in the proposed rule and is repeated in this section in the final rule to increase awareness of this provision. In §650.5, paragraph (n) was modified to add the phrase ``while the vessel is at sea or engaged in offloading'', to allow vessel operators to conduct business activity on board a vessel when the vessel is not engaged in any type of fishing activity.
