FR940317-2-00125 FR940317-2-00078 Thursday March 17, 1994 Part VI Department of Commerce National Institute of Standards and Technology Manufacturing Extension Partnership Program; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 52␣/␣Thursday, March 17, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Institute of Standards and Technology [Docket No. 940247&hyph;4047] Manufacturing Extension Partnership Program AGENCY: National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Technology Administration, Commerce. ACTION: Notice of availability of funds. SUMMARY: The National Institute of Standards and Technology invites proposals from qualified organizations for funding for projects that accomplish any one of the following objectives: Program Planning: To support the creation of a program plan for a state-wide, coordinated technology extension system to enhance the competitiveness of small and medium-sized manufacturers through the application of technology. Program Implementation: To support the initial implementation of a comprehensive state-wide industrial extension program or the pilot testing of new program and service concepts to help small and medium-sized manufacturers improve productivity and competitiveness. Regional Linkages: To support inter-state or multi-state efforts to expand the scope and enhance the effectiveness of technical assistance services available regionally to small and medium-sized manufacturers. Program Planning projects are open to all states, regardless of state size, industrial density/sparseness, or number of existing industrial assistance programs. For Program Implementation and Regional Linkages projects, NIST plans to give priority consideration to projects having the best potential to benefit areas with relatively sparse distribution of industry, or low industry density areas that do not lend themselves to large extension centers as a method of service delivery. DATES: Proposals will be accepted until 4 p.m. EDT on April 18, 1994. It is the responsibility of applicants to ensure that their proposals are received at the Manufacturing Extension Partnership office by the time and date stated. Proposals received after the closing time and date will be returned.
