FR940524-1-00036 FR940524-1-00010 Section 84.182␣Isoamyl Acetate Tightness Test; Respirators With Replaceable Filters; Minimum Requirements This section would be redesignated from existing §11.140&hyph;2 with the test unchanged. Because the proposal would not classify respirators designed for protection against dusts, fumes and mists having an air contamination level less than 0.05 milligram per cubic meter, or radionuclides, the test would be redirected to evaluate the performance of particulate respirators with replaceable filters. Section 84.183␣Airflow-Resistance Tests Section 84.183 would be redesignated from §11.140&hyph;9, modified to delete the final inhalation resistance requirements. The proposed instantaneous-penetration tests are not designed to simulate loading of the filter at the worksite, and represent a significant change in the testing philosophy from the existing requirements. Therefore, these requirements would not be necessary or appropriate with the introduction of these new tests. Section 84.184␣Particulate Instantaneous-Penetration-Filter Test This section would be new. Section 84.184 would specify the test criteria and acceptable performance criteria for the new particulate instantaneous-penetration-filter test. Paragraph (a) would require the instantaneous-penetration efficiency testing of 30 filters of each particulate respirator model. Testing would be conducted using a solid particulate aerosol or an oil liquid particulate aerosol for solid particulate certification and both liquid and solid particulate certification, respectively. Paragraph (b) would apply to filters having separable air-purifying elements. All the respirator's air-purifying elements, including the element's holders and gaskets, are specified to be installed on the respirator as used when mounted for testing. Paragraph (c) would require the preconditioning of all air-purifying elements of the respirators prior to testing. The elements, removed from their packaging, are placed in an environment of 85 # 5 percent relative humidity at 38 # 2.5 degrees celsius (100 # 4.5 degrees fahrenheit) for 25 # 1 hours. Following the humidity conditioning, filters are required to be sealed in a gas-tight container until tested. Paragraph (d) would apply to filters having non-separable air-purifying elements. It would require the exhalation valves to be sealed during the testing. Sealing of the valves would ensure that the test results were not affected by any valve leakage, if present. Paragraph (e) would specify the continuous test-aerosol airflow rates to be used in testing single and paired filters. Respirators with a single filter are penetration-tested at a continuous airflow rate of 85 liters (3.0 cubic feet) per minute # 5 percent. For pairs, the test-aerosol airflow rate would be 42.5 liters (1.5 cubic feet) per minute # 5 percent through each filter. This airflow rate is representative of a high work rate. These test conditions would ensure that a sufficient number of particulates are applied to the filter during the test period to provide an adequate indication of the efficiency of the filters. Paragraph (f) would specify the test criteria for powered air-purifying particulate respirators (PAPRs). The PAPRs are penetration tested while operating in their routine operational mode. This would require fully-charged batteries, if so equipped, or at normal line voltage, if line-powered. PAPRs with loose fitting facepieces are tested in a free-flow mode, while those with tight-fitting facepieces are tested on a headform connected to a breathing machine or equivalent breathing device. The breathing machine would have a workrate cam of 622 kp-m/min. operated at a rate of 24 respirations per minute with a minute volume of 40 liters. Paragraph (g) would describe the penetration test aerosols and the test criteria to be used. A sodium chloride solid aerosol would be used when testing for filter leakage of solid particulate aerosols. A neutralized-dioctyl phthalate (DOP), or equivalent oil, liquid aerosol would be specified as the testing agent when testing for filter leakage of liquid particulate aerosols. The penetration test would be continued until maximum penetration is achieved or until an aerosol mass of at least 200 # 5 mg for non-powered respirators, or at least 2,000 # 50 mg for powered air-purifying respirators, has contacted the filter unit. Paragraph (g)(1) would identify the test conditions for the sodium chloride solid aerosol to be at 25 # 5 degrees celsius (77 # 9 degrees fahrenheit) and relative humidity of less than 30 percent. The aerosol specified to be used in these tests would be neutralized to the Boltzmann equilibrium state, and the maximum concentration would not exceed 200 mg/m3. Paragraph (g)(2) would specify the DOP or equivalent oil, liquid particulate aerosol. The test conditions for the liquid aerosol are specified to be at 25 # 5 degrees celsius. The aerosol specified to be used in these tests would be neutralized to the Boltzmann equilibrium state, and the maximum concentration would not exceed 200 mg/m3. Paragraph (h) would specify the particle size limitations at the test conditions for the filter-penetration-test aerosols. The sodium chloride aerosol would have a particle size distribution with count median diameter between 0.06 and 0.11 micrometer and a standard geometric deviation not exceeding 1.84. The liquid particulate aerosol would have a particle size distribution with count median diameter between 0.17 and 0.22 micrometer and a standard geometric deviation not exceeding 1.60. These particle size distribution values would be determined at the specified test conditions with a differential mobility particle sizer.
