FR940124-1-00105 FR940124-1-00009 (iii) Must submit a budget for developing the standards and the complaint procedures and for providing cost estimates for the SPRE's information system, if relevant, that does not exceed the State's fiscal year 1993 allotment. (2) If the State's fiscal year 1993 allotment is less than the State's anticipated cost of carrying out the activities described in paragraphs (b)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section, the State shall first use its allotment to develop the review standards. If a portion of the allotment remains after the State develops its review standards, the State may develop procedures for receiving and responding to complaints from students, faculty, and others regarding institutions in the State. The State may use any remaining portion of its allotment to provide cost estimates for the SPRE's information system only after it has completed developing its review standards and complaint procedures. (c) Application after standards are established. (1) If the Secretary has not disapproved the State's review standards under §667.22, to receive its allotment, the State must submit to the Secretary_ (i) Its plan to review referred institutions; and (ii) A budget for those reviews that does not exceed the State's allotment calculated under §667.11 less any amount expended by the SPRE in carrying out the activities under paragraph (b) of this section. (2) If a SPRE anticipates that the cost of reviewing all the referred institutions will exceed the State's allotment, the SPRE shall, as part of its plan, submit a priority system for selecting institutions to review from among the referred institutions. (3) The SPRE shall have discretion in developing its priority system, except that the SPRE must make its top priority for review, referred institutions that the Secretary has scheduled for recertification under 34 CFR part 668, subpart B. (d) If a State first applies to the Secretary to receive an allotment after fiscal year 1993, the State must submit the information and documentation required under paragraph (b) of this section, and may submit the information required in paragraph (c) of this section. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099a&hyph;1099a&hyph;3) §667.13 Approval of funding application. (a) Before standards are established. The Secretary approves a State's plan and budget submitted before the State establishes review standards if_ (1) The plan provides a reasonable basis, and adequate budget justification, for carrying out the activities described in §667.12(b)(1); (2) If applicable, the plan includes a priority system for using the State's allotment as described in §667.12(b)(2); and (3) The budget includes only reasonable allowable costs within the State's fiscal year 1993 allotment. (b) After standards are established. After the State establishes review standards, the Secretary approves a State's plan and budget for the allowable activities described in §667.14 if_ (1) The plan provides adequate budget justification for those activities; (2) The plan provides for a reasonable scheme for reviewing referred institutions; (3) The plan includes a priority system for review as described in §667.12(c)(3); (4) The proposed contracts with private agencies, accrediting agencies, or peer review systems to carry out SPRE functions included in the plan are reasonable and appropriate; and (5) The budget includes only reasonable allowable costs within the State's allotment. (c) Failure to submit an acceptable application. If a State does not submit an application for funds under §667.12 or its application is not approved under this section_ (1) The State is ineligible to receive_ (i) Any funds appropriated to carry out this program; (ii) Its allotment of any funds appropriated under the SSIG Program; and (iii) Any funds appropriated to carry out the NEISP Program; and (2) The Secretary_ (i) Does not designate as eligible for participation in a Title IV, HEA program any institution seeking initial participation in that program, any branch campus for which an institution seeks an initial designation of eligibility under 34 CFR part 600, or any institution that has undergone a change in ownership that results in a change in control as determined in 34 CFR part 600, that is located in that State; and (ii) Grants only provisional certification, as determined in 34 CFR part 668, to an institution in that State not described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099a&hyph;1099a&hyph;3) §667.14 Allowable costs and activities. (a) If included in a State's approved plan, the Secretary pays, by reimbursement, direct costs, in paragraph (c) and described in Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;87, and indirect costs as determined in paragraph (b) of this section, of_ (1) Establishing State review standards in consultation with institutions in the State, publicizing the State review standards, and providing initial and continuing training to State and other personnel in the State, including personnel at the institution subject to review; (2) Establishing and implementing the procedures for receiving and responding to complaints from students, faculty, and others regarding institutions in the State, in consultation with institutions in that State; (3) Reviewing referred institutions; and (4) Developing and maintaining an information system for SPRE review activities.
