FR940504-1-00017 FR940504-1-00002 (b) The applicant must not be delinquent on a Federal debt. (1) The District Office will check the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS), following the Forms Manual Insert for Form FmHA 1910&hyph;3, ``Record of Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS) Inquiry,'' to determine if the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt. No decision to deny assistance can be based solely on the results of the CAIVRS inquiry. If CAIVRS identifies a delinquent Federal debt, the District Office will immediately suspend processing fo the application. The applicant will be notified that processing has been suspended and will be asked to contact the appropriate Federal agency, at the telephone number provided by CAIVRS, to resolve the delinquency. When the applicant provides FmHA with official documentation that the delinquency has been paid in full or otherwise resolved, processing of the application will be continued. (2) An outstanding judgment obtained by the United States in a Federal Court (other than the United States Tax Court), which has been recorded, shall cause the applicant to be ineligible to receive any grant or loan until the judgment is paid in full or otherwise satisfied. FmHA loan funds may not be used to satisfy the judgment. Questions about whether or not a judgment is still outstanding should be directed to the Office of the General Counsel. If the judgment remains unsatisfied, or if the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt and is unable to resolve the delinquency, the application will be rejected and the applicant will be notified of its right for an appeal in accordance with subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter. The Administrator may waive the rejection upon specific determination that it is in the best interest of the Government to do so. Subpart C_Intermediary Relending Program (IRP) 28. Section 1948.117 is amended by adding paragraph (d) to read as follows: ยง1948.117 Other regulatory requirements. * * * * * (d) The applicant must not be delinquent on a Federal debt. (1) The District Office will check the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS), following the Forms Manual Insert for Form FmHA 1910&hyph;3, ``Record of Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS) Inquiry,'' to determine if the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt. No decision to deny assistance can be based solely on the results of the CAIVRS inquiry. If CAIVRS identifies a delinquent Federal debt, the District Office will immediately suspend processing of the application. The applicant will be notified that processing has been suspended and will be asked to contact the appropriate Federal agency, at the telephone number provided by CAIVRS, to resolve the delinquency. When the applicant provides FmHA with official documentation that the delinquency has been paid in full or otherwise resolved, processing of the application will be continued. (2) An outstanding judgment obtained by the United States in a Federal Court (other than the United States Tax Court), which has been recorded, shall cause the applicant to be ineligible to receive any grant or loan until the judgment is paid in full or otherwise satisfied. FmHA loan funds may not be used to satisfy the judgment. Questions about whether or not a judgment is still outstanding should be directed to the Office of the General Counsel. If the judgment remains unsatisfied, or if the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt and is unable to resolve the delinquency, the application will be rejected and the applicant will be notified of its right for an appeal in accordance with subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter. The Administrator may waive the rejection upon specific determination that it is in the best interest of the Government to do so. 29. Section 1948.128 is amended by redesignating paragraph (d) as paragraph (e), and adding a new paragraph (d) to read as follows: ยง1948.128 Requests to make loans to ultimate recipients. * * * * * (d) If the ultimate recipient is a partnership or for-profit corporation, the intermediary will provide certifications from each general partner or stockholder owning a 10 percent or more interest as to whether it is delinquent on any Federal debt or has a judgment lien against its property for a debt owed the United States. * * * * * PART 1951_SERVICING AND COLLECTIONS 30. The authority citation for Part 1951 continues to read as follows:
