FR940318-2-00091 FR940318-2-00065 D. Eligibility: States ``States'' as defined in section 309(6) of the Act are eligible to apply for funds. The term ``State'' means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the remaining eligible entity previously a part of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands_the Republic of Palau. In the past, Guam, the Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, have applied for funds as a part of their consolidated Grant, under the Social Services Block grant. These jurisdictions need not submit an application under this Program Announcement if they choose to have their allotment included in a consolidated grant. E. Eligibility: Indian Tribes and Tribal Organizations Indian Tribes and Tribal organizations are eligible for funding under this program if they meet the definition of such entities as found in sections (e) and (l), respectively, of section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act and are able to demonstrate their capacity to carry out a family violence prevention and services program. The required capacity must be demonstrated in the application. Methods of demonstrating such capacity can include, but are not limited to showing: (1) The current operation of a shelter, safehouse, or family violence prevention program; (2) Establishment of joint, collaborative, or service agreements with a local public agency or a private non-profit agency for the operation of family violence prevention activities or services; or (3) Establishment of social services as evidenced by receipt of ``638'' contracts with the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA); Title II Indian Child Welfare grants from the BIA; or Child Welfare Services grants under Title IV&hyph;B of the Social Security Act. A list of currently eligible Indian Tribes and Tribal organizations is found at appendix B of this Announcement. Any Tribe or Tribal organization that believes it has met the eligibility criteria and should be included in the list of eligible tribes should provide supportive documentation and a request for inclusion addressed to the contact person at the above address. As in previous years, Indian Tribes may apply singly or as a consortium. In addition, a non-profit private organization, approved by an eligible Indian Tribe for the operation of a family violence shelter on a reservation, is eligible for funding. Because section 304(a) specifies a minimum base amount for State allocations, we have set a base amount for Indian Tribal allotments. Since FY 1986, we have found, in practice, that the establishment of such an allocation, based on population, has facilitated our efforts to make a fair and equitable distribution of limited grant funds. Tribes which meet the application requirements and whose reservation and surrounding Tribal Trust Lands population is less than 3,000 will receive a minimum of $3,000; Tribes which meet the application requirements and whose reservation and surrounding Tribal Trust Lands population exceeds 3,000 will receive a minimum of $8,000, except for the Navajo Tribe which will receive a minimum of $24,000 because of its population. We have used these population figures to determine minimum funding levels since the beginning of the program. In computing Indian Tribal allocations, we will use the latest available population figures from the Census Bureau. Where Census Bureau data are unavailable, we will use figures from the BIA Indian Population and Labor Force Report. If not all eligible Tribes apply, the available funds will be divided proportionally among the Tribes which apply and meet the requirements.
