FR940324-1-00033 FR940324-1-00009 The evidence available to EPA suggests that an overwhelming majority of the vehicle models manufactured for sale in Canada are not configurations unique to the Canadian market, but are mechanically identical to their corresponding United States version regarding emissions compliance, except for EPA's labeling and warranty requirements. Given this situation, EPA believes that it is not necessary to require individuals and commercial importers to obtain separate certificates of conformity from EPA for those vehicles that are mechanically identical to their corresponding United States version regarding emissions compliance. On June 29, 1988, EPA granted the petition for reconsideration (the document granting the petition may be found in the docket at A&hyph;89&hyph;20), and agreed to commence this rulemaking to address the unique issues surrounding Canadian vehicles. Today's action proposes formal revisions to EPA's regulations for importing vehicles from Canada. It also clarifies or changes certain other provisions contained in the existing regulations. A. EPA's Proposal EPA's proposal would allow only commercial importers with designated Canadian importer status approved by EPA to import vehicles from Canada both for which the title has previously been transferred to an ultimate purchaser and for which the title has not yet been transferred to an ultimate purchaser, for the purpose of resale. The designated Canadian importers would be permitted to import only those vehicles which were previously proven to be identical, in all material respects, to their United States certified counterparts. In addition to making the showing of identical in all material respects, a designated Canadian importer must agree to: (1) Label each vehicle for fuel economy and emissions compliance purposes; (2) fulfill emission warranty and recall obligations, and notify owners of recalls and available warranty coverage; (3) maintain adequate records; (4) pay any applicable Gas Guzzler Taxes, and Corporate Average Fuel Economy penalties (49 CFR 531, 533); (5) submit applications for final admission to EPA; (6) hold vehicles for a period of five working days (or less if approved by EPA on a case-by-case basis) for EPA inspection before transfer to an ultimate purchaser or dealer; and (7) submit to inspections conducted by EPA enforcement officers. B. Importations by Individuals Today's proposal also addresses the importation of vehicles by individual owners. Often an individual moving to the United States from Canada wishes to import his/her vehicle for personal use. In many of these cases, the vehicle is identical, except for labeling, to its United States certified counterpart. The few vehicles which are not identical to their United States certified counterparts, typically require only minor modifications to make them identical. For these reasons, EPA believes that the special circumstances associated with an individual moving to the United States from Canada also warrant consideration in this rulemaking. EPA believes that similar circumstances may also apply to some individuals importing vehicles from other countries. Consequently, this proposal addresses vehicle importations by individuals moving to the United States from other countries, as well.
