FR940831-2-00030 FR940831-2-00022 [Project No. 11163] Consolidated Hydro Maine, Inc.; Notice of Intent to Prepare an Environmental Assessment and Conduct Public Scoping Meetings August 25, 1994. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has received an application for license of the South Berwick Dam Hydroelectric Project, FERC No. 11163. The project is located on the Salmon Falls River in Stafford County, New Hampshire and York County, Maine. The FERC staff intends to prepare an Environmental Assessment (EA) on the hydroelectric project in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act. The staff's EA will objectively consider both site specific and cumulative environmental impacts of the project and reasonable alternatives, and will include an economic, financial and engineering analysis. A draft EA will be issued and circulated for review by all the interested parties. All comments filed on the draft EA will be analyzed by the staff and considered in a final EA. The staff's conclusions and recommendations will then be presented for the consideration of the Commission in reaching its final licensing decision. Scoping Meetings The FERC staff will conduct two scoping meetings. An evening scoping meeting is primarily for public input while a morning meeting will focus on resource agency concerns. All interested individuals, organizations, and agencies are invited to attend and assist the staff in identifying the scope of environmental issues that should be analyzed in the EA. Staff will visit the project site prior to the meetings to become more familiar with the project and its operation. Both scoping meetings will be held on Thursday, September 29, 1994, in the South Berwick Assembly Hall, 180 Main Street, South Berwick, Maine. The first meeting will be held from 10:00 a.m.&hyph;1:00 p.m. and will focus primarily on issues of concern to resource agencies. The second meeting will be held from 7:00 p.m.&hyph;11:00 p.m. and will focus primarily on issues of concern to the general public. Prior to the meetings, a scoping document will be mailed to the list of interested parties. The scoping document identifies resource issues to be addressed in the EA. Copies of the scoping document will also be available at the scoping meetings or can be obtained by writing: FERC_South Berwick Project, c/o J.H. Rumpp, Stone & Webster, 245 Summer Street, Boston, MA 022010. Objectives At the scoping meetings the staff will: (1) summarize the environmental issues tentatively identified for analysis in the EA; (2) determine the relative depth of analysis for issues to be addressed in the EA' (3) identify resource issues that are not important and do not require detailed analysis; (4) solicit from the meeting participants all available information, especially quantified data, on the resources at issue; and (5) encourage statements from experts and the public on issues that should be analyzed in the EA, including points of view in opposition to, or in support of, the staff's preliminary views. Procedures The meetings will be recorded by a stenographer and all statements (oral and written) thereby become a part of the formal record of the Commission proceedings. Individuals presenting statements at the meetings will be asked to clearly identify themselves for the record. Individuals, organizations, and agencies with environmental expertise and concerns are encouraged to attend the meetings and to assist the staff in defining and clarifying the issues to be addressed in the EA. Participants at the public meetings are asked to keep oral comments brieff and concise. Persons choosing not to speak at the meetings, but who have views on the issues or information relevant to the issues, may submit written statements for inclusion in the public record. In addition, written scoping comments may be filed with the Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 825 North Capitol Street, NE, Washington, DC 20426, until October 31, 1994. All written correspondence should clearly show the following caption on the first page: South Berwick EA, Project No. 11163. All those that are formally recognized by the Commission as intervenors in the licensing proceeding are asked to refrain from engaging staff or its contractor in discussions of the merits of the projects outside of any announced meetings. Further, parties are reminded of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, requiring parties filing documents with the Commission, to serve a copy of the document on each person whose name is on the official service list. For further information, please contact Susan Strandberg (202) 219&hyph;2829. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21461 Filed 8&hyph;30&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;M
