FR941205-0-00026 FR941205-0-00002 §208.3 Form of application. (a) An application for asylum or withholding of deportation shall be made on Form I&hyph;589 (Application for Asylum and for Withholding of Deportation) and shall be submitted, together with any additional supporting material, in triplicate, meaning the original plus two copies. The applicant's spouse and children as defined in section 101 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(35) and 1101(b)(1), may be included on the application if they are in the United States. One additional copy of the principal applicant's I&hyph;589 must be submitted for each dependent listed on the principal's application. An application shall be accompanied by one completed Form FD&hyph;258 (Fingerprint Card) for every individual included on the application who is 14 years of age or older. Forms I&hyph;589 and FD&hyph;258 are available from the INS and from the Offices of Immigration Judges. The application for asylum or withholding of deportation also shall be accompanied by a total of two photographs of each applicant and two photographs of each dependent included on the application. * * * * * (c) The application (Form I&hyph;589) shall be filed under the following conditions and shall have the following consequences, as shall be noted in the instructions on the application: (1) Information provided in completing the application may be used as a basis for the institution of, or as evidence in, exclusion proceedings in accordance with part 236 of this chapter or deportation proceedings in accordance with part 242 of this chapter; (2) Information provided in the application may be used to satisfy the burden of proof of the INS in establishing the applicant's deportability under part 242 of this chapter; (3) Mailing to the address provided by the applicant on the application or the last change of address form (INS Form AR&hyph;11), if any, received by the INS shall constitute adequate service of all notices or other documents, except a Notice to Alien Detained for Hearing by an Immigration Judge (Form I&hyph;122), service of which is governed by §235.6 of this chapter, and an Order to Show Cause (Form I&hyph;221), service of which is governed by section 242B(a)(1) of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1252b(a)(1); (4) The applicant and anyone other than an immediate relative who assists the applicant in preparing the application must sign the application under penalty of perjury. The applicant's signature is evidence that the applicant is aware of the contents of the application. A person other than an immediate relative who assists the applicant in preparing the application also must provide his or her full mailing address; (5) An application for asylum and for withholding of deportation that does not include a response to each of the questions contained in the Form I&hyph;589, that is unsigned, or that is unaccompanied by the required materials specified in paragraph (a) of this section is incomplete. An application that is incomplete shall be returned by mail to the applicant within 30 days of the receipt of the application by the INS. The filing of an incomplete application shall not commence the 150-day period after which the applicant may file an application for employment authorization in accordance with §208.7(a)(1). If an application has not been mailed to the applicant within 30 days, it shall be deemed complete; and (6) Knowing placement of false information on the application may subject the person placing that information on the application to criminal penalties under title 18 of the United States Code and to civil penalties under section 274C of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1324c. 5. Section 208.4 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §208.4 Filing the application. * * * * * (a) With the Service Center by mail. Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, applications for asylum or withholding of deportation shall be filed directly by mail with the Service Center servicing the Asylum Office with jurisdiction over the place of the applicant's residence or, in the case of an alien without a United States residence, the applicant's current lodging or the land border port of entry through which the alien seeks admission to the United States. The addresses of the Service Centers shall be made available through the local INS Information Unit. Upon receipt of the application, except in the case of an alien who has been convicted of an aggravated felony, the Service Center shall forward a copy of the application to the Department of State. * * * * * 6. Section 208.7 is amended by: a. Revising the section heading; b. Revising paragraph (a); c. Revising in paragraph (b) the introductory text; d. Adding a new paragraph (b)(3); e. Removing, wherever it appears in the introductory text to paragraph (c), the phrase ``Asylum Officer'' and adding in its place the phrase ``asylum officer''; f. Removing, wherever it appears in the introductory text to paragraph (c), the phrase ``District Director'' and adding in its place the phrase ``district director''; g. Removing in the introductory text to paragraph (c) the phrase ``Immigration Judge'' and adding in its place the phrase ``immigration judge''; h. Removing in paragraph (c)(1) the phrase ``before the Immigration Judge'' and adding in its place the phrase ``before the immigration judge''; i. Removing in paragraph (c)(2) the phrase ``by the Immigration Judge'' and adding in its place the phrase ``by the immigration judge''; and j. Removing in paragraph (d) the word ``sixty'' and adding in its place ``ninety'', to read as follows: §208.7 Employment authorization.
