FR941110-1-00105 FR941110-1-00011 (1) Until January 1, 1996, for all class I controlled substances, except Group VI, and until January 1, 2001 for class I, Group VI, to receive consumption allowances in addition to baseline consumption allowances, the exporter of the class I controlled substances must submit to the Administrator a request for consumption allowances setting forth the following: (i) The identities and addresses of the exporter and the recipient of the exports; (ii) The exporter's Employer Identification Number; (iii) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons for the exporter and the recipient; (iv) The quantity and type of controlled substances exported; (v) The source of the controlled substance and the date purchased; (vi) The date on which, and the port from which, the controlled substances were exported from the United States or its territories; (vii) The country to which the controlled substances were exported; (viii) The commodity code of the controlled substance exported; and (ix) Written statement from the producer that the controlled substance was produced with expended allowances. (2) The Administrator will review the information and documentation submitted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The Administrator will issue the exporter contingent consumption allowances equivalent to the level of controlled substances that the Administrator determined will be exported contingent upon receipt of confirming documentation. (3) To receive the consumption allowances, the exporter of the class I controlled substances must submit to the Administrator a request for consumption allowances including the following: (i) The bill of lading and the invoice indicating the net quantity of controlled substances shipped and documenting the sale of the controlled substances to the purchaser. (ii) [Reserved] (4) The Administrator will assess the quantity of controlled substances that the documentation under paragraph (a)(3) verifies was exported. The Administrator will issue the exporter consumption allowances equivalent to the level of controlled substances that the Administrator determined were exported. The grant of the consumption allowances will be effective on the date the notice is issued. If the Administrator determines that the confirming documentation does not satisfactorily substantiate that the person exported controlled substances as claimed the Administrator will issue a notice that the consumption allowances are not granted. (b) A person may obtain consumption allowances for that controlled substance equal to the amount of a controlled substance either produced in, or imported into, the United States that was transformed or destroyed in the case where consumption allowances were expended to produce or import such substance in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph. Effective January 1, 1996, consumption allowances will not be granted for a class I controlled substance (except class I, Group VI) produced in, or imported into, the United States that was transformed or destroyed. However, a person producing or importing a controlled substance (except class I, Group VI) that was transformed or destroyed must submit to the Administrator the information described under ยง82.13 (f)(3) (i) and (ii). (c) A company may also increase its consumption allowances by receiving production from another Party to the Protocol for class I, Group I through Group V and Group VII controlled substances until January 1, 1996, and for class I, Group VI controlled substances until January 1, 2001. A nation listed in Appendix C to this subpart (Parties to the Montreal Protocol) must agree to transfer to the person for the current control period some amount of production that the nation is permitted under the Montreal Protocol. For trades from a Party, the person must obtain from the principal diplomatic representative in that nation's embassy in the United States a signed document stating that the appropriate authority within that nation has established or revised production limits for the nation to equal the lesser of the maximum production that the nation is allowed under the Protocol minus the amount transferred, the maximum production that is allowed under the nation's applicable domestic law minus the amount transferred, or the average of the nation's actual national production level for the three years prior to the transfer minus the production allowances transferred. The person must submit to the Administrator a transfer request that includes a true copy of this document and that sets forth the following: (1) The identity and address of the person; (2) The identity of the Party; (3) The names and telephone numbers of contact persons for the person and for the Party; (4) The chemical type and level of production being transferred; and (5) The control period(s) to which the transfer applies. (d) On the first day of each control period the Agency will grant consumption allowances to any person that produced and exported a Group IV controlled substance in the baseline year and that was not granted baseline consumption allowances under ยง82.5 of this subpart. (1) The number of consumption allowances any such person will be granted for each control period will be equal to the number of production allowances granted to that person under ยง82.7 for that control period. (2) Any person granted allowances under this paragraph must hold the same number of unexpended consumption allowances for the control period for which the allowances were granted by February 15 of the following control period. Every kilogram by which the person's unexpended consumption allowances fall short of the amount the person was granted under this paragraph constitutes a separate violation.
