FR941012-0-00076 FR941012-0-00011 Two commenters said that ANSI standards were not known to most loggers, were not readily available, and were not written in language that the average logger would comprehend (Ex. 5&hyph;27; Tr. OR 118). One of these commenters said OSHA, therefore, should put its requirements in the standard rather than requiring logging employers to obtain and read another document (Tr. OR 118). He added that placing the requirements in the regulatory text would increase compliance. As discussed above, many commenters supported a requirement that all chain saws be equipped with chain brakes rather than just referencing the ANSI standard. In general, these commenters said chain brakes were the most effective device to protect operators from kickback and to provide extra protection when the saws are carried between cutting jobs. In addition, one commenter supported a chain brake requirement for the following reason: The U.S. should follow the lead of other countries (European) and require that all saws have an operating chain brake if purchased after the adoption of these regulations. The cost would be minimal since the majority of saws now come equipped with these devices. This would also help deter the disabling of the brake system by operating personnel (Ex. 5&hyph;19). OSHA agrees with commenters that the final standard should include requirements on chain-saw protective devices. The final rule does incorporate by reference the ANSI B175.1 consensus standard, but the Agency believes that the ANSI standard alone does not provide the necessary degree of safety for logging employees. Accordingly, for several reasons, the final rule also requires that chain saws placed into initial service after the effective date of the standard be equipped with chain brakes. First, there is considerable evidence in the record that chain brakes are effective and the most used device to prevent kickback. Second, they have strong acceptance by logging professionals, and as a result, already are standard equipment on almost all chain saws currently manufactured. Third, chain brakes do not have the disadvantages of the other protective devices. For example, unlike bar tip guards, chain brakes are not removed by operators. Unlike reduced-kickback guide bars and low- or reduced-kickback chains, chain brakes do not affect production efficiency. Fourth, other countries also have adopted provisions requiring chain saws to be equipped with chain brakes (Ex. 5&hyph;19). Fifth, OSHA agrees with commenters who are concerned that, in order to maximize compliance, the standard be comprehensible to the average loggers. This is especially important for chain-saw safety, since many employees provide their own chain saws. These employees and their employers need plain and simple direction about what protection must be provided for each chain-saw operator. OSHA does not believe that the ANSI standard contains the type of information needed by those operating the chain saw. It requires the use of sophisticated equipment and exacting procedures that are beyond the expertise of the average logging employer. Much of the ANSI standard deals with a computer program for simulating chain-saw kickbacks and tests to determine the accuracy of the computer program. As such, the ANSI standard is primarily directed to manufacturers of chain saws, rather than employers and employees in the logging industry. For example, the standard states: The purpose of this standard is to establish minimum safety requirements with respect to the manufacture of portable, hand-held, gasoline-powered chain saws (Ex. 4&hyph;66). The requirements of the ANSI standard are primarily within the unique purview of manufacturers, such as requirements for the throttle control system, handles, pull-type starters, fuel tanks and oil tanks, exhaust systems, sound levels, and vibration. Only the following requirements are directed at the employer: It shall be the responsibility of the owner to maintain the chain saw in accordance with the instructions in the owner's manual. Chain saws shall be used in accordance with the operating instructions and safety precautions listed in the owner's manual. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to see that such instructions and precautions are given to every operator who uses the saw (Ex. 4&hyph;66). In addition, the ANSI standard does not require the employer to ensure that each chain saw used in their workplace is equipped with kickback protection. That is, the ANSI standard does not require the employer to ensure that kickback prevention devices are not removed or disabled by operators. By specifying that chain saws used by logging employees be equipped with chain brakes, OSHA emphasizes that responsibility for compliance with OSHA standards rests with the employer, not the manufacturer or the employee.
