FR940602-1-00049 FR940602-1-00013 (7) Operator's station. The cab, controls and mechanism of the equipment shall be so arranged that the operator has a clear view of the load or signalman, when one is used. Cab glass, when used, shall be safety plate glass or equivalent and good visibility shall be maintained through the glass. Clothing, tools, and equipment shall be stored so as not to interfere with access, operation, and the operator's view. (8) Counterweights or ballast. Cranes shall be operated only with the specified type and amount of ballast or counterweights. Ballast or counterweights shall be located and secured only as provided in the manufacturer's or design specifications, which shall be available for inspection. (9) Outriggers. Outriggers shall be used according to the manufacturer's specifications or design data, which shall be available for inspection. Floats, when used, shall be securely attached to the outriggers. Wood blocks or other support shall be of sufficient size to support the outrigger, free of defects that may affect safety and of sufficient width and length to prevent the crane from shifting or toppling under load. (10) Exhaust gases. Engine exhaust gases shall be discharged away from the normal position of crane operating personnel. (11) Electrical/Guarding. Electrical equipment shall be so located or enclosed that live parts will not be exposed to accidental contact. Designated persons may work on energized equipment only if necessary during inspection, maintenance, or repair, otherwise the equipment shall be stopped and their power sources locked out and tagged out. (12) Fire extinguisher. (i) At least one portable approved or listed fire extinguisher of at least a 5&hyph;BC rating or equivalent shall be accessible in the cab of the crane or derrick. (ii) No portable fire extinguisher using carbon tetrachloride or chlorobromomethane extinguishing agents shall be used. (13) Rope on drums. At least three full turns of rope shall remain on ungrooved drums, and two turns on grooved drums, under all operating conditions. Wire rope shall be secured to drums by clamps, U-bolts, shackles or equivalent means. Fibre rope fastenings are prohibited. (14) Brakes. (i) Each independent hoisting unit of a crane shall be equipped with at least one holding brake, applied directly to the motor shaft or gear train. (ii) Each independent hoisting unit of a crane shall, in addition to the holding brake, be equipped with a controlled braking means to control lowering speeds. (iii) Holding brakes for hoist units shall have not less than the following percentage of the rated load hoisting torque at the point where the brake is applied: (A) 125 percent when used with a controlled braking means. (B) 100 percent when used with a mechanically controlled braking means. (iv) All power control braking means shall be capable of maintaining safe lowering speeds of rated loads. (15) Operating controls. Crane and derrick operating controls shall be clearly marked, or a chart indicating their function shall be posted at the operator's position. (16) Booms. Cranes with elevatable booms and without operable automatic limiting devices shall be provided with boom stops if boom elevation can exceed maximum design angles from the horizontal. (17) Foot pedals. Foot pedals shall have a non-skid surface. (18) Access. Ladders, stairways, stanchions, grab irons, foot steps or equivalent means shall be provided as necessary to ensure safe access to footwalks, cab platforms, the cab and any portion of the superstructure which employees must reach. (b) Operations_(1) Use of cranes together. When two or more cranes hoist a load in unison, a designated person shall direct the operation and instruct personnel in positioning, rigging of the load and movements to be made. (2) Guarding of swing radius. Accessible areas within the swing radius of the body of a revolving crane shall be physically guarded during operations to prevent an employee from being caught between the body of the crane and any fixed structure or between parts of the crane.
