FR940803-1-00024 FR940803-1-00004 3. Closed accounts. If a member closes an account between crediting periods and forfeits accrued dividends, the credit union may not show any figures for ``dividends earned'' or annual percentage yield earned for the period. 4. Extraordinary dividends. Extraordinary dividends are not a component of the annual percentage yield earned or the dividend rate, but are an addition to the member's account. Only the dollar amount of the extraordinary dividends paid, denoted as a separate, identified figure, can be disclosed on the periodic statement on which the extraordinary dividends are earned. (b)(3) Fees imposed 1. General. Periodic statements must state fees debited to the account during the statement period even if assessed for an earlier period. 2. Itemizing fees by type. In itemizing fees by type, credit unions may group together fees of the same type that are imposed more than once in the period. If fees are grouped, the description must make clear that the dollar figure represents more than a single fee, for example, ``total fees for checks written this period.'' Examples of fees that may not be grouped together are: Monthly maintenance and excess activity fees ``Transfer'' fees, if different dollar amounts are imposed_such as $.50 for share deposits and $1.00 for withdrawals Fees for electronic fund transfers and fees for other services, such as balance inquiry or maintenance fees (unless permitted by Regulation E) 3. Identifying fees. Statement details must enable the member to identify the specific fee. For example: Credit unions may use a code to identify a particular fee if the code is explained on the periodic statement or in documents accompanying the statement. Credit unions using debit slips may disclose the date the fee was debited on the periodic statement and show the amount and type of fee on the dated debit slip. 4. Relation to Regulation E. Compliance with Regulation E complies with this section for the disclosure of fees related to electronic fund transfers on periodic statements (for example, totaling all electronic funds transfer fees in a single figure). (b)(4) Length of period 1. General. Credit unions that provide the beginning and ending dates of the period must make clear whether both dates are included in the period. For example, stating ``April 1 through April 30'' would clearly indicate that both April 1 and April 30 are included in the period. 2. Opening or closing an account mid-cycle. If an account is opened or closed during the period for which a statement is sent, credit unions must calculate the annual percentage yield earned based on account balances for each day the account was open. Section 707.7_Payment of dividends. (a) Permissible methods 1. Prohibited calculation methods. Calculation methods that do not comply with the requirement to pay dividends on the full amount of principal in the account each day include: The ``rollback'' method, also known as the ``grace period'' or ``in by the 10th'' method, where credit unions pay dividends on the lowest balance in the account for the period The ``increments of par value'' method, where credit unions only pay dividends on full shares in an account, e.g., a credit union with $5 par value shares pays dividends on $20 of a $24 account balance The ``ending balance'' method, where credit unions pay dividends on the balance in the account at the end of the period
