FR940912-1-00080 FR940912-1-00018 7. Part 398 Could it be deleted? What arguments could be made to maintain the requirements? What would be the result of deleting the part? [see part 398] 8. Part 399 Could it be deleted? What arguments could be made to maintain the requirements? What would be the result of deleting the part? [see part 399] Driver Requirements 1. Driver Fatigue a. What are the effects of loading and unloading on driver fatigue? b. What is the validity and predictive power of pre-drive fitness-for-duty devices? c. What is the state-of-the-art and state-of-the-practice for fatigue testing/monitoring devices? d. What should be the preferred method to track driver fatigue that may ease the paperwork burden on industry, but also facilitate enforcement? [see §§395.8 and 395.15] 2. Drug & Alcohol Testing Should Medical Review Officers be certified? If so, Federal, State, or local certification process? What should be the minimum standards? [see §§391.85 and 391.87] 3. Medical Requirements a. Should health care professionals performing medical exams be certified to do so? If so, Federal, State, or local certification process? [see §391.43] b. Could Medical Review Boards be established to resolve conflicts of medical evaluations? If so, at what level, Federal, State? [see §391.47] c. Is there a need for a minimum driving age for interstate drivers? By industry, i.e., farmers, off-road, seasonal, etc.? d. In light of age discrimination laws, should there be, as a matter of public policy, a maximum age requirement for CMV drivers? [see §391.11(b)] e. Is it possible to establish objective minimum requirements which must be met for medical waivers (which can be used by non-medical personnel to make a determination)? 4. CDL a. Should there be periodic skills and knowledge retesting of drivers for CDL purposes? [see §383.71] b. What are the merits of using simulation in CDL skills testing? [see §383.133] c. Could the CDL be merged with the medical certification process in part 391, including the issuance of medical waivers? If so, what needs to be done to do it? d. How often should medical examinations be required? [Annually, every 2 years, etc.] 5. Training a. What level of training is necessary for a driver to be a safe driver in three specific areas: geographic, weather, and cargo (including the transportation of hazardous materials)? b. Is the CDL HM endorsement requirement necessary in light of the Research and Special Programs Administration's HM training requirement? [see 49 CFR 172.700] 6. Documentation What driver documentation should be maintained in the vehicle to provide adequate safety oversight by enforcement personnel? Vehicle Requirements 1. Vehicle Performance a. What defective mechanical items are most frequently cited during accidents? Do the cited violations have a direct correlation to accidents? What are the best means to identify them? [see appendix G to the FMCSRs] b. Should the out-of-service criteria be placed in regulation? 2. Mechanic Training a. Is training for CMV mechanics/inspectors currently adequate? b. What level of training is appropriate? Is it appropriate to have required levels of mechanic training? c. Should there be a requirement to be certificated as a CMV mechanic? If so, could it be done through a knowledge and skills demonstration?
