FR941230-2-00010 FR941230-2-00006 Intent To Revoke Countervailing Duty Orders AGENCY: Import Administration, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce. ACTION: Notice of Intent to Revoke Countervailing Duty Orders. SUMMARY: The Department of Commerce (the Department) is notifying the public of its intent to revoke the countervailing duty orders listed below. Domestic interested parties who object to revocation of any of these orders must submit their comments in writing not later than the last day of January 1994. EFFECTIVE DATE: December 30, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Brian Albright or Mercedes Fitchett, Office of Countervailing Compliance, Import Administration, International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20230; telephone: (202) 482&hyph;2786. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Department may revoke a countervailing duty order if the Secretary of Commerce concludes that it is no longer of interest to interested parties. Accordingly, as required by the Department's regulations (at 19 C.F.R. 355.25(d)(4)), we are notifying the public of our intent to revoke the countervailing duty orders listed below, for which the Department has not received a request to conduct an administrative review for the most recent four consecutive annual anniversary months. In accordance with ยง355.25(d)(4)(iii) of the Department's regulations, if no domestic interested party (as defined in ยง355.2(i)(3), (i)(4), (i)(5), and (i)(6) of the regulations) objects to the Department's intent to revoke these orders pursuant to this notice, and no interested party (as defined in ยง355.2(i) of the regulations) requests an administrative review in accordance with the Department's notice of opportunity to request administrative review, we shall conclude that the countervailing duty orders are no longer of interest to interested parties and proceed with the revocations. However, if an interested party does request an administrative review in accordance with the Department's notice of opportunity to request administrative review, or a domestic interested party does object to the Department's intent to revoke pursuant to this notice, the Department will not revoke the order.
