FR940222-1-00002 FR940222-1-00001 OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 5 CFR Part 300 RIN 3206&hyph;AF80 Employment (General) AGENCY: Office of Personnel Management. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) proposes to amend its regulations to reflect that agency heads must ensure that employees and applicants for employment at their agencies are notified of the recently enacted provisions in the Hatch Act Reform Amendments of 1993, which prohibit individuals from requesting, making, transmitting, accepting, or considering political recommendations in effecting personnel actions. DATES: Comments must be received on or before April 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to Lorraine Lewis, General Counsel, Office of Personnel Management, room 7355, 1900 E Street NW., Washington, DC 20415. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jo-Ann Chabot or Gail Goldberg, (202) 606&hyph;1700. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In the Hatch Act Reform Amendments of 1993, Public Law 103&hyph;94, Congress amended section 3303 of title 5, United States Code, to expand and strengthen the existing prohibition against political recommendations, i.e., recommendations based on party affiliation, in examinations and appointments. Section 3303 originally applied to examination for, or appointment to, positions in the competitive service. It prohibited examining and appointing officials from accepting or considering congressional recommendations of applicants, except for recommendations about their character or residence. Section 3303, as amended, expands the scope of the prohibition by including employees as well as applicants, and covering the excepted service and career Senior Executive Service as well as the competitive service. Although section 3303 still prohibits agency officials from considering or accepting political recommendations, it also prohibits them from soliciting and requesting these recommendations. It further specifies that an agency official who receives a political recommendation must return the recommendation to the person who sent it with a notation that the recommendation violates section 3303. The previous version of the law focused its prohibition on agency officials, and did not prohibit Senators and Congressmen from making recommendations. The amended version prohibits Senators, Congressmen, congressional employees, elected State and local officials, political party officials, and other individuals or organizations from making or transmitting political recommendations. It also prohibits employees and applicants from soliciting or requesting political recommendations, and prohibits agency officials from soliciting, requesting, considering or accepting such recommendations. Where the previous law was limited to examinations and appointments, the amended version includes personnel actions as well. Section 3303, as amended, defines ``personnel action'' as any action described in 5 U.S.C. 2302(a)(2)(A) (i)&hyph;(ix), including appointments, promotions, disciplinary or corrective actions, details, transfers, reassignments, reinstatements, restorations, reemployments, performance evaluations, and decisions concerning pay, benefits, or awards. The amended version permits agencies and agency officials to consider statements of recommendation under limited, narrowly drawn circumstances. Recommendations may be considered if they result from an agency request and consist solely of an evaluation of the work performance, ability, aptitude, and general qualifications of the employee or applicant, or if they relate solely to the character and residence of an individual. Recommendations consisting of statements requested by authorized Government officials to determine whether an individual meets security or suitability standards, or furnished under a law or regulation authorizing consideration of the statement with respect to a specific category of positions also are permitted. Where section 3303 previously did not provide for remedial action for violations, it now authorizes agencies to take adverse action to enforce its provisions. Moreover, the amended version specifies that violations of its prohibitions are prohibited personnel practices. Finally, the United States Postal Service is excluded from the amended version because it is subject to similar requirements in 39 U.S.C. 1002. Section 3303, as amended, specifically authorizes OPM to promulgate regulations requiring agency heads to ensure that employees and applicants receive notice of its provisions. Therefore, OPM proposes to amend part 300 by adding a new Subpart H_Notification Requirements Relating to the Statutory Prohibitions on Political Recommendations in Personnel Actions. Section 300.801 of the new Subpart H states that agency heads must ensure that applicants and employees are notified of the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 3303, as amended. Section 300.802 lists strategies for issuing notifications, but it also specifies that the list is not exclusive and gives agency officials the discretion to consider and implement other means of notification. Regulatory Flexibility Act I certify that these regulations will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because they relate to internal personnel matters within the Federal Government. List of Subjects in 5 CFR Part 300 Freedom of information, Government employees, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Selective Service System. U.S. Office of Personnel Management. Lorraine A. Green, Deputy Director. Accordingly, the Office of Personnel Management proposes to amend 5 CFR part 300 as follows:
