FR940919-0-00026 FR940919-0-00006 DEPARTMENT OF STATE Bureau of Political-Military Affairs 22 CFR Part 121 [Public Notice 2056] Amendments to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) agency: Department of State. action: Final rule. summary: This final rule amends the regulations implementing section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act, which governs the export of defense articles and defense services. Specifically, this rule moves from the controls of Category XV of the USML to those of entry 9A04 of the Commerce Control List (CCL) the international space station being built under the supervision of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and NASA's international partners: the space agencies of Japan, Canada, the European Space Agency, and Russia. This movement applies to the space station itself, as well as all components, parts, accessories, attachments and associated equipment specifically designed, modified or configured for the space station, and all directly related technical data, software and services for those items, except for such data, software and services which are controlled under Category XV (f) of the U.S. Munitions List (USML). This rule reduces the burden on exporters by removing both the above-cited hardware and software and technical data from the controls of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR). The Department of Commerce is publishing separately a final rule under the provisions of the Export Administration Regulations, to amend the relevant Export Commodity Control Number (ECCN) category, i.e., 9A04, to add the international space station and all its specifically designed, modified, or configured components, parts, accessories, attachments and associated equipment, software, and technical data and services not captured under Category XV (f) of the USML, which items are being moved as a result of this rule. effective date: This rule will take effect upon September 19, 1994. for further information contact: Kenneth M. Peoples, Office of Defense Trade Controls, Department of State, telephone number 703&hyph;875&hyph;6619, fax 703&hyph;875&hyph;6647. supplementary information: On November 16, 1990, President Bush directed that the United States Government ``remove from the USML all items contained on the COCOM dual use list unless significant U.S. national security interests would be jeopardized.'' (Vol. 26, No. 46, Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents p. 1839.) To implement this directive, the Department of State established several inter-agency working groups to identify where overlaps of items on the USML and the COCOM dual use list existed and whether removal of these items from the USML would significantly jeopardize U.S. national security. One of these inter-agency groups, the Space Technical Working Group (STWG), identified non-military spacecraft as an item involving such an overlap and recommended movement of all non-military spacecraft from the USML to the Commerce Control List (CCL), except where such movement would ``significantly jeopardize U.S. national security.'' Among those spacecraft identified as constituting an overlap and recommended for movement to the CCL was the international space station being built by NASA and its international partners. On September 5, 1991, the Department published in the Federal Register an advance notice of proposed rule-making, establishing a new Category XV on the USML for spacecraft and related systems (56 FR 43894) and advising that a series of proposed rules would follow. A final rule formally creating category XV for Spacecraft Systems and Associated Equipment was published in the Federal Register on April 27, 1992 (57 FR 15227). In late 1993, President Clinton directed NASA to add the Russian Space Agency as a partner to its international space station program and instructed other U.S. Government agencies to provide the necessary assistance to NASA to enable it to continue to carry out that program. An inter-agency Space Station Export Control Steering Committee met on March 10, 1994, and recommended several steps in the area of U.S. export controls which will be necessary for NASA to advance its international space station program. One of the recommended steps is the movement of the international space station itself from export control under the USML to the control of the CCL. The Department agrees with the recommendation of the interagency committee; accordingly, the Department is removing from the USML and the Department of Commerce is placing under the control of Export Control Classification Number (ECCN) 9A04 of the CCL the following items: the international space station and all components, parts, accessories, attachments, and associated equipment specifically designed, modified or configured for the international space station, as well as all directly related technical data, software and services for those items, except for that data, software and services which is controlled under Category XV (f) of the USML. For purposes of clarification, this rule makes two additional minor changes, which have been requested by U.S. industry, to the language of Category XV of the USML for purposes of clarification. In paragraph (c)(2)(ii), the word ``all'' has been inserted to indicate that all sidelobes on the relevant satellite must be less than or equal to &hyph;35dB in order for that parameter to control the satellite under the USML. Several U.S. companies have indicated to the STWG that virtually all satellites have one or more sidelobes which are less than or equal to &hyph;35dB; the parameter is intended to capture only those few commercial communications satellites in which all sidelobes fall under the cited parameter. In Category XV, paragraph (f), involving technical data and defense services, the first sentence has been corrected to show coverage of paragraph (f) over preceding paragraphs (a) through (e), instead of (a) through (f). In addition, the wording of the final two sentences of the paragraph has been amended to clarify the fact that those two sentences are directed only at the spacecraft which have been moved off the USML to the CCL. This amendment involves a foreign affairs function of the United States and thus is excluded from the major rule procedures of Executive Order 12291 (46 FR 13193) and the procedures of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553 and 554). List of Subjects in 22 CFR Part 121 Arms and Munitions, Exports.
