FR940603-1-00083 FR940603-1-00009 (b) Where the construction of a Section as hereinbefore defined in Article II, Section 1(c) and Article III, Section 1(d) shall have been completed by the Contractor, the Owner agrees, after receipt of a written request from the Contractor, to accept delivery of possession and control of such Section upon having inspected the Section and having found the work acceptable. Upon such delivery of the possession and control of any such Section to the Owner, the risk and obligations of the Contractor as set forth in Article IV, Section 1(e) hereof with respect to such Section so delivered to the Owner shall be terminated: Provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall relieve the Contractor of any liability with respect to unsuitable workmanship as specified in Article II, Section 4 hereof. Section 4. Assignment of Guarantees. All guarantees of materials and workmanship running in favor of the Contractor shall be transferred and assigned to the Owner prior to the time the Contractor receives final payment for any Section. ARTICLE V_REMEDIES Section 1. Completion on Contractor's Default. If default shall be made by the Contractor or by any subcontractor in the performance of any of the terms of this Proposal, the Owner, without in any manner limiting its legal and equitable remedies in the circumstances, may serve upon the Contractor and the Surety, if any, a written notice requiring the Contractor to cause such default to be corrected forthwith. Unless within twenty (20) days after the service of such notice upon the Contractor and the Surety, if any, such default shall be corrected or arrangements for the correction thereof satisfactory to the Owner shall be made, the Owner may take over the work on the Project and prosecute the same to completion by contract or otherwise for the account and at the expense of the Contractor, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Owner for any cost or expense in excess of the contract price occasioned thereby. In such event the Owner may take possession of and utilize, in completing the Project, any materials, tools, supplies, equipment, appliance, and plant belonging to the Contractor or any of its subcontractors, which may be situated at the site of the Project. The Owner in such contingency may exercise any rights, claims, or demands which the Contractor may have against third persons in connection with this Proposal and for such purpose the Contractor does hereby assign, transfer, and set over unto the Owner all such rights, claims, and demands. Section 2. Liquidated Damages. The time of the Completion of Clearing is of the essence of the Contract. Should the Contractor neglect, refuse or fail to complete the clearing within the time herein agreed upon, after giving effect to extensions of time, if any, herein provided, then, in that event and in view of the difficulty of estimating with exactness damages caused by such delay, the Owner shall have the right to deduct from and retain out of such monies which may be then due, or which may become due and payable to the Contractor the sum of XXXX dollars ( XXXX ) per day for each and every day that such work is delayed in its completion beyond the specified time, as liquidated damages and not as a penalty; if the amount due and to become due from the Owner to the Contractor is insufficient to pay in full any such liquidated damages, the Contractor shall pay to the Owner the amount necessary to effect such payment in full: Provided, however, that the Owner shall promptly notify the Contractor in writing of the manner in which the amount retained, deducted or claimed as liquidated damages was computed. Section 3. Cumulative Remedies. Every right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Owner shall be cumulative, shall be in addition to every right and remedy now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or by statute and the pursuit of any right or remedy shall not be construed as an election: Provided, however, that the provision of Section 2 of this Article shall be the exclusive measure of damages for failure by the Contractor to complete the clearing within the time herein agreed upon. ARTICLE VI_MISCELLANEOUS Section 1. Definitions. (a) The term Engineer shall mean the engineer employed by the Owner to provide engineering services for the Project and said Engineer's duly authorized assistants and representatives. The term ``Engineer'' will mean ``Owner'' if no engineer is employed by the Owner to provide engineering services. (b) The term Completion of Clearing shall mean full performance by the Contractor of the Contractor's obligations under the Contract and all amendments and revisions thereof except the Contractor's obligations in respect of furnishing (1) the ``Certificate of Contractor and Indemnity Agreement'' and (2) the Final Inventory both referred to in Article III, Section 1 hereof. (c) The term Completion shall mean full performance by the Contractor of the Contractor's obligations under the Contract and all amendments and revisions thereof relating to any Section of the Project or to the Project. Section 2. Patent Infringement. The Contractor shall save harmless and indemnify the owner from any and all claims, suits and proceedings for the infringement of any patent or patents covering any materials or equipment used in construction of the Project. Section 3. Permits for Explosives. All permits necessary for the handling or use of dynamite or other explosives in connection with the construction of the Project shall be obtained by and at the expense of the Contractor. Section 4. Compliance with Statutes and Regulations. The Contractor will comply with all applicable statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations pertaining to the work. The Contractor acknowledges that it is familiar with the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended, the so-called ``Kick-Back'' Statute (48 Stat. 948), and regulations issued pursuant thereto, and 18 U.S.C. 286, 287, 1001, as amended. The Contractor understands that the obligations of the parties hereunder are subject to the applicable regulations and orders of governmental agencies having jurisdiction in the premises. Section 5. Equal Opportunity Provisions. (a) Contractor's Representations.
