FR940217-1-00022 FR940217-1-00005 2. Reporting Activity Level The Commission expressly solicited comment on the appropriateness of the proposed reporting activity level. Generally, the commenters felt that the threshold was too low, and eight recommended higher levels that ranged from a low of 5,000 shares and $200,000 to a high of 100,000 shares and $5 million. In response to these comments, the proposed reporting activity level has been modified. The reporting activity level contained in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of the reproposed rule would increase the thresholds contained in the proposed rule from 1,000 to 2,000 shares, and from a fair market value of $40,000 to $100,000. The reproposed rule also would add a ``calendar day where the account is located'' time frame, which would address today's global trading environment. 55 As noted in the Proposing Release, the reproposed rules for aggregation would not apply to the reporting activity level. 56 55 For example, a registered investment company whose portfolio is composed of international securities may enter orders to effect transactions in domestic, European, and Asian securities markets. These orders may be effected on different calendar days where the account is located because of the various time zones in which the markets are located. As a consequence, the Commission notes that it may need to request 13H transaction reports for the calendar days immediately preceding or following the calendar day on which a significant market event occurred. 56 See Proposing Release, 56 FR 42556, at n. 68. In addition, the reproposed rule would recognize that broker-dealers may prefer to report or ``dump'' all transactions in a given security. 57 In this regard, new paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of the reproposed rule would be added to permit broker-dealers to report transactions that are less than 2,000 shares or fair market value of $100,000. Finally, paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of the reproposed rule clarifies the proposed reporting provision for program trades and states that each transaction that is part of a program trade shall be reported regardless of share quantity or fair market value. The Commission believes that the reproposed reporting activity level would reduce the burden of the transaction reporting requirements. 57 See Proposing Release, 56 FR 42556, at n. 74. 3. Multiple Large Trader Identification Numbers The broker-dealer and bank commenters indicated that significant costs would be incurred for enlarging systems and manually loading multiple LTIDs into their automated name and address records. 58 This concern was a direct result of the proposed definition of a large trader and broad requirements for disclosure, recordkeeping, and reporting of LTIDs of persons who own and control a given account. This concern was compounded with respect to the proposed treatment of omnibus accounts. 59 The commenters generally suggested that tax identification numbers or ID System numbers be used to alleviate this burden. 58 See Memoranda to SEC File No. S7&hyph;24&hyph;91 from the Division of Market Regulation dated March 20, 1992, which outline this issue as discussed at meetings with the SIA and the American Bankers Association. 59 See Proposing Release, 56 FR 42557, at text accompanying n. 79. The Commission has sought to reduce the burden of multiple LTIDs. The Commission has chosen to accomplish this objective through a narrowed definition of a large trader, reduced Form 13H information, limited disclosure of LTIDs, the use of ID System numbers, and trade reporting requirements that incorporate these changes. The SIA generally expressed its concurrence with this solution to the concerns with the multiple LTID reporting requirements. 60 The Commission, however, specifically solicits comments on the transaction reporting aspects of the reproposed use of ID System numbers and any other information, systems, or procedures that would more effectively accomplish the objectives of the Market Reform Act. 60 See Memoranda to SEC File No. S7&hyph;24&hyph;91 from the Division of Market Regulation dated June 8, 1992 and June 11, 1992 outlining discussions with the American Bankers Association and the SIA, respectively. See also supra n. 52, however, describing the Standing Instructions Database features of the proposed Interactive ID System and the potential elimination of the need for broker-dealers to maintain such information. 4. Execution Times Due to the anticipated burden of automating execution times, the Commission proposed and solicited comments on a two year plan to phase-in the automation of execution time reporting requirements. The Commission received substantial comments from broker-dealers regarding the proposed execution time reporting requirements. One commenter acknowledged that automated execution times were essential for reliable time-sequenced trading reconstructions and expressed support for the proposed two year phase-in plan. However, the majority of the commenters asserted that the development and implementation of automated systems for maintaining and reporting execution times would be costly. The commenters generally explained that in order to comply with the proposed rule, broker-dealers would be required to develop and implement so-called ``automated order match systems.'' These order match systems would automatically link or match the execution time recorded on customer order tickets with the execution time recorded on the corresponding trade tickets prepared on the floor of an exchange. Without these systems broker-dealers would be required to manually research and identify the execution time for each customer trade. Five broker-dealers and the SIA, on behalf of its members, supplied cost estimates. These cost estimates ranged from a high of $8.5 million to a low of $17,000. 61 These cost estimates included many different items, some of which were not intended by the proposed rule. For example, many of these estimates included the cost of developing sophisticated systems that would fulfill the obligation of broker-dealers to supervise compliance with the proposed rule. These systems presumably would identify related accounts that may be required to be aggregated, through computer systems that employ forms of ``artificial intelligence.'' 61 At the request of the Division of Market Regulation, 16 broker-dealers subsequently submitted cost estimates ranging from $8.6 million to $100,000.
