FR940304-1-00107 FR940304-1-00014 The Department included solar pre-heating as a design option for electric storage water heaters. Baltimore, Maryland was used as the location for evaluating the solar water heating systems. Baltimore was chosen as the one site that most closely approximated the population-weighted average climate of the United States. Design Options for Instantaneous Gas-Fired Water Heaters The Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association commented that reducing the amount of water within instantaneous water heaters would reduce the heater's ability to provide sufficient heated water. The Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association further noted that instantaneous water heaters do not utilize flues to transfer heat to water. Design options which concern flue improvements are not applicable to instantaneous water heaters. (Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association, No. 40 at 5). The Department agrees with the Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association on these issues. Reducing the amount of water in the heater and flue improvements were not considered in the analysis of instantaneous water heaters. The Natural Resources Defense Council recommended that DOE consider an intermittent ignition device for instantaneous water heaters as a design option. (Natural Resources Defense Council, No. 13 at 27). This design option was included in the analysis of instantaneous water heaters. Reducing Water Heater Setpoint Temperature Another comment on design options dealt with a design to limit the temperature of the hot water produced by a water heater. National Wildlife Federation proposed that DOE consider the promulgation of a design standard covering the factory setting of water heater temperature controls. It stated that 140 ○F water can cause burns, and reducing this temperature could lower accidents. In addition, the energy savings would be substantial. (National Wildlife Federation, No. 21 at 3). The Department did not consider the hot water setting as a design option for water heaters. While it is true that reducing the hot water temperature will save energy at the water heater, hot wash cycles in clothes washers and dishwashers with 140 ○F water are required for certain conditions. All clothes washers and dishwashers would have to contain electric resistance booster heaters to maintain this utility. The use of these electric resistance booster heaters would mean that some water heating currently being performed by gas water heaters would be performed by electrical resistance heating with a corresponding loss in overall efficiency. Other Comments. Fuel switching. One of the most discussed consumer issues involved the impact of increases in initial purchase price for gas water heaters, since standards could alter consumer fuel choice, resulting in increased electricity consumption at the expense of gas consumption, and increased environmental degradation. (Middle Tennessee Natural Gas Utility District, No. 1 at 1; Wisconsin Southern Gas Company, No. 9 at 1&hyph;2; Colorado Interstate Gas Company, No. 14 at 2; Peoples Natural Gas Company, No. 28 at 1; Wisconsin Blue Flame Council, No. 33 at 1&hyph;2; WGL, No. 37 at 5; Columbia Gas Distribution Company, No. 45 at 3; Northern Indiana Public Service Company, No. 48 at 4; ENTEX, No. 58 at 2; Peoples Gas Light and Coke Company (Peoples), No. 65 at 1; Mobile Gas Service Corporation, No. 66 at 2; Northern Minnesota Utilities, No. 68 at 1; Delta Natural Gas Company, Inc., No. 73 at 1; Public Service Company of North Carolina, Inc., No. 74 at 4; and Southern California Gas Company, No. 79 at 1). Concern was expressed that if standards imposed on gas water heaters include automatic ignition, requiring electric service, there will be a sizeable increase in the prices of gas appliances. The comments argued that builders are concerned with initial purchase prices, not life-cycle costs; thus, a switch to electricity consumption will occur. The Department is sensitive to fuel-switching issues. The Department incorporated available data about fuel shares in new housing and replacement markets, based on historical purchase patterns, in the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Residential Energy Model. Additional data to quantify the sensitivity in the market to first cost and to operating cost were obtained. Also, sensitivity analyses were performed in the forecast of shipments of water heaters.
