FR940617-2-00165 FR940617-2-00093 5. Representatives of a Relevant Party will be made available to respond to inquiries of the COB relating to its records. IV. Transactions Effected in Significant Markets A. All transactions in Relevant Securities in a ``Significant Market,'' as defined below, shall be effected in accordance with the requirements of rules 10b&hyph;6, 10b&hyph;7, and 10b&hyph;8, except as permitted by paragraph IV.B. below or by other available exemptions. For purposes of these exemptions, ``Significant Market'' means: (i) SEAQ International or any other dealer market outside the United States and France for which price and volume information is published by an FFRA; or (ii) any other securities market(s) in a single country other than the United States or France to which a French Issuer has applied for listing the Qualified French Security and been accepted, if during the Reference Period the volume in either (i) or (ii) in such Qualified French Security, as published by the relevant FFRA(s) in such securities market, is 10 percent or more of the aggregate worldwide trading volume in that security published by all FFRAs in (i) and (ii), FFRAs in France, and U.S. securities markets to which such French Issuer has applied for listing such Qualified French Security and been accepted. B. In the case of a distribution of Qualified French Securities made pursuant to rights (``rights distribution''), the Relevant Parties located in the United Kingdom (``U.K. Relevant Parties''): (a) in connection with the rights distribution, may purchase or solicit the purchase of Relevant Securities in transactions solely in response to orders for the accounts of their customers in the ordinary course of their business in the United Kingdom (``customer facilitation activities''); and (b) may bid for or purchase Relevant Securities as principal in market making transactions through SEAQ International during the rights distribution, in each case subject to the following conditions: 1. During the period from five business days prior to the expiration date of the rights distribution and until the expiration date, inclusive, at any time at which the difference between the rights exercise price and the market price of the security underlying the rights (which for this purpose will be taken to mean the mid-price between the highest bid and lowest offer quoted on SEAQ International for the security underlying the rights) does not represent a discount of at least 10 percent from the then current market price of the security underlying the rights, the U.K. Relevant Parties will effect ``passive market making'' transactions in the Relevant Securities subject to the terms and conditions of Letter regarding Distributions of SEAQ and SEAQ International Securities (July 12, 1993) (``LSE Letter''); 2. The U.K. Relevant Parties, in accordance with Item 502(d)(1) of Regulation S&hyph;K under the Securities Act, shall include a statement regarding transactions which stabilize or maintain the market price of the Relevant Securities with appropriate modification, to reflect the possibility that the U.K. Relevant Parties may engage in market making, including passive market making, and customer facilitation activities that otherwise would be prohibited by rule 10b&hyph;6, and shall include pursuant to rule 408 under the Securities Act in the ``Plan of Distribution'' or similar section of the prospectus, a brief description of such proposed market making and customer facilitation activities in the Relevant Securities; and 3. The recordkeeping and production requirements set forth by the Commission in the LSE Letter shall apply to all transactions effected by or on behalf of the U.K. Relevant Parties' accounts, or for the accounts of customers in connection with customer facilitation activities during the rights distribution.
