FR940317-2-00105 FR940317-2-00069 [Docket No. 94&hyph;16; Notice 1] Notice of Receipt of Petition for Determination That Nonconforming 1978 Through 1981 Bristol VRT Buses Are Eligible for Importation AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, DOT. ACTION: Request for comments on petition for determination that nonconforming 1978 through 1981 Bristol VRT buses are eligible for importation. SUMMARY: This notice requests comments on a petition submitted to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) for a determination that 1978 through 1981 Bristol VRT buses that were not originally manufactured to comply with all applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards are eligible for importation into the United States because they have safety features that comply with, or are capable of being modified to comply with, all such standards. DATES: The closing date for comments on the petition is April 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should refer to the docket number and notice number, and be submitted to: Docket Section, room 5109, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh St., SW., Washington, DC 20590. [Docket hours are from 9:30 am to 4 pm.] FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ted Bayler, Office of Vehicle Safety Compliance, NHTSA (202&hyph;366&hyph;5306).) SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Under section 108(c)(3)(A)(i)(I) of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act (the Act), 15 U.S.C. 1397 (c)(3)(A)(i)(I), a motor vehicle that was not originally manufactured to conform to all applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards shall be refused admission into the United States on and after January 31, 1990, unless NHTSA has determined that the motor vehicle is substantially similar to a motor vehicle originally manufactured for importation into and sale in the United States, certified under section 114 of the Act, and of the same model year as the model of the motor vehicle to be compared, and is capable of being readily modified to conform to all applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards. Where there is no substantially similar U.S.-certified motor vehicle, section 108(c)(3)(A)(i)(II) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 1397 (c)(3)(A)(i)(II), permits a nonconforming motor vehicle to be admitted into the United States if its safety features comply with, or are capable of being modified to comply with, all applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards based on destructive test data or such other evidence as NHTSA determines to be adequate. Petitions for eligibility determinations may be submitted by either manufacturers or importers who have registered with NHTSA pursuant to 49 CFR part 592. As specified in 49 CFR 593.7, NHTSA publishes notice in the Federal Register of each petition that it receives, and affords interested persons an opportunity to comment on the petition. At the close of the comment period, NHTSA determines, on the basis of the petition and any comments that it has received, whether the vehicle is eligible for importation. The agency then publishes this determination in the Federal Register . Double Decker Bus Company of Denver, Colorado (Registered Importer No. R&hyph;93&hyph;015) has petitioned NHTSA to determine whether 1978 through 1981 Bristol VRT buses are eligible for importation into the United States. The petitioner contends that these vehicles are eligible for importation under section 108(c)(3)(A)(i)(II) of the Act, 15 US.C. 1397(c)(3)(A)(i)(II), because they have safety features that comply with, or are capable of being modified to comply with, all applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards. Specifically, the petitioner claims that 1978 through 1981 Bristol VRT buses have safety features that comply with Standard Nos. 102 Transmission Shift Lever Sequence .␣.␣.␣.␣ (based on schematic diagram indicating starter interlock protection and photograph showing shift lever positions), 103 Defrosting and Defogging Systems (based on schematic diagram indicative starter interlock protection and photograph showing shift lever positions), 103 Defrosting and Defogging Systems (based on statement and photograph indicating that system incorporates electrically heated elements and heated air blowers), 104 Windshield Wiping and Washing Systems (based on statement and photographs indicating that system is pneumatically driven and offers full coverage of windshield at two set speeds and intermittently), 107 Reflecting Surfaces (based on statement and photographs indicating that reflective glare is kept to a minimum in the driver's cab through the use of matt black paint on the windshield wipers, the rearview mirror frame, the dash, and the cab walls), 120 Tire Selection and Rims for Motor Vehicles other than Passenger cars (based on statement and photographs showing certification markings on tires supplied by vehicle purchaser and rims selected by petitioner, and describing contents of tire information placard), 121 Air Brake Systems (based on statement, photographs, and specifications indicating that vehicles are equipped with an air compressors and associated equipment that provides greater cut-in pressure than 85 p.s.i.), 124 Accelerator Control Systems (based on statement and photographs indicating that throttle return is provided by pneumatic valve, supplemented by a spring loaded foot pedal and photographs showing pneumatic accelerator resetting is less than one second), 205 Glazing Materials (based on statement and photographs showing that glazing materials bear DOT certification markings), 207 Seating Systems , (based on statement and photographs indicating that seats are securely mounted to vehicle floor and photographs showing forces applied to driver's seat), 217 Bus Window Retention and Release (based on statement describing window retention test results, calculations indicating size and distribution of emergency exits, and photographs showing emergency exit markings), and 302 Flammability of Interior Materials (based on statements and photographs indicating composition of upholstery, and test results). The petitioner also contends that 1978 through 1981 Bristol VRT buses are capable of being modified to comply with the following standards, in the manner indicated: Standard No. 101 Controls and Displays : (a) Installation of a potentiometer wired in series to provide variation in panel lighting; (b) installation of dash-mounted high beam telltale; (c) installation of U.S.-model license plate lamp. Standard No. 106 Brake Hoses : replacement of flexible brake hoses on front wheels with U.S.-model parts. Standard No. 108 Lamps, Reflective Devices, and Associated Equipment : installation of the following equipment bearing DOT certification markings: (a) Two sealed beam headlamps, three amber identification lamp clusters, two amber clearance lamps, and two amber length and height markers at the front end of the vehicle; (b) two tail lamp assemblies, three red identification lamp clusters, two red clearance lamps, two red length and height markers, two red side marker/reflectors, and one license plate illumination lamp at the rear end of the vehicle; (c) two amber reflectors at the midsection of the vehicle's right side; (d) two amber reflectors at the midsection of the vehicle's left side. Standard No. 111 Rearview Mirrors : replacement of the rearview mirrors with U.S.-model parts.
