FR940118-0-00016 FR940118-0-00004 One commenter implied that the proposed changes could not be made without statistical studies showing the economic impact of genitourinary impairments on disabled individuals. He cited a statistical study conducted in the 1960s which he contends does not support the proposed reductions. The statute authorizing establishment of the schedule directs that ``[t]he Secretary shall from time to time readjust the schedule of ratings in accordance with experience '' (emphasis supplied). Rather than requiring statistical studies or any other specific type of data, the statute clearly leaves the nature of the experience which warrants an adjustment, and by extension the manner in which any review is conducted, to the discretion of the Secretary. Although during the 1970s VA considered adjusting the rating schedule based on the same statistical studies cited by the commenter, that approach proved to be unsatisfactory and the proposed changes were not adopted. To allow as much public participation in the process as possible, we published an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANPRM) in the Federal Register on August 21, 1989 (54 FR 34531&hyph;2). We received responses from VA employees, the Naval Physical Evaluation Board, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Disabled American Veterans, the Director of Urology Programs at the National Institutes of Health, and the general public. We also contracted with an outside consultant to suggest revisions. In formulating recommendations, the consultant convened a five-member panel of physicians, each specializing in a different aspect of urology. We developed our proposed changes only after reviewing all of the material received in response to the ANPRM, from the consultant, and from specialists from the Veterans Health Administration in renal diseases. One commenter believed that the proposed changes did not reflect the average person's ability to cope with genitourinary disorders as 38 U.S.C. 1155 requires, but were instead based upon optimum success in overcoming the effects of disease and the results of surgery. Presumably the commenter was referring to the convalescent periods specified under various diagnostic codes in this portion of the schedule. VA does not concur. 38 U.S.C. 1155 directs that ``ratings shall be based, as far as practicable, upon the average impairments of earning capacity resulting from such injuries in civil occupations.'' The word ``average,'' as used in the statute, refers to the ``usual or normal kind, amount, quality, rate, etc.'' (``Webster's New World Dictionary,'' Third College Edition). We have outlined above the range of medical advice available to us when we conducted this review. The convalescent periods adopted in this change represent in our judgment, based on sound medical advice, neither the longest nor shortest periods that any individual patient might require for recovery, but the usual or normal periods during which a normal patient, under normal circumstances, would be expected to recover from a specific condition or surgical procedure. We also note that these convalescent periods represent the point at which the individual patient's condition is to be evaluated by examination, and do not preclude an extension of a total evaluation if appropriate based on the individual patient's condition. (See comments regarding diagnostic code 7528.) Another commenter believed that certain changes were proposed ``with an eye towards cost cutting.'' As discussed above, the revisions were proposed based on medical considerations; no cost studies or projections were conducted in conjunction with this review. Cost cutting therefore was not an issue, and we believe that these revisions will prove to have negligible budget impact. One commenter stated that VA should consider the effects of genitourinary conditions on life expectancy when revising this portion of the rating schedule. VA does not concur. To consider a factor so far removed from ``the average impairments of earning capacity'' as the effects of various conditions on life expectancy would clearly exceed the parameters established by Congress in 38 U.S.C. 1155.
