FR941206-2-00163 FR941206-2-00110 III. Eligible and Ineligible Costs Eligible equipment for the 1995 grant round includes apparatus necessary for the production, interconnection, captioning, broadcast, or other distribution of programming, including but not limited to studio equipment; audio and video storage, processing, and switching; terminal equipment; towers, antennas, transmitters, remote control equipment, transmission line, translators, microwave equipment, mobile equipment, satellite communications equipment, instructional television fixed service equipment, subsidiary communications authorization transmitting and receiving equipment, cable television equipment, and optical fiber communications equipment. NTIA recognizes that digital technology will be an important means for the more efficient creation and distribution of programming in the future. Consequently, public broadcasters seeking to replace, upgrade, and buy new equipment which employs digital technology will be permitted, when appropriate, to use PTFP funds for such purposes. The following list provides clarification regarding several equipment and other cost areas that will be helpful in preparing applications. NTIA reserves the right to eliminate any costs, whether specified here or not, that it determines are not appropriate prior to the awarding of a grant. A. Equipment and Supplies (1) Buildings and Modifications to Buildings. (a) Eligible: Small equipment shelters that are part of satellite earth stations, translators, microwave interconnection facilities, and similar facilities. (b) Ineligible: Purchase or lease of buildings and modifications to buildings, including the renovation of space for studios intended to house eligible equipment; costs associated with removing old equipment. (2) Land and Land Improvements. (a) Eligible: Site preparation necessary to construct towers and guy anchors for transmission and interconnection equipment. (b) Ineligible: Purchase or lease of land. (3) Moving Costs. Ineligible: Moving costs required by relocation of transmitter or studio equipment. (4) Reception Equipment. (a) Eligible: Fixed frequency demodulator, as required by good engineering practice for monitoring the off-air transmission of signals; subcarrier demodulator; telemetry transmitters and receivers; satellite receivers; and subcarrier decoders for the handicapped. (b) Ineligible: Consumer-type TV sets and FM receivers. (5) Tower Modifications. (a) Eligible: Strengthening or modifying a commercial entity's tower to accommodate a public broadcasting entity (structural modifications on towers and/or antenna changes must meet EIA and any required local standards). (b) Ineligible: Modifying or strengthening the applicant's tower to accommodate a commercial entity. (6) Production and Control Room Equipment. (a) Eligible: Standard production studio and control room equipment for TV or radio program production. (b) Ineligible: Consumer-type mixers, tape recorders, turntables, CD players, etc. Ancillary production devices such as stopwatches and stop-clocks, building lights, sound effects and sound effects equipment, scenery and props, cycloramas, sound insulation devices and materials, draperies and related equipment for production use, film and still photography processing, film sound synchronization editing. (7) Video Equipment. (a) Eligible: Videotape editing and processing equipment that conforms to broadcast-standard quality equipment for field recording and production editing. (b) Ineligible: Consumer level videotape recording formats not accepted in the industry as broadcast-standard quality. (8) Furniture and Office Equipment. (a) Eligible: Consoles required to mount equipment such as audio consoles and video switchers. (b) Ineligible: Such items as office furniture, office equipment, studio clocks and systems, blackboards, office intercoms, equipment inventory labels and label-makers, word processors, telephones and telephone systems, and printing and duplication equipment. (9) Expendable Items and Spare Parts. (a) Eligible: A transmitter spare parts kit and one set of final and driver tubes for a transmitter awarded in the grant. A spare parts kit for video tape recorders awarded in the grant. (b) Ineligible; Spare lenses, spare circuit components, spare parts kits for studio equipment except as noted above; recording tape, film, reels, cartridge tapes, records, CDs, and record or tape cleaning equipment; art and graphics supplies; maintenance supplies, including replacement final and driver tubes normally considered in the industry as normal maintenance-budget-provided items and similar items. (10) Backup Equipment. (a) Eligible: Hot standby or backup microwave for the main studio-to-transmitter link only; a backup or spare exciter for a television transmitter, as required by good engineering practice. (b) Ineligible: Redundant equipment, such as spare transmitters, or costs associated with them, as well as backup microwave equipment (except as noted above). (11) Electric Power. (a) Eligible: Generally, all primary power costs from the output of the main power meter panel; regulators and surge protectors, as required by good engineering practice, to stabilize transmitter RF output. Where primary power is not available or is unusable for broadcast, then PTFP may provide funding for those devices needed to power the facility if the need for that equipment is fully documented in the application. (b) Ineligible: Costs of installing primary power to the facility, including transformers, power lines, gasoline or diesel powered generators, and related equipment.
