FR940928-1-00048 FR940928-1-00013 Factors of interest to the Department of Energy when evaluating requests to treat as confidential information that has been submitted include: (1) A description of the items; (2) an indication as to whether and why such items are customarily treated as confidential within the industry; (3) whether the information is generally known by, or available from, other sources; (4) whether the information has previously been made available to others without obligation concerning its confidentiality; (5) an explanation of the competitive injury to the submitting person which would result from public disclosure; (6) an indication as to when such information might lose its confidential character due to the passage of time; and (7) why disclosure of the information would be contrary to the public interest. B. Public Hearing 1. Procedures for Submitting Requests to Speak The time and place of the public hearing are indicated at the beginning of this notice. The Department of Energy invites any person who has an interest in today's proposed rule, or who is a representative of a group or class of persons that has an interest in these definitions, to make a request for an opportunity to make an oral presentation. Such requests should be directed to the address or telephone number indicated at the beginning of this notice. Requests should be labeled ``Definitions for Certain Fluorescent and Incandescent Lamps, Docket No. EE&hyph;RM&hyph;94&hyph;220&hyph;NOPR,'' both on the document and on the envelope. The person making the request should briefly describe the interest concerned and state why he or she, either individually or as a representative of a group or class of persons that have such an interest, is an appropriate spokesperson, and give a telephone number where he or she may be contacted. 2. Conduct of Hearing The Department of Energy reserves the right to select the persons to be heard at the hearing, to schedule the respective presentations, and to establish the procedures governing the conduct of the hearing. The length of each presentation is limited to 15 minutes. A Department of Energy official will be designated to preside at the hearing. The hearing will not be a judicial or an evidentiary-type hearing, but will be conducted in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 533 and section 336 of the Act. At the conclusion of all initial oral statements at each day of the hearing, each person who has made an oral statement will be given the opportunity to make a clarifying rebuttal statement, subject to time limitations. The rebuttal statement will be given in the order in which the initial statements were made. Any further procedural rules needed for the proper conduct of the hearing will be announced by the presiding official. A transcript of the hearing will be made, and the entire record of this rulemaking, including the transcript, will be retained by the Department of Energy and made available for inspection at the Department of Energy Freedom of Information Reading Room as provided at the beginning of this notice. Any person may purchase a copy of the transcript from the transcribing reporter. C. Issues for Public Comment The Department of Energy is interested in receiving comments and data concerning the accuracy and workability of these definitions. Also, the Department of Energy welcomes discussion on improvements or alternatives to these approaches. In particular, the Department of Energy is interested in gathering comments on the following: •Color temperature ranges for colored fluorescent and incandescent lamps. •Appropriateness of the prescribed filaments for the rough or vibration service incandescent reflector lamp. •Applicability of the proposed vibration test to determine the rough or vibration service exemption for incandescent reflector lamps. List of Subjects in 10 CFR Part 430 Administrative practice and procedure, Energy conservation, Household appliances. Issued in Washington, DC, August 10, 1994. Christine A. Ervin, Assistant Secretary, Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy.
