FR940826-0-00096 FR940826-0-00017 Seventy-five to ninety per cent of the sodium bicarbonate is retained in the pan, and therefore is smaller than 45 microns. The median particle size of the pan fraction is 15.0 microns. With 12.2 per cent of the pan fraction being smaller than ten microns, then 11 per cent of the total product is smaller than ten microns. One per cent of the pan fraction is smaller than five microns. The manufacturer's data indicate that there are two mixtures of ammonium polyphosphate. The P40 mixture has a particle size distribution with 50% of the particles less than 10 microns. The intended market for this agent is military applications. The P30 mixture has a distribution with 20% of particles less than 10 microns and 50% less than 30 microns. The intended market for this agent is for use in domestic and industrial kitchens. E. Sterilants 1. EtO/CO 2 Systems In the March 18, 1994 Final Rulemaking, EPA described ethylene oxide/carbon dioxide (EtO)/CO 2 ) substitutes for use in medical sterilization. Recently, the Agency has become aware of more information concerning the design and use of EtO/CO 2 systems, which is described in this Notice. EtO/CO 2 is stored in tanks as a liquified compressed gas mixture. A tube in the tank draws the liquid mixture from the bottom for use as a sterilant. By Department of Transportation (DOT) regulations, the tank can be filled with liquid to only 60 per cent of its capacity. The remaining 40 per cent capacity above the liquid is called the ``headspace.'' Liquified compressed gases will vaporize into the headspace of a tank until equilibrium is reached. Each gas in a mixture vaporizes at its own specific rate. In EtO/CO 2 systems, the CO 2 vaporizes much more readily than does the EtO. The CO 2 vaporizes to fill the headspace, and virtually all the EtO remains in the liquid mixture. The starting liquid/compressed gas mixture is 8.5 per cent EtO and 91.5 per cent CO 2 . When a tank is filled, some CO 2 vaporizes to fill the headspace. Because the liquid mixture loses some CO 2 to form this vapor, the percentage of EtO in the mixture is now greater than 8.5 per cent. As liquid leaves the tank, the headspace increases. More CO 2 continues to vaporize into the headspace and the percentage of EtO in the remaining liquid mixture continues to increase. This results in a liquid mixture that grows increasingly EtO-rich until the liquid is fully depleted. At a certain point during depletion, the percentage of EtO in the liquid mixture increases to a point where the mixture may become flammable. Once the liquid mixture is fully depleted, only the CO 2 -rich vapor phase remains in the tank. If the depletion is not noted, the sterilizer could attempt a sterilization cycle using the CO 2 -rich vapor. Under these conditions, the vapor will not sterilize effectively. Two methods of supply control effectively address these problems. The first uses one-tank-per-cycle ``unit dose'' tanks. The second uses larger, multiple-cycle tanks and a weight-sensing system. Unit dose tanks hold only enough EtO/CO 2 for a single sterilization cycle. Unit dose tanks are available for several sizes of sterilizer chambers. After a cycle, the depleted tank is replaced with a fresh one. Using all of the gas in one discharge avoids the risks of flammability and ineffective sterilization which occur in multiple-cycle tanks. However, replacing the tank after each cycle is inconvenient. It also increases the risk of accidental exposure. A weight-sensing system uses the tank for more than one sterilization cycle. To be safe, such a system must sense when a tank is depleted, before either the liquid mixture becomes flammable or when only ineffective vapors remain in the tank headspace. For many gas mixtures, a pressure gauge can indicate the amount of gas in a tank. But for EtO/CO 2 systems, tank pressure does not change appreciably during tank depletion. As the liquid is depleted, more CO 2 fills the headspace and keeps the pressure almost constant. But as a tank of EtO/CO 2 is depleted, the weight of the liquid mixture decreases steadily. A weight-sensing system monitors the weight of a tank as it is depleted. Before the increasingly EtO-rich liquid in the tank becomes flammable, the system switches to a fresh tank. The depleted tank can then be replaced. Such systems are designed with numerous safety features to prevent accidental exposure. One drawback is that, when depleted, a tank still contains a portion of the original EtO/CO 2 charge. If more EtO/CO 2 were removed, the liquid mixture would approach the point of flammability. 2. New Listing Decisions a. Acceptable (1) [HCFC Blend] A [HCFC] Blend A is acceptable as a medical sterilant substitute for 12/88 CFC&hyph;12/EtO. This is the second agent listed under SNAP that can serve as a virtual drop-in replacement for 12/88, enabling users to transition away from CFC&hyph;12 without replacing their existing equipment.
