FR941206-2-00071 FR941206-2-00051 c. The Assistant Secretary for Housing&hyph;FHA Commissioner redelegates to the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Single Family Housing, who retains his or her authority and further redelegates to the Directors of Single Family Housing Divisions in the following offices, the powers and authorities needed to carry out those program functions listed in Part III of this redelegation for the Office of Housing&hyph;FHA single family housing programs. The legal citations for these programs are listed below in part II of this Section B. No authority for Multifamily housing functions is redelegated to HUD officials in either the C+ or the C Field Offices. In the case of the C+ offices, the offices have multifamily housing staff, outstationed from another field office, who report to the Director, Office of Housing in a Category AA Office or the Director, Multifamily Division, in another field office, as noted below in parentheses. (1.) Category C+ Albuquerque, NM (Fort Worth, TX, Housing Director) Dallas, TX (Fort Worth, TX, Housing Director) Shreveport, LA (All authority for Asset Disposition functions is delegated to the Houston, TX, Multifamily Housing Director. All authority for Multifamily Asset Management functions is delegated to Fort Worth, TX, Housing Director) Tulsa, OK (Oklahoma City, OK, Multifamily Division Director) Las Vegas, NV (San Francisco, CA, Housing Director) San Diego, CA, (San Francisco, CA, Housing Director) (2.) Category C Field Offices Albany, NY Camden, NJ Coral Gables, FL Memphis, TN Orlando, FL Tampa, FL Flint, MI Lubbock, TX Helena, MT Salt Lake City, UT Fresno, CA Reno, NV Santa Ana, CA Tucson, AZ Boise, ID Spokane, WA d. The following offices are not redelegated powers or authorities, and report to the Director, Single Family Housing Division in the offices shown in parentheses: (1.) Category D Field Offices Bangor, ME (Manchester, NH) Burlington, VT (Manchester, NH) Wilmington, DE (Philadelphia, PA) Springfield, IL (Chicago, IL) Casper, WY (Denver, CO) Fargo, ND (Denver, CO) Sioux Falls, SD (Denver, CO) II. Programs Under Which Authority Redelegated The following are the programs of the Office of Housing&hyph;FHA: (a.) Multifamily Housing Programs: 1. Multifamily Rental Housing for Moderate Income and Displaced Families Mortgage Insurance Program (Section 221(d)(3) and (4), National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715l (d)(3) and (4)). 2. Multifamily Rental Housing Mortgage Insurance Program (Section 207 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1713)). 3. Existing Multifamily Housing Mortgage Insurance Program (Section 223(f) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715n(f)). 4. Refinancing of Existing Insured Mortgages (Section 223(a)(7) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715n(a)(7)). 5. Reinsurance Pilot Program (Section 542(b) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 ( see , 12 U.S.C. 1707, Historical and Statutory Notes)).
