FR941122-1-00043 FR941122-1-00009 Information on this topic is requested from any facility that has evaluated or is currently using any blast depainting method or non-chemical means to remove coatings from the exterior of private, corporate, or small commuter aircraft. Specifically, the information should document both successful and unsuccessful applications of blast or mechanical depainting methods for these aircraft, or any other aircraft with similarly thin exterior skin panels. Any information on the generation and control of emissions from blast or mechanical depainting operations (of any type of aircraft) would also be beneficial. G. Request for Comment: Control Devices for Depainting Operations Using HAP-Containing Chemicals Another commenter recommended that conventional chemical strippers (containing HAPs) be allowed when emissions are reduced through the use of a control device. The commenter stated that a combination of a carbon adsorber and catalytic incinerator can achieve greater than 99 percent removal efficiency, and would be essentially equal to the depainting standard of no HAP emissions. Information submitted on this topic should address the feasibility of installing such a control system, including cost and ability to achieve greater than 99 percent removal efficiency on a dilute airstream. Also, since some portion of the volatile HAP content of conventional strippers will be retained in the waste sludge produced from the operation, commenters should detail the ultimate fate of emissions from the volatile HAPs in the waste stream. For example, a conventional waste treatment system may aerate the waste stream as an initial processing step, emitting the volatile HAPs at that point. However, other waste treatment methods may destroy HAPs before the aeration step. Comments are also requested on whether a standard allowing the use of control devices to reduce emissions from depainting operations should apply only to the depainting of private, corporate, and small commuter aircraft, or if it should apply to military and commercial aircraft as well. H. Request for Comment: Appropriate Length of Rolling Material Balance Period for Liquid-Liquid Material Balances for Carbon Adsorbers Used as Control Devices on Solvent Recovery Systems The EPA proposed Method 309, ``Method to Determine Length of Rolling Period for Liquid/Liquid Material Balance Method'' to determine the length of the rolling material balance period for the liquid-liquid material balance for carbon adsorbers used as control devices on solvent recovery systems. Several comments have been received concerning whether Method 309 is the most appropriate method for the aerospace industry in all instances. Therefore, the EPA is requesting comment on alternatives to Method 309. Information in support of alternatives to Method 309 should include how the length of the balance period is determined; discussions of operations that make an alternate determination of length appropriate; discussions concerning how compliance is indicated and ensured with the alternative determination; whether the alternative determination has been approved by state or local air pollution agencies in permits or other documents; and why Method 309 does not allow for the alternative determination. III. Administrative Requirements A. Paperwork Reduction Act The changes detailed in this notice will have the following effects on the information collection burden (recordkeeping, reporting, and monitoring requirements) of the proposed rule: (1) The request for comments concerning commercial exterior primers does not affect the information collection burden of the proposed rule; (2) New sources would be required to use HEPA filter and to maintain records documenting that the filters used meet the requirements of HEPA filters, but this would not significantly increase the recordkeeping burden; (3) The inclusion of Type I chemical milling maskants would require the same recordkeeping and reporting requirements as specified for Type II chemical milling maskants. Since the EPA has no information on which to base an estimate of the number of facilities currently using Type I chemical milling etchants, the magnitude of the effect on the information collection burden cannot be made; (4) The deletion of the requirement to capture and control all of the emissions from coating operations does not affect the information collection burden of the proposed rule; and (5) Reducing the recordkeeping requirements for low organic HAP and VOC content primers will result in a decrease in the information collection requirements for those facilities that use these primers. However, the EPA has no information on which to base an estimate of the number of facilities that will use the low organic HAP and VOC content primers. Therefore, the magnitude of the effect on the information collection request burden cannot be made. Even though the effect on the information collection burden cannot be completely quantified, the EPA believes that it will not significantly change. Therefore, the Information Collection Request document developed for the proposed rule has not been revised. B. Executive Order 12866 Review This rule was classified as ``non-significant'' under Executive Order 12866 and, therefore, was not reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 63 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Hazardous substances, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: November 14, 1994. Mary D. Nichols, Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28842 Filed 11&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
