FR941213-0-00051 FR941213-0-00010 We will implement this regulation through interpretive guidelines, which are the survey tools used by surveyors to determine Federal compliance with the regulation. These guidelines will contain a degree of specificity and clarification that is impractical and unwarranted for inclusion in the Federal regulation. Comment: Two commenters thought we should adopt the more detailed and strict discharge planning requirements of a particular State or locality in the regulations at 42 CFR 483.43. Response: There is nothing in the regulations to prevent a hospital from complying with stricter State or local requirements. In fact, our regulations at 42 CFR 482.11 would require such compliance. However, we believe that the statutory provision on discharge planning, because it is so detailed, reflects the level of effort intended by the Congress to be required by HCFA and so we do not believe it is appropriate to go beyond Federal statutory provisions. Comment: One commenter believed that the regulations should clearly state that if a patient does not want a discharge evaluation or plan, his wishes should prevail over the hospital's need to comply with the condition of participation. Response: As with other services offered by hospitals, patients may refuse to accept discharge planning or to comply with a discharge plan just as they may refuse medical treatment. When a patient exercises this choice, however, we suggest that the hospitals document the patient's refusal. The interpretive guidelines will mention this type of situation. Comment: One commenter believed the condition of participation for discharge planning needs to reflect more comprehensively the purposes of discharge planning, among them_ (1) to ensure that patients are not discharged prematurely and to provide evidence on that point; (2) to facilitate appropriate outplacement; (3) to document the need for post-hospital care for purposes of prior concurrent authorization by fiscal intermediaries to pay for such services; (4) to document the need for administratively necessary days; and (5) to help ensure continuity of cases in a fragmented delivery system. Response: As defined in the legislation, the purpose of the discharge planning process is to ensure a timely and smooth transition to the most appropriate type and setting for post-hospital or rehabilitative care. The regulations include requirements to achieve this result. We do not believe a more detailed discussion of its purpose would enhance its effect. Comment: One commenter believed that we should require that each hospital have an integrated discharge planning process. Response: Assuring that the process is complete and functions properly is a hospital's responsibility. The interpretive guidelines for §482.43(e) contain procedures for determining a hospital's success in meeting this requirement. We believe that a separate regulatory requirement for ``coordination'' would be redundant. Comment: One commenter thought we should include a requirement that discharge planning be placed within the hospital's social services department. Response: We do not agree. One of our stated objectives of the revised conditions of participation for hospitals, which became effective September 15, 1986, was to permit maximum flexibility in hospital administration and they do not contain a requirement for a social services department into which this requirement could be placed. We will continue to encourage that flexibility in implementing the discharge planning requirement by not requiring that it be placed in a particular hospital department. Comment: One commenter stated that there is a need for careful monitoring and vigorous enforcement of the discharge planning process. Response: We agree. As with the other conditions of participation, the new 42 CFR 482.43 will be monitored through the survey and certification process. We will be developing detailed guidelines for our hospital surveyors to use in determining whether the discharge planning process results in the development of appropriate plans; whether the individual plans are adequate; and whether the plans are appropriately executed as required by this regulation. V. Summary of Revisions to Proposed Rule We are adopting the proposed rule as final with the changes described above. These changes include the following: •Section 482.43, Introductory paragraph: We are revising this section to specify that the hospital discharge planning condition of participation applies to all patients, and we are adding a requirement that the hospital must specify its discharge planning policies and procedures in writing. •Section 482.43 (b)(2) and (c)(1)_We are omitting the phrase ``(consistent with available community and hospital resources).''
