FR940721-2-00070 FR940721-2-00036 10. To the Department of State for administering the Social Security Act in foreign countries through facilities and services of that agency. 11. To the American Institute of Taiwan for administering the Social Security Act on Taiwan through facilities and services of that agency. 12. To the Department of Veterans Affairs (DVA), Philippines Regional Office, for administering the Social Security Act in the Philippines through facilities and services of that agency. 13. To the Department of the Interior for administering the Social Security Act in the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands through facilities and services of that agency. 14. To the Department of Labor for: (a) Administering provisions of the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act; and (b) Conducting studies of the effectiveness of training programs to combat poverty. 15. To DVA for the following purposes: (a) For the purpose of validating SSNs of compensation recipients/pensioners in order to provide the release of accurate pension/compensation data by DVA to SSA for Social Security program purposes; and (b) Upon request, for purposes of determining eligibility for or amount of DVA benefits, or verifying other information with respect thereto. 16. To Federal agencies which use the SSN as a numerical identifier in their recordkeeping systems, for the purpose of validating SSNs. 17. To DOJ, to a court, to another tribunal, or to another party before such tribunal, when: (a) SSA, or any component thereof; or (b) Any SSA employee in his/her official capacity; or (c) Any SSA employee in his/her individual capacity when DOJ (or SSA when it is authorized to do so) has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) The United States or any agency thereof when SSA determines that the litigation is likely to affect the operations of SSA or any of its components is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and SSA determines that the use of such records by DOJ, the tribunal, or other party before such tribunal is relevant and necessary to the litigation, provided, however, that in each case, SSA determines that such disclosure is compatible with the purpose for which the records were disclosed. Wage and other information that is subject to disclosure provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) will not be disclosed under this routine use unless disclosure is expressly permitted by the IRC. 18. To State audit agencies for auditing State supplementation payments and Medicaid eligibility considerations. 19. Information necessary to adjudicate claims filed under an international Social Security agreement that the United States has entered into pursuant to section 233 of the Social Security Act may be disclosed to a foreign country which is a party to that agreement.
