FR940407-0-00061 FR940407-0-00014 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Willis P. Beal, U.S. EPA, MD&hyph;12, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711, telephone (919) 541&hyph;5667. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The contents of today's preamble are listed in the following outline: I. Background and Purpose A. Introduction B. Overview C. Principles and Regulatory Elements II. Summary of Rules and Guidance A. Applicability B. Definitions C. State Program Election and Submittal D. State Program Requirements E. Use of Program Revenues III. Discussion of Rules and Guidance A. Applicability B. Definitions C. State Program Election and Submittal D. State Program Requirements E. Use of Program Revenues IV. Discussion of Comments and Regulatory Changes A. Program Goals B. Interface With Reasonably Available Control Technology (RACT) and Other Statutory Requirements C. Program Baseline D. Emission Quantification E. Monitoring, Recordkeeping, Reporting (MRR) F. State Implementation Plan (SIP) Creditability G. Audit/Reconciliation Procedures H. Penalties for Noncompliance I. Interface With Existing Emission Trading Policies J. General Issues V. Administrative Requirements A. Executive Order 12866 B. Paperwork Reduction Act C. Regulatory Flexibility Act I. Background and Purpose A. Introduction The Act, as amended in 1990, broadly encourages the use of incentive-based approaches to control air pollution. This encouragement is reflected not only in the title IV acid rain program, but also in the title I general provisions for State and Federal implementation plans for achieving the NAAQS for criteria pollutants, as well as in the provisions for certain Federal O 3 measures. In title I, incentive-based approaches are encouraged, and, in certain cases, mandated, through the use of what has been termed an ``economic incentive program.'' Today's notice promulgates rules and guidance for EIP's adopted by the States pursuant to title I of the Act. The Agency views this action as an opportunity to encourage and provide guidance on the early implementation of appropriate discretionary EIP's, as well as to provide mandated rules for use by States after certain specific failures occur. The Agency hopes that this guidance will stimulate the early adoption of innovative, incentive-based approaches, where appropriate, that will assist the States in avoiding such failures, reaching attainment of the NAAQS faster than might otherwise occur solely through the use of traditional regulatory strategies, and lowering the cost of attaining and maintaining the NAAQS. Through this action, the Agency intends to encourage the development of EIP's which benefit both the environment and the regulated entities by increasing flexibility and stimulating the use of less costly strategies, as well as by providing stronger incentives for development and implementation of pollution prevention measures, innovative emissions reductions technology, and strategies beyond those specifically mandated through State and Federal standards and regulations. The Agency believes that these goals can be met by EIP's that also meet the standards of accountability and enforceability currently found in traditional regulatory programs.
