FR940114-2-00165 FR940114-2-00102 The procedures used to calculate a higher turbidity limit are the same as those used in the placer mining permits issued since 1986. The turbidity limit is based on utilizing a mass balance equation which relates upstream receiving water flow and turbidity to effluent flow and turbidity. The basic form of this equation is: Q 1 C 1 +Q 2 C 2 =Q 3 C 3 , where C 1 = upstream turbidity; C 2 = effluent turbidity; C 3 = downstream turbidity after mixing where the allowable increase is 5 NTU above background (C 1 +5 NTU); Q 1 = stream flow downstream from any diversion and upstream from the discharge; Q 2 = effluent flow*; and, Q 3 = total stream flow downstream from discharge after complete mixing. *A default value of 10 gallons per minute (GPM) will be used if the NOI states that zero discharge will be achieved. The information that must be submitted by the permittee to determine the appropriate turbidity limit for the facility is the effluent and receiving stream flow rates. The receiving stream flow rate must be measured upstream from the discharge point and downstream from any diversions. Receiving stream flow values can be obtained from the ADNR, Division of Mining, upon request by the permittee. ADNR methodology for determining upstream flow uses equations developed by Ashton and Carlson (1984). The maximum effluent discharge flow must be estimated by the permittee and must account for the effects of all excess incidental waters. Permittees requesting a higher turbidity limitation must submit the necessary information to EPA with the NOI. This applies to all permittees, including those who have submitted this type of information in the past, in order to assure that all site-specific information is up-to-date. b. Suction Dredging. The daily visual inspection during operation of an area downstream of the suction dredge is based on research published in the scientific literature (Griffith and Andrews 1981, Hassler et al. 1986, Harvey 1986, Huber and Blanchet 1992, Thomas 1985) and on monitoring done by Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation (ADEC) (Ron McAlister, ADEC, personal communication). In most cases, water quality recovered rapidly below the dredge. ADEC found that turbidity was elevated 1 to 4.5 NTU 500 feet downstream of an operating 10 inch dredge. The daily visual inspection during operation should assure that the water quality standard for turbidity is met. 2. Arsenic_Mechanical and Hydraulic Removal of Overburden. EPA has concluded, based on available sampling data, that arsenic is commonly associated with placer mining wastes. Locally, it is the most abundant toxic metal present. For this reason, EPA has determined that arsenic is a pollutant of concern. Additionally, although several studies by EPA have indicated a reduction in levels of arsenic in placer mining effluent as a result of reducing settleable solids to 0.2 ml/l, EPA has concluded that these reduced levels of arsenic are not consistently adequate to achieve WQS.
