FR940412-1-00035 FR940412-1-00008 This NPRM proposes that profit and loss accounts be reported semiannually in accordance with the charter of accounts proposed in Appendix B to part 403. This NPRM proposes standardized reporting, by account number, for financial data now submitted in summarized, unnumbered fashion. The proposed revisions and additions to the reporting requirements are necessary to examine selected costs for reasonableness (lease and interest costs, etc.); to specifically list expenses that would be included in pilot compensation costs (e.g., pension and health costs, etc.); and to provide identification for costs not currently listed as incurred in some districts (e.g., pilot insurance, FICA, retirement). For ratemaking purposes, more detailed information is needed than that supplied in the current financial statements to determine the reasonableness of capital lease agreements and the depreciable lives and residual value of selected assets. This NPRM proposes that all matters which may materially influence interpretations or conclusions drawn from the financial statements of pilot associations with regard to the financial condition or earnings position of the association would have to be clearly and completely stated as footnotes to the financial statement. This NPRM proposes to continue the requirement that all financial records, including information on lease transactions, be maintained and be readily available to the Director's auditors for 10 years. This NPRM does not propose any significant changes to the form of Inter-Association Settlement Statements. However, comments on whether it is necessary to retain this section, or any other suggested changes, are specifically requested. Regulatory Evaluation This proposal is a significant regulatory action under Executive Order 12866, and significant under the Department of Transportation Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11040, February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard considers this proposed regulation to be significant because a rulemaking affecting the setting of pilotage rates is controversial and of significant interest to the public. The primary purpose of this rulemaking is to standardize the financial reporting of Great Lakes pilot associations and to clarify the methodology to be used in future ratemakings. The methodology proposed is expected to have a minimal impact on pilotage rates. Since the effect of the rulemaking on pilotage rates is expected to be minimal, a full Regulatory Evaluation is unnecessary. Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), the Coast Guard must consider whether this proposal, if adopted, will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. ``Small entities'' include independently owned and operated small businesses that are not dominant in their field and that otherwise qualify as ``small business concerns'' under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632). Because this proposal does not affect the overall level of pilotage rates, this proposal should have little or no impact on small entities which pay pilotage rates, or receive income from pilotage rates. Because it expects the impact of this proposal to be minimal, the Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this proposal, if adopted, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Collection of Information Under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) reviews each proposed rule that contains a collection of information requirement to determine whether the practical value of the information is worth the burden imposed by its collection. Collection of information requirements include reporting, recordkeeping, notification, and other, similar requirements. This proposal contains collection of information requirements in the additions to 46 CFR part 403. The following particulars apply: DOT No.: 2115. OMB Control No.: 2115&hyph;0022. Administration: U.S. Coast Guard. Title: Great Lakes Pilotage Rate Methodology. Need for Information: The information is necessary for ratemaking calculations and for the proper financial oversight of the Great Lakes pilot associations. However, pilot associations currently report financial information as required by 46 CFR part 403. This proposal merely amends the existing reporting requirements by separating several existing summary accounts into their individual components, and requiring that the financial reporting of all accounts be done in a standardized format. Proposed Use of Information: The reported data would be used in Great Lakes pilotage ratemaking calculations, and for the proper financial oversight of the Great Lakes pilot associations. Frequency of Response: The Balance Sheet, and the Profit and Loss Statement, which are currently required quarterly, would be required semiannually. Revenue and Traffic Statements would be required monthly. Burden Estimate: No change from the current burden. Respondents: Each Great Lakes pilot association (there are currently three). Form(s): Designated by the Director, Great Lakes Pilotage. Average Burden Hours Per Respondent: No change to the current burden hours. The Coast Guard has submitted the requirements to OMB for review under section 3504(h) of the Paperwork Reduction Act. Persons submitting comments on the requirements should submit their comments both to OMB and to the Coast Guard where indicated under ADDRESSES . Federalism The Coast Guard has analyzed this proposed rule in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612 and has determined that this proposed rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Under 49 CFR 1.46(a) the Secretary delegates to the Commandant of the Coast Guard the authority to carry out the Great Lakes Pilotage Act of 1960, as amended, except the authority to enter into, revise, or amend arrangements with Canada. Furthermore, since vessel traffic in the Great Lakes tends to move between U.S. ports in the national marketplace, pilotage regulations for the Great Lakes is a matter for which regulations should be of national scope to avoid unreasonably burdensome variances. State action addressing the same subject matter is preempted by 46 U.S.C. 9306, which provides that a State or political subdivision of a State may not regulate or impose any requirement on pilotage on the Great Lakes. Environment The Coast Guard considered the environmental impact of this NPRM and concluded that under section 2.B.2 of Commandant Instruction M16475.1B, this rule is categorically excluded from further environmental documentation. The rule is procedural in nature because it deals exclusively with ratemaking and accounting procedures. Therefore, this is included in the categorical exclusion in subsection 2.B.2.1_Administrative actions or procedural regulations and policies which clearly do not have any environmental impact. A Categorical Exclusion Determination is available in the docket for inspection or copying where indicated under ADDRESSES .
