FR940802-0-00082 FR940802-0-00016 (c) Additional landings data. (1) An owner or operator who wishes to be considered for initial participation in the red snapper fishery under an effort management system may submit documentation of red snapper landings not covered by vessel logbook forms or the Florida trip ticket system or documentation of landings that he or she believes were erroneously omitted from the logbook/trip ticket records. (i) Such documentation may consist of copies of trip receipts that show dates and amounts of landings of red snapper. Trip receipts must definitively show the species known as red snapper and the vessel's name, official number, or other reference that provides a way of clearly identifying the vessel. (ii) Such documentation may also consist of dealer records that show dates and amounts of landings of red snapper. As with trip receipts, dealer records must definitively show the species known as red snapper and the vessel's name, official number, or other reference that provides a way of clearly identifying the vessel. Dealer records must contain a sworn affidavit by the dealer confirming the accuracy and authenticity of the records. A sworn affidavit is an official written statement wherein the individual signing the affidavit affirms that the information presented is accurate and can be substantiated, under penalty of law. (iii) Documentation by a combination of trip receipts and dealer records is acceptable, but duplicate records for the same landings are not acceptable. (2) Red snapper landings data will not be accepted_ (i) For a period during which the harvesting vessel did not have a permit, provided a permit was required during such period. Permits were not required from January 1 through April 22, 1990, and from January 1 through 31, 1992. (ii) For a period during which the commercial red snapper fishery in the EEZ was closed. The commercial red snapper fishery was closed in the EEZ from August 24 through December 31, 1991, from February 22 through April 2, 1992, and from May 15 through December 31, 1992. (3) Additional landings data submitted under this paragraph (c) must be attached to a Red Snapper Landings Data form, which is available from the Regional Director, and must be postmarked not later than September 30, 1994. (d) Historical captains. (1) An operator who wishes to be considered for status as a historical captain in the red snapper fishery under an effort management system may submit documentation of such status by providing the following: (i) A Historical Captain Status form, available from the Regional Director, which requests information necessary to determine such status and information to establish the share agreement of a historical captain with the vessel's owner; (ii) A Red Snapper Landings Data form and accompanying additional landings data pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, if such form and data have not been submitted by a vessel owner; (iii) Copies of forms and schedules from the applicant's income tax returns for the years 1989 through 1993 that show total earned income and that part of earned income derived from commercial fishing, that is, sale of the catch (generally, pages 1 and 2 of Form 1040, W&hyph;2's, and Schedule C); and (iv) Documentation of a landing of red snapper prior to November 7, 1989. (2) Forms and information submitted under paragraph (d)(1) of this section must be postmarked not later than September 30, 1994. (e) Verification. Documentation of red snapper landings, documentation of status as a historical captain, and other information submitted under this section are subject to verification by comparison with state, Federal, and other records and information. Submission of false documentation or information may disqualify a person from initial participation under a red snapper effort management system. 8. In §641.23, paragraphs (b)(1) introductory text and (d)(2) introductory text are revised to read as follows: §641.23 Area limitations. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (1) Longline and buoy gear may not be used to fish for reef fish in the longline and buoy gear restricted area. For the purpose of this paragraph (b), ``for reef fish'' means possessing or landing reef fish_ * * * * * (d) *␣*␣* (2) In the SMZ specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, fishing for reef fish is limited to hook-and-line gear with three or fewer hooks per line and spearfishing gear. For the purpose of this paragraph (d), ``for reef fish'' means possessing reef fish aboard or landing reef fish from_ * * * * * [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18683 Filed 7&hyph;27&hyph;94; 3:53 pm] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;P
