FR940926-2-00085 FR940926-2-00071 Finally, the substitution of the Mexico Fund for a component security of the Index would not impact the Index criterion limiting the number of foreign securities or American Depositary Receipts that are components of the Index because the Mexico Fund is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, which is the primary market for the fund shares. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6 of the Act, in general, and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) of the Act, 4 in particular, in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices and to promote just and equitable principles of trade, foster cooperation and coordination with persons facilitating transactions in securities, and remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and protect investors and the public interest. 4 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Written comments on the proposed rule change were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the Exchange consents, the Commission will: (a) By order approve such proposed rule change, or (b) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the CBOE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;31 and should be submitted by October 17, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 5 5 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23758 Filed 9&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
