FR940412-1-00093 FR940412-1-00012 (g) When DRI hot-molded briquets are carried by unmanned barge: (1) The barge must be fitted with vents adequate to provide natural ventilation; and (2) The cargo hatches must be closed at all times after loading the DRI hot-molded briquets. (h) Radar and RDF scanners must be adequately protected against dust generated during cargo transfer operations of DRI hot-molded briquets. (i) During final discharge only, a fine spray of water may be used to control dust from DRI hot-molded briquets. §148.255 Ferrosilicon, aluminum ferrosilicon, and aluminum silicon, containing more than 30% but less than 90% silicon. (a) This part applies to the stowage and transportation of ferrosilicon, aluminum ferrosilicon, and aluminum silicon, containing more than 30% but less than 90% silicon. (b) The shipper of material described in paragraph (a) of this section shall provide the master with a written certification stating that after manufacture the material was stored under cover, but exposed to the weather, in the particle size in which it is to be shipped, for not less than three days prior to shipment. (c) Material described in paragraph (a) of this section must be protected at all times from contact with water, and must not be loaded or unloaded during periods of rain or snow. (d) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, each hold containing material described in paragraph (a) of this section must be ventilated by at least two separate fans. The total ventilation must be at least five air changes per hour, based on the empty hold. Ventilation must be such that no escaping gas can reach accommodation or work spaces, on or under deck. (e) An unmanned barge which is provided with natural ventilation need not comply with paragraph (d) of this section. (f) Each space adjacent to a hold containing material described in paragraph (a) of this section must be well ventilated with mechanical fans. No person may enter that space unless it has been tested to ensure that it is free from phosphine and arsine gases. (g) Scuttles and windows in accommodation and work spaces adjacent to holds containing material described in paragraph (a) of this section must be kept closed while this material is being loaded and unloaded. (h) Each cargo hold bulkhead containing material described in paragraph (a) of this section adjacent to accommodation and work spaces must be gas tight and adequately protected against damage from any unloading equipment. (i) When a hold containing material described in paragraph (a) of this section is equipped with atmosphere sampling type smoke detectors with lines that terminate in accommodation or work spaces, those lines must be blanked off gas-tight. (j) If a hold containing material described in paragraph (a) of this section must be entered at any time, the hatches must be open for two hours prior to entry to dissipate any accumulated gases. The atmosphere in the hold must be tested to ensure that there is no phosphine or arsine gas present. (k) After unloading material described in paragraph (a) of this section, each cargo hold must be thoroughly cleaned and must be tested to ensure that no phosphine or arsine gas remains. §148.260 Ferrous metal. (a) This part does not apply to the stowage and transportation in bulk of stainless steel borings, shavings, turnings, or cuttings; nor does this part apply to an unmanned barge on a voyage entirely on the navigable waters of the United States. (b) Ferrous metal may not be stowed or transported in bulk unless the following conditions are met: (1) All wooden sweat battens, dunnage and debris must be removed from the hold before the ferrous metal is loaded. (2) During loading and transporting, the bilge of each hold in which ferrous metal is stowed or will be stowed must be kept as dry as practical. (3) During loading, the ferrous metal must be compacted in the hold as frequently as practicable with a bulldozer or other means that provides equivalent surface compaction. (4) No other material may be loaded in a hold containing ferrous metal unless_ (i) The material to be loaded in the same hold with the ferrous metal is not a material listed in table 148.10 of this part or a readily combustible material; (ii) The loading of the ferrous metal is completed first; and (iii) The temperature of the ferrous metal in the hold is below 55 ○C (131 ○F) or has not increased in eight hours prior to the loading of the other material. (5) During loading, the temperature of the ferrous metal in the pile being loaded must be below 55 ○C (131 ○F). (6) Upon completion of loading the vessel may not leave the port unless_
