FR940927-0-00024 FR940927-0-00002 (i) If you participate in any program administered by the United States Department of Agriculture for the crop year which limits the number of acres that may be planted, prevented planting acreage will not exceed the ASCS base acreage for the insured crop, reduced by any acreage reduction applicable to the farm under such program. (ii) If you do not participate in any program administered by the United States Department of Agriculture which limits the number of acres that may be planted, unless a written agreement exists to the contrary, eligible acreage will not exceed the greater of: (A) The ASCS base acreage for the insured crop, if applicable; (B) The number of acres planted to the insured crop on each ASCS Farm Serial Number during the previous crop year (adjusted for any reconstitution which may have occurred prior to the sales closing date); or (C) One hundred percent (100%) of the simple average of the number of acres planted to the insured crop during the crop years that were used to determine your yield. (iii) Acreage intended to be planted under an irrigated practice will be limited to the number of acres properly prepared to carry out an irrigated practice. (iv) A prevented planting production guarantee will no be provided for: (A) Any acreage that does not constitute at least 20 acres or 20 percent (20%) of the acres in the unit, whichever is less; (B) Land for which the actuarial table does not designate a premium rate unless a written agreement is in place designating such premium rate; (C) Land used for conservation purposes or intended to be or considered to have been left unplanted under any program administered by the United States Department of Agriculture; (D) Land on which any crop, other than the insured crop, has been planted and is intended for harvest, or has been harvested in the same crop year; or (E) Land which planting history or conservation plans indicate would remain fallow for crop rotation purposes. (v) For the purpose of determining eligible acreage for prevented planting coverage, acreage for all units will be combined and be reduced by the number of acres of the insured crop timely planted and planted after the final planting date. (For example, assume you have 100 acres eligible for prevented planting coverage in which you have a 100 percent (100%) share. The acreage is located in a single ASCS Farm Serial Number which you insure as two separate optional units consisting of 50 acres each. If you planted 60 acres of the insured crop on one optional unit and 40 acres of the insured crop on the second optional unit, your prevented planting eligible acreage would be reduced to zero. (100 acres eligible for prevented planting coverage minus 100 acres planted equals zero). If you report more insured crop acreage under this contract than is eligible for prevented planting coverage, we will allocate the eligible acreage to insured units based on the number of prevented planting acres and share you reported for each unit.) (4) When the ASCS Farm Serial Number covers more than one unit, or a unit consists of more than one ASCS Farm Serial Number, the covered acres will be pro-rated based on the number of acres in each unit or ASCS Farm Serial Number that could have been planted to the insured crop in the crop year. (5) In accordance with the provisions of section 6 (Report of Acreage) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (ยง457.8), you must report any insurable acreage you were prevented from planting. This report must be submitted on or before the acreage reporting date, even though you may elect to plant the acreage after the late planting period. Any acreage you report as eligible for prevented planting coverage which is not eligible will be deleted from prevented planting coverage. Done in Washington, DC, on September 13, 1994. Kenneth D. Ackerman, Manager, Federal Crop Insurance Corporation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23834 Filed 9&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;08&hyph;M
