FR940822-1-00017 FR940822-1-00005 The regulation relative to use of nontoxic shot and the concomitant endorsement by the Service of steel shot has generated some controversy. Some hunters still believe that steel shot is less ballistically efficient than lead and can damage shotgun barrels, although the Service believes that the majority of hunters have accepted steel as an effective alternative to lead. However, resistance to the use of steel shot is undoubtedly creating an unknown level of noncompliance with the requirement to use nontoxic shot for waterfowl and coot hunting. The availability of an alternative to steel shot will provide the public greater choice during an interim period and, thus, could improve hunter compliance with nontoxic shot requirements in waterfowl hunting situations. In addition, increased hunter use of this alternative shot could benefit upland game bird habitats, and upland game birds as well, through the diminished use of lead shot in those areas. The Service is proposing this conditional, interim approval on the basis of what is known about the toxicity of bismuth and tin, principally the former because it makes up almost all of the of the shot. However, test results with tin include those by Grandy et al. (1968) in which there were no deaths associated with mallards dosed with tin shot. For bismuth, there are three especially recent and relevant studies that support this proposal. In a 30-day acute toxicity study now being completed with bismuth-tin shot, Sanderson et al. (1994) report no mortality associated with dosage of mallard ducks. Although the dosage phase and preliminary analyses have been completed, concluding tissue examination and analyses remain to be carried out. However, this concluding work will be completed before any final rulemaking; when reviewing the preliminary results, it is doubtful that any dramatically different findings are yet to occur. Sanderson et al. (1992), over the course of a 30-day acute toxicity study on captive-reared mallards with three different shot-types, i.e., lead, essentially pure bismuth and iron shot, found no mortality associated with bismuth. Further, calculations on the absorption of bismuth based on estimated excreted quantities, with known amounts in blood, liver, bone and muscle (a range of none to minute amounts) suggest that most of the bismuth eroded from the shot as a result of gizzard action was excreted in the feces. Sanderson et al. (1992) state that ``All nine ducks (three control, three Bi8 and three Fe8) examined at the end of the study had normal amounts of muscle and abundant fat depots. Internal organs were within normal limits. No significant differences were observed among the three groups of ducks.'' (Numbers behind symbols refer to dosage rates, i.e., 8 bismuth and 8 iron shot, which is the maximum number of the range specified by the experimental design.) Ringelman et al. (1992) conducted a 32-day acute toxicity study which involved dosing game-farm mallards with a shot alloy of tungsten-bismuth-tin (TBT), which was 39, 44.5 and 16.5 percent by weight, respectively. No dosed birds died during the trial, and behavior was normal. Examination of tissues post-euthanization revealed no toxicity or damage related to shot exposure. Blood calcium differences between dosed and undosed birds were judged to be unrelated to shot exposure. Although bismuth concentrations in kidney and liver were near detectable limits, they did not differ between dosed and undosed birds. This study concluded that ``...TBT shot presents virtually no potential for acute intoxication in mallards under the conditions of this study.'' Sanderson et al. (1992) have reviewed the relevant, and mostly earlier, literature with regard to the toxicity of bismuth. This literature provides little in the way of comparison to the results of the types of toxicity studies required by the Service and cited here. However, this literature provides findings which tend not to create a concern for any potential metallic bismuth-related intoxication in waterfowl when ingested. Although there have been some human neurological problems reported that are related to chronic use of organic bismuth compounds, bismuth (especially metallic) is not considered a serious industrial hazard to humans. A common use of bismuth is in pharmaceuticals for stomach ailments; bismuth is the principal active ingredient in Pepto-Bismol ® . The studies cited here for support of the application represent only the first of a series of three toxicity tests required by 50 CFR 20.134, before a final approval can be given to the applicant by the Director of the Service. The other two toxicity tests required are for: (1) long-term chronic exposure; and (2) reproduction. The Service believes it has sufficient flexibility in the regulations to approach final approval in a step manner. That is, acute toxicity tests and other toxicity information suggest that a 1-year conditional approval can be provided without significant risk to migratory bird resources. If indicated, second and third 1-year approvals can be provided until the series of toxicity tests are completed; at which time, final approval may be made. This series of tests would have to be completed before the Service would consider final approval of bismuth-tin shot as nontoxic. Bismuth-tin shot is currently approved by the Canadian Wildlife Service for use in nontoxic shot zones on a conditional basis under terms similar to those described above. Bismuth-tin shot is also used in several European countries, and elsewhere in the world. References: Grandy, J.W., L.N. Locke and G.E. Bagley. 1968. Relative toxicity of lead and five proposed substitute shot types to pen-reared mallards. J. Wildl. Manage. 32(3):483&hyph;488 Ringelman, J.K., M.W. Miller and W.F. Andelt. 1992. Effects of ingested tungsten-bismuth-tin shot on mallards. CO Div. Wildl., Fort Collins, 24 pp Sanderson, G.C. and W.L. Anderson. 1994. Toxicity and reproductive effects of ingested bismuth alloy shot and effects of embedded bismuth alloy, lead, and iron shot on game-farm mallards. 3rd Prog. Rpt., Ill. Nat. Hist. Surv., Champaign, IL. 14 pp. + tables
