FR941230-1-00044 FR941230-1-00004 §1.141&hyph;5 Private loan financing test. (a) In general _(1) General rule . Bonds of an issue are private activity bonds if more than the lesser of 5 percent of the proceeds or $5 million of the sale proceeds of the issue is to be used (directly or indirectly) to make or finance loans to persons other than governmental units. Section 1.141&hyph;2(d) applies in determining whether the private loan financing test is met. (2) Direct and indirect use of proceeds determinative . In determining whether the proceeds of an issue are used to make or finance loans, indirect, as well as direct, use of the proceeds is taken into account. Any use of proceeds by a governmental person that results in the expenditure of those proceeds (rather than the acquisition of investment property), such as a grant, is treated as the ultimate use of those proceeds. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(2), investment property has the meaning in §1.148&hyph;1, except that tax-exempt bonds may be treated as investment property. See §1.148&hyph;6 for rules to determine when proceeds are expended. (3) Measurement of test . In determining whether the private loan financing test is met, the amount actually loaned to a nongovernmental person is not discounted to reflect the present value of the loan repayments. (b) Definition of loan _(1) General federal tax principles apply . Any transaction that, for federal income tax purposes generally, is characterized as a loan is a loan for purposes of this section. Thus, the determination of whether a loan is made depends on the substance of a transaction. For example, a lease or other contractual arrangement (for example, a management contract) may in substance constitute a loan if the arrangement transfers tax ownership of the facility to a nongovernmental person. Similarly, an output contract with respect to a financed facility generally is not treated as a loan of proceeds unless the agreement in substance shifts significant burdens and benefits of ownership to the nongovernmental purchaser or manager of the facility. (2) Exception if no use of bonds proceeds . Any use of proceeds that does not, treating the user as a nongovernmental person that is not a natural person, give rise to private business use, is not a loan of proceeds. See §1.141&hyph;3. (3) Hazardous waste remediation bonds . In the case of an issue of hazardous waste remediation bonds, payments from nongovernmental persons that are either users of the site being remediated or persons potentially responsible for disposing of hazardous waste on that site do not indicate a loan for purposes of this section. This paragraph (b)(3) applies only if those payments do not secure the payment of principal of, or interest on, the bonds (directly or indirectly), under the terms of the bonds and those payments are not taken into account under the private payment test pursuant to §1.141&hyph;4(f)(3). (4) Prepayments . A prepayment does not result in a loan of proceeds if the prepayment is not investment-type property. In applying the definition of investment-type property under §1.148&hyph;1, providing the benefits of tax-exempt financing to the seller of the property or service is treated as an investment return to the issuer. (5) Grants _(i) In general . A grant of proceeds is not a loan. Whether a transaction is a grant or a loan depends on all the facts and circumstances. (ii) Tax increment financing _(A) In general . Generally, a loan does not result from the making of a grant using proceeds of an issue that is secured by generally applicable taxes attributable to the improvements to be made with the grant unless the grantee makes any special agreements relating to the payment that results in those taxes failing to be generally applicable under §1.141&hyph;4(e). (B) Amount of loan . If a grant is treated as a loan under this paragraph (b)(5), the entire grant is treated as a loan unless the special agreement is limited to a specific portion of the related tax. (c) Tax assessment bond exception _(1) General rule . For purposes of this section, a tax assessment loan that meets the requirements of this paragraph (c) is not a loan. (2) Tax assessment loan defined _(i) In general . A tax assessment loan is a loan that arises for federal tax purposes when a governmental unit permits or requires its residents to pay a tax or assessment over a period of years. The tax assessment loan exception may apply if the assessed property is used by a nongovernmental person in its trade or business (whether or not private business use) or for nonbusiness purposes. In addition, a tax assessment loan must satisfy the following requirements:
