FR940525-2-00176 FR940525-2-00098 d. Program measures relating to the use of flight procedures can be implemented within the period covered by the program without derogating safety, adversely affecting the efficient use and management of the navigable airspace and air traffic control systems, or adversely affecting other powers and responsibilities of the Administrator prescribed by law. Specific limitations with respect to FAA's approval of an airport noise compatibility program are delineated in FAR Part 150, ยง150.5. Approval is not a determination concerning the acceptability of land uses under Federal, state, or local law. Approval does not by itself constitute an FAA implementing action. A request for Federal action or approval to implement specific noise compatibility measures may be required, and an FAA decision on the request may require an environmental assessment of the proposed action. Approval does not constitute a commitment by the FAA to financially assist in the implementation of the program nor a determination that all measures covered by the program are eligible for grant-in-aid funding from the FAA. Where federal funding is sought, requests for project grants must be submitted to the FAA Airports District Office in Honolulu, Hawaii. The State of Hawaii, Department of Transportation submitted to the FAA on December 28, 1992, the noise exposure maps, descriptions, and other documentation produced during the noise compatibility planning study conducted from January 1990 through December 1992. The Hilo International Airport noise exposure maps were determined by FAA to be in compliance with applicable requirements on November 4, 1993. Notice of this determination was published in the Federal Register on November 23, 1993. The Hilo International Airport study contains a proposed noise compatibility program comprised of actions designed for phased implementation by airport management and adjacent jurisdictions from the date of study completion to the year 1996. It was requested that the FAA evaluate and approve this material as a noise compatibility program as described in section 104(b) of the Act. The FAA began its review of the program on November 4, 1993 and was required by a provision of the Act to approve or disapprove the program within 180 days (other than the use of new flight procedures for noise control). Failure to approve or disapprove such program within the 180-day period shall be deemed to be an approval of such program. The submitted program contained ten (10) proposed actions for noise mitigation on and off the airport. The FAA completed its review and determined that the procedural and substantive requirements of the Act and FAR Part 150 have been satisfied. The overall program, therefore, was approved by the Assistant Administration for Airports effective May 3, 1994. Outright approval was granted for eight (8) of the ten (10) of the specific program elements. Approved program measures include: Encourage relocation of military training operations; Displace Runway 8 landing threshold; Study sound attenuation barrier; Study possible land exchanges with Hawaiian Home Lands; Monitor development proposals in the Hilo International Airport environs; Annually monitor aircraft noise levels and operations at Hilo International Airport; Conduct annual public information meetings on the progress of the part 150 program; Disclose airport noise impacts for all real estate transfers; and Provide sound attenuation for impacted residences and public use structures. One measure approved in part: Sound attenuation for public building approved and sound attenuation for residence was disapproved. No action was taken on the measure to implement an informal runway use program. These determinations are set forth in detail in a Record of Approval endorsed by the Administrator on May 3, 1994. The Record of Approval, as well as other evaluation materials and the documents comprising the submittal, are available for review at the FAA office listed above and at the administrative offices of the State of Hawaii. Issued in Hawthorne, California on May 13, 1994. Herman C. Bliss, Manager, Airports Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12779 Filed 5&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
