FR940930-1-00028 FR940930-1-00011 A. Status of Acetone Under the CAA Currently, acetone is considered a Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) and emissions of VOCs are managed under regulations (40 CFR parts 51 and 52) that implement Title I of the Clean Air Act, as amended (CAA), 42 U.S.C. 7401 et. seq. The CAA requires States to submit to EPA for approval State Implementation Plans (SIPs) that establish a strategy to reduce the emissions of a regulated pollutant to attain and maintain the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). Under the SIP program, the attainment of the NAAQS for ozone are dependent in part on the control of releases of VOCs. Section 182(a)(3)(B) of the CAA requires States to adopt regulations requiring sources of VOC (or oxides of nitrogen (NO X )) emissions to provide the State reports showing the actual emissions of VOC and NO X . This annual reporting of VOC emissions by the sources to their State air agencies has been required as of November 1993. Only facilities located in areas that are designated non-attainment for ozone or in attainment areas within ozone transport regions are required to report. EPA's definition of VOCs excludes certain listed chemicals that have been determined to be negligibly photochemically reactive (57 FR 3941, February 3, 1992). Elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register , EPA is proposing to add acetone to the list of compounds excluded from the definition of a VOC, since it has been preliminarily determined that acetone has a negligible contribution to tropospheric ozone formation. B. VOC Petitions Under EPCRA Section 313 This is the third petition that EPA has received to delist a VOC from the EPCRA section 313 list. EPA received on July 13, 1988, a petition to delist ethylene and propylene from the EPCRA section 313 list and on September 9, 1988, a petition to delist cyclohexane. Both petitions were denied due to concerns about chemical reactions in the troposphere that lead to the formation of ozone and other air pollutants such as formaladehyde (i.e., these chemicals clearly fit the definition of VOCs). Ozone is known to cause significant adverse affects on human health and the environment. III. EPA's Technical Review of Acetone The technical review of the petition to delete acetone included an analysis of the toxicological effects of acetone and the production and release values known for acetone. (Refs. 1, 5 and 6) A. Toxicological Evaluation of Acetone 1. Acute toxicity. The acute oral LD 50 of acetone in rats is about 6.7 grams/kilogram (g/kg). Lethal concentrations by inhalation are on the order of 40,000 to 46,000 parts per million (ppm) for 1 hour for rats, mice, and guinea pigs, and 21,000 ppm for 2 hours for rats. Acetone produced moderate corneal injury to the eye in rabbits and mild skin irritation. In humans, eye, nose, and throat irritations have been observed at 500 and 1,000 ppm. Symptoms of accidental exposure may include slight intoxication, headache, lassitude, drowsiness, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, respiratory depression, and coma. Central nervous system depression and narcotic effects are likely to occur at concentrations in excess of 10,000 ppm. Liver and kidney damage have also been observed in humans exposed accidentally. 2. Chronic toxicity. Workers exposed chronically to 750 ppm acetone experienced irritation of mucous tissues of the eye, upper respiratory system, and gastrointestinal system. In another survey, workers also experienced respiratory tract irritation, dizziness, and loss of strength at concentrations of 1,000 ppm, 3 hours per day, over a period of 7 to 15 years. 3. Subchronic toxicity. A 90-day subchronic toxicity study in rats produced a no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) of 100 milligrams/kilogram/day (mg/kg/day) and a lowest-observed-adverse-effect level (LOAEL) of 500 mg/kg/day based on increased liver and kidney weights and nephrotoxicity. Based on these studies, EPA has developed a Reference Dose (RfD) of 0.1 mg/kg/day. 4. Carcinogenicity. EPA has classified acetone as ``not classifiable as to carcinogenicity'' (Group D). There is currently no evidence to suggest a concern for carcinogenicity. 5. Mutagenicity. The weight of evidence indicates that acetone is not mutagenic in several mutagenicity assay systems. 6. Developmental toxicity. A NOAEL of 2,200 ppm by inhalation has been reported for developmental toxicity of acetone in rats and mice. 7. Neurotoxicity. There are no data sufficient to support a chronic concern for significant irreversible neurotoxicity. 8. Environmental effects. Acetone is readily biodegradable in aquatic systems. Its octanol/water partition coefficient (^0.24) indicates a low potential for bioaccumulation, and its high water solubility indicates that acetone is not likely to biomagnify. The most sensitive aquatic species are probably the water flea (LC 50 equals 10 milligrams/liter (mg/L)) and the flagellated protozoa (LC 50 equals 28 mg/L). Also, a no-observed-effect concentration (NOEC) of 100 microliters/liter (ul/L) has been reported for higher plants.
