FR940802-1-00017 FR940802-1-00005 §52.3 Who is eligible to apply for a grant? (a) Persons eligible. Any individual, corporation, public or private institution or agency, or other legal entity shall be eligible for a grant award, except: (1) An individual or entity which is otherwise ineligible for an award under applicable law or regulation (e.g., only Diabetes Eye Research Institutions are eligible for research project grants on eye care and diabetes under section 456 of the PHS Act); (2) Federal agencies or institutions, unless specifically authorized by law to receive the grant; (3) Individuals, corporations, institutions, agencies, and other entities during the period they are debarred or suspended from eligibility for Federal financial assistance (see 45 CFR part 76). (b) Permissible activities within research projects. Any project found by the Secretary to be a research project within the meaning of this part shall be eligible for a grant award. Eligible projects may consist of laboratory, clinical, population, field, statistical, basic, applied or other types of investigations, studies or experiments, or combinations thereof, and may either be limited to one, or a particular aspect of a problem or subject, or may consist of two or more related problems or subjects for concurrent or consecutive investigation and involving multiple disciplines, facilities and resources. (c) Preferences. In the award of grants for international research relating to the development and evaluation of vaccines and treatments for AIDS under section 2315 of the Act, preference shall be given to (1) Activities conducted by, or in cooperation with, the World Health Organization and (2) With respect to activities in the Western Hemisphere, activities conducted by, or in cooperation with, the Pan American Health Organization or the World Health Organization. 6. Section 52.4 would be revised to read as follows: §52.4 How to apply for a grant? Each institution interested in applying for a grant under this part must submit an application at such time and in such form and manner as the Secretary may prescribe. 7. Section 52.6 would be amended as follows: In paragraph (a) the first sentence would be revised to read as set forth below; paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) would be redesignated (c), (d), (e) and (f), respectively; new paragraph (b) would be added, and paragraphs (c)(2) and (d) would be revised to read as follows: §52.6 Grant awards. (a) Within the limits of funds available for such purpose, the Secretary will award a grant to those applicants whose approved projects will in the Secretary's judgment best promote the purposes of the statute authorizing the grant and the regulations of this part.*␣*␣* (b) Evaluation of unapproved drug treatments for AIDS. Grants under section 2314 of the Act to support research relating to the evaluation of drug treatments for AIDS not approved by the Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, shall be subject to appropriate scientific and ethical guidelines established by the Secretary for each project, pursuant to section 2314(c) of the Act. In order to receive a grant, the applicant must agree to comply with those guidelines. (c) Notice of grant award. (1) *␣*␣* (2) Generally, the grant will initially be for one year and subsequent continuation awards will also be for one year at a time. A grantee must submit an application at the time and in the form and manner as the Secretary may prescribe to have support continued for each subsequent year. (3) *␣*␣* (d) Multiple or concurrent awards. Whenever a research project involves a number of different but related problems, activities or disciplines which require evaluation by different groups, or whenever support for a project could be more effectively administered by separate handling of separate aspects of the project, the Secretary may evaluate, approve and make awards pursuant to two or more concurrent applications, each dealing with one or more specified aspects of the project. * * * * * 8. Section 52.8 would be revised to read as follows: §52.8 Other HHS policies and regulations that apply. Several other HHS policies and regulations apply to grants under this part. These include, but are not necessarily limited to: 37 CFR part 401_Rights to inventions made by nonprofit organizations and small business firms under government grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements 42 CFR part 50, subpart A_Responsibility of PHS awardee and applicant institutions for dealing with and reporting possible misconduct in science 42 CFR part 50, subpart D_Public Health Service grant appeals procedure 45 CFR part 16_Procedures of the Departmental Grant Appeals Board 45 CFR part 46_Proteciton of human subjects
