FR940606-0-00015 FR940606-0-00006 (b) Documents may not be used at a desk where there is food or liquid or where an ink pen is being used. Only pencils may be used in research rooms where original documents are used. (c) Documents must not be leaned on, written on, folded anew, traced, or handled in any way likely to cause damage. (d) Documents must be identified for reproduction only with a paper tab provided by NARA. Documents may not be fastened with paper clips or rubber bands. (e) Microfilm must be carefully removed from and returned to the proper microfilm boxes. Care must be taken loading and unloading microfilm from microfilm readers. Damaged microfilm must be reported to the research room attendant as soon as it is discovered. (f) Exceptionally valuable or fragile documents may be used only under the conditions specified by the research room attendant. §1254.22 [Redesignated as §1254.17] 14. Section 1254.22 is redesignated as §1254.17 and revised to read as follows: §1254.17 Keeping documents in order. A researcher must keep unbound documents in the order in which they are delivered to him/her. Documents that appear to be in disorder must not be rearranged by the researcher, but must be referred to the research room attendant. Researchers may use only one folder at a time. Researchers are not allowed to remove documents from more than one container at a time. Researchers should bring to the attention of the research room attendant microfilm put in the wrong box or file cabinet. 15. In §1254.20, paragraph (a) is revised to read as follows: §1254.20 Conduct. (a) Regulations. Researchers are subject to the provisions of part 1280 of this chapter and to all rules and regulations issued and posted or distributed by a facility director supplementing subpart B of this part, including rules on the use of NARA equipment. Eating, drinking, and chewing gum in a research room are prohibited. Smoking is prohibited except in designated smoking areas. Loud talking and other activities likely to disturb other researchers are also prohibited. Persons desiring to use typewriters, computers, sound recording devices, or similar equipment must work in areas designated by the research room attendant. * * * * * 16. The section heading of §1254.26 and paragraphs (a), (b), (d), (f), and (h)(1) are revised to read as follows: §1254.26 Additional rules for use of certain research rooms in NARA facilities in the Washington, DC, area. (a) Admission to research rooms in the National Archives Building, the Washington National Records Center, and the National Archives at College Park facility at which original documents are made available is limited to individuals examining and/or copying documents and other materials in the custody of the National Archives and Records Administration. Children under the age of 16 will not be admitted to these research rooms unless they have been granted research privileges or are granted an exception to this provision to view specific documents that a parent or other accompanying adult researcher is using. The exception will be granted by the Director of the User Services Division for a child who is able to read and who will be closely supervised by the adult researcher while in the research room. Normally, such a child will be admitted only for the short period required to view the documents. Unless otherwise permitted, children under the age of 16 who have been granted special permission to accompany an adult using records may not actively participate in research activities, e.g., removing, copying, or refiling documents. Students under the age of 16 who wish to perform research on original documents must apply in person to the Director of the User Services Division and present a letter of reference from a teacher. Such students may contact the National Archives by phone or letter in advance of their visit to discuss their eligibility for research privileges. Students under the age of 16 who have been granted research privileges will be required to be accompanied in the research room by an adult with similar privileges, unless the Director of the User Services Division specifically waives this requirement with respect to individual researchers. (b) The procedures in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section apply to all research rooms in the National Archives Building (except the Microfilm Research Room); the Suitland Research Room in the Washington National Records Center; and the research rooms in the National Archives at College Park. These procedures are in addition to the procedures specified elsewhere in this part. * * * * * (d) Researchers must present a valid researcher identification card to the guard or research room attendant on entering the room. All researchers are required to sign each day the research room registration sheet at the entrance to the research room. Researchers will also record the time they leave the research room at the end of the visit for that day. Researchers are not required to sign in or out when leaving the area temporarily. * * * * * (f) NARA will furnish to researchers, without charge, pencils and specially marked lined and unlined notepaper and notecards, for use in the research rooms. Pencils and unused notepaper and notecards should be returned to the research room attendant at the end of the day. * * * * * (h) *␣*␣* (1) Use of NARA viewing and listening equipment in the research room is provided on a first-come-first-served basis. When others are waiting to use the equipment, a three-hour limit may be imposed on the use of the equipment.
