FR940620-1-00054 FR940620-1-00009 (8) Validation. Only a contracting officer's final decision, or actions of an agency board of contract appeals or a court of competent jurisdiction, that sustain the validity of an asserted restriction constitute validation of the asserted restriction. 227.403&hyph;14 Conformity, acceptance, and warranty of technical data. (a) Statutory requirements. 10 U.S.C. 2320_ (1) Requires contractors to furnish written assurance at the time technical data are delivered or are made available to the Government that the technical data are complete, accurate, and satisfy the requirements of the contract concerning such data; (2) Provides for the establishment of remedies applicable to technical data found to be incomplete, inadequate, or not to satisfy the requirements of the contract concerning such data; and, (3) Authorizes agency heads to withhold payments (or exercise such other remedies and agency head considers appropriate) during any period if the contractor does not meet the requirements of the contract pertaining to the delivery of technical data. (b) Conformity and acceptance. (1) Solicitations and contracts requiring the delivery of technical data shall specify the requirements the data must satisfy to be acceptable. Contracting officers, or their authorized representatives, are responsible for determining whether technical data tendered for acceptance conform to the contractual requirements. (2) The clause at 252.227&hyph;7030, ``Technical Data_Withholding of Payment'' provides for withholding up to ten percent of the contract price pending correction or replacement of the nonconforming technical data or negotiation of an equitable reduction in contract price. The amount subject to withholding may be expressed as a fixed dollar amount or as a percentage of the contract price. In either case, the amount shall be determined giving consideration to the relative value and importance of the data. for example_ (i) When the sole purpose of a contract is to produce the data, the relative value of that data may considerably higher than the value of data produced under a contract where the production of the data is a secondary objective; or, (ii) When the Government will maintain or repair items, repair and maintenance data may have a considerably higher relative value than data that merely describe the item or provide performance characteristics. (3) Do not accept technical data that do not conform to the contractual requirements in all respects. Except for nonconforming restrictive markings (see 227.403&hyph;14(b)(4)), correction or replacement of nonconforming data, or an equitable reduction in contract price when correction or replacement of the nonconforming data is not practicable or is not in the Government's interests, shall be accomplished in accordance with_ (i) The provisions of a contract clause providing for inspection and acceptance of deliverables and remedies for nonconforming deliverables; or, (ii) The procedures at FAR 46.407(c) through (g), if the contract does not contain an inspection clause providing remedies for nonconforming deliverables. (4) Follow the procedures at 227.403&hyph;12(a)(2) if nonconforming markings are the sole reason technical data fail to conform to contractual requirements. The clause at 252.227&hyph;7030 may be used to withhold an amount from payment, consistent with the terms of the clause, pending correction of the nonconforming markings. (c) Warranty. (1) The intended use of the technical data and the cost, if any, to obtain the warranty should be considered before deciding to obtain a data warranty (see FAR 46.703). The fact that a particular item, component, or process is or is not warranted is not a consideration in determining whether or not to obtain a warranty for the technical data that pertain to the item, component, or process. For example, a data warranty should be considered if the Government intends to repair or maintain an item and defective repair or maintenance data would impair the Government's effective use of the item or result in increased costs to the Government. (2) As prescribed in 246.710, use the clause at 252.246&hyph;7001, ``Warranty of Data'', and its alternates, or a substantially similar clause when the Government needs a specific warranty of technical data. 227.403&hyph;15 Subcontractor rights in technical data. (a) 10 U.S.C. 2320 provides subcontractors at all tiers the same protection for their rights in data as is provided to prime contractors. The clauses at 252.227&hyph;7013, ``Rights in Technical Data_Noncommercial Items'', and 252.227&hyph;7037, ``Validation of Asserted Restrictions'', implement the statutory requirements. (b) 10 U.S.C. 2321 permits a subcontractor to transact directly with the Government matters relating to the validation of its asserted restrictions on the Government's rights to use or disclose technical data. The clause at 252.227&hyph;7037, ``Validation of Asserted Restrictions'' obtains a contractor's agreement that the direct transaction of validation or challenge matters with subcontractors at any tier does not establish or imply privity of contract. When a subcontractor or supplier exercises its right to transact validation matters directly with the Government, contracting officers shall deal directly with such persons, as provided at 227.403&hyph;13(c)(3). (c) Require prime contractors whose contracts include the following clauses to include those clauses, without modification except for appropriate identification of the parties, in contracts with subcontractors or suppliers, at all tiers, who will be furnishing technical data in response to a government requirement.
