FR940208-2-00085 FR940208-2-00069 The Commission stated in its order approving the AHT facility that it would review the operation of the facility during the temporary approval period. In this regard, the Commission asked the Exchange to assemble data on the operation of the facility which the Exchange submitted under separate cover. It is the Exchange's opinion that the system has functioned well during the temporary approval period and that the operation of the system has not had any adverse effects upon the development of the national market system. The Exchange, therefore, seeks a three month extension for its AHT facility. 6 6 File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;93&hyph;15 also requested Commission approval for specialist participation in the AHT facility for investment trust securities listed pursuant to Section 118B of the Exchange's Listing Guidelines. This order approves on an accelerated basis until April 30, 1994, only that portion of File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;93&hyph;15 which establishes the AHT facility and which allows members, not including specialists, to enter proprietary and agency orders in Exchange-traded equities. The Commission is not approving the portion of the proposed rule change which allows specialists to participate in any way for their own accounts in the AHT facility. See File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;93&hyph;15. See also letter amendment dated December 23, 1993, supra note 3. 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with section 6(b) of the Act in general and furthers the objectives of section 6(b)(5) in particular in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, promote just and equitable principles of trade, remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and, in general, protect investors and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The proposed rule change will impose no burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect of the proposed rule change.
