FR940621-2-00021 FR940621-2-00016 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Notice of Intent To Prepare a Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement for Storage and Disposition of Weapons-Usable Fissile Materials AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of Intent (NOI) to Prepare a Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (PEIS) for Long-Term Storage and Disposition of Weapons-Usable Fissile Materials. SUMMARY: The changes in the aftermath of the Cold War have significant implications for the management of weapons-usable fissile materials (primarily plutonium and highly-enriched uranium). The large reductions in nuclear weapons agreed to by the United States and Russia reduces our national security requirements for fissile materials and, as a result, storage and disposition decisions for these materials will be required. The national policy outlined by the President in September 1993 is to seek to eliminate where possible the accumulation of stockpiles of highly-enriched uranium (HEU) or plutonium, and to ensure that where these materials already exist they are subject to the highest standards of safety, security and international accountability. In addition, the President has initiated a comprehensive review of long-term options for plutonium disposition, taking into account technical, nonproliferation, environmental, budgetary and economic considerations. The Department of Energy (DOE), which is the agency responsible for management, storage and disposition of weapons-usable fissile materials from United States nuclear weapons dismantlement and weapons production processes, proposes to prepare a Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (PEIS) pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) to evaluate alternatives for long-term storage of all weapons-usable fissile materials, and disposition of weapons-usable fissile materials declared surplus to national defense needs by the President. The results of the environmental analysis in the PEIS, information from technical and economic studies, and national policy objectives will form the basis for decisions regarding long-term storage of all weapons-usable fissile materials and the disposition of surplus weapons-usable fissile materials. The PEIS may be followed by project-specific NEPA documents to the extent necessary to implement any decisions. The purpose of this NOI, which is the initial step in the NEPA process, is to inform the public of the PEIS proposal, to solicit public input, and to announce that a scoping process will be conducted so that the public may express its opinions and views regarding the alternatives to be considered and the scope of the issues to be addressed in the PEIS. Written comments on the scope of the PEIS for Storage and Disposition of Weapons-Usable Fissile Materials are invited from the public. To ensure consideration in preparation of the PEIS, written comments must be postmarked by October 17, 1994. Late comments will be considered to the extent practicable. Public scoping workshops to provide and discuss information, and receive oral comments on the scope of the PEIS will be held during August and September 1994, both regionally and in the vicinity of the sites which may be affected by potential decisions and their implementation. DOE will announce the location, date and time for these public scoping workshops in a subsequent Notice in the Federal Register , and by other appropriate means as early as practicable. The Department will endeavor to provide 30 days notice prior to any applicable workshops. Following this scoping period, the Department will issue an Implementation Plan which will describe, among other things, the scope of the PEIS, the alternatives that will be analyzed, and the schedule for completing the PEIS. Note: A definition of terms is included at the end of this NOI. ADDRESSES: Written comments on the scope of the PEIS, requests for copies of Management and Disposition of Excess Weapons Plutonium, a 1994 report prepared by the National Academy of Sciences (NAS), requests for copies of the PEIS Implementation Plan (when available), and requests for copies of the PEIS or PEIS Executive Summary (when available) should be sent to: U.S. Department of Energy, c/o Oak Ridge Institute for Science & Education, P.O. Box 117, Oak Ridge, TN 37831&hyph;0117, Attn: Robert Menard, EESD. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For general information on the DOE NEPA process, please contact: Carol M. Borgstrom, Director, Office of NEPA Oversight, EH&hyph;25, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20585, (202) 586&hyph;4600 or 1&hyph;800&hyph;472&hyph;2756.
