FR940720-0-00072 FR940720-0-00006 1. Measurement of Reformulated Gasoline Fuel Parameters (§80.46) The table of aromatic compounds in §80.46(f)(1)(ii)(K) is being revised. The aromatic compounds listed in the final rule are those used by EPA during the development of the analytical method for the rulemaking. In this notice some compounds that no longer are available commercially have been deleted from the list, and several aromatic compounds that are found in commercial gasolines and are available commercially to make reference materials have been added to the list. Only materials of known purity or those specified as 99% pure or greater should be used as calibration standards. The number of calibration levels should be sufficient to bracket the expected concentration of each compound. Two calibration levels were used in the initial evaluation of the test method. In the future, however, EPA probably will use five calibration levels with at least three internal standards used in the standards and samples in order to improve precision. Initially EPA prepared standards by volume. Currently, however, EPA prepares standards, samples, and internal standards by weight. Conversion to volume percent is performed by using the density of the aromatic compound in question. Standards for gasoline that are prepared by weight are considered to be more accurate than standards that are prepared by volume. Neither the use of five calibration levels, nor the preparation of standards by weight, should be viewed as changes to the regulations, but rather as Agency recommendations intended to improve precision. 2. General Requirements for Refiners, Importers and Oxygenate Blenders (§80.65) a. Designation of Gasoline as Oxygenated Fuels Program Reformulated Gasoline (OPRG) or Non-OPRG. Section 80.65(d)(2)(iii) is revised in order to clarify the categories of gasoline that may be designated as oxygenated fuels program reformulated gasoline, or OPRG. The final rule, at §80.65(d)(2)(iii), specifies that reformulated gasoline must be designated as OPRG, or not OPRG, to provide a mechanism to ensure reformulated gasoline outside of oxygenated fuels control areas during oxygenated fuels control periods has at least the 2.0 weight percent oxygen content mandated by the Clean Air Act. 3 The final rule requires parties who meet the oxygen standard on average to meet the oxygen standard separately for gasoline not designated as OPRG. If OPRG and non-OPRG gasoline could be averaged together for oxygen purposes, the gasoline in the OPRG areas_where 2.7 weight percent oxygen is required during the oxygenated fuels control period_could be used to offset gasoline with 1.5 weight percent oxygen intended for use in non-OPRG areas. 3 The ``oxygenated fuels control areas'' are those areas where the use of oxygenated gasoline is required during the winter season pursuant to section 211(m) of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7545(m). Today's revision consists of two parts. First, the regulation is clarified to make specific that the OPRG/non-OPRG designation applies only to reformulated gasoline and not to RBOB. The final rule requires RBOB to be designated as OPRG or non-OPRG, but the OPRG designation for RBOB serves no purpose because RBOB does not become reformulated gasoline until oxygenate has been added. The final rule is unchanged regarding oxygenate blender responsibilities_oxygenate blenders who produce reformulated gasoline by combining RBOB with oxygenate are required to designate the gasoline as OPRG or non-OPRG, and to meet the oxygen standard separately for gasoline not designated as OPRG. The second change regarding OPRG-designated gasoline is the addition of a new provision, at §80.65(d)(2)(iii)(B), to clarify that reformulated gasoline that contains at least 2.0 weight percent oxygen may be designated as OPRG regardless of whether or not the gasoline is used in an oxygenated fuels program control area during an oxygenated fuels program control period. This change allows terminals that serve both oxygenated fuels areas and non-oxygenated fuels areas to stock a single reformulated gasoline that could be used in both areas, instead of having to stock both OPRG and non-OPRG designated reformulated gasoline. This change also allows all reformulated gasoline that meets the 2.0 weight percent oxygen per-gallon standard to be designated as OPRG, without such gasoline being restricted to use in oxygenated fuel areas during oxygenated fuel control periods. A terminal thus could stock reformulated gasoline that contains 2.7 weight percent oxygen and, therefore, that meets the oxygenated fuels oxygen requirement, and deliver this gasoline into both OPRG and non-OPRG markets. A terminal also could stock reformulated gasoline that contains 2.0 weight percent oxygen for delivery into both OPRG and non-OPRG markets, and splash blend additional oxygenate with those batches of gasoline that are delivered into the oxygenated fuel area during the oxygenated fuel control period. 4 4 Section 80.78(a)(6) prohibits adding oxygenate to reformulated gasoline, except in the case of reformulated gasoline that is designated as OPRG and is used in an oxygenated fuels program control area during an oxygenated fuels program control period.
