FR940817-2-00165 FR940817-2-00081 (c) The cross-trade must involve less than 5 percent of the aggregate average daily trading volume of the equity securities which are the subject of the transaction for the week immediately preceding the completion of the transaction. 4. For any cross-trade opportunity where equity securities available for sale from a Selling Account may be sold to more than one Buying Account, each cross-trade opportunity shall be allocated first to the Buying Account which is ranked by the Optimization Program as being furthest from optimality, measured on a numerical basis at the time of the transaction, until such Account is brought up to par with the Account which is next furthest from optimality. Such Accounts shall then be allocated cross-trade opportunities on a pro rata basis until the Accounts are brought up to the level of the next Account which is furthest from optimality. This allocation process shall continue until all cross-trade opportunities involving the equity securities in question are exhausted. 5. (a) BFM furnishes the Independent Fiduciary for each Plan Account participating in the cross-trade program at least once every three months, and not later than 45 days following the period to which it related, a report disclosing: (i) a list of all cross-trade transactions engaged in on behalf of the Plan Account during the period; and (ii) with respect to each cross-trade transaction, the actual price used to effect the transaction and the identity of the pricing source, as well as the highest and lowest reported prices at which the equity securities involved in the transaction were traded on the date of such transaction. (b) The authorizing Independent Fiduciary for each Plan Account participating in the program is furnished with a summary report at least once per year. The summary must be furnished within 45 days after the end of the period to which it relates, and must contain the following: (i) a description of the total amount of the Plan Account's assets, by type of equity security, involved in cross-trade transactions during the period; (ii) a description of BFM's cross-trade practices, if such practices have changed materially during the period covered by the summary; (iii) a statement that the Independent Fiduciary's authorization of cross-trade transactions may be terminated upon receipt by BFM of the Independent Fiduciary's written notice to that effect; and (iv) a statement that the Independent Fiduciary's authorization of the Plan Account's participation in the cross-trade program will continue in effect unless it is terminated. 6. The cross-trade transaction does not involve assets of any employee benefit plan established or maintained by BFM or any of its Affiliates (Batterymarch Plan). 7. Each employee benefit plan comprising a Plan Account that participates in the cross-trading program must have total assets equal to at least $25 million. In the case of multiple employee benefit plans maintained by a single employer or controlled group of employers, the $25 million requirement may be met by aggregating the assets of such plans if the assets are commingled for investment purposes in a single master trust. 8. BFM receives no fee or other compensation (other than its agreed investment management fee) with respect to any cross-trade transaction. 9. BFM is a discretionary investment manager with respect to Plan Accounts participating in the cross-trade program and does not cause any Plan Account to purchase or sell equity securities with another Account in order to merely track or replicate the portfolio of an independently maintained third party index. 10. For purposes of this exemption: (a) ``Account'' means a Plan Account or a Non-Plan Account; (b) ``Affiliate'' means any person directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controlling, controlled by, or under common control with Batterymarch; (c) ``Buying Account'' means the Account which seeks to purchase equity securities in a cross-trade transaction; (d) ``Cross-trade transaction'' means a purchase and sale of equity securities between Accounts for which BFM or an Affiliate is acting as a trustee or investment manager; (e) ``Plan Account'' means an Account managed by BFM consisting of assets of one or more employee benefit plans which are subject to the Act; (f) ``Independent Account Representative'' means the authorized representative of the Account. In the case of a Plan Account, the Independent Account Representative must be an Independent Fiduciary authorized to act for the Plan Account; (g) ``Non-Plan Account'' means an Account managed by BFM consisting of assets of clients which are not employee benefit plans subject to the Act; (h) ``Selling Account'' means the Account which seeks to sell its equity securities in a cross-trade transaction; and (i) The ``Optimization Program'' means a computer program developed by a third party, independent of BFM and its Affiliates, which BFM uses pursuant to a license agreement and which utilizes objective mathematical formulas to construct ``optimal'' portfolios for each Account. For a more complete statement of the facts and representations supporting the Department's decision to grant this exemption, refer to the notice of proposed exemption published on May 25, 1994 at 59 FR 27042.
