FR940317-1-00149 FR940317-1-00013 ยง536.231 Administrative matters. (a) Receipts. The RJA may provide a receipt for payment. (b) Releases. The RJA may execute a release acknowledging that the Government has received payment in full of the amount asserted or compromise amount agreed upon, or the final installment payment; and should try to use a release similar to the release printed as Figure 9&hyph;1, DA Pam 27&hyph;162. The RJA may not, however, execute any kind of indemnity agreement, nor may the RJA execute a release which prejudices the Government's right to recover on other claims arising out of the same incident without the approval of the Chief, Personnel Claims and Recovery Division, USARCS. In addition, the RJA may not execute a release that purports to release any claim that the injured party may have other than for medical care furnished or to be furnished by the United States. The RJA will not execute a release if the Government's claim is waived or terminated. (c) Depositing property damage recovery _(1) For damage to appropriated fund property. Monies recovered for damage to appropriated fund property will be deposited to Account 21R3019 (Recoveries for Government Property Lost or Damaged). (2) For damage to NAFI property. Monies recovered for damage to NAFI property will be returned to the NAFI. If the NAFI no longer exists, forward the money to HQDA (DAAG-NAF), Alexandria, VA 22331&hyph;0321. Checks should be made out to the NAFI, or, if it no longer exists, to the Army Morale, Welfare, and Recreation Fund. (3) For damage to Army Stock Fund or Defense Business Operations Fund property. Monies recovered for damage to property belonging to one of these funds will be returned to that fund unless the fund has charged the cost of repair or replacement to an appropriated fund account. The Defense Business Operations Fund replaced the Army Industrial Fund. (d) Depositing medical care recovery _(1) To an MTF account. CONUS and OCONUS claims offices and command claims services will deposit money recovered from an automobile insurer for medical care provided in an MTF on or after 5 November 1990 in the Operations & Maintenance account of the Army, Navy or Air Force MTF that provided the care. Offices will deposit money recovered from all types of automobile insurance, including liability insurance, to MTF accounts. (2) To the General Treasury. Money recovered directly from tortfeasors, from workers' compensation funds, from insurance other than automobile insurance (such as homeowner's insurance), from automobile insurers for care provided in an MTF prior to 5 November 1990, or from automobile insurers for care provided in a civilian hospital will be deposited in the Miscellaneous Receipts Account, 21R3210. (3) Apportioning medical care recovery between accounts. Only money recovered under the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 1095 can be deposited into an MTF account. Claims offices will often have to apportion money recovered among different accounts. (i) Apportioning money between MTF accounts and the General Treasury. Deposit money recovered from an automobile insurer for care provided prior to 5 November 1990 or provided in a civilian hospital to the General Treasury. Deposit money recovered for care provided in an MTF after that date to the MTF's account. If the amount recovered is less than the amount asserted, deposit money to the MTF's account first, and deposit any remaining money to the General Treasury. (ii) Apportioning money between two or more MTF accounts. If care was provided by two or more MTF's on or after 5 November 1990 and the claims office recovers less than the amount asserted, the claims office should give each MTF a pro rata share of the money recovered. For example, if MTF1 provided $2,000 worth of care and MTF2 provided $1,000 worth of care, the claims office will deposit $800 of a $1,200 recovery to MTF1's account and the remaining $400 to MTF2's account. (e) Fiscal Integrity. Field claims offices must reconcile the property damage and medical care recovery accounts with their servicing finance and accounting offices. Field claims offices must ensure that their deposits have been credited to the proper accounts at least on a quarterly basis, and all accounts must be reconciled at the end of the fiscal year. Subpart N_Claims Office Administration Records and File Management ยง536.232 Records. Unless otherwise required by this part, claims JAs and claims attorneys charged with the responsibility for claims administration will maintain only such current and temporary records as are required for the administration of claims activities and for the preparation of prescribed reports. Basic records for each claims office are_ (a) DA Form 1667 (Claims Journal (Personnel) (Tort) (Affirmative) Claims). Journals will be individually maintained for personnel claims, for affirmative claims, and for tort and special claims, corresponding to the automated claims data management programs for such claims, using the April 1988 version of this form. Each event requiring entry in the journal will be recorded immediately upon receipt of information as to its occurrence. Use of the journal for personnel claims is optional, although modified use is highly recommended.
