FR940404-2-00178 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the International Wheat Council (IWC), 119th Session, London, June 21&hyph;22, 1993 Representative Donald J. Novotny, Director, Grain and Feed Division, Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture Alternate Representative Sandra L. Mendyk, Economics and Commercial Officer, Office of Food Policy and Programs, Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, Department of State Advisers Leslie Berger, Agricultural Attache, United States Embassy, London Michael Glover, Commodities Officer, United States Embassy, London Phil Jarrell, Agricultural Economist, Grain and Feed Division, Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture Jim Rudbeck, Agricultural Counselor, United States Embassy, London Private Sector Adviser Winston Wilson, President, U.S. Wheat Associates, Washington, District of Columbia United States Delegation to the United Nations Conference for the Negotiation of a Successor Agreement to the International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1983, Second Part, United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), Geneva, June 21&hyph;25, 1993 Representative Duane E. Sams, Director of Commodity Policy, Office of the United Trade Representative, Executive Office of the President, Alternate Representatives Stephanie Caswell, Office of Ecology, Health and Conservation, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Milton K. Drucker, Office of International Commodities, Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, Department of State Advisers Robert Konrath, United States Mission, Geneva Michael Martin, United States Forest Service, Department of Agriculture Kathy McNamara, Office of Materials, Machinery, and Chemicals, Department of Commerce Joyce Rabens, Office of the United States Trade Representative, Geneva Private Sector Advisers Mark Dillenbeck, World Conservation Union, Washington, District of Columbia John Heisenbuttel, Vice President, Forest Resources, American Forest and Paper Association, Washington, District of Columbia Robert Johnson, International Hardwood Products Association, Alexandria, Virginia United States Delegation to the Meeting of Study Group 7 of the Telecommunication Standardization Sector (TSS), International Telecommunications Union (ITU), Geneva, Switzerland, June 22&hyph;July 2, 1993 Representative Gary M. Fereno, Director of CITEL and TSS Standards Policy, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Advisers Steven Perschau, Senior Engineer, National Communication System Neil Seitz, Deputy Director, System and Network Development, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Private Sector Advisers Mack W. Bishop, Programmer, IBM Corporation, Roanoke, Texas Edmond J. Blouston, Managing Director, GTECH Corporation, Warwick, Rhode Island Fred M. Burg, Supervisor, Standards, AT&T Bell Laboratories, Holmdel, New Jersey Richard W. Jesmajian, Technical Staff, AT&T Bell Laboratories, Holmdel, New Jersey Ben C. Levitan, Engineer, ARINC, Annapolis, Maryland James R. Moulton, President, Open Network Solutions, Inc., Sterling, Virginia Mark W. Neibert, Manager, International Standards, COMSAT, Washington, DC
