FR940429-0-00109 FR940429-0-00012 Comments: One commenter urged the Secretary to indicate that a SPRE could take an action against an entire institution or one of the institution's branch campuses, additional locations, or educational programs. The commenter believed there would be instances where a SPRE could determine that a branch campus or an additional location of the institution, but not the entire institution, should be terminated from the title IV, HEA programs. The commenter also noted that several of the State's standards apply only to specific educational programs and argued that it could be inappropriate for a SPRE to take an adverse action against the entire institution if the basis for that action was a finding directly related to a specific educational program offered by that institution. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that a SPRE has flexibility under the SPRP to craft a remedy along the lines suggested by the commenter. Thus, the SPRE can require an institution to stop offering a particular program or stop offering programs at particular locations or branch campuses. However, the Secretary believes that the authority of a SPRE under section 494C(h) of the HEA to determine that an institution should no longer participate in the title IV, HEA programs relates to terminating the institution as a whole, not to particular parts of the institution. Changes: None. Section 667.2␣Definitions Education and General Expenditures Comments: One commenter recommended that instead of using the statutory definition of education and general expenditures, used for purposes of Title III of the HEA, which governs the Strengthening Institutions Program, the Secretary adopt the definition used by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. In addition, the commenter noted that two financial-standard-making bodies have issued or have under consideration changes that will modify the current accounting and reporting standards. The commenter suggested that the final regulations refer only to current generally accepted accounting principles and financial reporting requirements by source rather than provide a specific definition of education and general expenditures. Discussion: The Secretary believes that it is most appropriate to use a definition of education and general expenditures for this program that is already included in the HEA. Changes: None. Professional Program Comments: Several commenters agreed with the proposed definition of professional program. Several other commenters argued that professional education is placed in the same category as occupational and vocational education with regard to the standards described in sections 494C (d)(8) and (d)(14)(C) of the HEA. The commenters contended that the use of professional education in this context implies a limited use of the term; namely, one that is closely related to vocational education. These commenters suggested that the proposed definition of professional program be modified to include only programs at or below the associate degree level. Several commenters suggested adopting the Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS) definition of first professional degree to ensure compatibility with data collected at the Federal level.
