FR940405-1-00102 FR940405-1-00013 The major forms of these savings are efficiency and productivity improvements, cost reductions in operations and maintenance, and reduced incidence of property damage. (a) Worker Productivity. Productivity gains are realized when less labor input is required per unit of production. A productivity gain can, therefore, take the form of either a decrease in the labor hours needed to maintain the level of production or in the form of increased production and net income for the establishment. Productivity losses due to indoor air quality may take several forms: employees may be less effective because they feel fatigued or suffer from headaches, eye irritation or other effects. Employees may accomplish less per hour worked or may spend more time away from their work location (e.g., taking breaks or walks outdoor). One company indicated that ``since two of my employees have refrained from smoking while working .␣.␣., their production has increased and their overall health seems better to say nothing of the health of those working around them'' [Ex. 3&hyph;192]. In addition to individual productivity, the quality of indoor air affects organizational productivity such as the visitor and customer satisfaction, impact on sales and revenue and repeat customers. Little data exist on productivity lost due to poor indoor air quality. A survey of 94 state government office buildings attributes an average productivity loss of 14 minutes per day or 3.0 percent to poor indoor air quality [Ex. 3&hyph;1075H2]. Based on information gathered from published resources, the National Energy Management Institute estimates that there is an increase in productivity of 3.5 percent or approximately 15 minutes per day for employees in a building that starts as an unhealthy building, and after IAQ improvements, becomes a healthy building [Ex. 4&hyph;240]. To monetize the productivity improvements resulting from implementation of the proposed IAQ standard, OSHA multiplied the average employee payroll by 3.0 percent. As shown in Table VI&hyph;7, monetized productivity improvements is estimated at an annual $15 billion. OSHA requests any studies relating to productivity effects relevant to the proposal be submitted. (b) Property Damage, Maintenance and Cleaning Costs. High concentrations of contaminants in indoor air can have adverse effects on materials and equipment. Damages may include corrosion of electronic components and electrical current leakage, which may eventually result in equipment malfunction. The costs of materials and equipment damage by indoor air pollutants include maintenance, repair, and/or replacement costs resulting from (1) soiling or deterioration of a materials's appearance, or (2) reduced service life for corroded or degraded appliances, furnishings, and equipment [Ex. 3&hyph;1075H2]. Bell Communications Research reported that the seven regional telephone companies have spent large sums ranging from $10,000 to $380,000 per event to replace, clean and repair switches and other electronic equipment malfunctioning as a result of indoor air contaminants.
