FR940223-2-00165 FR940223-2-00097 51. Where a Proprietary Information Access Order is issued to a person, the person is entitled (a) to access to the document; and (b) where the person is a counsel of record, to a copy of the document containing the proprietary information, on payment of an appropriate fee, and to service of pleadings containing the proprietary information. Privileged Information 52. (1) A Notice of Motion for disclosure of a document in the administrative record identified as containing privileged information shall set out (a) the reasons why disclosure of the document is necessary to the case of the participant filing the Notice of Motion; and (b) a statement of any point of law or legal authority relied on, together with a concise argument in support of disclosure. (2) Within 10 days after a Notice of Motion referred to in subrule (1) is filed, the investigating authority shall, if it intends to respond, file the following in response: (a) an affidavit of an official of the investigating authority stating that, since the filing of the Notice of Motion, the official has examined the document and has determined that disclosure of the document would constitute disclosure of privileged information; and (b) a statement of any point of law or legal authority relied on, together with a concise argument in support of non-disclosure. (3) After having reviewed the Notice of Motion referred to in subrule (1) and any response filed under subrule (2), the panel may order (a) that the document shall not be disclosed; or (b) that the investigating authority file two copies of the document under seal with the responsible Secretariat. (4) Where the panel has issued an order pursuant to subrule (3)(b), the panel shall select two panelists, one of whom shall be a lawyer who is a citizen of the country of one involved Party and the other of whom shall be a lawyer who is a citizen of the country of the other involved Party. (5) The two panelists selected under subrule (4) shall (a) examine the document in camera; and (b) communicate their decision, if any, to the panel. (6) The decision referred to in subrule (5)(b) shall be issued as an order of the panel. (7) Where the two panelists selected under subrule (4) fail to come to a decision, the panel shall (a) examine the document in camera; and (b) issue an order with respect to the disclosure of the document. (8) Where an order referred to in subrule (6) or (7) is to the effect that the document shall not be disclosed, the responsible Secretary shall return all copies of the document to the investigating authority by service under seal. 53. In a panel review of a final determination made in the United States, where, pursuant to rule 52, disclosure of a document is granted, (a) the panel shall limit disclosure to (i) persons who must have access in order to permit effective representation in the panel review, (ii) persons, such as the Secretariat staff, court reporters, interpreters and translators, who must have access for administrative purposes in order to permit effective functioning of the panel, and (iii) members of an Extraordinary Challenge Committee and their assistants who may need access pursuant to the NAFTA Extraordinary Challenge Committee Rules; (b) the panel shall issue an order identifying by name and by title or position the persons who are entitled to access and shall allow for future access by new counsel of record and by members of an Extraordinary Challenge Committee and, as necessary, their assistants; and (c) the investigating authority shall issue a Propriety Information Access Order with respect to that document in accordance with the order of the panel.
