FR941121-0-00105 FR941121-0-00011 (6) Limited partnership interests shall be attributed to limited partners and shall be calculated according to both the percentage of equity paid in and the percentage of distribution of profits and losses. (7) Officers and directors of a broadband PCS licensee or applicant, cellular licensee, or SMR licensee shall be considered to have an attributable interest in the entity with which they are so associated. The officers and directors of an entity that controls a broadband PCS licensee or applicant, a cellular licensee, or an SMR licensee shall be considered to have an attributable interest in the broadband PCS licensee or applicant, cellular licensee, or SMR licensee. (8) Ownership interests that are held indirectly by any party through one or more intervening corporations will be determined by successive multiplication of the ownership percentages for each link in the vertical ownership chain and application of the relevant attribution benchmark to the resulting product, except that if the ownership percentage for an interest in any link in the chain exceeds 50 percent or represents actual control, it shall be treated as if it were a 100 percent interest. (e) Divestiture. Any party holding controlling or attributable ownership interests in SMR licensees accounting for more than 5 MHz of SMR spectrum may be a party to a broadband PCS application ( i.e., have a controlling or attributable interest in a broadband PCS applicant), and such PCS applicant will be eligible for PCS licenses amounting to 40 MHz of broadband PCS spectrum in a geographical area, pursuant to the divestiture procedures set forth in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section. (1) The Broadband PCS applicant shall certify on its bidder application that it and all parties to the application will come into compliance with the limitations on spectrum aggregation set forth in this section. (2) If such an applicant is a successful bidder, it must submit with its long-form application a signed statement describing its efforts to date and future plans to come into compliance with the limitations on spectrum aggregation set forth in this section. (3) If such an applicant is otherwise qualified, its application will be granted subject to a condition that the licensee shall come into compliance with the limitations on spectrum aggregation set forth in this section within ninety (90) days of final grant. (i) Parties holding controlling interests in SMR licensees that conflict with the attribution threshold or geographic overlap limitations set forth in this section will be considered to have come into compliance if they have submitted to the Commission an application for assignment of license or transfer of control of the SMR licensee (see ยง90.158 of this chapter) by which, if granted, such parties no longer would have an attributable interest in the SMR license. If no such assignment or transfer application is tendered to the Commission within ninety (90) days of final grant, the Commission may consider the short-form certification and the long-form divestiture statement to be material, bad faith misrepresentations and shall invoke the condition on the PCS license, cancelling it automatically, shall retain all monies paid to the Commission, and, based on the facts presented, shall take any other action it may deem appropriate. Divestiture may be to an interim trustee if a buyer has not been secured in the required period of time, as long as the applicant has no interest in or control of the trustee, and the trustee may dispose of the license as it sees fit. (ii) Where parties to broadband PCS applications hold less than controlling (but still attributable) interests in SMR licensee(s), they shall submit, within ninety (90) days of final grant, a certification that the applicant and all parties to the application have come into compliance with the limitations on spectrum aggregation set forth in this section. Note 1 to ยง20.6: For purposes of the ownership attribution limit, all ownership interests in operations that serve at least 10 percent of the population of the PCS service area should be included in determining the extent of a PCS applicant's cellular or SMR ownership. Note 2 to ยง20.6: When a party owns an attributable interest in more than one cellular or SMR system that overlaps a PCS service area, the total population in the overlap area will apply on a cumulative basis. PART 22_PUBLIC MOBILE RADIO SERVICE
