FR941019-1-00038 FR941019-1-00004 The foregoing regulatory incentives must be viewed in light of potential issuer liabilities. While courts appear generally to impose no duty on a corporation to review or comment on analysts' reports, a corporation may become sufficiently entangled with the analysts' statements, by reviewing or correcting drafts of reports or otherwise, so as to assume a duty to correct or update the analyst's statements. 79 Another risk arises from selective disclosures that may be characterized as tipping. 80 As a result of these risks, frequently perceived to outweigh the benefits, some corporations have gone so far as to announce that they will not speak to analysts about future earnings projections. 81 79 Elkind v. Liggett & Myers , 635 F.2d 156, 163 (2d Cir. 1980). Commentators have suggested that even a management response that an analyst's estimates are ``too high,'' ``too low'' or ``in the ballpark'' can give rise to liability by suggesting that management bore some type of responsibility for the estimate; see generally Potential Pitfalls, supra note 76. 80 See Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stevens , Lit. Rel. No. 12813 (March 19, 1991); Elkind, supra. See generally M. Goldman, K. Schuelke, J. Danforth and S. Thau, Disclosures to Financial Analysts (PLI September-October 1993). 81 See, e.g., J. Coffee, Disclosures to Analysts are Risky , Nat'l L.J. (Feb. 1, 1993). IV. Alternatives to Current Safe Harbor Provision The Commission generally is examining the current effectiveness of its safe harbors as codified in Rules 175 and 3b-6. Some commentators and groups have submitted proposals to amend the safe harbor. The Commission is considering these proposals and the issues that each proposal raises, as well as its own experience in interpreting and administering the safe harbor. Where specific proposed regulatory text has been provided by these commentators or groups, that text is attached in the appendix to this release. 82 82 The transmittal letters pursuant to which some of these proposals were submitted to the Commission are included in the public file (S7&hyph;29&hyph;94). A. ``Seasoned Issuer'' Proposal The ``Seasoned Issuer'' Proposal, suggested by the Association of Publicly Traded Companies (``APTC''), would provide a safe harbor precluding private actions for oral and written forward-looking statements with respect to securities quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market or listed on a national securities exchange. It would apply only to secondary trading transactions and would not modify the Commission's enforcement authority. The proposed safe harbor would be available to issuers subject to the reporting requirements of sections 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act that have timely filed all reports required to be filed within the six months prior to the making of the statement. The proposed safe harbor would not be available to penny stock issuers. It also excludes issuers that had been convicted of securities law violations or issuers that had been the subject of any securities related injunction within the previous five years. The term ``forward-looking statement'' is defined in the proposed safe harbor to include any economic projection, statement of management's plans and objectives for future operations, statement of future performance and assumptions underlying the foregoing. B. Business Judgment Rule Proposal Commissioner Beese has proposed a safe harbor provision patterned after the state-law ``business judgment rule.'' 83 In the pattern of that rule, the safe harbor would establish a principle of judicial non-intervention. As such, the safe harbor would protect directors and officers from judicial review of shareholder antifraud claims when forward-looking statements are made unless a plaintiff can establish a conflict, a lack of good faith, or a failure of honest and reasonable belief. 83 See, e.g., Paramount Communications Inc, v. QVC Network, Inc. , 637 A.2d 34, 46 n.17 (1994); Cede & Co. v. Technicolor, Inc. , 634 A.2d 345 (1993). The safe harbor would cover oral or written forward-looking information, whether or not made or reaffirmed in Commission filings. Liability still could be imposed on directors or officers who make fraudulent statements, intentionally misstate facts, or fail to disclose material information when required. To ensure that an officer or director was meeting his duties under the business judgment rule, a company would be encouraged to keep a projection binder reflecting the data underlying the projections. In the event that a private lawsuit was filed, the company would proffer the binder to the court. The burden then would shift to the plaintiffs to show why the projections lacked a proper factual basis at the time they were made. If unable to meet this burden, the case would be dismissed without any discovery. 84 84 The Association for Investment Management and Research (``AIMR'') has expressed support for Commissioner Beese's proposal. See Letter from Michael S. Caccesse, Senior Vice President and General Counsel, AIMR, to Catherine Dixon dated October 7, 1994. C. ``Heightened Definition'' Proposal The ``Heightened Definition'' Proposal, put forth jointly by the Business Roundtable and the National Association of Manufacturers, would apply to all forward-looking statements and reaffirmations thereof, by or on behalf of a registrant or an outside reviewer retained by the registrant, whether or not filed with the Commission. The proposed safe harbor would apply to the same information as is protected by the current safe harbor but would expressly extend to both qualitative and quantitative statements of management's plans and objectives for future operations, including plans for the development and delivery of new products or services. The provision would apply to all statements of reporting issuers that have timely filed their most recent annual report. As provided under the existing rule, non-reporting issuers also could rely on the safe harbor, but only if the forward-looking statement were made in a solicitation of interest document submitted under Securities Act Rule 254, in a registration statement or Regulation A Offering Circular filed under the Securities Act, or in a registration statement filed under the Exchange Act.
