FR940524-2-00051 FR940524-2-00031 Office of the Regional Housing Director of the Southeast, HUD [Docket No. D&hyph;94&hyph;1064; FR&hyph;3720&hyph;D&hyph;01] Revocation and Redelegation of Authority AGENCY: Office of the Regional Housing Director of the Southeast, HUD. ACTION: Revocation and Redelegation of Authority. SUMMARY: On April 15, 1994, the Department published in the Federal Register , a Notice that revoked all powers and authorities that were redelegated by the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner to HUD Regional Administrators and/or Field Office Managers. Pursuant to the authority delegated in the April 15 Notice to the Regional Housing Director for the Southeast from the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, this Notice revokes all authority redelegated under the April 15 Notice to HUD Office Managers in Category C Field Offices in the Southeast. This Notice also redelegates to the following designated officials in the designated Category A, B, and C Field Offices in the Southeast, all powers and authorities necessary to carry out Office of Housing FHA programs (including the power to order Limited Denials of Participation sanctions). EFFECTIVE DATE: April 20, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Raymond C. Buday, Jr., Assistant General Counsel, Atlanta Office_Southeast, Telephone, (404) 331&hyph;4135. (This is not a toll-free number). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Accordingly, pursuant to the authority delegated to the Regional Housing Director for the Southeast from the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, published in the Federal Register on April 15, 1994 (59 FR 18282), the Regional Housing Director revokes and redelegates authority as follows: Section A. Authority Revoked The Regional Housing Director revokes all authority currently redelegated from the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner to HUD Office Managers in Category C Field Offices in the Southeast. Section B. Authority Redelegated The Regional Housing Director redelegates to the following officials all powers and authorities necessary to carry out Office of Housing-FHA programs (including the power to order Limited Denials of Participation sanctions): In the Category A and B Offices and the Regional Office (Atlanta, Birmingham, Caribbean, Columbia, Greensboro, Jackson, Jacksonville, Knoxville, Louisville and Nashville): Director, Housing Development Division Director, Housing Management Division In the Category C Offices Coral Gables_Deputy Manager (Acting Special Assistant) Memphis_Chief, Property Disposition Branch Orlando_Deputy Manager (Acting Special Assistant) Tampa_Deputy Manager (Acting Special Assistant) The Regional Housing Director redelegates to the officials designated in Section B all powers and authorities necessary to carry out the following Office of Housing-FHA programs: Single Family Housing Programs 1. One-to-Four Family Home Mortgage Insurance Section 203 National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1709(b),(i)). 2. Rehabilitation Mortgage Insurance Section 203(k), National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1709(4)(k)).
