FR940927-1-00028 FR940927-1-00010 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 117 [CGD01&hyph;94&hyph;110] Drawbridge Operation Regulations; Fore River, MA AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is considering a change to the regulations governing the Qunicy Weymouth Bridge over the Fore River at mile 3.5 between Quincy and Weymouth, Massachusetts. This change will restrict the exemption in the existing regulations which permits all commercial vessels to obtain bridge openings during vehicular traffic rush hours. This proposed regulation will permit bridge openings only for self-propelled vessels greater than 10,000 gross tons during the two rush hour periods. This change is expected to alleviate some of the traffic congestion caused when the bridge opens during rush hour. DATES: Comments must be received on or before November 28, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be mailed to Commander (obr), First Coast Guard District, Captain John Foster Williams Federal Building, 408 Atlantic Ave., Boston, Massachusetts 02110&hyph;3350. The comments and other materials referenced in this notice will be available for inspection and copying by appointment at the Captain John Foster Williams Federal Building, Room 628, 408 Atlantic Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts. Normal office hours are between 6:30 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. Comments may also be hand-delivered to this address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William C. Heming, Bridge Administrator, First Coast Guard District, (212) 668&hyph;7170. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments Interested persons are invited to participate in this rulemaking by submitting written views, comments, data, or arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their names and addresses, identify this rulemaking (CGD01&hyph;94&hyph;110), specify the section of this proposal to which each comment applies, and give reasons for each comment. The Coast Guard requests that all comments and attachments be submitted in an unbound format suitable for copying and electronic filing. If not practical, a second copy of any bounded material is requested. Persons desiring acknowledgment that their comments have been received should enclose a stamped self-addressed postcard or envelope. The Coast Guard will consider all comments received during the comment period and may change this proposal in light of the comments received. The Coast Guard plans no public hearing. Persons may request a public hearing by writing to the Commander (obr), First Coast Guard District under ADDRESSES . The request should include reasons why a hearing would be beneficial. If it determines that the opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will hold a public hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register .
