FR941012-2-00112 FR941012-2-00076 9. First ING Life will assume certain risks, described below, in connection with its sale of the Contracts. Accordingly, First ING Life proposes to receive compensation for assuming these risks by deducting, from the assets of the Separate Account, a daily asset charge for mortality and expense risks. 10. First ING Life will assume several mortality risks under the Contracts. First, First ING Life will assume a mortality risk by its contractual obligation to pay a death benefit to the beneficiary if the Owner dies prior to the annuity date. The Contracts provide a death benefit that is the greater of: (a) the accumulation value at the time of death and (b) the step-up benefit plus purchase payments made, less partial withdrawals and any surrender and partial withdrawal transaction charges taken since the last step-up anniversary. Second, First ING Life assumes a mortality risk arising from the fact that the Contract does not impose any surrender charge on the death benefit. Third, First ING Life assumes an additional mortality risk by its contractual obligation to continue to make annuity payments for the entire life of the Annuitant under annuity options involving life contingencies. This assures each Annuitant that neither the Annuitant's own longevity nor an improvement in life expectancy generally will have an adverse effect on the annuity payments received under a Contract. This relieves the Annuitant from the risk of outliving the amounts accumulated for retirement. At the same time, First ING Life assumes the risk that Annuitants as a group would live a longer time than First ING Life's annuity tables predict, which would require First ING Life to pay out more in annuity income than planned. The Contracts contain annuity tables that are based on the 1983a Individual Annuity Mortality Table and, for variable annuity options, alternative net investment factors of 3% or 5% and, for fixed annuity options, and interest rate of 3%. First ING Life guarantees these annuity tables for the life of a Contract. 11. In addition to mortality risks, First ING life will assume an expense risk under the Contracts. This is because the administrative charges under outstanding Contracts, which cannot be raised, may be insufficient to cover actual administrative expenses. 12. In order to receive compensation for assuming these mortality and expense risks, First ING Life will assess the Separate Account with a daily charge for mortality and expense risks at an annual aggregate rate of 1.25% Approximately 0.90% of this annual charge is allocated to the mortality risks that First ING Life will assume, and 0.35% is allocated to the expense risks that First ING Life will assume. 13. If the administrative charges and the mortality and expense risk charges are insufficient to cover the expenses and costs assumed, the loss will be borne by First ING Life. Conversely, if the amounts deducted prove more than sufficient, the excess will be profit to First ING Life. First ING Life will likely earn a profit from the mortality and expense risk charge.
