FR941020-2-00067 FR941020-2-00038 Subchapter S5G Section S5G.00␣The Office of International Policy_(Mission) Amend to read as follows: The Office of International Policy serves as SSA's focal point for international program policy matters and for its participation in the international Social Security community. Serves as liaison to international agencies and associations which deal with Social Security matters. Negotiates international Social Security (totalization) agreements with foreign governments, and develops policies and procedures to implement the agreements. Develops and implements policies and procedures relating to the operation of the Social Security program outside the United States. Provides programs of training and technical consultations on Social Security and related fields to Social Security officials and other experts outside the United States. Subchapter S5R The Office of Policy Retitle The Office of Policy (S5R) to The Office of Policy Communications (S5R) and amend statement to read as follows: Section S5R.10␣The Office of Policy Communications_(Mission) The Office of Policy Communications directs the planning and analysis of programs directly administered by SSA. It serves as the focal point throughout the Agency to make certain that strategic policy decisions are properly translated into operational policies and procedures and are implemented in an effective manner. It coordinates the development of policies across program lines to ensure consistency in implementation. The Office develops, promulgates and reviews all program regulations for consistency. It also reviews regulations for directly-administered programs for consistency with statutory and congressional intent and with SSA policy decisions and requirements. The Office is responsible for development, review and distribution of the Agency's instructional system. It ensures that policies are coordinated internally and that all instructional materials developed are compatible with overall operating policies and practices. The Office establishes policies relating to the Agency's notices to the public and serves as the focal point for the Agency's effort to improve service to the public through issuing clear notices. The Office evaluates the effectiveness of national policies in meeting program goals and recommends program modifications. Dated: October 12, 1994. Donna E. Shalala, Secretary of Health and Human Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25944 filed 10&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4190&hyph;29&hyph;M
