FR940722-0-00089 FR940722-0-00018 Final report means a report documenting a completed RD&T study or activity. Intermodal RD&T means research, development, and technology transfer activities involving more than one mode of transportation including transfer facilities between modes. National Cooperative Highway Research Program (NCHRP) means the cooperative RD&T program directed toward solving problems of national or regional significance identified by States and the FHWA, and administered by the Transportation Research Board, National Academy of Sciences. Peer review means a review conducted by persons who are knowledgeable of the management and operation of RD&T programs. This may include but is not limited to representatives of another State, the FHWA, American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, Transportation Research Board (TRB), universities or the private sector. RD&T activity means a basic or applied research, development, or technology transfer project or study. Research means a systematic controlled inquiry involving analytical and experimental activities which primarily seek to increase the understanding of underlying phenomena. Research can be basic or applied. Technology transfer means those activities that lead to the adoption of a new technique or product by users and involves dissemination, demonstration, training, and other activities that lead to eventual innovation. Transportation Research Information Services (TRIS) means the TRB-maintained computerized storage and retrieval system for abstracts of ongoing and completed RD&T activities, including abstracts of RD&T reports and articles. ยง420.205 Policy. (a) It is the FHWA's policy to administer the RD&T program activities utilizing FHWA planning and research funds consistent with the policy specified in ยง420.105 and the following general principles in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section. (b) State transportation agencies shall provide information necessary for peer reviews. (c) States are encouraged to develop, establish, and implement an RD&T program, funded with Federal and State resources, that anticipates and addresses transportation concerns before they become critical problems. To promote effective utilization of available resources, States are encouraged to cooperate with other States, the FHWA, and other appropriate agencies to achieve RD&T objectives established at the national level and to develop a technology transfer program to promote and use those results. (d) States will be allowed the authority and flexibility to manage and direct their RD&T activities as presented in their work programs, and to initiate RD&T activities supported by FHWA planning and research funds, subject to the limitation of Federal funds and to compliance with program conditions set forth in subpart A of this part and ยง420.207. (e) States will have primary responsibility for managing RD&T activities supported with FHWA planning and research funds carried out by other State agencies and organizations and for ensuring that such funds are expended for purposes consistent with this subpart.
