FR941212-1-00036 FR941212-1-00012 ␣ 1␣ 1␣ (1) >[Reserved]< [For processing and retaining any application abandoned pursuant to §1.53(d) unless the required basic filing fee has been paid $130.00] * * * * * ␣ 1␣ 1␣ (n) For handling an incomplete or improper application under §1.53(c)[, §1.60] or §1.62 $130.00 * * * * * 9. Section 1.28 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §1.28 Effect on fees of failure to establish status, or change status, as a small entity. (a) The failure to establish status as a small entity (§§1.9(f) and 1.27 of this part) in any application or patent prior to paying, or at the time of paying, any fee precludes payment of the fee in the amount established for small entities. A refund pursuant to §1.26 of this part, based on establishment of small entity status, of a portion of fees timely paid in full prior to establishing status as a small entity may only be obtained if a verified statement under §1.27 and a request for a refund of the excess amount are filed within two months of the date of the timely payment of the full fee. The two-month time period is not extendable under §1.136. Status as a small entity is waived for any fee by the failure to establish the status prior to paying, at the time of paying, or within two months of the date of payment of, the fee. Status as a small entity must be specifically established [by a verified statement filed] in each application or patent in which the status is available and desired[, except those applications filed under §1.60 or §1.62 of this part where the status as a small entity has been established in a parent application and is still proper]. >Status as a small entity in one application or patent does not affect any other application or patent, including applications or patents which are directly or indirectly dependent upon the application or patent in which the status has been established. Applications filed as continuations, divisions or continuations-in-part of a parent application must include a reference to a verified statement in the parent application or include a copy of the verified statement filed in the parent application if status as a small entity is still proper and desired.< Once status as a small entity has been established in an application or patent, the status remains in that application or patent without the filing of a further verified statement pursuant to §1.27 of this part unless the Office is notified of a change in status. [Status as a small entity in one application or patent does not affect any other application or patent, including applications or patents which are directly or indirectly dependent upon the application or patent in which the status has been established, except those filed under §1.60 or §1.62 of this part. Applications filed under §1.60 or §1.62 of this part must include a reference to a verified statement in a parent application if status as a small entity is still proper and desired.] * * * * * 10. Section 1.45 paragraph (c) is proposed to be revised to read as follows: §1.45 Joint inventors. * * * * * (c) If multiple inventors are named in an application, >other than a provisional application under §1.53(b)(2),< each named inventor must have made a contribution, individually, or jointly, to the subject matter of at least one claim of the application and the application will be considered to be a joint application under 35 U.S.C. 116. >If multiple inventors are named in a provisional application, each named inventor must have made a contribution, individually or jointly, to the subject matter disclosed in the provisional application and the provisional application will be considered to be a joint application under 35 U.S.C. 116.< 11. Section 1.48 is proposed to be revised to read as follows: §1.48 Correction of inventorship. (a) If the correct inventor or inventors are not named in an application for patent>, other than a provisional application,< through error without any deceptive intention on the part of the actual inventor or inventors, the application may be amended to name only the actual inventor or inventors. Such amendment must be diligently made and must be accompanied by: (1) A petition including a statement of facts verified by the original named inventor or inventors establishing when the error without deceptive intention was discovered and how it occurred; (2) An oath or declaration by each actual inventor or inventors as required by §1.63; (3) The fee set forth in §1.17(h); and (4) The written consent of any assignee. When the application is involved in an interference, the petition shall comply with the requirements of this section and shall be accompanied by a motion under §1.634.
