FR940603-2-00055 FR940603-2-00039 1. An uncontrolled or illegal release or threatened release of one or more hazardous substances ( Note: The substances that are actually released or threatened to be released include all hazardous substances except petroleum products), and 2. The quantity of the hazardous substances which are released, or are threatened to be released, need (or would need) to be removed, cleaned up, or neutralized according to Federal, State, or local law; or 3. There is only a threatened release of hazardous substances, but this threat leads to an action (e.g., an evacuation) that can potentially impact the health of employees, responders, or the general public. This action makes the event eligible for inclusion into the surveillance system, even though the hazardous substances are not released. A hazardous substance includes, but is not limited to, any element, substance, compound, or mixture, including disease-causing agents, which after release into the environment and upon exposure, ingestion, inhalation, or assimilation into any organism, either directly from the environment or indirectly by ingestion through the food chain, will or may reasonably be anticipated to cause death, disease, behavioral abnormalities, cancer, genetic mutation, physiological malfunctions (including malfunctions in reproduction) or physical deformations, in such organisms or their offspring; except that the term ``hazardous substance'' does not include petroleum products, including crude oil or any fraction thereof which is not otherwise specifically listed or designated as a ``hazardous substance.'' To achieve the purpose of this program, the recipient shall be responsible for conducting activities under A., below, and ATSDR will be responsible for conducting activities under B., below: A. Recipient Activities 1. Develop a mechanism that ensures that the State health department is notified of hazardous substances emergency events in a timely fashion. This should include negotiating formal or informal agreements with all State agencies that are normally notified when hazardous substances emergencies have occurred. These State agencies should include, but not be limited to, State police, fire departments, environmental agencies, and various offices of emergency government. 2. Investigate the emergency event by gathering and entering the information obtained from all sources into the HSEES tracking system. Sources may include, but not be limited to, those agencies mentioned in A.1., and other relevant Federal, State, local, and private agencies in keeping with the surveillance protocol. 3. Establish and maintain appropriate procedures to ensure the timely gathering and entering the information into a database as prescribed by the HSEES protocol. B. ATSDR Activities 1. Assist recipients in acquiring appropriate information for performance of HSEES and evaluating the completeness and quality of relevant information. 2. Provide prototype information gathering instrument. 3. Assist recipients in establishing and maintaining appropriate and timely schedules for the HSEES surveillance process. 4. Assist recipients in selecting training that will be useful in maintaining the surveillance system. 5. Analyze environmental and/or biological results for specific situations in which ATSDR has concerns. 6. Evaluate the overall performance of recipient's adherence to the surveillance protocol. Evaluation Criteria Applications will be reviewed and evaluated according to the following criteria: A. Review Criteria for States New to HSEES 1. Appropriateness and Knowledge of Surveillance System_25% Demonstrate a need for such a surveillance system within their State. Additionally, the applicant should demonstrate an understanding of the needs, limitations, and experience with surveillance systems as a means of assessing the impact of hazardous substances on public health. 2. Proposed Methodology_25% Applicant must demonstrate experience in, or an ability to develop, implement, maintain, and evaluate surveillance systems in accordance with the HSEES Protocol. 3. Capability and Coordination Efforts_20% Demonstrate the ability to develop, maintain, or expand a formal or an informal working relationship with agencies outside of the State health departments that receive notifications of hazardous substances emergencies. This is necessary to assure that State health departments are notified of all hazardous substances emergencies. 4. Quality of Information Collection_20% Applicant should describe experience in collaborative projects for which the agency has had the responsibility collecting information in a consistent format. Examples include surveillance projects, surveys, and prospective or retrospective hypothesis-testing studies. The timely submission of data for analysis is critical in ensuring the success of this surveillance. Accordingly, the applicant must demonstrate experience in, or the ability to collect, enter, and transfer data on a timely basis.
