FR940622-0-00062 FR940622-0-00011 Comment: Three commenters contended that the regulations should differentiate more between the roles and responsibilities of physicians and hospitals in determining whether a hospital has violated section 1867 of the Act, as hospitals do not have the legal authority to admit, transfer or discharge patients. Response: The statute imposes duties on a hospital, many of which can only be effectively carried out by physicians in some way affiliated with the hospital. Neither the statute nor the regulations attempt to define the means by which the hospital meets its statutory obligations to provide emergency screening examination, treatment or transfer. Comment: Three commenters raised a question concerning the hospital's responsibility in a case in which a physician who is not responsible for providing emergency care, but whose specialty is required to perform stabilizing care, refuses to treat or examine a patient. Response: Although the term ``responsible physician'' is no longer used in the statute, the Department has maintained the term in these regulations, defining it to be consistent with the present statute. Hence, the definition of a ``responsible physician'' as drafted in these regulations includes any physician to whom the hospital has delegated responsibility to examine, treat, or transfer an individual that comes to the hospital emergency department seeking help. A hospital may use physicians on its medical staff to carry out its responsibilities under the statute. As indicated in the OBRA 89 amendments to section 1867, these physicians, including those who provide emergency services on-call as a condition of enjoying staff privileges, may be held liable for violating the statute and regulations. Comment: One commenter recommended that ``responsible physician'' be defined to prevent a physician from being held liable for not providing treatment that is beyond his clinical area of competence or hospital privileges or for treatment decisions that are made in the physician's absence when the physician is available only by telephone. Response: We do not believe that the comment requires a change in the definition. The commenter is concerned that a physician not be held responsible for aspects of an individual's care that are beyond his competence or hospital privileges. Consistent with the statute, the regulations use the term ``responsible physician'' to denote a physician with the responsibility to examine, treat, or transfer a patient. A hospital cannot require a physician to perform duties that are either beyond the physician's competence or the scope of the physician's hospital privileges. On the other hand, where a responsible physician makes treatment or transfer decisions by telephone, the physician remains liable for such decisions.
