FR940811-2-00136 FR940811-2-00084 Change to Specifications for Use of Symbol Based on the weight of the comments received, NHTSA has decided to amend the specifications. As amended, States and Federal agencies with emergency medical services involvement are authorized to permit use of the ``Star of Life'' symbol to alert emergency care providers to medical conditions or to identify appropriate treatment. The States and Federal agencies then will have the authority to determine within their respective jurisdictions the medical conditions ( i.e., diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure) and the treatments ( i.e., DNR) they wish to include. The ``Star of Life'' would be used for these purposes, in accordance with programs established by the State or Federal agency. This decision is consistent with many of the comments that favored giving States some discretionary authority to determine the appropriate uses for the ``Star of Life'' within their borders. Other Issues Raised Many of the comments pointed out that the ``Star of Life'' is currently being used in ways that are not restricted to ``certified'' vehicles and personnel. For example, they stated that the symbol is being used on patient care products, on personal items used by EMS personnel, and in logos of national, state and local EMS organizations. In addition, they alleged that many of the logos use formats that do not comply with the 1977 specifications. Some of the comments went so far as to question whether, as a result of such varied uses and formats, the ``Star of Life'' has become generic and lost its validity as a certification mark. The commenters who noted that the ``Star of Life'' symbol is being used in ways, other than on ``certified'' vehicles and personnel, are correct. These uses are appropriate, provided they fall within the scope of the Criteria for the Use of the ``Star of Life'' Symbol. The criteria that were established in 1977 provided for the symbol to be used not only on ambulances and to indicate the location of EMS personnel, but also ``to identify medical equipment and supplies for installation and use in .␣.␣. ambulances;'' ``on EMS personal items such as badges, lapel pins, plaques, buckles, names plates, etc.;'' ``on printed material having direct EMS application such as books, pamphlets, letterheads .␣.␣.'' and ``[by] entrepreneurs engaged in the production of goods or publication of printed material [having direct EMS application].'' As explained below, NHTSA has made some changes to these criteria in today's notice, but in general continues to support these related uses of the ``Star of Life.'' There have been attempts to use the symbol for purposes that are not EMS-related (such as in connection with furniture or automobile repair businesses). When these inappropriate and unauthorized uses have come to NHTSA's attention, we have taken immediate steps to ensure that they do not continue. We strongly disagree that the symbol has become generic or lost its validity. The agency recognizes that the ``Star of Life'' is currently being used or has been incorporated into the logos of some EMS organizations using formats that do not comply strictly with the 1977 specifications. We have decided some additional flexibility in this area is warranted and have, therefore, changed this aspect of the 1977 specifications, as explained below. Some comments suggested that NHTSA, as well as State EMS Directors, should support additional programs aimed at educating the public about the meaning of the ``Star of Life'' symbol and when and how the symbol is to be used. The comments recommended also that efforts to supervise its proper use should be increased. NHTSA will continue to take steps against the inappropriate and unauthorized use of the ``Star of Life'' symbol of which it becomes aware. We encourage State EMS Directors, or others in the EMS field, to bring such uses to the agency's attention. We also encourage State EMS Directors to educate EMS personnel on the proper use of the symbol, and to educate the public in their respective States on matters such as how to recognize and when to look for the ``Star of Life.'' One commenter seemed to believe that, since NHTSA owns the certification mark to the ``Star of Life,'' the symbol may be used by NHTSA alone. We believe this comment reflects a misunderstanding of the nature of certification marks. Unlike a trade or service mark, which creates for the owner exclusive rights to use the registered symbol, a certification mark is owned by one person and used by others. Such a mark is to be used, for example, to certify quality or other origin. The ``Star of Life'' symbol was registered and is owned by NHTSA. NHTSA has authorized its use to certify compliance with certain standards (such as compliance by an ambulance with Federal Specifications or completion by EMS personnel of appropriate training courses). NHTSA has also authorized its use on goods employed or in connection with services performed as part of EMS systems, at the national, State or local level. Other Changes to Criteria and Specifications NHTSA requested comments on whether the agency should make other revisions to the criteria and specifications that were established on September 14, 1977. We received extensive and thoughtful comments from the National Association of State EMS Directors (NASEMSD). We have adopted some of the changes recommended by NASEMSD, as well as some additional changes based on our own review. Many of the criteria have been amended to make them less restrictive. Some of the criteria, particularly those sections that attempted to detail the appearance of the ``Star of Life'' for various uses, have been deleted entirely and replaced instead with more general instructions and restrictions.
