FR941028-2-00079 FR941028-2-00059 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Bureau of Land Management [CA&hyph;050&hyph;1150&hyph;00] Proposed Closure Order for Vehicle Use; California AGENCY: Bureau of Land Management, Interior. SUMMARY: In cooperation with the California Department of Fish & Game, and under authority of 43 CFR 8364.1, the Clear Lake Resource Area of the Bureau of Land Management is designating emergency vehicular closures on three parcels of recently-acquired public lands. These parcels are known as the Leal, Kerwin, and Johnson acquisitions. All vehicular use except for that associated with administrative access, emergencies, and valid existing rights (mining claims, pre-existing public access, rights-of-ways/easements, etc.) will be prohibited year-round. These closures are consistent with the Clear Lake Resource Area Management Framework Plan (MFP) Update, as well as the Cache Creek Area of Critical Environmental Concern (ACEC) Management Plan and the Cache Creek Tule Elk Habitat Management Plan (HMP). These closures will be in effect until the Cache Creek Coordinated Resource Management Plan (CRMP) is completed, at which time a final determination will be made to rescind, modify, or continue with the closures as is. These three closures are included within the Cache Creek Management Area, a unit managed primarily for wildlife and primitive recreational values. Detailed maps of these three areas are available upon request from the Clear Lake Resource Area office of the BLM in Ukiah, California. EFFECTIVE DATE: These closures will become effective on October 28, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Renee Snyder or Gregg Mangan at 707&hyph;468&hyph;4000. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Leal acquisition includes 1,475.92 acres acquired by the BLM in October 1993. These lands are located in portions of Sections 28, 29, 32, 33, and 34 of T. 14N., R. 5W., MDM, and Sections 3 and 4 of T 13N., R. 5W, MDM. along the Lake and Colusa county line. Prior to acquisition by the BLM, there was no public access on or through this property. These lands were acquired primarily for wildlife and primitive recreational values. The habitats here support tule elk, blacktail deer, wild turkey, feral pig, mountain lion, and many other species. Some key habitat improvements have been completed and others will be implemented in the near future. These projects will further improve this area for the tule elk and many of the other species found here. In the absence of a closure, unrestricted public vehicular use here would negate the success and intended purpose of these projects. The Kerwin acquisition includes 948.72 acres acquired in January 1994. These lands are located in portions of Sections 30 and 31 of T. 14N., R. 5W., MDM (referred to as the Northern Unit), and all of Section 36 of T. 14N, R. 6W., MDM. (referred to as the Southern Unit), all in Lake County and bisected by State Highway 20. Prior to acquisition by the BLM, an easement granted to Lake County for public vehicular access across private lands (in the Northern Unit) was in existence along the Walker Ridge Road, beginning at the turnoff from State Highway 20 and continuing for approximately one mile northwest to the beginning of public lands. The Southern Unit had no previous public access available. The Kerwin property was acquired for wildlife habitat, rare plants, and primitive recreational values. The acquired lands along the first mile of the Walker Ridge Road (in the Northern Unit) pass through open oak-grassland and meadow habitats supporting known populations of special status plant species. Currently vehicular access off the first mile of the Walker Ridge Road is unrestricted for the most part, due to the open nature of the habitat. This use has resulted in documented damage to the special status plants found here. In the Southern Unit year-round use by the tule elk has been documented. Unrestricted vehicular use by adjacent landowners has resulted in disturbance to the elk herd, special status plants, and to soils. Without a closure, unrestricted public vehicular use would result in further disturbance and damage to resource values. The Johnson acquisition includes 2,032.06 acres acquired in January 1994. These lands are located in portions of Sections 8, 9, 16, 17, 21, and 28 of T. 12N., R. 4W. MDM, all in Yolo County. Prior to acquisition an easement for public vehicular access through 3.2 miles of this property existed on Yolo County Road 40. This access was limited to Road 40 only and did not allow for any use off the road. Because this property is now public land, there are no restrictions in place to prohibit vehicular use off the road. Much of the habitat found here is open oak-grassland and is easily accessed from Road 40. Soils here are fragile and easily damaged by vehicle use. This property was acquired primarily for wildlife values (including endangered species habitat) and non-motorized recreational use. In the absence of a closure, unrestricted public vehicular use here would result in serious soils damage in the sensitive oak-grassland habitats. Renee Snyder, Clear Lake Resource Area Manager. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26769 Filed 10&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;40&hyph;P
