FR940712-2-00002 FR940712-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Rural Electrification Administration Arizona Electric Power Cooperative, Inc.; Finding of No Significant Impact AGENCY: Rural Electrification Administration, USDA. ACTION: Notice of Finding of No Significant Impact. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given that the Rural Electrification Administration (REA) has amended its finding of no significant impact (FONSI) dated February 3, 1993, with respect to the potential environmental impact resulting from a proposal by Arizona Electric Power Cooperative, Inc. (AEPCO), to construct and operate a new ash and scrubber waste disposal facility adjacent to its Apache Generating Station. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lawrence R. Wolfe, Chief, Environmental Compliance Branch, Electric Staff Division, room 1246, South Agriculture Building, Rural Electrification Administration, Washington, DC 20250, telephone (202) 720&hyph;1784. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Apache Generating Station is located approximately 11 miles southeast of the Town of Willcox in Cochise County, Arizona. The proposed project consists of constructing a 285-acre disposal facility that will include two ash pond cells, an evaporation pond, and a scrubber sludge disposal pond. Due to site topography, the above ground height of the disposal facility's exterior dikes will range from 5 feet along the western border to 30 feet along the eastern border. The dike side slopes and pond bottoms will be lined with high density synthetic polyethylene flexible membrane liners. Above ground pipelines will be used to sluice the ash and scrubber wastes from the plant to the disposal facility. The facility is designed as a no discharge system. Alternatives considered to the proposed project included reconstruction of the existing ash and sludge ponds (no action), total conversion of the Station to burn natural gas, sale of the ash and scrubber sludge, dry disposal of ash and scrubber sludge, and construction of new disposal facilities at a different location. REA considered these alternatives and concluded in a FONSI published in the Federal Register on February 12, 1993 that constructing new ash and scrubber waste disposal facilities at the AEPCO's proposed site was the preferred alternative to ensure continued operation of the Apache Station's coal-fired units and compliance with recent aquifer protection legislation. Subsequent to REA's previous action, an earth fissure was identified within the boundaries of AEPCO's preferred site. This issue was considered significant enough for the Arizona Department of Environmental Quality (ADEQ) to require an onsite investigation. REA decided to reevaluate the proposed project based on the results of that investigation. The amended FONSI is based on a review of the following information: (1) Combustion Waste Disposal Facility Fissure Investigation; (2) Public Hearing Transcript on the draft Aquifer Protection Permit (APP); (3) Responsiveness Summary prepared by the ADEQ in response to public comments on the draft APP; (4) Final APP issued on April 22, 1994; and (5) other permits and approvals issued for the proposed facility and referenced in the FONSI. REA independently evaluated the above listed documents and other available information and believes that modified design and additional monitoring requirements included in the APP will ensure that future expansion or movement of the fissure and associated seepage from the ponds is detected. These measures should preclude the potential for adverse impacts to groundwater quality in the vicinity of the proposed facility. In accordance with REA Environmental Policies and Procedures for Electric and Telephone Borrowers, 7 CFR Part 1794, AEPCO published notices in the San Pedro Valley News Sun and the Willcox Range News on May 5 and 12, 1994. The notices announced REA's decision to reassess its FONSI determination of February 12, 1993, described the documentation upon which the reassessment would be based, and identified locations within Cochise County at which these materials could be reviewed. The comments received did not identify any issues or concerns relating to the project that: (1) had not been addressed by the appropriate regulatory authority; or (2) had not been previously brought to REA's attention. A copy of the amended finding of no significant impact is available for review at, or can be obtained from, REA at the address provided herein or from Mr. Mark W. Schwirtz, Arizona Electric Power Cooperative, Inc., 1000 South Highway 80, P.O. Box 670, Benson, Arizona 85602, during normal business hours. Dated: July 1, 1994. Adam M. Golodner, Deputy Administrator, Program Operations. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16732 Filed 7&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;15&hyph;P
