FR941213-2-00005 FR941213-2-00003 Forest Service Thunderbolt Wildfire Recovery, Boise and Payette National Forests, Idaho AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The Thunderbolt Wildfire burned a total of 27,000 acres of Boise and Payette National Forest system lands in the fall of 1994. The Forests intend to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement for the Thunderbolt wildfire area to assess and disclose the environmental effects of opportunities designed to improve long-term fish habitat, rehabilitate existing sediment sources, improve hydrologic conditions of affected watersheds, and protect long-term soil productivity. These objectives would be accomplished through road surfacing, revegetation of road cut and fill slopes, and drainage improvements on existing roads; planting of conifers and shrubs; and salvaging dead and dying trees as a means to finance the preceding opportunities. Timber harvest would be done by helicopter, and designed to result in minimal ground disturbance and risk of erosion and no sediment delivery to streams. All proposals within the Thunderbolt Wildfire Recovery Area would protect visual resources on river segments eligible for classification under the Wild and Scenic rivers Act, provide for wildlife habitat, and improve fisheries habitat. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In the fall of 1994, the Chicken, Thunderbolt, and portions of the Corral and Blackwell wildfires burned in excess of 150,000 acres in the South Fork Salmon River drainage of the Payette and Boise National Forests in central Idaho. A broadscale analysis team and several landscape analysis teams are using an ecosystem based approach to assess the fires' effects and identify management opportunities that could be implemented to move the postfire landscapes toward a desired ecological condition. The Payette National Forest is currently assessing the impacts and potential opportunities associated with the Corral, Blackwell and Chicken wildfires which may result in separate Notices of Intent to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement. The primary management emphasis in the South Fork Salmon River drainage is restoration of harvestable, robust, self-sustaining populations of naturally reproducing salmon and trout. The South Fork Salmon River was historically the single largest producer of summer chinook salmon in the Columbia River Basin. Since the 1950's this run has declined significantly, partially due to habitat degradation caused by management-induced sediment. The species is currently listed as endangered. Prime spawning habitat occurs within and/or adjacent to the Thunderbolt wildfire landscape. Numerous road-related sediment sources continue to deliver sediment to streams. Annual sediment delivery is expected to increase as a result of the fires. Burn intensities in the Thunderbolt wildfire area varied considerably. Within the fire perimeter, approximately 6,000 acres burned at high intensity, 9,000 acres at moderate intensity, and 4,000 acres at low intensity. Approximately 8,000 acres inside the fire perimeter did not burn. There are an estimated 18,000 acres burned within Inventoried Roadless Areas (IRAs). The IRAs affected are Caton Lake and Meadow Creek. The fire burned adjacent to or within the river corridors of Johnson Creek (eligible for Recreation classification) and South Fork Salmon River, which are both pending Wild and Scenic River study. Proposed Action The objective for the Proposed Action is to improve long-term fish habitat, rehabilitate existing sediment sources, improve hydrologic conditions of affected watersheds, protect long-term soil productivity, promote regeneration of trees on burned acres, and recover the economic value of fire-killed and imminently dead trees as a means of financing activities related to the preceding objectives. The Proposed Action includes the following components: Activities designed to rehabilitate existing sediment sources. Johnson Creek Road ( # 413)_Surface (gravel) 5 miles, surface (asphalt) at several stream crossings, armor ditchlines, install culverts, revegetate cut and fill slopes, construct fill structures. Cabin Creek Road ( # 467)_Install gates and restrict wet-season traffic, construct waterbars, install culverts. Roaring Creek Road ( # 474E)_Surface (gravel) 1 mile, construct waterbars, revegetate cut and fill slopes. Penny Springs Road ( # 401)_Install gate and restrict wet-season traffic, revegetate cut and fill slopes, improve drainage, surface (gravel) at several stream crossings, and obliterate 0.6 miles. Ditch Creek Road ( # 410)_Relocate gate and seasonally restrict traffic for wildlife purposes, improve drainage, and revegetate cut and fill slopes. Plant conifers and shrub species on about 4,000 acres of moderate and high intensity burn areas where natural regeneration is not expected within the next five to ten years. Harvest economically feasible fire-killed timber and imminently dead trees from areas outside of the Riparian Habitat Conservation Areas (draft PACFISH criteria) and the Wild and Scenic eligible corridor of the South Fork Salmon River. Large snags would be retained in varying amounts thoughout the harvest areas for dependent wildlife, long-term soil productivity, large woody debris recruitment, shade to assist tree regeneration, and aesthetics. To protect watersheds and fish habitat, helicopter yarding systems are proposed for use in the salvage effort of 3,500 acres. Four helicopter landings would need to be constructed to supplement the existing roads and landings needed to facilitate harvest activities. No new road construction is proposed. Additional road reconstruction may be identified during analysis as necessary to improve watersheds or fish habitat.
