FR940516-0-00058 FR940516-0-00013 2. All the equipment exported under the provisions of this Advisory Note is being used for the stated purpose and is still located at the installation sites. The licensee shall report the findings from the inspection to the Office of Export Licensing within one month after completing the inspection. * * * * * Advisory Note 19: Licenses are likely to be approved, as administrative exceptions, for exports to satisfactory end-users in Country Groups QWY and the People's Republic of China of fiber optic telecommunications transmission systems or equipment controlled by 5A02.a and 5A02.d.1, fiber optic cables controlled by 5A05, or coaxial cable telecommunications transmission systems controlled by 5A02.a, and the test equipment, specially designed components, accessories, ``software'' and technology, necessary for the ``use'' thereof, provided that: a. They are intended for international telecommunications links dedicated to international civil traffic between the following locations: 1.a. From the following countries: Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, the Slovak Republic, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, or the United Kingdom; b. To the following cities as listed by country: Albania (Tirana), Armenia (Yerevan), Azerbaijan (Baku), Bulgaria (Sophia, Varna), Belarus (Minsk), Georgia (Tbilissi), Kazakhstan (Alma-Ata), Kyrgyzstan (Bishkek), Moldova (Chisinau), Romania (Bucharest, Constanza), Russia (Moscow, Novorossiisk, Rostov-on-Don, St. Petersburg, Volgograd), Tajikistan (Dushanbe), Turkmenistan (Ashgabat), Ukraine (Kiev, Odessa, Sebastopol), Uzbekistan (Tashkent) or: 2.a. From the following countries: Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, Japan, New Zealand, South Korea, or the United States; b. To the following cities as listed by country: People's Republic of China (Shanghai, Guangzhou), Russia (Khabarovsk, Nakhodka, Vladivostok, Yuzhno-Sadhalinsk), Vietnam (Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh City); N.B.: No traffic shall be carried between points in proscribed countries, except in Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. b. [Reserved]; c. They are designed to operate at a ``digital transfer rate'' at the highest multiplex level of 623 Mbit/s or less; d. The ``laser'' transmission wavelength does not exceed 1,590 nm; e. The equipment, if employing synchronous transmission techniques, must conform to one of the approved SONET or SDH standards or recommendations (i.e. ANSI or CCITT); f. Supervision of systems installation and maintenance of controlled transmission equipment must be performed by the licensee or the licensee's designated representative, who must be from a non-proscribed country. Any portion of the installation of controlled transmission equipment that would require the transfer of controlled technology must be performed by the licensee or the licensee's designated representative using only personnel from non-proscribed countries; N.B. 1: Supervision of maintenance includes preventive maintenance at periodic intervals and intervention for major malfunctions. N.B. 2: This is not meant to require that only nationals from the exporting country should install the system. g. Controlled test equipment and controlled spare parts must remain under the supervision of the licensee or the licensee's designated representative, who shall be from a non-proscribed country; N.B.: The supervision of the test equipment and spare parts by the licensee may be effected by stock inventory procedures and does not require the permanent on-site presence of a representative of the licensee. h. The licensee or the licensee's designated representative, who shall be from a non-proscribed country, must have the right of access to all the equipment; i. Upon request of the government of the exporting country, the licensee must carry out an inspection to establish that:
