FR941116-0-00140 FR941116-0-00022 (1) Two different crops are harvested, or if not harvested, received failed or prevented planted acreage credit; (2) The first crop was approved as prevented planted or failed acres and the second crop is not considered ghost acres, in accordance with §1413.121; or (3) Two different crops are planted such that: (i) Small grains must reach the hard dough stage on or before the final disposition date in accordance with part 718 of this title; and (ii) Other crops must reach maturity. (g) The planting flexibility provisions in §1413.43 allow nonprogram crops to be planted instead of program crops. Therefore, producers who have a history of double cropping program crops may plant nonprogram crop acreage as a double crop without losing double cropping history. (h)(1) Nonprogram crop acreage following program crop acreage is eligible to receive double cropped planting credit if the farm has a history of a program crop following a program crop in 3 of the previous 5 years. Such acreage credited for double crop history purposes is limited to the smaller of the following: (i) Nonprogram crop acreage considered double cropped; or (ii) Nonprogram crop acreage credited to planted and considered planted as flexible acreage, approved nonprogram crop, or other nonprogram crop. (2) Program crop acreage, regardless of whether such acreage is the first or second crop planted, shall be credited as a program crop for planted and considered planted purposes, according to §1413.9. §1413.25 Participation in Conservation Reserve Program. (a) Whenever the owner or operator of a farm signs a contract to participate in the CRP in accordance with part 1410 of this title: (1) The total of the CAB's, acreage allotments, and marketing quotas established for the farm for the first crop year for which such contract is applicable shall be reduced in the same proportion as the ratio of the cropland taken out of production under the conservation reserve contract to the total cropland on the farm. If acreage bases, acreage allotments, and marketing quotas were established for more than one crop, the owner or operator shall determine which acreage bases, acreage allotments, or marketing quotas shall be reduced to achieve the total reduction required. (2) The CAB's established for the farm for each succeeding crop year for which the conservation reserve contract is in effect shall be: (i) Computed in accordance with §1413.24; and (ii) Reduced in accordance with part 1410 of this title. (3) The amount of the reduction made in accordance with paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section shall be considered as planted to the applicable crop for the purpose of establishing future CAB's. (4) If there is an agreement in effect between CCC and the producers with respect to the annual program for one or more of the crops for which the acreage base is reduced in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the operator and producers shall have the option of: (i) Complying with the agreement using the acreage base for the crop after such reduction is determined; or (ii) Canceling such agreement without liability. (b) After the end of the period of a conservation reserve contract, the CAB's for the next crop year shall be computed in accordance with §1413.24. §1413.26 Adjusting CAB's. (a)(1) A one-time forfeiture of all or a portion of a farm's CAB shall be allowed at the request of the owner and operator if the request for the permanent base reduction is filed not later than the end of the ARP signup period. (2) With respect to farms on which a base forfeiture is requested and approved, the planted and considered planted history for each of the previous years which were used to establish the CAB shall be reduced by the same percentage that the base was reduced. (b)(1) Producers may request such permanent reduction because: (i) ACR is calculated on the CAB and the entire maximum permitted acreage will not be planted or credited with payment acres;
