FR940617-2-00224 FR940617-2-00118 Eligible Applicants: State and local agencies, Territories, and Native American Tribes and Tribal Organizations who are, or have been, recipients of Family Violence Prevention and Services Act grants; State and local private non-profit agencies experienced in the field of family violence prevention; and public and private non-profit educational institutions, community organizations and community-based coalitions, and other entities that have designed and implemented family violence prevention information activities or community awareness strategies. Background: Based on the encouraging response to the announcement for public information and community awareness grants for family violence prevention in Federal fiscal years 1992 and 1993, ACF plans to again make these grants available in FY 1994. The public information/community awareness grant awards have spawned very effective informational activities at the local levels. These grants have assisted community organizations to focus on and emphasize prevention, helped to make available public service announcements and legal brochures in several different languages, including Russian and Vietnamese, and have assisted in the implementation of conflict resolution activities in elementary, middle and high school curricula. The goal of this priority area is to continue to add credible and persuasive information to the arsenal of weapons necessary and available to community organizations to help break the so-called ``cycle of family violence.'' The continuation of these efforts will help assure that individuals, particularly within minority communities, are aware of available resources and alternative responses for the resolution and the prevention of violence. The proposed grant awards will provide support for a model that provides for a more informed individual and thus, more effective prevention strategies on the part of that individual. The focus of this priority area requires the development and implementation of an innovative public information campaign model that may be used, for example, by public and private agencies, schools, churches, boys and girls clubs, community organizations, and individuals. The ACF support for the continued increase of information on services and other alternatives for the prevention of family violence promotes the concepts that this behavior is unacceptable and that victims, their dependents, and perpetrators need to be provided with remedial and service options for their particular situations. Accurate information is critical to any community awareness strategy and activity. How information is communicated must be modified where communication barriers may exist because of perceived or real language differences and cultural insensitivities.
