FR940630-1-00039 FR940630-1-00011 The requirement in the introductory text of paragraph (a), which states that, for turbo-charged engines, each turbocharger must be operated through the part of the climb profile for which turbo-charger operation is requested, would be moved to paragraph (a)(4) to improve the organization of the section. Paragraph (a)(1) would not be substantively changed. It would be revised to be consistent with proposed changes to §23.1041 and changes to the introductory text of paragraph (a) described above. Paragraph (a)(2) is reworded without substantive change to make this language identical to the JAR. Paragraph (a)(3) would be revised to clarify that the requirement for mixture settings applies to reciprocating engines and that the mixture settings must be the leanest recommended for the climb. While this has been the case in practice, it has not been explicitly stated in the rule. The ``leanest recommended for climb'' mixture setting is considered a normal operating condition. Paragraph (a)(5) is removed because water taxi tests are required by §23.1041 as amended by Amendment 23&hyph;43. Paragraphs (c) and (d) would be revised by adding the requirement that cooling correction factors be determined for the appropriate altitude. This would codify current certification practice and increase safety by ensuring the proper correction factor is determined. Section 23.1045␣Cooling Test Procedures for Turbine Engine Powered Airplanes Current 23.1045(a)(3) requires that compliance with §23.1041 must be shown by certain specified phases of operations: takeoff, climb, en route, and landing. It also specifies that the cooling tests must be conducted with the airplane in the configuration and under the operating conditions that are critical to cooling for each stage of flight. It also defines a ``stabilized'' temperature as having a rate of change of less than 2 ○F per minute. Current paragraph (a) would be revised to state more generally that compliance with §23.1041 must be shown for all phases of operations. Also, the airplane must be flown in the configuration, at the speeds, and following the procedures recommended in the Airplane Flight Manual for the relative stage of flight that corresponds to the applicable performance requirements critical to cooling. The purpose of this proposed revision is to clarify the cooling test procedures by specifying that all phases of operations, not only the four phases of flight, are to be evaluated for proper cooling. Section 23.1047␣Cooling Test Procedures for Reciprocating Engine Powered Airplanes This proposal would revise the cooling test procedures in §23.1047 for reciprocating engine powered airplanes by deleting the specific procedures. Many of the current provisions in §23.1047 provide procedures for conducting a cooling test that are inappropriate in the regulation. Experience has shown that such detailed procedures are not directly applicable to certain engine configurations and certain operating conditions. Guidance material is available that provides appropriate procedures for testing different types of engine configurations and for testing at different operating conditions. Section 23.1091␣Air Induction System Current §23.1091 requires the air induction system design protect against ingestion of foreign material located ``on the runway, taxiway, or other airport operating surface.'' This proposal would require the air induction system design protect against foreign matter, from whatever source, ``during takeoff, landing, and taxiing.'' This would codify current certification practice and increase safety by protecting against universal foreign matter rather than foreign matter from a restricted source. Section 23.1093␣Induction System Icing Protection Section 23.1093(c) would be revised by adding the heading ``Reciprocating engines with superchargers.'' This is being done to be consistent with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, which have headings. Section 23.1105␣Induction System Screens Current §23.1105 requires that any induction screens must be upstream of the carburetor. This requirement would be revised to include fuel injection systems. Some reciprocating engines incorporate a fuel injection system, and the same provisions required for a carburetor are necessary for a fuel injection system. Section 23.1107␣Induction System Filters Current §23.1107, which was added in Amendment 23&hyph;43, applies to reciprocating engine installations. The introductory section of this paragraph would be revised by deleting the reference to reciprocating engine installations to make the section applicable to airplanes with either reciprocating or turbine engines. If a filter is installed in the induction system of a turbine powered airplane, the same provisions that apply to a reciprocating engine are necessary. Section 23.1121␣General This proposal would revise §23.1121(g) by adding standards for APU exhaust systems; these were overlooked when APU standards were introduced into part 23 by Amendment 23&hyph;43. Prior to Amendment 23&hyph;43, applicants for type certification of part 23 airplanes having APU installations were required to comply with special conditions for those installations. Amendment 23&hyph;43 included a codification, albeit an incomplete one, of those special conditions. Section 23.1141␣Powerplant Controls: General Current §23.1141(b) requires that each flexible control be of an acceptable kind. This paragraph would be revised to replace the phrase ``must be of an acceptable kind'' with the phrase ``must be shown to be suitable for the particular application.'' This is a clarifying, non-substantive change.
