FR941116-2-00043 FR941116-2-00030 [FRL&hyph;5104&hyph;5] National Capacity Assessment Report; Availability of Draft AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: Section 104(c)(9) of CERCLA requires states to provide an assurance in a contract or cooperative agreement of the availability of hazardous waste treatment or disposal capacity to manage the hazardous wastes expected to be generated within their State for 20 years before EPA can expend any Superfund remedial action Trust funds in the States. The 1993 Guidance for Capacity Assurance Planning (OSWER Directive 9010.02) presented a national approach for determining capacity to treat and dispose of hazardous wastes reasonably expected to be generated during this period. This notice announces the availability of the draft National Capacity Assessment Report. Based on the preliminary assessment that the draft Report presents, the Agency believes there is sufficient national capacity to manage all hazardous wastes projected to be generated through 2013. EPA will utilize the draft assessment, together with other data that becomes available, in evaluating whether the assurance requirement of CERCLA Section 104 (c)(9) has been met when entering into contracts or cooperative agreements with States. Based on the comments received on this draft Report, the Agency will modify, as appropriate, the National Assessment and make available any revised assessment by publishing a notice of availability in the Federal Register . If any revised assessment identifies a shortfall in any management categories, those states contributing to the shortfall(s) will be notified by the Agency to submit additional information that addresses any identified shortfall(s). Methods for obtaining a copy of the draft Assessment Report are described below. The information collection activities for the 1993 Capacity Assurance Planning process have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under OMB Control Number 2050&hyph;0099. DATES: Comments on the draft Assessment Report must be received on or before January 17, 1995. ADDRESSES: Commenters must send an original and two copies of their comments to: RCRA Docket Information Center, Office of Solid Waste (5305), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Headquarters (EPA, HQ), 401 M Street, SW., Wash., DC 20460. Comments must include the docket number F&hyph;94&hyph;CARA-FFFFF. The public docket is located at EPA HQ, room M2616 and is available for viewing from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding federal holidays. Public review of the docket materials is by appointment only. Call (202) 260&hyph;9327 for appointments. Copies cost $.15/page. Comments may also be submitted electronically by sending electronic mail (e-mail) through Internet to: RCRA-Docket@epamail.epa.gov. All comments in electronic format should be identified by the docket number F&hyph;94&hyph;CARA-FFFFF. Further information on submitting comments electronically is provided below in the section entitled ``Electronic Filing of Comments.'' FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: The draft Assessment Report will be available in electronic format on the Internet System through the EPA Public Access Server at gopher.epa.gov. For a paper copy of the draft Assessment Report, please contact the National Technical Information Service (NTIS) at 1&hyph;703&hyph;487&hyph;4650. The document number is PB95&hyph;105 417 (EPA530&hyph;R&hyph;94&hyph;040). Copies of the draft Report's Executive Summary (EPA530&hyph;S&hyph;94&hyph;040) are free, and may be obtained by calling the RCRA Hotline at 1&hyph;800&hyph;424&hyph;9346. For information on specific aspects of the draft Assessment Report, contact Robert Burchard, Office of Solid Waste (5302W), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460, (703) 308&hyph;8450. Electronic Filing of Comments As part of an interagency ``streamlining'' initiative, EPA is experimenting with submission of public comments on selected actions electronically through the Internet in addition to accepting comments in traditional written form. This notice is one of the actions selected by EPA for this experiment. From the experiment, EPA will learn how electronic commenting works and any problems that arise can be addressed before EPA adopts electronic commenting more broadly in its rulemaking activities. Electronic comment through the Internet raises some novel issues that are discussed below in this Section. Persons who comment on this document should be aware that this experimental electronic commenting is administered on a completely public system. Therefore any personal information included in comments and the electronic mail addresses of those who make comments electronically are automatically available to anyone else who views these comments. Commenters should not submit electronically any information which they believe to be Confidential Business Information (CBI). Such information should be submitted only in writing in triplicate directly to the EPA. Comments containing CBI should be submitted to: Document Control Officer, Office of Solid Waste (5305), U.S. EPA, 401 M Street, SW, Washington, DC 20460. The official record for this action will be kept in paper form. Accordingly, EPA will transfer all documents received electronically, into printed, paper form as they are received and will place the paper copies in the official record which will also include all comments submitted directly in writing. The official record is the paper record maintained at the address in ``ADDRESSES'' at the beginning of this document. (Comments submitted on paper will not be transferred to electronic format. These comments may be viewed only in the RCRA docket as described above.) Because the electronic comment process is still experimental, EPA cannot guarantee that all electronic comments can be accurately converted to printed, paper form. If EPA becomes aware of any problems with the receipt of the electronic file or with its transfer to paper, EPA will attempt to contact the commenter to ask the commenter to resubmit the comment in electronic or written form. Some commenters may choose to submit identical comments in both electronic and written form to ensure accuracy. In that case, EPA requests that comments clearly note in both the electronic and written submissions that the comments are duplicated in the other medium. This will assist EPA in processing and filing the comments during the open comment period. As with written comments, electronic comments on the draft Assessment Report must be received on or before January 17, 1995. As with written comments, EPA will not attempt to verify the identities of electronic commenters or to review the accuracy of electronic comments. EPA will take such commenters and comments at face value. Electronic and written comments will be placed in the official record without any editing or change by EPA except to the extent changes occur in the process of converting electronic comments to printed, paper form. If it chooses to respond officially to electronic comments on this notice, EPA will do so either in a notice in the Federal Register or in a response to comments document placed in the official record for this docket. EPA will not respond to commenters electronically other than to seek clarification of electronic comment that may be garbled in transmission or conversion to printed, paper form as discussed above. Any communications from EPA employees to electronic commenters, other than those described in this paragraph, either through Internet or otherwise are not official responses from EPA. EPA is interested in learning whether people have obtained these documents electronically, and what their experiences were in doing so. People who are interested in providing feedback on the electronic availability of these documents are encouraged to comment by sending email to OSW-Pilot@epamail.epa.gov. Direct any substantive questions to the contacts listed below. Accessing Internet Through Gopher: Go to: gopher.epa.gov From the main menu, choose ``EPA Offices and Regions.'' Next, choose ``Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response (OSWER).'' Finally, choose ``Office of Solid Waste.'' Through FTP: Go to: ftp.epa.gov Login: anonymous Password: Your Internet Address Files are located in /pub. All OSW files are in directories beginning with ``OSW.'' Through Telnet: Go to: gopher.epa.gov Choose the EPA Public Access Gopher. From the main (Gopher) menu, choose ``EPA Offices and Regions.'' Next, choose ``Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response (OSWER)'' Then, choose ``Office of Solid Waste.'' Through MOSAIC: Go to: http://www.epa.gov Choose the EPA Public Access Gopher. From the main (Gopher) menu, Choose ``EPA Office and Regions.'' Next, choose ``Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response (OSWER).'' Finally, choose ``Office of Solid Waste.'' ``Through dial-up access: Dial 919&hyph;558&hyph;0335. Choose EPA Public Access Gopher. From the main (Gopher) menu, choose ``EPA Offices and Regions.'' Next choose ``Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response (OSWER).'' Then choose ``Office of Solid Waste.'' Dated: November 1, 1994. Elizabeth A. Cotsworth, Acting Director, Office of Solid Waste. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28151 Filed 11&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
