FR940511-0-00075 FR940511-0-00015 (3) In the event of threatened or actual destruction of, loss of, or injury to a Sanctuary resource or quality resulting from an untoward incident, including but not limited to spills and groundings caused by the Department of Defense, the Department of Defense shall promptly coordinate with the Director or designee for the purpose of taking appropriate actions to respond to and mitigate the harm and, if possible, restore or replace the Sanctuary resource or quality. (f) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a) (2) through (8) of this section do not apply to any activity executed in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of a National Marine Sanctuary permit issued pursuant to §925.9 or a Special Use permit issued pursuant to Section 310 of the Act. (g)(1) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a) (2) through (8) of this §925.5 do not apply to any activity authorized by a valid lease, permit, license, approval or other authorization in existence on the effective date of Sanctuary designation and issued by any Federal, State or local authority of competent jurisdiction, or by any valid right of subsistence use or access in existence on the effective date of Sanctuary designation, provided that the holder of such authorization or right complies with §925.10 and with any terms and conditions on the exercise of such lease, permit, license, other authorization or right imposed by the Director or designee as a condition of certification as he or she deems necessary to achieve the purposes for which the Sanctuary was designated. (2) Members of a federally recognized Indian tribe may exercise aboriginal and treaty-secured rights, subject to the requirements of other applicable law, without regard to the requirements of this Part. The Director may consult with the governing body of a Tribe regarding ways the Tribe may exercise such rights consistent with the purposes of the Sanctuary. (h) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a) (2) through (8) of §925.5 do not apply to any activity authorized by any lease, permit, license, or other authorization issued after the effective date of Sanctuary designation and issued by any Federal, State or local authority of competent jurisdiction, provided that the applicant complies with §925.11, the Director or designee notifies the applicant and authorizing agency that he or she does not object to issuance of the authorization, and the applicant complies with any terms and conditions the Director or designee deems necessary to protect Sanctuary resources and qualities. Amendments, renewals and extensions of authorizations in existence on the effective date of designation constitute authorizations issued after the effective date. (i) Notwithstanding paragraphs (f) and (h) of this §925.5, in no event may the Director or designee issue a National Marine Sanctuary permit under §925.9 or a Special Use permit under section 310 of the Act authorizing, or otherwise approve: The exploration for, development or production of oil, gas or minerals within the Sanctuary; the discharge of primary-treated sewage within the Sanctuary (except by certification, pursuant to §925.10, of valid authorizations in existence on the effective date of Sanctuary designation and issued by other authorities of competent jurisdiction); the disposal of dredged material within the Sanctuary other than in connection with beach nourishment projects related to harbor maintenance activities; or bombing activities within the Sanctuary. Any purported authorizations issued by other authorities after the effective date of Sanctuary designation for any of these activities within the Sanctuary shall be invalid. §925.6 Emergency regulations. Where necessary to prevent or minimize the destruction of, loss of, or injury to a Sanctuary resource or quality, or minimize the imminent risk of such destruction, loss or injury, any and all activities are subject to immediate temporary regulation, including prohibition. §925.7 Penalties for violations of regulations. (a) Each violation of the Act, any regulation in this Part, or any permit issued pursuant thereto, is subject to a civil penalty of not more than $100,000. Each day of a continuing violation constitutes a separate violation. (b) Regulations setting forth the procedures governing administrative proceedings for assessment of civil penalties, permit sanctions and denials for enforcement reasons, issuance and use of written warnings, and release or forfeiture of seized property appear in 15 CFR part 904. §925.8 Response costs and damages. Under section 312 of the Act, any person who destroys, causes the loss of, or injures any Sanctuary resource is liable to the United States for response costs and damages resulting from such destruction, loss or injury, and any vessel used to destroy, cause the loss of, or injure any Sanctuary resource is liable in rem to the United States for response costs and damages resulting from such destruction, loss or injury. §925.9 National Marine Sanctuary permits_application procedures and issuance criteria. (a) A person may conduct an activity prohibited by paragraphs (a) (2) through (8) of §925.5 if conducted in accordance with the scope, purpose, terms and conditions of a permit issued under this §925.9.
