FR940106-1-00089 FR940106-1-00011 Salinity was selected as the most appropriate index because: (1) The salinity distribution is of direct ecological importance to many species; (2) the salinity distribution is a result of the interplay of freshwater input, geometry of the estuarine basin, diversion of fresh water in the Delta, and the tidal regime; and (3) salinity measurements can be made accurately, directly, easily, and economically. Moreover, since most of the major concerns about reductions in the freshwater input to the estuary are associated either directly or indirectly with the loss or alteration of low salinity habitat, salinity is an ideal index for keeping track of the extent_both area and volume_of low salinity habitat. The salinity distribution represents the response of the estuary to different combinations of river discharge, diversions and withdrawals, tidal regime, and basin geometry. (3) Conclusion Salinity measured at about 1m above the bottom 1 is an index upon which estuarine standards should be developed. The index is a practical way of tracking changes in habitat. 1 Because the difference between surface and near-bottom salinities is small and because the relationship between them is reasonably well known, surface salinity could also be used. Near-bottom salinity is recommended, however, because it is a more stable indicator. Recommendation Standards should be developed using an index that establishes an upstream limit of the position of the 2 U near-bottom isohaline, averaged over different periods of the year. (4) Conclusion Analysis of the available historical data indicates that, throughout the year, the farther downstream the 2 U near-bottom isohaline is displaced, the greater the abundance or survival of most species examined. Recommendation The downstream position of the 2 U isohaline should be unconstrained. Justification From the environmental perspective_an important perspective, but not the only one_scientific uncertainty dictates taking an environmentally conservative approach, i.e. providing enough Delta outflow to the estuary to push the 2 U isohaline farther downstream than might be required with greater scientific certainty. It is anticipated, and preliminary analysis supports it, that the salinity standard_the upstream limit of the 2 U near-bottom isohaline_will vary from season to season to provide the desired level of protection. (5) Conclusion Estuarine systems are characterized not only by short-term responses to the mean salinity at any given location, but also by responses to longer-term seasonal, annual and interannual variability in salinity and other properties. Recent advances in scientific understanding indicate that this dynamic character of healthy estuarine ecosystems is particularly true for the distribution and abundance of wetland vegetation, but also holds for other aquatic organisms.
