FR940930-0-00140 FR940930-0-00028 CAA section 242(b) states that CFVs up to 8,500 lbs. GVWR ``shall comply with all motor vehicle requirements of this title (i.e., on-board diagnostics, evaporative emissions, etc.) which are applicable to conventional gasoline-fueled vehicles of the same category and model year, except as provided in section 244 with respect to administration and enforcement, and except to the extent that any such requirement is in conflict with the provisions of'' part C. These include, but are not limited to, standards for cold temperature CO exhaust emissions (cold CO), on-board diagnostics (OBD), evaporative emission controls (evap), and onboard refueling vapor recovery (ORVR). Previous requirements such as crankcase controls and vehicle labeling also apply. CAA section 243(e) directs EPA to apply the standards of the California Air Resources Board (CARB) LEV program in lieu of the standards otherwise applicable to CFVs under sections 242 and 243 if the CARB standards are, in the aggregate, at least as protective of public health and welfare as the federal standards that apply to CFVs. Section 243(e)(1) addresses the replacement of CAA standards if CARB promulgates a single set of standards while section 243(e)(2) addresses the replacement if CARB promulgates multiple sets of standards. CARB's LEV program contains multiple sets of standards to which vehicles can certify (i.e., LEV, ULEV, and ZEV); therefore, section 243(e)(2) is the appropriate language for consideration and is provided below: Section 243(e)(2): If the State of California promulgates regulations establishing and implementing several different sets of standards applicable in California pursuant to a waiver approved under section 209 to any category of vehicles referred to in subsection (a), (b), (c), or (d) of this section and each of such sets of California standards is, in the aggregate, at least as protective of public health and welfare as the otherwise applicable standards set forth in section 242 and subsection (a), (b), (c), or (d) of this section, such standards shall be treated as `qualifying California standards' for purposes of this paragraph. Where more than one set of qualifying standards are established and administered by the State of California, the least stringent set of qualifying California standards shall apply to the clean-fuel vehicles concerned in lieu of the standards otherwise applicable to such vehicles under section 242 and this section. EPA believes that the required comparison between the federal and CARB standards is not limited to the CFV exhaust emission standards of sections 242 and 243 but must also include the other Title II standards referred to in CAA section 242 (i.e., OBD, evap, etc.) and any California counterparts. Thus, EPA is required to compare the standards in CAA sections 242(b) and 243 with the CARB standards to determine whether the CARB standards should replace the federal standards.
