FR940505-1-00454 FR940505-1-00012 (1) Failure of onroad emission test. The owner or operator of a subject vehicle that fails an onroad emission test shall be notified by registered mail to report for an out-of-cycle confirmatory test. The notification of the need for confirmatory testing shall be received by the vehicle owner or lessee no later than 30 days prior to the confirmatory test deadline. If the subject vehicle does not have a valid emissions test waiver and fails the confirmatory test, the owner or operator shall have 30 days following the initial confirmatory test failure in which to have the failed vehicle repaired and retested. The vehicle owner or operator shall be notified of this obligation as part of the initial RSD-failure notification process. (2) Failure to produce proof of correction of onroad emission test failure. If the owner of the subject vehicle fails to comply with a notice of RSD failure within 30 days of receiving the notice by registered mail, a late penalty will be assessed at the time the vehicle is presented for confirmatory testing, or at the time of the next regularly scheduled test, whichever comes first. The late penalty is a $10 fee for each full week beyond the 30-day deadline after initial notification of the need for confirmatory testing. (3) Failure to procure repairs and retest after initial confirmatory test failure. If a subject vehicle fails an initial confirmatory test and the owner or lessee fails to procure the necessary repairs and retest within 30 days of the initial confirmatory test failure, a late penalty shall be assessed at the time the vehicle is presented for retesting, or at the time of the next regularly scheduled test, whichever comes first. The late penalty is a $10 fee for each full week beyond the 30-day deadline for receiving a passing retest or waiver after the initial confirmatory test failure. (u) Certified emission inspectors. (1) General. Personnel who perform emission inspections at each emission inspection station operated by the test provider(s) shall be certified by the Administrator as emission inspectors. The emission inspection shall only be performed by certified emission inspectors. (2) Certified emission inspector requirements. An inspector desiring to be certified shall: (i) Be at least 18 years of age. (ii) Have completed an emission inspection training course, approved by the Administrator, that includes, at a minimum, information on the following: (A) The air pollution problem, including its cause and effects. (B) The purpose, function and goal of the inspection program. (C) Emission inspection regulations and procedures. (D) Technical details of the test procedures and the rationale for their design. (E) Emission control device function, configuration and inspection. (F) Test equipment operation, calibration and maintenance. (G) Quality control procedures and their purpose. (H) Public relations. (I) Safety and health issues related to the inspection process. (iii) Passed a required written test addressing the above elements with a minimum of 80 percent correct test responses. (iv) Demonstrated the ability to properly utilize test equipment and to follow other required procedures by means of a hands-on test addressing the complete emission inspection. The inability to properly conduct the test procedures shall constitute failure of the test. (v) Renew the certification every 2 years under procedures established by the Administrator. (3) Identification. While conducting inspections, a certified emission inspector shall have in his/her possession a currently valid inspector certification card issued by the Administrator. (v) Test provider(s) obligations and responsibilities. (1) Personal liability. The test provider(s) or those acting as agents of the test providers(s) shall assume full responsibility for: (i) Conducting the business of the official emission inspection station honestly and in a manner consistent with this section, and making every reasonable effort to inspect all vehicles upon request. (ii) Making official emission inspection regulations and supplements available for the use of certified emission inspectors and other employees involved in the emission inspection process. (iii) Notifying EPA and the oversight contractor when a certified emission inspector is hired, resigns or is dismissed. (iv) Maintaining emission inspection records for examination by EPA or the oversight contractor. (v) Providing the vehicle emission inspection test report to motorists after testing and having the repair requirements stated on a form provided to the vehicle owner or operator. (vi) Insuring full compliance with this section with respect to: (A) Every emission inspection conducted at the emission inspection station. (B) Every emission inspection waiver issued at the emission inspection station. (C) Every certification of emission inspection made to and by each emission inspection station. (D) Every provision of this section related to emission inspections performed by an employee of the emission inspection station. (E) Assuring the proper maintenance and calibration of emission inspection equipment according to procedures established in EPA's high-tech procedures guidance. (F) Completing and retaining emission equipment maintenance and calibration records as required by EPA. (G) Placing emission equipment out of service when calibration cannot be performed. (H) Maintaining computer records of each inspection.
