FR940927-2-00038 FR940927-2-00027 IV. Evaluation As with the duration of waivers, the complex range of policy issues, design methodologies, and unanticipated events also makes it very difficult to establish a single Department policy on evaluation. This Department is committed to a policy of meaningful evaluations using a broad range of appropriate evaluation strategies (including true experimental, quasi- experimental, and qualitative designs) and will be flexible and project-specific in the application of evaluation techniques. This policy will be most evident with health care waivers. Within-site randomized design is the preferred approach for most AFDC waivers. The Department will consider alternative evaluation designs when such designs are methodologically comparable. The Department is also eager to ensure that the evaluation process be as unintrusive as possible to the beneficiaries in terms of implementing and operating the policy approach to be demonstrated, while ensuring that critical lessons are learned from the demonstration. V. Cost Neutrality The Department's fiduciary obligations in a period of extreme budgetary stringency require maintenance of the principle of cost neutrality, but the Department believes it should be possible to apply that principle flexibly. •The Department will assess cost neutrality over the life of a demonstration project, not on a year-by-year basis, since many demonstrations involve making ``up-front'' investments in order to achieve out-year savings. •The Department recognizes the difficulty of making appropriate baseline projections of Medicaid expenditures, and is open to development of a new methodology in that regard. •In assessing budget neutrality, the Department will not rule out consideration of other cost neutral arrangements proposed by States. •States may be required to conform, within a reasonable period of time, relevant aspects of their demonstrations to the terms of national health care reform legislation, including global budgeting requirements, and to the terms of national welfare reform legislation. VI. Timeliness and Administrative Complexity The Department is committed to minimizing the administrative burden on the States and to reducing the processing time for waiver requests. In order to accomplish this the Department has adopted a number of procedures, including_ •Expanding pre-application consultation with States; •Setting, and sharing with applicants, a well-defined schedule for each application, with established target dates for processing and reaching a decision on the application; •Maintaining, to the extent feasible, a policy of one consolidated request for further information; •Sharing proposed terms and conditions with applicants before making final decisions; •Establishing concurrent, rather than sequential, review of waivers by all relevant units of the Department and with other relevant Departments and the Office of Management and Budget; •Expanding technical assistance activities to the States; and •Developing multi-state waiver solicitations in areas of priority concern, including integrated long-term care system development, services for adolescents, and services in rural areas. The Department will continue to follow and develop procedures, and commit internal resources to reviewing demonstration proposals, necessary for a sound and expeditious review process. VII. State Notice Procedures The Department recognizes that people who may be affected by a demonstration project have a legitimate interest in learning about proposed projects and having input into the decision-making process prior to the time a proposal is submitted to the Department. A process that facilitates public involvement and input promotes sound decision-making.
