FR940617-2-00156 FR940617-2-00093 2. Offerings Without Pre-emptive Rights French law permits an issuer, when it is authorized by its shareholders, to issue shares (or securities exchangeable for, or convertible into, shares) without pre-emptive rights. In this case, the law limits the discount at which the issuer may offer the shares from the stock market price. 15 The issue price must be at least equal to the average of the stock market prices for any 20 consecutive business days during the 40-day period immediately preceding the date of the offering (the ``20/40 rule''). The 20/40 rule protects shareholders to the extent that it limits the discount that can be set for an offering of shares without pre-emptive rights. In addition, the COB has recommended a priority period in the case of an offering without pre-emptive rights, permitting current shareholders to subscribe for new shares on a priority basis. This period provides existing shareholders the ability to maintain their shareholding in the capital of a company of which they are shareholders, even if they have waived their pre-emptive rights. The practice of the priority period has been widely followed for offerings without pre-emptive rights; offerings without a priority period are rare today in France (1 or 2 per year). 15 Article 186&hyph;1, second paragraph of the law of July 24, 1966 on commercial companies. The 20/40 rule applies, according to the text of the law, only to straight share offerings; however, to avoid circumvention of the law, the COB requires that the 20/40 rule be applied in the case of offerings of convertible bonds or warrants. In applying the 20/40 rule, issuers generally choose a reference period that is close to the offering date in order to limit the amount of the discount. In order to facilitate an underwritten offering in France and/or on the international market at the same time as an offering with a priority period, the COB has accepted that the priority period only apply to a substantial part ( i.e., at least two thirds) of the offering. 3. Offerings Without a Priority Period Offerings without a priority period are extremely rare. Such offerings are used under very limited circumstances, such as when an issuer needs to offer shares publicly on a foreign market. Such an offering can only take place if one or both of the following two conditions are met: _It must be at the closest possible price to the stock market price; and/or _The existing shareholders are compensated, for example in the form of a distribution of free shares or warrants. Offerings without a priority period will probably remain atypical, because shareholders generally want to avoid dilution through the use of pre-emptive rights or a priority period. 4. Underwritten Offerings In the case of offerings with a priority period, an underwritten offering can occur during the period when the existing shareholders have a priority right to subscribe for new shares, by anticipating that a fraction of the existing shareholders will not subscribe for new shares. Underwritten offerings in France and/or on the international market can therefore take place during the priority period granted to existing shareholders without extending the offering period. In order to accommodate the differences between the actual behavior of the existing shareholders and the level of anticipated purchases, several techniques are used: ``claw-back'' arrangements, over-allotment options and arrangements whereby a majority shareholder renounces his priority subscription rights.
