FR940223-1-00052 FR940223-1-00008 * * * * * 6. Section 3001.26 would be amended by revising paragraphs (a) and (c) to read as follows: §3001.26 Requests for production of documents or things for purpose of discovery. (a) Service and contents. In the interest of expedition and limited to information which appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, any participant may serve on any other participant to the proceeding a request to produce and permit the participant making the request, or someone acting in his/her behalf, to inspect and copy any designated documents or things which constitute or contain matters, not privileged, which are relevant to the subject matter involved in the proceeding and which are in the custody or control of the participant upon whom the request is served. The request shall set forth the items to be inspected either by individual item or category, and describe each item and category with reasonable particularity, and shall specify a reasonable time, place and manner of making inspection. The participant requesting the production of documents or things shall file a copy of the request with the Secretary pursuant to §3001.9 and shall serve copies thereof upon the Postal Service. Special requests for service by other participants shall be honored. * * * * * (c) Objections. In the interest of expedition, the bases for objection shall be clearly and fully stated. If objection is made to part of an item or category, the part shall be specified. A participant claiming privilege shall identify the specific evidentiary privilege asserted and state the reasons for its applicability. A participant claiming undue burden shall state with particularity the effort which would be required to answer the request, providing estimates of cost and work hours required, to the extent possible. Objections are to be signed by the attorney making them. The party objecting to a request shall serve the objection on the party requesting production of documents or things, upon the Secretary pursuant to §3001.9 and upon the Postal Service, within 10 days of the request for production. Special requests for service by other participants shall be honored. * * * * * 7. Section 3001.27 would be amended by revising paragraphs (a) and (c) to read as follows: §3001.27 Requests for admissions for purpose of discovery. (a) Service and content. In the interest of expedition any participant may serve upon any other participant a written request for the admission, for purposes of the pending proceeding only, of any relevant, unprivileged facts, including the genuineness of any documents or exhibits to be presented in the hearing. The participant requesting the admission shall file a copy of the request with the Secretary pursuant to §3001.9 and shall serve copies thereof upon the Postal Service. Special requests for service by other participants shall be honored. * * * * * (c) Objections. In the interest of expedition, the bases for objection shall be clearly and fully stated. If objection is made to part of an item, the part shall be specified. A participant claiming privilege shall identify the specific evidentiary privilege asserted and state the reasons for its applicability. A participant claiming undue burden shall state with particularity the effort which would be required to answer the request, providing estimates of cost and work hours required to the extent possible. Objections are to be signed by the attorney making them. The party objecting to requests for admissions shall serve the objections on the party requesting admissions, upon the Secretary pursuant to §3001.9 and upon the Postal Service, within 10 days of the request. Special requests for service by other participants shall be honored. * * * * * 8. Section 3001.30 would be amended by adding paragraph (i) to read as follows: §3001.30 Hearings. * * * * * (i) Transcript corrections. Corrections to the transcript of a hearing should not be requested except to correct a material substantive error in the transcription of oral statements made at the hearing. Issued by the Commission on February 15, 1994. Charles L. Clapp, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3943 Filed 2&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7710&hyph;FW&hyph;P
