FR940628-2-00140 FR940628-2-00097 (2) The applicant is eligible; and (3) The proposed activities and persons to be served are eligible for assistance under the program. F. Rating Criteria Applications that fulfill each of the threshold review requirements described in Section I.E, Eligibility and Threshold Requirements, of this NOFA will be rated up to 1,000 points based on the following criteria. Successful applicants must receive points under each of the criteria. (1) Applicant capacity (300 points). HUD will award up to 300 points to an applicant that demonstrates the ability to carry out activities under its proposed program within a reasonable time, and in a successful manner, after execution of the grant agreement by HUD. Reviewers' knowledge of the applicant's previous experience will weigh heavily in the scoring. Documented evidence of poor or slow performance will enter strongly into that determination. The applications that rate highest on this criterion will show substantial experience as an organization and/or staff in past endeavors that are directly related to the proposed project. (2) Need (200 points). HUD will award up to 200 points to an applicant that demonstrates the existence of an unmet need for the proposed project in the area to be served. The applicants with the highest scores on this criterion will be the ones that: (a) Clearly define the unmet housing and essential services needs of the homeless population proposed to be served in the area to be served by the project; (b) demonstrate in-depth knowledge of the population to be served and its needs; and (c) set forth an outreach strategy that assures that the intended population will be served. (3) Service to homeless population (200 points). HUD will award up to 200 points to an applicant that proposes to serve that part of the Indian homeless population that is most difficult to reach and serve, i.e., those persons having a primary nighttime residence that is a public or private place not designed for, or ordinarily used as, sleeping accommodations for human beings. In urban areas, this is usually referred to as living ``on the street.'' To the extent that Indians living on reservations live in such situations (e.g., sleeping in cars, abandoned structures, out in the open), they meet the definition of living in conditions similar to ``living on the street.'' HUD will focus upon proposed outreach and intake plans, and, especially, the degree to which such plans would maximize the likelihood that homeless persons would be served by the proposed project. The outreach strategy/intake procedures to seek out and evaluate the needs of the population to be served should be clearly described in the application. (4) Appropriateness of essential services (300 points). HUD will award up to 300 points to an applicant that proposes essential services that: (a) are appropriate to the needs of the population proposed to be served; (b) are used or coordinated with existing sources of supportive services and networks of support in the community; and (c) help, to the degree possible, to move residents to longer term housing situations. Applicants should describe what services are available and how they will make those services accessible to the people they serve. In addition, HUD will evaluate the means by which the people to be served will be assisted in moving to permanent housing that is appropriate and affordable. Applicants should describe what resources are available to assist the population they serve to find permanent housing. G. Ranking and Selection Applications from Indian tribes within the area served by the applicable HUD Office of Native American Programs will be assigned a rating score and placed in ranked order, based upon the rating criteria listed in Section I.F of this NOFA. Only those applications receiving points under each of the rating criteria, and at least 500 points in total, will be given funding consideration. In the final stage of the selection process, qualified applicants will be selected for funding in accordance with their ranked order within each area or field office, to the extent that funds are available within that area or field office. In the event of a tie between applicants, the applicant with the highest total points for rating criterion (2), Need, in Section I.F of this NOFA, will be selected. In the event of a procedural error that, when corrected, would warrant selection of an otherwise eligible applicant under this NOFA, HUD may select that applicant when sufficient funds become available. Depending on the availability of funds, the Department may fund qualified applications regardless of location. If an Indian program office has insufficient funds to make awards to all of its qualified applicants, the Department may reallocate funds to this office from any other Indian program office that has funds remaining after making awards to all of its qualified applications. II. Application Process A. Obtaining Applications Application packages will be available beginning June 28, 1994, from the HUD Offices of Native American Programs listed in the Appendix to this NOFA. B. Submitting Applications Information regarding the submission of applications is included in the package. An original application must be received at the HUD Office of Native American Programs serving the area in which the applicant's project is located by no later than 4:00 p.m. local time (i.e., the time in the office where the application is submitted) on September 12, 1994. A list of Offices of Native American Programs appears as an Appendix to this NOFA. Applications transmitted by FAX will not be accepted. At the time of submission, one copy of the completed application must also be sent to HUD's Office of Special Needs Assistance Programs at the address listed at the beginning of this NOFA. A determination that an application was received on time will be made solely on receipt of the original application at the Office of Native American Programs. The above-stated application deadline is firm as to date and hour. In the interest of fairness to all competing applicants, the Department will treat as ineligible for consideration any application that is received after the deadline. Applicants should take this practice into account and make early submission of their materials to avoid any risk of loss of ineligibility brought about by unanticipated delays or other delivery-related problems. III. Checklist of Application Submission Requirements Applicants must complete and submit applications in accordance with the instructions contained in the application kit. The following is a checklist of the application contents that will be specified in the application kit: (1) Applicant Information, including name, address, contact person, and telephone number. (2) Standard Form 424; (3) Certifications of compliance with the requirements of: (a) 24 CFR 576.21(a)(4)(ii), concerning assistance provided for homelessness prevention activities; 567.51(b)(2)(v), concerning the funding of ESG activities in commercial facilities; 576.73, concerning the continued use of buildings as emergency shelters or the population to be served; 576.75, concerning building standards; 576.77, concerning assistance to the homeless; and 576.80, concerning displacement and relocation; (b) The Indian Civil Rights Act (25 U.S.C. 1301), and section 7(b) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450e(b));
