FR940505-1-00307 FR940505-1-00012 Coil coating unit means a coating unit in which any protective, decorative, or functional coating is applied onto the surface of flat metal sheets, strips, rolls, or coils for industrial or commercial use. Cold cleaning means the batch process of cleaning and removing soils from surfaces by spraying, brushing, flushing, or immersion while maintaining the organic solvent below its boiling point. Wipe cleaning is not included in this definition. Conveyorized degreasing means the continuous process of cleaning and removing soils from surfaces using either cold or vaporized solvents. Degreaser means any equipment or system used in solvent cleaning. Degreasing facility means a facility that includes one or more cold cleaning, open-top vapor degreasing, and/or conveyorized degreasing processes. Dry cleaning facility means a facility engaged in the cleaning of fabrics using an essentially nonaqueous solvent by means of one or more solvent washes, extraction of excess solvent by spinning, and drying by tumbling in an airstream. The facility includes, but is not limited to, washers, dryers, filter and purification systems, waste disposal systems, holding tanks, pumps, and attendant piping and valves. Fabric coating facility means a facility that includes one or more fabric coating unit(s). Fabric coating unit means a web coating unit in which any protective, decorative, or functional coating or reinforcing material is applied on, saturated into, or impregnated into a textile fabric. A fabric printing unit is not considered a fabric coating unit. Film coating facility means a facility that includes one or more film coating unit(s). Film coating unit means a coating unit in which any protective, decorative, or functional coating is applied on, saturated into, or impregnated into any film substrate; other than paper, fabric, or vinyl; including but not limited to typewriter ribbons, photographic film, plastic film, magnetic tape, and metal foil. Flatwood product means panels made of wood materials including; but not limited to; plywood, particle board, and hardboard. Flatwood product coating facility means a facility that includes one or more flatwood product coating unit(s). Flatwood product coating unit means a coating unit in which any protective, decorative, or functional coating is applied on or impregnated into a flatwood product. Flexographic printing means the application of words, designs, and pictures to a substrate by means of a roll printing technique in which the pattern to be applied is raised above the printing roll and the image carrier is made of elastomeric materials. Flexographic printing press means a printing press in which each roll printer uses a roll with raised areas for applying an image such as words, designs, or pictures to a substrate. The image carrier on the roll is made of rubber or other elastomeric material. Fountain solution means the solution which is applied to the lithographic printing plate to maintain hydrophilic properties of the nonimage areas. Graphic arts coating facility means a facility that includes one or more graphic arts coating units. Graphic arts coating unit means any packaging rotogravure printing, publication rotogravure printing, flexographic printing, lithographic printing, letterpress printing, laminating, or screen printing unit or any paper, fabric, or film coating unit operated in conjunction with a printing unit. Group I vehicles and equipment means large-sized trucks, buses, and mobile equipment. Group II vehicles means passenger cars, small-sized trucks and vans, medium-sized trucks and vans, and motorcycles. Heatset means a class of web-offset lithography which requires a heated dryer to solidify the printing inks. Heatset-web-offset lithographic printing unit means a lithographic printing unit in which a blanket cylinder is used to transfer ink from a plate cylinder to a substrate continuously fed from a roll or an extension process and an oven is used to solidify the printing inks.
