FR941207-0-00122 FR941207-0-00022 15. We also reject AIDE's proposal to make bidding credits and other special provisions available to all designated entities bidding on all of the broadband PCS frequency blocks (not just the C and F blocks). Our existing approach of limiting these special provisions to the entrepreneurs' blocks, coupled with changes we are making today are narrowly tailored to meet Congress' objective of ensuring that designated entities have the opportunity to participate in broadband PCS. The record does not support broadening this relief to include additional frequency blocks, nor is there substantial support for broadening the availability of special provisions generally. 16. Similarly, we do not accept GTE's argument that we should do away with the entrepreneurs' blocks and instead offer bidding credits as well as other special provisions across all broadband PCS frequency blocks. As we already explained in the Fifth Report and Order , in our judgment we do not anticipate designated entities to realize meaningful opportunities for participation in broadband PCS unless we supplement bidding credits and other special provisions with a limitation on the size of the entities designated entities will bid against. Without the insulation of the entrepreneurs' block, the record strongly supports the conclusion that measures such as bidding credits will prove ineffective for broadband PCS. We also disagree with GTE's contention that our entrepreneurs' block plan unduly restricts the ability of cellular carriers to provide PCS. We believe that the public interest benefits of establishing an entrepreneurs' block outweigh the need to provide additional opportunities for cellular operators as GTE describes. Moreover, our rules do allow cellular operators such as GTE to take noncontrolling interests in designated entities and gain opportunities in the entrepreneurs' block. We have recently revised the cellular-PCS crossownership rules to facilitate such opportunities. 11 11 See Third Memorandum Opinion and Order in Gen. Docket 90&hyph;314, FCC 94&hyph;265 (released Oct. 19, 1994), at ¶¶33&hyph;34. Gross Revenues and Other Financial Caps Gross Revenues and Total Assets 17. In the Fifth Report and Order , the Commission established eligibility rules for the entrepreneurs' blocks based, in part, on an applicant's gross revenues. To bid in the entrepreneurs' blocks, the applicant, its attributable investors ( i.e. , members of its control group and investors holding 25 percent or more of the applicant's total equity), and their respective affiliates must cumulatively have gross revenues of less than $125 million in each of the last two years and total assets of less than $500 million at the time the applicant files its Form 175 (``short form'' application). We pointed out in the Fifth Report and Order that the $125 million gross revenues limit corresponds roughly to the Commission's definition of a ``Tier 2,'' or medium-sized local exchange carrier (LEC) and would include virtually all of the independently-owned rural telephone companies. Additionally, to qualify for the special provisions accorded small businesses, the applicant (including attributable investors and affiliates), must cumulatively have less than $40 million in gross revenues averaged over the last three years. 18. MasTec, Inc. (MasTec) argues that the Commission's gross revenues test is misleading when applied across the board to all applicants because the gross revenues of investors operating in different industries will not convey the same information about size or the ability to attract capital. The Telephone Electronics Corporation (TEC) notes that the discontinuity between gross revenues and the ability to attract capital is particularly acute where the entity in question is involved in a volume-intensive business with high operating costs and small profit margins (such as TEC's interexchange resale carriers). Accordingly, TEC argues that the Commission's gross revenue criteria are not rationally related to their stated purpose and should be eliminated. 19. Several petitioners request that the Commission modify its gross revenues test, but disagree whether the limits should be liberalized or made more restrictive. For example, MasTec encourages the Commission to modify its designated entity criteria to include those minority businesses which are too small to compete outside of the entrepreneur blocks, but too large to qualify for the entrepreneurs' blocks. The National Paging and Personal Communications Association (NPPCA) and USIMTA/USIPCA urge the Commission to reduce the gross revenues cap. Specifically, NPPCA requests that the Commission reduce the gross revenues limit to $75 million and the total assets limit to $250 million. NPPCA maintains that these modifications are needed because the present size standards encourage mid-sized companies to refrain from bidding in competitively unrestricted auctions and to compete, instead, against designated entities in the entrepreneurs' block auctions. 20. As an alternative to increasing the revenues cap, Omnipoint Communications, Inc. (Omnipoint) and the National Association of Black Owned Broadcasters, Inc. (NABOB) argue that the ``aggregation rule,'' under which the Commission will aggregate the gross revenues and total assets of the applicant, attributable investors and all affiliates in order to determine whether the applicant complies with the financial caps, should be eliminated. Omnipoint contends that a ``multiplier approach,'' employed in other areas of Commission practice, should be used to determine compliance with the financial caps. Under this approach, the revenues and assets attributed to an applicant would be based on the revenues and assets of each attributable investor, multiplied by the percentage ownership interest in the applicant held by that investor. 21. Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association (CTIA) requests that the Commission prescribe specific dates for measuring the financial thresholds to determine entrepreneurs' block eligibility. Specifically, CTIA requests clarification that gross revenues will be measured from the two years preceding September 23, 1993. 12 CTIA maintains that our current rules, referring only to the ``last two calendar years,'' are ambiguous. See 47 CFR 24.709(a)(1). 12 September 23, 1993 is the date the Commission adopted its broadband PCS service rules order. See Second Report and Order in Gen. Docket No. 90&hyph;314, 8 FCC Rcd 7700 (1993). 22. Black Entertainment Television Holdings, Inc. (BET), Roland A. Hernandez (Hernandez), Columbia PCS, Inc. (Columbia PCS), and Omnipoint all request that we clarify our rules governing growth by entrepreneurs' block licensees and their attributable investors during the five-year holding period. Our rule, promulgated in the Fifth Report and Order , states that ``[a]ny licensee *␣*␣* shall maintain its eligibility [for the entrepreneurs' blocks] until at least five years from the date of initial license grant, except that increased gross revenues, increased total assets or personal net worth due to non-attributable equity investments *␣*␣*, debt financing, revenue from operations, business development or expanded service shall not be considered.'' See 47 CFR 24.709(a)(3). Petitioners ask us to clarify whether the following types of growth in assets, revenues, or personal net worth would result in a licensee's forfeiture of eligibility: (1) Growth of applicant beyond the size limits by means of mergers or takeovers; (2) any control group member's growth beyond the size limits by means of appreciation of attributable investments or growth of attributable businesses; and (3) affiliates' or attributable investors' growth beyond the size limits, by means of mergers or takeovers. 23. We will retain a single gross revenues size standard, which is an established method for determining size eligibility for various kinds of federal programs that aid smaller businesses. 13 We anticipate that applicants will, in many instances, have several investors and that these investors will be drawn from various segments of the economy rather than from a single industry group such as telecommunications. The financial characteristics of these industry groups will vary widely, 14 and keying the size standard to each investor entity in question is thus administratively unworkable. A gross revenues test is a clear measure for determining the size of a business, and will produce the most equitable result for entrepreneurs' block applicants as a whole. 13 All federal agencies base eligibility of small businesses (or minority small businesses) to bid on a government contract set aside on the (single) size standard set forth in the solicitation. See, e.g. , 13 CFR 121.902. Eligibility for financial assistance from Small Business Investment Companies sponsored by the Small Business Administration is determined by a single size standard applicable across the board to all applicants or by the size standard applicable to the applicant's primary business activity. See 13 CFR 121.802. Size status for receiving surety guarantees or assistance under SBA's Small Business Innovation Research Program is also determined by a single, applicant-wide size standard. See 13 CFR 121.802(a)(3) and 121.1202, respectively. 14 The Standard Industrial Classification Manual , upon which the Small Business Administration bases its industry size standards, identifies over 800 industry groups to which specific Standard Industrial Classification Codes are assigned. Standard Industrial Classification Code Manual , Office of Management and Budget, Executive Office of the President, 1987 ed.
