FR941122-0-00100 FR941122-0-00014 (3) Opportunity for shower and hair care; (h) Orientation; (i) Opportunity for waiver of right not to work; (j) Assignment to an appropriate housing unit. §551.104 Housing. To the extent practicable, pretrial inmates will be housed separately from convicted inmates. §551.105 Custody. (a) Staff ordinarily will supervise a pretrial inmate as if classified ``In'' custody. (b) Where circumstances warrant, staff may supervise a pretrial inmate according to procedures for other custody levels. §551.106 Institutional employment. Unless a pretrial inmate signs a waiver of his or her right not to work, the Warden may not require the inmate to work in any assignment other than housekeeping tasks in the inmate's own cell and in the community living area. §551.107 Pretrial inmate reviews. Staff shall conduct regular reviews of a pretrial inmate's status. (a) Each pretrial inmate shall be scheduled for an initial review by the unit team within 21 calendar days of the inmate's first arrival at the institution, and subsequent reviews shall be conducted at least every 90 days. (b) The inmate shall be notified at least 48 hours prior to the inmate's scheduled review. (c) A pretrial inmate is expected to attend these reviews. If the inmate refuses to appear, staff shall document in the record of the meeting the inmate's refusal and, if known, the reason for refusal. (d) Inmate reviews are to be documented on the Pretrial Inmate Review Report. §551.108 Performance pay. The Warden may approve a pretrial inmate for performance pay and special awards. §551.109 Community activities. (a) The Warden may not grant a furlough to a pretrial inmate (18 U.S.C. §3622). (b) In an emergency, staff shall facilitate contact with the pretrial inmate's attorney of record, who may seek from the court a decision concerning release from custody or an escorted trip. (c) Except by order of the court, a pretrial inmate may not be considered for participation in community programs. §551.110 Religious programs. (a) When consistent with institution security and good order, pretrial inmates may be allowed the opportunity to participate in religious programs with convicted inmates. (b) Staff shall ensure that pretrial inmates who do not participate in religious programs with convicted inmates have access to other religious programs. §551.111 Marriage. A pretrial inmate may request permission to marry in accordance with current Bureau of Prisons policy for convicted inmates. Staff shall contact the court, U.S. Attorney, U.S. Marshals Service, and in the case of an alien, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, to advise of the marriage request of the pretrial inmate and to request their comments. §551.112 Education. (a) A pretrial inmate may participate in correspondence and self-study educational courses. Institutional staff may also arrange for educational assistance to the pretrial inmate through the use of contract personnel or community volunteers. (b) When consistent with institution security and good order, pretrial inmates may be allowed the opportunity to have access to the institution's educational program.
