FR940527-1-00090 FR940527-1-00014 We do not believe that this special exception for replacement and renovation of old facilities should apply to hospitals whose capital projects preserve the overcapacity that is currently evident in much of the hospital industry. Therefore, a hospital cannot qualify for an exception unless it has received any required approval from a State or local planning authority. If such approval is not required, an urban hospital must demonstrate either that (1) overall average occupancy in its MSA is at least 80 percent, or (2) its capacity is no more than 80 percent of its prior capacity (in terms of bed size). We are exempting rural hospitals from this requirement because of concern about maintaining access to needed services in rural areas. Hospitals that qualify for exceptions under this special provision may continue to receive exceptions payments for up to 10 years beyond the transition. Exceptions payments will be available to hospitals that meet the special criteria above for 10 years after the date when the hospital meets the age of asset test, provided that the hospital meets the age of asset test no later than the end of the capital prospective payment system transition period for the hospital (that is, the last day of the hospital's last cost reporting period beginning before October 1, 2001). We believe that extending exceptions payments for up to 10 years after the transition should be sufficient for hospitals who must undertake major renovation or replacement of facilities during the transition period. We would continue to determine the amount of the exceptions payments under this special provision on a cumulative basis. That is, we would determine the hospital's exception payment by comparing the cumulative payments made to the hospital under the capital prospective payments system to the cumulative minimum payment levels applicable to the hospital for each cost reporting period subject to the prospective payment system. Any amount by which the hospital's cumulative payments exceed its cumulative minimum payment levels would continue to be deducted from the additional payment that would otherwise be payable for the cost reporting period. In addition, we will apply another test designed to limit the amount of exceptions payments under this special provision. We would reduce the amount of an exception payment that would otherwise be made for any cost reporting period under this special provision by the amount of any Medicare hospital inpatient prospective payment system payments for the cost reporting period (less 75 percent of operating prospective payment system disproportionate share payments if applicable) that are in excess of Medicare inpatient operating and capital costs. This calculation includes payments under both the capital and operating prospective payment systems. It does not include graduate medical education payments, outpatient service payments, or payments for any other services covered under Medicare Part B. We propose to exclude 75 percent of operating prospective payment system disproportionate share payments from the determination of the Medicare operating prospective payments system payments in order to account for the financial pressure that disproportionate share hospitals experience in other parts of their operations. Finally, we emphasize that these proposed policies would be subject to reevaluation in the light of passage of comprehensive health care reform by Congress. The hospitals for whom we currently propose to provide special protections may no longer require such protections after the implementation of comprehensive health care financing reform. Therefore, we will carefully monitor the impact of final health care reform legislation on the hospitals that would receive special treatment under the policies proposed above to determine whether such legislation justifies revision of those policies. We are proposing the following revisions to the regulations text to implement the changes discussed above: •Under new §412.348(a), we would define current ratio, fixed assets, and average age of fixed assets. •The new special exceptions requirements are set forth at proposed §412.348(g). •Current paragraphs (a) through (e) have been redesignated as paragraphs (b) through (f), and current paragraph (f) has been redesignated as paragraph (h). •We are also proposing to make conforming technical changes to §412.348 to correct references.
