FR940413-2-00054 FR940413-2-00030 (e) General Counsel. The General Counsel shall report to the Chief Operating Officer concerning administrative matters and to the Board regarding matters of agency policy. Additionally, the General Counsel, by the nature of the position, shall, as appropriate, maintain special advisory relationships in confidence as necessary with individual Board members. The General Counsel shall keep the Board fully informed of all litigation where the Agency is involved. (f) Performance appraisals. Each Board member is responsible for appraising the performance of his or her staff. The Chairman, after consultation with the other Board members, is responsible for the appraisal of the performance of the Secretary to the Board. The Chairman as CEO, after consultation with the other Board members, is responsible for appraising the performance of the COO, the Inspector General, the Director of OCPA, the Director of OSMO, and the EEO Officer. The COO is responsible for appraising the performance of the career Office Directors and other staff that report directly to him or her. The CEO, in consultation with the other Board members, is responsible for reviewing the performance appraisals conducted by the COO. All performance appraisals will be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in the agency's PPM. Section 5. Litigation The CEO has authority to undertake litigation to defend the agency, consistent with established Board policy. The Board will approve litigation where the agency is plaintiff, will approve recommendations to the Justice Department to pursue an appeal, and will approve positions advanced in litigation that conflict with existing Board policy or establish a significant new policy. Section 6. Examinations Consistent with the Act, the Board shall adopt an annual Schedule of Examination and approve the policy scope of examination. The Chief Examiner shall report quarterly to the Board on the status of implementing the schedule and other information associated with the execution of OE's strategic plan. Included in that report shall be a discussion of general trends and significant examination issues and concerns. This report may be given in conjunction with the quarterly review of System performance. Article VIII Board Member and Related Expenses Section 1. Pre-Confirmation Travel Travel expenses incurred by an FCA Board nominee that are solely for the purpose of attending his or her Senate confirmation hearings will be considered personal expense of the nominee and will not be reimbursed by FCA. However, consistent with existing General Accounting Office interpretations, the FCA will pay for a nominee's travel expenses to the Washington, DC metropolitan area (including lodging and subsistence), if payment is approved, in advance whenever practicable, by the Chairman or Acting Chairman based on a determination that the nominee's travel is related to official business that will result in a substantial benefit to the FCA. That determination will be made on a case-by-case basis and is within the sole discretion of the Chairman or Acting Chairman. The same standards and policies that apply to the reimbursement of Board members' travel expenses will apply to the reimbursement of nominee's expenses. As part of the documentation for the approval process, the Chairman or Acting Chairman must execute a written finding that a nominee's travel would substantially benefit the FCA. Travel that may result in substantial benefit to the FCA could include meetings, briefings, conferences, or other similar encounters between the nominee and FCA Board members, office directors, other senior agency officials, or other senior congressional and executive branch officials, for the purpose of developing substantive knowledge about the FCA, its role, its interaction with other Government entities, or the institutions that it regulates. Meetings or briefings of this nature may enable a nominee to more quickly and effectively assume leadership of the agency after confirmation by the Senate and could thus substantially benefit the agency. Section 2. Board Member Relocation Board members will be reimbursed by FCA for travel and transportation expenses incurred in connection with relocation to their first official duty station. Expenses for which reimbursement will be allowed generally include, but are not limited to the following: (a) Travel and per diem for the Board member; (b) Travel, but not per diem for immediate family of the Board member; (c) Mileage if privately owned vehicle is used in travel; and (d) Transportation and temporary storage of household goods. Each relocation will be considered separately and all rates and allowances will be determined at the time of authorization, notwithstanding the limitations of 5 U.S.C., Chapter 57 and the Federal Travel Regulations. Reimbursement of additional expenses may be authorized if warranted by specific circumstances. Board members will be issued a specific prior written authorization by the Chief of the Human Resources Division detailing the expenses that may be reimbursed and will be required to execute a one year service agreement. Section 3. Representation and Reception The Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended, authorizes the expenditure of Farm Credit Administration (FCA) funds for official representation and reception expenses. Expenditures of funds for official representation and reception expenses shall not exceed any statutory limitation placed on the expenditure of such funds. Additionally, use of the representation and reception fund is discretionary and the Board may determine in any fiscal year that it will spend no funds for official representation and reception activities. Furthermore, the official representation and reception fund shall be a fund of last resort and shall not be used for expenditures that can properly be classified as another type of agency expenditure. All expenditures of funds for official representation and reception expenses shall be in accordance with the guidelines contained in this rule. Furthermore, all such expenditures shall be consistent with the decisions of the Comptroller General of the United States pertaining to official representation and reception expenses, except that no expenditure of representation and reception funds shall be made for paying expenses of FCA or other Federal Government employees at any official representation and reception function.
