FR941025-2-00066 FR941025-2-00045 •Estimations of the magnitude of resources required and costs of a ``mixed model'' design with selected cases. Applicants must establish working relationships with the appropriate local juvenile court system and child welfare agency and demonstrate cognizance of the positions and activities of national organizations (e.g., the National Association of the Counsel for Children, the National Court Appointed Special Advocates Association, and the ABA Center on Children and the Law). C. Working Groups The NCCAN proposes to establish two working groups during FY 1995 and/or 1996. The working groups would be composed of less than ten experts, chosen by the Commissioner in consultation with NCCAN and the field, and less than 6 Federal representatives representing those stakeholder agencies participating in the Inter-Agency Task Force on Child Abuse and Neglect and the Interagency Research Committee. The working groups would meet several times over the course of a year in person and by telephone conference calls, with technical assistance provided through a contractor, to plan symposia (for the following fiscal year), identify appropriate ``next steps,'' and produce one or several working papers on selected topics. Two topics are proposed here. •Research Definitions: Creating Consensus for Research Purposes. Researchers acknowledge, and the NRC report confirms, that the quality of information available to us for improving practice and informing policy about child abuse and neglect is hampered by the lack of agreement in current research definitions of abuse, neglect, intensity, and other characteristics of maltreatment. NCCAN will be providing assistance to the field by sponsoring and co-sponsoring efforts to standardize definitions of data collection categories and measurable attributes common to maltreatment participants and situations. Considerable collaboration through the Interagency Task Force on Child Abuse and Neglect, Interagency Research Committee is being pursued. Potential products of these activities include working paper(s) of standard data terms, behavior-driven operational definitions and parameters. (For additional information on this topic, see the NRC report, pp. 62&hyph;63.) •Ethics, Confidentiality, Informed Consent, and Reporting: Issues for the Research Community.
