FR940505-1-00087 FR940505-1-00012 c. Consumer Products. 51 (1) FIP Promulgation of Existing CARB Rules. Proposed 40 CFR 52.2957(a) and (b) control VOC emissions from consumer products and antiperspirants and deodorants. These proposed FIP measures reflect previously adopted CARB limits. Because CARB has not submitted the measures as SIP revisions, EPA is promulgating these measures, which are needed for progress and attainment in the three FIP areas. These measures would also provide the framework for additional future FIP reduction strategies as needed. 51 As specified under section 183(e)(3) of the CAAA of 1990, EPA is required to study emissions of VOCs from consumer and commercial products and to investigate the development of a national regulation or CTG for selected consumer products. While in all likelihood EPA will be developing a national regulation or CTG for many of the consumer products covered by the proposed FIP regulations, the proposed FIP regulation is not an attempt on EPA's part to meet its 183(e)(3) responsibilities. When and if EPA promulgates a national regulation or CTG for consumer products, EPA will reevaluate its FIP strategy for consumer products. (a) Consumer Products. Proposed 40 CFR 52.2957(a) controls VOC emissions from consumer products, with the exception of antiperspirants, deodorants, aerosol paints, and a few other consumer product categories. 52 Consumer products are chemical formulations used in households and institutions and includes products such as detergents, cleaning compounds, polishes, floor finishes, personal care products, disinfectants, and automotive specialty products. The proposed regulation limits the VOC content in products sold, supplied, offered for sale, or manufactured for use within California. The rule establishes VOC limits consistent with limits previously adopted by CARB. 1990 Statewide emissions from consumer products are estimated at 250 tpd, 14.2 tpd in Sacramento, 108 tpd in South Coast, and 6 tpd in Ventura. 52 While CARB has attempted to regulate most consumer products, some products have not been regulated at this time. These include: lubricants, hand washing detergents, toilet bowl cleaners, disinfectants, paint strippers, laundry detergents, and herbicides. The CARB and proposed FIP regulations for consumer products, including antiperspirants and deodorants, cover just over half of the consumer products in the inventory or approximately 130 tpd statewide. The CARB and proposed FIP consumer product rules are estimated to achieve a VOC emission reduction of over 25 percent. However, these reductions will be partially offset by growth in consumer product sales. The FIP area reductions after growth were estimated at 1.3 tpd (1999) and -1.6 tpd (increase in 2005) in Sacramento, 1.6 tpd in South Coast, 0.2 tpd in Ventura. Because the FIP consumer product requirements are almost identical to the CARB rules, the cost of the consumer products FIP measure is expected to be zero. Although the proposed FIP measure is very similar to that previously adopted by CARB, minor differences exist between the proposed FIP regulation and CARB's regulation. Differences are intended to simplify or reduce the administrative burden on the affected manufacturers or to correct rule deficiencies. The proposed FIP consumer products rule differs from the CARB rule in that it deletes: requirements for certification of charcoal lighter materials; a variance section; and a federal enforceability section. Otherwise the rules are virtually identical. (b) Antiperspirants and Deodorants. Proposed 40 CFR 52.2957(b) controls VOC emissions from antiperspirants and deodorants. The regulation limits the VOC content of products sold, supplied, offered for sale, or manufactured for use within California. The rule establishes VOC limits based on those previously adopted by CARB. The rule establishes a percent VOC by weight limit for both aerosol and non-aerosol products (e.g., sticks and roll-ons). Although aerosols make up approximately 25 percent of the market, they account for approximately 90 percent of the emissions from this category. Statewide emissions and expected reductions are incorporated in the consumer product totals described under III.C.4.c.(1).(a). Although the proposed FIP measure is very similar to that previously adopted by CARB, minor differences exist between the proposed FIP regulation and CARB's regulation. Differences between the proposed FIP antiperspirant and deodorant rule and the CARB rule include: the compliance date 53 for aerosol products has been extended to January 1, 1999; deletion of the administrative requirements that aerosol product manufacturers apply to CARB by January, 1994 for a compliance date extension to 1999; deletion of the section restricting toxic air contaminants; deletion of certain reporting requirements; deletion of the variance section; and deletion of the federal enforceability section. Otherwise the rules are virtually identical. 53 CARB's regulation allows manufacturers to apply for the January 1, 1999 compliance date if certain requirements are met. Based on conversations with CARB, EPA believes that most if not all aerosol product manufacturers have or will apply for the 1999 compliance date. (2) Aerosol Paints. Proposed 40 CFR 52.2958 reduces VOC emissions from aerosol coatings. Aerosol coatings are self dispensing, pressurized products containing coating solids (i.e., pigments, resins, and binders) and solvent designed to dispense product ingredients by means of a propellant. The solvent and propellant are typically VOCs which make up from 70&hyph;95 percent of the product by weight. The VOCs are emitted into the atmosphere during the coating delivery and curing process. Aerosol spray paints account for approximately 25 tpd of VOC emissions in California. FIP area 1990 emissions were estimated at 1.3 tpd in the Sacramento area, 11.6 tpd in the South Coast, and 0.6 tpd in Ventura. The use of aerosol paints has grown steadily since the 1950s. Growth peaked in 1977, but in 1978, the federal government restricted the use of chlorofluorocarbons as aerosol coating propellants and hydrocarbons were introduced as a replacement for the CFC propellants. Since the mid 1980s, use of aerosol paints has continued to steadily grow, with annual sales reaching historical highs during the early 1990s. Aerosol coatings have previously been regulated by the BAAQMD (Regulation 8, Rule 49) and the SCAQMD (Rule 1129). CARB recently assumed authority to regulate the VOC content of aerosol paints. The FIP aerosol paint rule is based on a draft regulation workshopped by CARB on November 10, 1993. The draft regulation is not scheduled for adoption until after EPA's court ordered deadline for the FIP proposal. In addition, current State law giving CARB the authority to regulate aerosol coatings also limits CARB's ability to submit some future-effective limits and reductions to EPA as SIP submittals. Because of the need to demonstrate attainment in each of the FIP areas, EPA is proposing an aerosol coating rule which is generally consistent with the regulation expected to be adopted by CARB in 1994. Minor differences exist between the FIP proposal and the CARB draft, however. The proposed FIP aerosol paint rule does not include sections for a special recognition label, variances, and federal enforceability. Also, the proposed FIP measure does not include a provision for a five year compliance date extension as found in CARB's draft rule. Instead, EPA intends to monitor industries progress and CARB's 1999 determination regarding the coating limits. If necessary, EPA will consider amendments to the FIP aerosol coating rule where appropriate. By adopting the FIP aerosol coating regulation, EPA hopes to avoid having to impose more stringent requirements on other VOC sources which would need to compensate for the reduction shortfall pending SIP submittal of the adopted CARB regulation. While this proposed FIP aerosol coating regulation will be published prior to CARB's adoption of its regulation, EPA expects to modify the FIP regulation, if appropriate, to be consistent with the final CARB regulation. The proposed FIP regulation will build upon the previous work by the BAAQMD and the SCAQMD and closely parallel CARB's regulation. The proposed FIP regulation would apply to any person who sells, supplies, offers for sale, applies, or manufactures for use in California any aerosol coating products as described in the proposed regulation. Because of the diversity of uses and coating types, the proposed regulation establishes VOC limits for a variety of product coating types. The initial 1996 limits are based on limits in the BAAQMD regulation. A second phase of lower limits goes into effect in 1999.
