FR941207-2-00089 FR941207-2-00062 In addition, each non-member must enter into a Non-Member User's Agreement with the CHX wherein the non-member agrees to be bound by the applicable rules of the Exchange. The CHX asserts that the Non-Member User's Agreement, by its express terms, gives the Exchange control over non-member users. This agreement states that the CHX has ``the right to terminate the user's use of, and access to, the Chicago Match, without prior notice for any reason *␣*␣* or no reason whatsoever.'' The CHX states that this authority to remove the non-member user's Chicago Match terminal will allow the Exchange to act quickly to react to any problems with a non-member user. Finally, the CHX asserts that there will be supervision over non-members through the use of the clearing agreement. 68 This agreement provides that the clearing member agrees to clear all trades for the non-member users up to a specified dollar amount. Each user's maximum user threshold will be programmed into the Chicago Match to prevent the non-member user from exceeding its threshold. Orders that exceed the programmed threshold will be rejected and will not be included in the match. Clearing members will review daily reports of trades in the system which will allow for the early detection and correction of problems. 69 68 See letter from George T. Simon, Attorney, Foley & Lardner, to Sharon Lawson, Assistant Director, SEC, dated July 25, 1994. 69 The CHX also states that the clearing member can terminate the non-member user's access to the Chicago Match by terminating the give-up agreement at will and this would cause the CHX to immediately terminate the non-member user's access to Chicago Match. The Commission agrees with the CHX's assertions that non-member use of the Chicago Match can be analogized to non-member access to the NYSE's Designated Order Turnaround System (the revised system is now referred to as ``SuperDot''). 70 The NYSE's SuperDot System allows computer terminals to be placed with the customers of members who may then send their orders directly 71 to the NYSE for processing. SuperDot requires NYSE members to monitor customers' electronic orders and to provide the exchange with an acknowledgment statement indicating their responsibility for orders. 72 The Commission believes that: (1) the requirement that Chicago Match users gain access only through an arrangement with a CHX member, which has legal responsibilities as to all user activities described above; (2) the Chicago Match's clearing thresholds for non-members; (3) the ability to immediately terminate a user's access to Chicago Match; and (4) the fact that CHX matches currently will occur only once a day, 73 all serve to assure sufficient control by CHX members over the activities of non-members to satisfy the requirements of the Act. 70 The SuperDot System is an electronic order-routing system that enables NYSE members and their customers to quickly transmit market and limit orders in all NYSE-listed securities directly to the specialist post where the securities are traded, or to the member firm's booth. After the order has been executed in the auction market, a report of execution is returned directly to the member firm office over the same electronic circuit that brought the order to the trading floor, and the execution is submitted directly to the comparison system. 71 Customers must obtain the electronic means to access SuperDot through a broker-dealer member. In some cases, the member's participation in the subsequent transmission of orders is limited to providing this access. 72 NYSE Information Memo Number 89&hyph;6, January 25, 1989. 73 The CHX has indicated that it may wish to add more matches, upon Commission approval. The CHX would have to submit a proposal pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Act to add additional matches during the trading day. Finally, the Commission believes that the Chicago Match is consistent with Section 6(b)(4) of the Act which requires the equitable allocation of reasonable dues and fees among members and persons using exchange facilities. The differentiation of fees between displayed and non-displayed orders is reasonable in that it is intended to encourage the display of orders. Likewise, the payment of fees to market makers is reasonably intended to provide incentives for market makers to provide liquidity to the system and increase the match rate. V. Conclusion In summary, the Commission believes that the CHX has presented a proposal that satisfies the standards under the Act relating to national securities exchanges. In analyzing the CHX proposal, the Commission recognizes that the Chicago Match is a mixture that brings together features of a call market with the market making capabilities of the CHX floor. Obviously, such systems represent certain challenges in fitting into the traditional regulatory mold envisioned for an exchange system under the Act. For the reasons discussed above, however, we believe that the CHX has adequately addressed the transparency, institutional access, and auction market trading concerns. The combination of the limited nature of the proposal as a once-a-day call market, the integration of the CHX quote into the match, the limitations designed to prevent trade throughs of the Consolidated Best Bid and Offer, the reporting of trades to the tape including average weighted liquidity fees and credits, the limitations of access through agreements with a CHX clearing member, and the fee structure to encourage the display of orders during the match, all lead the Commission to conclude that the proposal is consistent with the Act. It is therefore ordered, Pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 74 that the proposed rule change (SR-CHX&hyph;93&hyph;19) be, and hereby is approved. 74 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). By the Commission. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30028 Filed 12&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
