FR940228-1-00006 FR940228-1-00002 2. Testimony is invited on the following proposals or appropriate alternatives or modifications to such proposals: Proposals Submitted By The Filbert/Hazelnut Marketing Board. Proposal No. 1 In part 982, all references to ``filbert(s)'', ``filbert(s) (hazelnut(s)'' or ``filbert(s)/hazelnut(s)'' are revised to read ``hazelnut(s)''. Revise §982.4 to read as follows: §982.4 Hazelnuts. Hazelnuts means hazelnuts or filberts produced in the States of Oregon and Washington from trees of the genus Corylus. Proposal No. 2 Revise §982.16 to read as follows: §982.16 Inshell Trade Acquisitions. Inshell trade acquisitions means the quantity of inshell hazelnuts acquired by the trade from all handlers during a marketing year for distribution in the United States and such other distribution areas as may be recommended by the Board and established by the Secretary. Proposal No. 3 In §982.30, revise paragraphs (a) and (b) to read as follows: §982.30 Establishment and membership. (a) There is hereby established a Hazelnut Marketing Board consisting of 10 members, each of whom shall have an alternate member, to administer the terms and provisions of this part. Each member and alternate shall meet the same eligibility qualifications. The 10 member positions shall be allocated as follows: (b) * * * (1) One member shall be nominated by the handler who handled the largest volume of hazelnuts during the two marketing years preceding the marketing year in which nominations are made; (2) One member shall be nominated by the handler who handled the second largest volume of hazelnuts during the two marketing years preceding the marketing year in which nominations are made; (3) One member shall be nominated by the handler who handled the third largest volume of hazelnuts during the two marketing years preceding the marketing year in which nominations are made; * * * * * In §982.32, revise paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (f) to read as follows: §982.32 Initial members and nomination of successor members. (a) Members and alternate members of the Board serving immediately prior to the effective date of this amended subpart shall continue to serve on the Board until their respective successors have been selected. (b) Nominations for successor handler members and alternate members specified in §982.30(b)(1) through (3) shall be made by the largest, second largest, and third largest handler determined according to the tonnage of certified merchantable hazelnuts and, when shelled hazelnut grade and size regulations are in effect, the inshell equivalent of certified shelled hazelnuts (computed to the nearest whole ton) recorded by the Board as handled by each such handler during the two marketing years preceding the marketing year in which nominations are made. (c) Nominations for successor handler member and alternate member positions specified in §982.30(b)(4) shall be made by the handlers in that category by mail ballot. All votes cast shall be weighted according to the tonnage of certified merchantable hazelnuts and, when shelled hazelnut grade and size regulations are in effect, the inshell equivalent of certified shelled hazelnuts (computed to the nearest whole ton) recorded by the Board as handled by each handler during the two marketing years preceding the marketing year in which nominations are made. If less than one ton is recorded for any such handler, the vote shall be weighted as one ton. Voting will be by position, and each eligible handler can vote for a member and an alternate member. The person receiving the highest number of weighted votes for each position shall be the nominee, for the respective position.
