FR940110-1-00103 FR940110-1-00006 (iii) Calculation of interest rate. When a loan fund or loan consortium receives a grant from an applicant pursuant to the AHP and uses the grant to lower the interest rate on a loan to the borrower, the interest rate calculation must be consistent with the procedure used by the Bank for calculating the amount of AHP subsidy needed for a subsidized advance, taking into account the source of funds used by the loan fund or loan consortium for its loans and the rate that normally would be charged for a loan of the type and term that is provided to the borrower. (3) Interest or other income earned on loans or grants. If an applicant receives a subsidized advance or direct subsidy from a Bank and in turn provides a loan or grant to a loan fund or loan consortium, any interest or other income earned by the loan fund or loan consortium on such funds, not including any approved fee or interest rate spread charged to the borrower, either: (i) Must be used by the loan fund or loan consortium to provide funds for additional projects meeting the threshold requirements in §960.9 and the criteria committed to in the approved AHP application; or (ii) Must be forwarded to the applicant, which in turn must forward the funds to the Bank to be used for additional AHP projects. (4) Loans or grants from multiple AHP funding cycles. If loans or grants received by a loan fund or loan consortium pursuant to one AHP funding cycle are combined with loans or grants received by such entity pursuant to another AHP funding cycle in a single rental housing project, the loan fund or loan consortium shall require the recipient of the funds to follow the requirements for the use of such funds from the AHP funding cycle that is more restrictive as to the approved AHP criteria. The requirement does not apply when loans or grants received by a loan fund or loan consortium pursuant to separate AHP funding cycles are combined to finance a single owner-occupied housing project; however, the loan fund or loan consortium in its discretion may require the recipient of the funds to follow the requirements for the use of such funds from the AHP funding cycle that is more restrictive as to the approved AHP criteria. (5) Using repayments of loans within reasonable period of time. Any loans provided by a loan fund or loan consortium pursuant to the AHP that are repaid to such entity must be re-lent or provided as grants by such entity within a reasonable period of time after such repayments, or must be repaid to the applicant, which in turn must repay such funds to the Bank, and must be made available by the Bank for additional AHP projects. The Bank shall in its AHP implementation plan identify what constitutes a reasonable period of time for such purposes. (d) Monitoring and reporting _(1) General. Where loans or grants are provided by an applicant pursuant to the AHP to a loan fund or loan consortium which uses the funds to finance owner-occupied or rental housing units, the Bank shall: (i) Monitor such units according to the monitoring requirements of §960.14(e) through (h); (ii) Require the sponsor or owner of a project receiving loans or grants from the loan fund or loan consortium to submit such reports and certifications to the Bank as are required under §960.15(c); and (iii) Require the loan fund or loan consortium to report to the Bank any new loan or grant made using the repayments of loans by the borrower. If a loan fund or loan consortium receives loans or grants from an applicant pursuant to separate AHP funding cycles, the use of such funds must be reported separately. (2) Exceptions. (i) The Bank may contract with the applicant to meet the monitoring requirements of §960.14 (e) through (h), in which case the applicant shall: (A) Monitor the AHP-assisted housing units according to the monitoring requirements of §960.14 (e) through (h); (B) Require the sponsor or owner of the project to submit to the applicant such reports and certifications as are required under §960.15(c); and (C) Require the loan fund or loan consortium to report to the applicant any new loan or grant made using the repayments of loans by the borrower. If a loan fund or loan consortium receives loans or grants from an applicant pursuant to separate AHP funding cycles, the use of such funds must be reported separately. (ii) The Bank may contract with the loan fund or loan consortium to meet the monitoring requirements of §960.14 (e) through (h), in which case the loan fund or loan consortium shall: (A) Monitor the AHP-assisted housing units according to the monitoring requirements of §960.14 (e) through (h); (B) Require the sponsor or owner of the project to submit to the loan fund or loan consortium such reports and certifications as are required under §960.15(c); and
