FR940712-2-00062 FR940712-2-00043 Savannah River Site Environmental Dose Reconstruction Project; Public Meeting The National Center for Environmental Health (NCEH) of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announces the following meeting. Name: Savannah River Site Environmental Dose Reconstruction Project. Time and Date: 5:30 p.m.&hyph;9:30 p.m., July 27, 1994. Place: Savannah Public Library, 2002 Bull Street, Savannah, Georgia 31499. Status: Open to the public for observation and comment, limited only by space available. Purpose: Under a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the Department of Energy (DOE), the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has been given the responsibility and resources for conducting analytic epidemiologic investigations of residents of communities in the vicinity of DOE facilities and other persons potentially exposed to radiation or to potential hazards from non-nuclear energy production and use. HHS delegated program responsibility to CDC. In addition, an MOU was signed in October 1990 and renewed in November 1992 between the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) and DOE. The MOU delineates the responsibilities and procedures for ATSDR's public health activities at DOE sites required under sections 104, 107, and 120 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA, or ``Superfund''). These activities include health consultations and public health assessments at DOE sites listed on, or proposed for, the Superfund National Priorities List and at sites that are the subject of petitions from the public; and other health-related activities such as epidemiologic studies, health surveillance, exposure and disease registries, health education, substance-specific applied research, emergency response, and preparation of toxicological profiles. Community involvement is a critical part of the HHS energy-related research and activities. With an environmental dose reconstruction for DOE's Savannah River Site near Augusta, Georgia, as well as a worker study at the same site, the availability of a formal site-specific advisory committee composed of South Carolina and Georgia citizens to provide consensus advice to CDC and ATSDR regarding these projects is necessary. CDC and ATSDR are currently taking steps to obtain authorization for a ``Citizens' Advisory Committee on Public Health Service Activities and Research at Department of Energy Sites'' to be chartered under the Federal Advisory Committee Act. The draft charter for this proposed committee states, ``Because of the varying concerns within communities at each DOE site, operational guidelines at each site must be developed separately to clarify the scope of activities and the responsibilities of the committee members and agencies.'' Therefore, CDC and ATSDR are holding a series of public meetings to begin developing operational guidelines at specific DOE sites. The purpose of this meeting will be to update the public on the status of CDC's and ATSDR's community involvement plans and to seek individual advice and recommendations from interested parties concerning selection criteria and operating procedures. Agenda items are subject to change as priorities dictate. CONTACT PERSON FOR MORE INFORMATION: Paul Renard, Radiation Studies Branch, Division of Environmental Hazards and Health Effects, NCEH, CDC, 4770 Buford Highway, NE., (F&hyph;35), Atlanta, Georgia 30341&hyph;3724, telephone (404) 488&hyph;7040. William H. Gimson, Acting Associate Director for Policy Coordination, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16806 Filed 7&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4163&hyph;18&hyph;M
