FR940404-2-00140 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the Permanent Technical Committee&hyph;1 (PTC &hyph;1), the Special Committee to Strengthen CITEL and Ad Hoc Groups Organization of American States (OAS), Inter-American Telecommunication Conference (CITEL), Montevideo, Uruguay, September 21&hyph;October 2, 1992 Representative Gary M. Fereno, Director for CITEL and CCITT Standards Policy, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Alternate Representative William F. Moran, Policy Specialist, Office of International Affairs, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Advisers Doreen Bogdan, Telecommunications Policy Specialist, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Douglas V. Davis, Attorney/Advisor, Federal Communications Commission Harold G. Kimball, Director, International Technology & Regulation Division, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Private Sector Advisers Raymond Crowell, Director, Strategic Planning, Comsat Corporation, Washington, DC Cecil Crump, Manager, International Development, AT&T, Morristown, New Jersey David Fine, Manager, Standards & Development, Southwest Bell Corporation, Washington, DC Thomas J. Plevyak, Manager, International Standards, Bell Atlantic Corporation, Arlington, Virginia United States Delegation to the Study Group III Working Parties 3 & 6 of the International Telegraph and Telephone Consultative Committee (CCITT), International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Geneva, Switzerland, September 28&hyph;October 2, 1992 Representative Earl S. Barbely, Director, Telecommunications and Information Standards, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Advisers Wendell Harris, Assistant Chief/International Common Carrier Bureau, Federal Communications Commission William Kirsch, Deputy Assistant Bureau Chief/International, Federal Communications Commission Victor Muller, Consultant, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, U.S. Department of State Private Sector Advisers Donald P. Casey, Director, Regulatory, AT&T Easy Link, Parsippany, New Jersey Robert Madden, Manager, American Telephone and Telegraph Co., Morristown, New Jersey Mark Niebert, Manager, COMSAT, Washington, DC Philip Onstad, Consultant, International Communications Association, Washington, DC Marcel E. Scheidegger, MCI International, Rye Brook, New York Richard W. Stone, Cable and Wireless Communications, Vienna, Virginia
