FR940110-1-00056 FR940110-1-00006 In addition, as set forth in the Board's proposed amendment, §960.1 of this proposed rule defines ``very low-income household'' as a household which has an income of 50 percent or less of the median income for the area, as adjusted and published by HUD, except in areas where the Secretary adjusts this figure downward because of prevailing construction costs, low housing costs, or unusually high household incomes. For areas where the Secretary makes this downward adjustment, ``very low-income household'' would be defined to mean a household which has an income of 50 percent or less of the median income for the area, as published by HUD, with adjustment for household size, but without the adjustments made by the Secretary for prevailing construction costs, low housing costs, or unusually high household incomes. While HUD publishes tables with adjusted income information that incorporates the adjustments for family size, prevailing construction costs, low housing costs, and unusually high family incomes, it does not publish tables with income information that adjusts only for family size and not these other factors. Therefore, as set forth in the Board's proposed amendment, §960.1 of this proposed rule adds a definition of ``adjustment for household size'' in order to provide additional guidance in calculating this adjustment. An adjustment for household size is made by taking a specified percentage of the income limit of a four-person household for a particular area, according to the following scale: ␣ 1No. persons 1Percent adjustment 1 70. 2 80. 3 90. 4 Base. 5 108. 6 116. 7 124. 8 132. For each person in excess of eight, eight percent of the four-person household base income limit should be added to the income limit for an eight-person household for the area. These adjustment factors are the same as those used by HUD in administering its housing programs. Section 960.1 of the proposed rule retains the definition of ``area'' from the Board's existing AHP regulation. See 12 CFR 960.1(c). ``Area'' means, for purposes of defining ``median income for the area,'' a metropolitan statistical area, a county, or a nonmetropolitan area, as established by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget. Consistent with the proposed amendment, §960.1 of this proposed rule does not include a definition of ``median income'' because it is included in the proposed definitions of ``very low-income household'' and ``low- or moderate-income household.'' (ii) Definition of ``income''. The Act is silent on how to define the term ``income,'' i.e., what are eligible sources of household income that should be considered in determining whether the household satisfies the definition of ``low- or moderate-income household'' or ``very low-income household.'' The Board has determined not to define the term ``income'' in the proposed rule. Homeownership projects typically involve the participation of a lender which provides permanent financing for the homeowner over an extended period of time. The lender generally verifies a household's income prior to issuing a financing commitment during the underwriting of the loan. Eligible sources of income are identified by the lender during the mortgage underwriting process. Identifying eligible sources of income in the rule could cause inconsistency with lenders' customary and usual underwriting practices, or with the standards applied by the entity providing the major source of financing for the project. b. Rental housing units. Section 960.5(a)(1) of the proposed rule provides generally that at least 20 percent of the rental housing units in a project financed under the AHP with subsidized advances or direct subsidies shall remain affordable for and occupied by very low-income households for a minimum period of 30 years or, at the election of the sponsor, the remaining useful life of such units.
