FR940810-2-00010 FR940810-2-00007 Best Information Available In conducting our analysis of related parties in this review, we issued three supplemental questionnaires and granted extensions for several of the responses. In spite of this, LaPerle did not provide us with enough information to adequately support its position as an independent entity. Because none of the individual components of this entity responded to our questionnaire, other than LaPerle, and because LaPerle, as the responding party, failed to submit a consolidated response, only a small fraction of the required information was provided. Although LaPerle has provided a partial response to our questionnaire, LaPerle has not submitted a response consolidating all information for all parties related to it, and we are not able to use LaPerle's responses for purposes of this review. Therefore, we have considered LaPerle uncooperative. The application of first-tier BIA is appropriate because LaPerle has impeded the proceeding by failing to give the Department the information necessary to conduct the review and by failing to provide sufficient support that it was independent. Therefore, in accordance with section 776(c) of the Tariff Act, and the Department's practice ( see Antifriction Bearing (Other than Tapered Roller Bearings) and Parts from France, et al., 58 FR 39729, July 26, 1993, we have applied first-tier BIA to the entity as a whole. The first-tier BIA rate in this case is 9.8 percent, which is the highest of the rates for any firm in the original investigation ( see Iron Construction Castings from Canada; Amendment to Final Determination of Sales at Less than Fair Value and Amendment to Antidumping Duty Order, 51 FR 34110, September 25, 1986). For more information on these BIA applications to each component of the entity, see the analysis memorandum. Preliminary Results of the Review As a result of our review, we preliminarily determine that the following weighted-average margins exist, and have been applied based on relationship and/or failure to respond, for the period March 1, 1991 through February 29, 1992: ␣ 1Manufacturer/exporter 1Percent margin Associated 9.8 LaPerle 9.8 Penticton 9.8 Titan 9.8 Interested parties may request disclosure within 5 days of the date of publication of this notice and may request a hearing within 10 days of publication. Any hearing, if requested, will be held 44 days after the date of publication or the first business day thereafter. Case briefs and/or written comments from interested parties may be submitted no later than 30 days after the date of publication. Rebuttal briefs and rebuttals to written comments, limited to issues raised in those comments, may be filed not later than 37 days after the date of publication of this notice. The Department will publish the final results of this administrative review, including the results of its analysis of issues raised when submitted in written form, or mentioned at a hearing. The Department shall determine, and the Customs Service shall assess, antidumping duties on all appropriate entries. The Department will issue appraisement instructions on each exporter directly to the Customs Service. Because we have completed to review for the period, March 1, 1992, through February 28, 1993, the cash deposit requirement for merchandise subject to the order will not be changed by the final results of this administrative review, except in the case of two of the entity's components. Moreover, since there were no requests for reviews of other companies which were related to LaPerle, entries of all the additional firms' merchandise have been liquidated in accordance with 19 CFR 353.22(e). Therefore, only two of the companies not included in the notice of initiation will have cash deposit rates established by this administrative review. Accordingly, for these two firms we will instruct Customs to require cash deposits of 9.8 percent, the rate assigned to the entire entity. This notice also serves as a preliminary reminder to importers of their responsibility under 19 CFR 353.26 to file a certificate regarding the reimbursement of antidumping duties prior to liquidation of the relevant entries during this review period. Failure to comply with this requirement could result in the Secretary's presumption that reimbursement of antidumping duties occurred and the subsequent assessment of double antidumping duties. These administrative review and this notice are in accordance with section 751(a)(1) of the Tariff Act (19 U.S.C. 1675(a)(1)) and 19 CFR 353.22(c). Dated: July 30, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19539 Filed 8&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
