FR941026-2-00059 FR941026-2-00036 E. Multi-Year Projects This announcement is soliciting applications for project periods up to 36 months. Awards, on a competitive basis, will be for a one-year budget period, although project periods may be as long as 36 months. Funding after the 12 month budget period of an approved multi-year project is non-competitive. The non-competitive funding for the second and third years is contingent upon the grantee's satisfactory progress in achieving the objectives of the project according to the approved work plan, the availability of Federal funds, compliance with the applicable statutory, regulatory and grant requirements, and determination that continued funding is in the best interest of the Government. F. Grantee Share of Project Grantees must provide at least five (5) percent of the total approved cost of the project. The total approved cost of the project is the sum of the Federal share and the non-Federal share. The non-Federal share may be met by cash or in-kind contributions, although applicants are encouraged to meet their match requirements through cash contributions. The funds for the match must be from a private source, or state source where the funds were not obtained from the Federal government by the state, or a Federal source where legislation or regulation authorizes the use of these funds for matching purposes. Therefore, a project requesting $300,000 in Federal funds (based on an award of $100,000 per budget period), must include a match of at least $15,789 (5% total project cost). Applicants may request a waiver of the requirement for a 5% non-Federal matching share. Since the matching requirement is very low it is not expected that waivers will be requested. However, the procedure for requesting a waiver can be found in 45 CFR 1336, Subpart E_Financial Assistance Provisions. It is the policy of ANA to apply the waiver of the non-Federal matching share requirement for the purposes of this particular program announcement. G. Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs This program is not covered by Executive Order 12372. H. Application Process (1) Availability of Application Forms: In order to be considered for a grant under this program announcement, an application must be submitted on the forms supplied, including Form&hyph;424, and in the manner prescribed by ANA. The application kits containing the necessary forms and instructions may be obtained from: Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Administration for Native Americans, Room 348F, Hubert H. Humphrey Building, 200 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20201&hyph;0001, Attention: Rita LeBeau (202) 690&hyph;5790.
