FR940804-2-00032 FR940804-2-00010 For price-to-price comparisons only, we also made adjustments, where appropriate, for differences in the physical characteristics of the merchandise in accordance with section 773(a)(4)(C) of the Act. We adjusted for VAT in accordance with our practice. ( See the ``United States Price'' section of this notice, above.) We made no adjustment for freight charge differentials claimed by Roldan because of the lack of data on the record concerning the nature of the adjustment claimed. We intend to obtain further information and to verify the reported data. We will revisit this issue in our final determination based on verification findings. Acenor For purposes of calculating FMV, we used the sales from Acenor to its unrelated customers and CV, as described above. For price-to-price comparisons, we calculated FMV based on packed, ex-factory and delivered prices, where applicable. We made an adjustment for home market inland freight (including inland insurance), where applicable, under the circumstance-of-sale provision of 19 CFR 353.56(a), as described above. For price-to-price comparisons and comparisons to CV, we made circumstance-of-sale adjustments, where appropriate, for differences in credit expenses, pursuant to 19 CFR 353.56(a)(2). We re-calculated home market and U.S. credit expenses because Acenor reported its U.S. imputed credit expense in pesetas and its calculation overstated this expense because of an error in decimal placement. In addition, for those sales with missing shipment dates and payment dates, we calculated credit expenses based on the average payment period for the respondent's sales reported with shipment and payment dates. We also deducted home market packing and added U.S. packing costs, in accordance with section 773(a)(1) of the Act. For price-to-price comparisons only, we also made adjustments, where appropriate, for differences in the physical characteristics of the merchandise, in accordance with section 773(a)(4)(C) of the Act. We adjusted for VAT in accordance with our practice. (See the ``United States Price'' section of this notice, above.) Currency Conversion We made currency conversions based on the official exchange rates in effect on the dates of the U.S. sales as certified by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. See 19 CFR 353.60(a). Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we will verify the information used in making our final determination. Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 733(d)(1) of the Act, we are directing the Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of SSB from Spain, as defined in the ``Scope of Investigation'' section of this notice, that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or the posting of a bond equal to the estimated preliminary dumping margins, as shown below. The suspension of liquidation will remain in effect until further notice. The weighted-average dumping margins are as follows:
