FR940628-1-00056 FR940628-1-00010 ยง94.4 Institutional Assurance and Responsibility Regarding Significant Financial Interests of Investigators. (a) Each Institution must: (1) Inform each Investigator of the Institution's policy for identifying and managing Significant Financial Interests, the Investigator's reporting responsibilities, and of this part. (2) Designate an institutional official(s) to solicit and review financial disclosure statements from each Investigator who is planning to participate in PHS-funded research. (3) Ensure that Investigators have provided to the designated official(s) a listing of Significant Financial Interests that ensures disclosure of all Significant Financial Interests of the type described in paragraph (e)(1) of this part, prior to the time an application is submitted to PHS. All financial disclosures must be updated during the pendency of the award, either on an annual basis, or as new reportable Significant Financial Interests are obtained. (4) Provide guidelines consistent with this subpart for the designated official(s) to identify Significant Financial Interests of the type described in paragraph (e)(1) of this part and take such actions as necessary to ensure that any such financial interest will be managed, reduced, or eliminated. (5) Maintain records identifiable to each award of all financial disclosures and all actions taken by the Institution with respect to each Significant Financial Interest of the type described in ยง94.5 for at least three years beyond the termination or completion of the contract, or until resolution of any action by the HHS involving the records, whichever is longer. (6) Establish procedures for resolving any alleged violation of the financial conflict of interest policy of the Institution and establish appropriate enforcement actions for failure to comply. (7) Certify, in each contract proposal, that: (i) There is in effect at that Institution a written and enforced administrative process to identify and manage, reduce or eliminate Significant Financial Interests of the type described in paragraph (e)(1) of this part with respect to all research projects for which funding is sought from the PHS. (ii) The Institution either has, or has not found a Significant Financial Interest of the type described in paragraph (e)(1) of this part and, where such interest is found, certify that actions have been taken to manage, reduce or eliminate that interest in accordance with this part. (iii) The Institution agrees to make information available, upon request, to the HHS regarding all Significant Financial Interests identified by the Institution of the type described in paragraph (e)(1) of this part and how those interests have been managed, reduced, or eliminated to protect the research from bias;
