FR940119-0-00060 FR940119-0-00014 (9) Purchase, possess, or receive for commercial purposes, or attempt to purchase or receive for commercial purposes, sea scallops caught by a vessel other than one issued a valid federal general or limited access sea scallop permit under §650.4, or a letter under §650.4(a)(9)(vi)(D), unless the scallops were harvested by a vessel without a Federal scallop permit and that fishes for scallops exclusively in state waters; (10) To be or act as an operator of a vessel fishing for or possessing Atlantic sea scallops in or from the EEZ, or issued a Federal scallop permit under §650.4, without having been issued and possessing a valid operator's permit issued under §650.5. (11) Assault, resist, oppose, impede, harass, intimidate, or interfere with either a NMFS-approved observer aboard a vessel, or an authorized officer conducting any search, inspection, investigation, or seizure in connection with enforcement of this part; (12) Make any false statement, oral or written, to an authorized officer, concerning the taking, catching, harvesting, landing, purchase, sale, or transfer of any Atlantic sea scallops; (13) Make any false statement on any report required to be submitted or maintained under §650.7; (14) Tamper with, damage, destroy, alter, or in any way distort, render useless, inoperative, ineffective, or inaccurate the VTS unit or VTS signal required to be installed on, or transmitted by, Full-time and Part-time limited access scallop vessels or any other vessel required to use a VTS by this part; (15) Violate any provision of this part, the Magnuson Act, or any regulation or permit issued under the Magnuson Act. (e) Any person possessing, or landing per trip, sea scallops in excess of 40 pounds (18.14 kg) of shucked scallops or 5 U.S. bushels (176.1 l) of in-shell scallops at or prior to the time when those scallops are received or possessed by a dealer is subject to all of the prohibitions specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section, unless the scallops were harvested by a vessel without a Federal scallop permit and that fishes for scallops exclusively in state waters. (f) Presumption. Sea scallops that are possessed, or landed at or prior to the time when the scallops are received by a dealer, or sea scallops that are possessed by a dealer, are presumed to be harvested from the EEZ. A preponderance of all submitted evidence, that such scallops were harvested by a vessel without a Federal scallop permit and fishing exclusively for scallops in state waters, will be sufficient to rebut the presumption. §650.10 Facilitation of enforcement. See §620.8 of this chapter. §650.11 Penalties. See §620.9 of this chapter. Subpart B_Management Measures §650.20 Shell-height standard. (a) The minimum shell height for in-shell Atlantic sea scallops that may be landed, or possessed at or after landing, is 31/2 inches (89 mm). (b) Compliance and sampling. Compliance with the specified shell-height standards will be determined by inspection and enforcement at or after landing, including, the time when the scallops are received or possessed by a dealer or person acting in the capacity of a dealer, as follows: the authorized officer will take samples of forty scallops each at random from the total amount of scallops in possession. The person in possession of the scallops may request that as many as ten samples (400 scallops) be examined as a sample group. A sample group fails to comply with the standard if more than ten percent of all scallops sampled are less than the shell height specified by the standard. The shell height shall be measured in a straight line from the hinge of the scallop to the outermost part of the curve on the leading edge. The total amount of scallops in possession will be deemed in violation of this regulation and subject to forfeiture if the sample group fails to comply with the standard. §650.21 Gear and crew restrictions. (a) Trawl vessel gear restrictions. Trawl vessels in possession of more than 40 pounds (18.14 kg) of shucked scallops or 5 U.S. bushels (176.2 l) of in-shell scallops, trawl vessels fishing for scallops, and trawl vessels issued a limited access scallop permit under §650.4(a), while fishing under or subject to the DAS allocation program for sea scallops, must comply with the following: (1) Maximum sweep. The trawl sweep in use by or in possession of such vessels shall not exceed 144 feet (43.9 m) as measured by the total length of the footrope that is directly attached to the webbing of the net. (2) Net requirements_ (i) Minimum mesh size in 1994 and 1995. In 1994 and 1995, the mesh size shall not be smaller than 5 inches (12.7 cm) south of a line commencing at the shoreline and proceeding easterly along 39 ○10 ’ N. Latitude until it intersects the outer boundary of the EEZ, and 51/2 inches (13.97 cm) for any scallop trawl net north of this line. (ii) Minimum mesh sizes in 1996 and beyond. In 1996 and beyond, the mesh size for any scallop trawl net in all areas shall not be smaller than 51/2 inches (13.97 cm). (iii) Mesh stowage. No vessel may have available for immediate use any net, or any piece of a net, not meeting the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section. A net that conforms to one of the following specifications and that can be shown not to have been in recent use is considered to be not ``available for immediate use'': (A) A net stowed below deck, provided: ( 1 ) It is located below the main working deck from which the net is deployed and retrieved;
