FR940318-2-00004 FR940318-2-00003 Forest Service Santiam Forest Health Project, Willamette National Forest, Linn County, OR AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The Forest Service will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) on a proposal to thin and/or regenerate forest stands, construct roads, and use prescribed fire in Santiam Pass. The need for the forest health project is threefold: (1) To change forest stand structure and composition, in order to reduce forest health problems; (2) create sustainable stand structure and wildlife habitat conditions; (3) to salvage dead and dying trees and provide timber for local mills. Project is proposed for fiscal year 1995. The Willamette National Forest invites written comments on the scope of the analysis. The agency will give full notice of the full environmental analysis and decision making process for the proposal so interested and affected people may participate and contribute to the final decision. DATES: Comments concerning the scope of the analysis should be received in writing by April 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to Eugene Skrine, District Silviculturist, McKenzie Ranger District, McKenzie Bridge, Oregon 97413. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Eugene Skrine, District Silviculturist, McKenzie Ranger District, McKenzie Bridge, Oregon 97413, Phone (503) 822&hyph;3381. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The USDA, Forest Service proposal includes: re-introduction of natural fire, through the prescribe burning of understory layers in selected stands; harvest trees through thinning, understory removal, selection harvest and/or regeneration harvest on about 1,000 acres; construct permanent roads and temporary roads to access treatment units; regenerate new stands after harvest; continue to learn and interact with the public on forest health; develop opportunities for post/pole/chip/firewood products from small sized trees; develop habitat improvement projects for a variety of wildlife, fish, and sensitive plant species; implement Scenic Byway strategy for enhancement opportunities along the Santiam Pass highway. Preliminary issues have been identified and include: Roadless areas; forest health, long-term productivity, and biodiversity; spotted owls; recreation experience; fire hazard and air quality; old growth and fragmentation; socio-economic; threatened, endangered, and sensitive species (plants land animals); and cultural resources. A range of alternatives will be developed including a no action alternative. This draft EIS will tier to the 1990 Final EIS for the Willamette National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan and will not be inconsistent with any of the Alternatives in the President's Forest Plan. The Forest Service is the lead agency. Initial scoping began in October 1993. Extensive scoping has already been done on the project through field trips, newsletters, and public meetings. The public is invited to offer suggestions and comments in writing. The draft EIS is expected to be completed in May 1994. The comment period on the draft EIS will be 45 days from the date the Environmental Protection Agency publishes the notice of availability in the Federal Register . The Forest Service believes it is important to give reviewers notice at this early stage of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of a draft EIS must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC, 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the draft EIS stage but that are not raised until after completion of the final EIS may be waived or dismissed by the courts. City of Angoon v. Hodel, 803 f. 2d 1016, 1022 (9th Cir, 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. v. Harris, 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of these court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the 45-day comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in the final EIS. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues and concerns on the proposed action, comments on the draft EIS should be as specific as possible. It is also helpful if comments refer to specific pages or chapters of the draft statement. Comments may also address the adequacy of the draft EIS or the merits of the alternatives formulated and discussed in the statement. (Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points.) The final EIS is scheduled to be completed in August 1994. In the final EIS, the Forest Service is required to respond to comments and responses received during the comment period that pertain to the environmental consequences discussed in the draft EIS and applicable laws, regulations, and policies considered in making the decision regarding the Santiam Forest Health Project. Darrel L. Kenops, Forest Supervisor, is the Responsible Official. As the Responsible Official, he will decide whether to implement the project. The Responsible Official will document the decision and reasons for the decision in the Record of Decision. That decision will be subject to Forest Service Appeal Regulations (36 CFR part 215). Dated: March 10, 1994. Darrel L. Kenops, Forest Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6339 Filed 3&hyph;17&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
