FR940610-0-00124 FR940610-0-00023 (2) Internal Revenue Service publications containing tables with interest rates between 2.2 and 26 percent. The following documents (except for Publication 1459) have been published for sale by the Superintendent of Documents, United States Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402: (i) Internal Revenue Service Publication 1457, ``Actuarial Values, Alpha Volume,'' (8/89). This publication includes tables of valuation factors, as well as examples that show how to compute other valuation factors, for determining the present value of annuities, life estates, terms of years, remainders, and reversions, measured by one or two lives. These factors may also be used in the valuation of interests in a charitable remainder annuity trust as defined in §1.664&hyph;2 of this chapter (Income Tax Regulations) and a pooled income fund as defined in §1.642(c)&hyph;5 of this chapter. (ii) Internal Revenue Service Publication 1458, ``Actuarial Values, Beta Volume,'' (8/89). This publication includes term certain tables and tables of one and two life valuation factors for determining the present value of remainder interests in a charitable remainder unitrust as defined in §1.664&hyph;3 of this chapter. (iii) Internal Revenue Service Publication 1459, ``Actuarial Values, Gamma Volume,'' (8&hyph;89) is no longer available for purchase from the Superintendent of Documents. However, it may be obtained by requesting a copy from: CC:DOM:CORP:T:R (IRS Publication 1459), room 5228, Internal Revenue Service, POB 7604, Ben Franklin Station, Washington, DC 20044. This publication includes tables for computing depreciation adjustment factors. See §1.170A&hyph;12 of this chapter (Income Tax Regulations). (d) Effective date. This section is effective as of May 1, 1989. §20.7520&hyph;2 Valuation of charitable interests. (a) In general _(1) Valuation. Except as otherwise provided in this section and in §20.7520&hyph;3 (relating to exceptions to the use of prescribed tables under certain circumstances), the fair market value of annuities, interests for life or for a term of years, remainders, and reversions for which an estate tax charitable deduction is allowable is the present value of such interests determined under §20.7520&hyph;1. (2) Prior-month election rule. If any part of the property interest transferred qualifies for an estate tax charitable deduction under section 2055 or 2106, the executor may compute the present value of the transferred interest by use of the section 7520 interest rate for the month during which the interest is transferred or the section 7520 interest rate for either of the 2 months preceding the month during which the interest is transferred. Paragraph (b) of this section explains how a prior-month election is made. The interest rate for the month so elected is the applicable section 7520 interest rate. If the executor elects the alternate valuation date under section 2032 and also elects to use the section 7520 interest rate for either of the 2 months preceding the month in which the interest is transferred, the month so elected (either of the 2 months preceding the month in which the alternate valuation date falls) is the valuation date. If the actuarial factor for either or both of the 2 months preceding the month during which the interest is transferred is based on a mortality experience that is different from the mortality experience at the date of the transfer and if the executor elects to use the section 7520 rate for a prior month with the different mortality experience, the executor must use the actuarial factor derived from the mortality experience in effect during the month of the section 7520 rate elected. All actuarial computations relating to the transfer must be made by applying the interest rate component and the mortality component of the month elected by the executor. (3) Transfers of more than one interest in the same property. If a decedent's estate includes the transfer of more than one interest in the same property, the executor must, for purposes of valuing the transferred interests, use the same interest rate and mortality components for each interest in the property transferred. (4) Information required with tax return. The following information must be attached to the estate tax return (or be filed subsequently as supplemental information to the return) if the estate claims a charitable deduction for the present value of a temporary or remainder interest in property_ (i) A complete description of the interest that is transferred, including a copy of the instrument of transfer; (ii) The valuation date of the transfer; (iii) The names and identification numbers of the beneficiaries of the transferred interest; (iv) The names and birthdates of any measuring lives, a description of any relevant terminal illness condition of any measuring life, and (if applicable) an explanation of how any terminal illness condition was taken into account in valuing the interest; and
