FR940114-1-00035 FR940114-1-00008 Detect and correct problems quickly; Measure progress in achieving established goals and objectives; and Ensure that appropriate data are collected for evaluation. C. State and Local Task Forces and Community Traffic Safety Programs States should encourage the development of State and community impaired driving task forces and community traffic safety programs. States should: Use these groups to bring a wide variety of interests and resources to bear on impaired driving issues; and Ensure that Federal, State, and local organizations coordinate impaired driving activities, so that the activities complement rather than compete with each other. D. Data and Records States should establish and maintain records systems for accidents, arrests, dispositions, driver licenses, and vehicle registrations. Especially important are tracking systems which can provide information on every driver arrested for DWI to determine the disposition of the case and compliance with sanctions. These records systems should be: Accurate; Timely; Able to be linked to each other; and Readily accessible to police, courts, and planners. E. Evaluation States should evaluate all impaired driving system activities regularly to ensure that programs are effective and scarce resources are allocated appropriately. Evaluation should be: Included in initial program planning to ensure that appropriate data are available and that adequate resources are allocated; Designed to use available traffic records systems effectively; and Conducted regularly. Evaluation results should be: Reported regularly to project and program managers; and Used to guide further program activities. F. Funding States should allocate funding to impaired driving programs that is: Adequate for program needs; Steady_from dedicated sources; and To the extent possible, paid by the impaired drivers themselves. The programs should work toward being self-sufficient. * * * * * Highway Safety Program Guideline No. 10 Traffic Records Each State, in cooperation with its political subdivisions, should establish and implement a complete traffic records program. The Statewide program should include, or provide for, data for the entire State. A complete traffic records program is necessary for planning (problem identification), operational management or control, and evaluation of a State's highway safety activities. This type of program is basic to identifying highway safety problems, tracking safety trends, and implementing highway safety countermeasures. It is the key ingredient to safety effectiveness and management. I. Traffic Records System To provide a complete and useful records system for safety program management at both the State and local level, the State should have a data base consisting of the following: An Accident File with data on the time, environment, and circumstances of a crash; identification of the vehicles, drivers, cyclists, occupants, and pedestrians involved; and documentation of crash consequences (fatalities, injuries, property damage and violations charged) with the data tied to a location reference system; A Driver File or driver history record of licensed drivers in the State, with data on personal identification and driver license number, type of license, license status (suspended or revoked), driver restrictions, driver convictions for traffic violations, crash history, driver control or improvement actions, and safety education data; A Vehicle File with information on identification, ownership and taxation, and vehicle inspection (where applicable); A Roadway File with information about roadway location, identification, and classification as well as a description of a road's total physical characteristics, which is tied to a location reference system. This file should also contain data for normalizing purposes, such as miles of roadway and average daily traffic (ADT); A Commercial Motor Vehicle Crash File which uses uniform data definitions and collects information on the vehicle configuration, cargo body type, hazardous materials, information to identify the motor carrier, as well as information on the crash.
