FR940603-2-00175 FR940603-2-00094 Scope of the Anticircumvention Inquiry Products subject to the circumvention inquiry are entries of strand, which are defined as stranded wire having a lay or twist of not more than 1 revolution for a length equal to the strand diameter multiplied by 8.5. During the POI, such merchandise was classifiable under subheading 7312.10.3020 of the HTS. The HTS subheading is provided for convenience and for Customs purposes. The Department's written description of the scope of the inquiry remains dispositive. Nature of the Circumvention Inquiry Section 781(a)(1) of the Tariff Act provides that if: (A) A product sold in the United States is of the same class or kind as merchandise that is the subject of an order, and (B) Such product sold in the United States is completed or assembled in the United States from parts or components produced in the foreign country with respect to which such order applies, and (C) The difference between the value of such product sold in the United States and the value of the imported parts and components referred to in (B) above is small, the Department, after taking into account any advice provided by the U.S. International Trade Commission (ITC), may include within the scope of such order the imported parts or components referred to in paragraph (B) above that are used in the completion or assembly of the merchandise in the United States at any time such order is in effect. Section 781(a)(2) of the Tariff Act further provides that, in determining whether to include parts or components in an antidumping duty order, the Department shall take into account such factors as (A) pattern of trade; (B) whether the manufacturer or exporter of the parts or components is related to the person who assembles or completes the merchandise sold in the United States from the parts or components produced in the foreign country with respect to which the order applies, and (C) whether imports into the United States of the parts or components produced in such foreign country have increased after the issuance of such order. I. Statutory Criteria (A) Class or Kind of Merchandise In this inquiry, the merchandise completed at Camesa Inc.'s Rosenberg, Texas, facility and sold in the United States is steel wire rope. As the antidumping duty order encompasses ``ropes, cables, and cordage of iron or carbon steel, other than stranded wire, not fitted with fittings or made up into articles, and not made up of plated wire,'' the steel wire rope sold in the United States is of the same class or kind of merchandise as that subject to the antidumping duty order on steel wire rope from Mexico. (B) Parts/Components Produced in the Country to Which the Order Applies The component of wire rope being imported is defined as stranded wire having a lay or twist of not more than 1 revolution for a length equal to the strand diameter multiplied by 8.5. This strand is produced by Grupo Camesa in Mexico, imported into the United States for closure into steel wire rope at the Camesa Inc. facility at Rosenberg, Texas, and subsequently sold in the United States by Camesa Inc. (C) Difference in Value In this anticircumvention inquiry, we attempted to base our analysis of the difference in value on both a quantitative analysis of the value of the finishing process in the United States, and a qualitative analysis of the nature of the processing performed in the United States. This approach is consistent with our analysis in previous anti-circumvention inquiries. See, e.g., Certain Carbon Steel Butt-Weld Pipe Fittings from the People's Republic of China; Affirmative Final Determination of Circumvention of Antidumping Duty Order, 59 FR 15155 (March 31, 1994).
