FR940407-1-00056 FR940407-1-00012 The Commission's proposed rule specifies that the allowable rate of return on rate base for a regulated carrier in the domestic offshore trades shall be set equal to the carrier's WACC calculated on a before-tax basis. The proposed rule also stipulates the use of the regulated carrier's normalized corporate income tax rate ( i.e. , the statutory corporate income tax rate, not the actual or effective corporate income tax rate) in computing the BTWACC. This is consistent with the approach the Commission uses currently in calculating the rate of return on rate base. Furthermore, the large majority of regulatory commissions in the U.S. use the normalized income tax rate for ratemaking and accounting purposes. 38 38 See NARUC, ``Table 40_Accounting Treatment Of Tax Reductions_All Utilities,'' supra note 4, at 95&hyph;96. 3. Flotation Costs. Three factors could theoretically result in a firm receiving as net proceeds from the issuance of common stock an amount less than the pre-announcement common stock price: (1) The cost of floating new issues ( e.g. , the fee paid to the underwriter) and other administrative expenses ( e.g. , printing, legal, and accounting expenses); (2) the downward market pressure resulting from the increased supply of the common stock ( i.e. , the ``market pressure'' effect); and (3) the potential market price decline related to external market variables ( i.e. , the ``market break'' effect). The Commission's proposed rule specifies that an allowance for the cost of common-stock equity capital financing be made for those flotation costs that are actually incurred ( i.e. , those that are identifiable and directly attributable to underwriting, printing, legal, and accounting expenses), but only in the event that the regulated carrier under consideration plans on issuing new common stock to the general public during the test year in question. No allowance would be made for any hypothetical costs such as those associated with market pressure and market break effects. The proposed rule also specifies that the allowance is to be applied solely to the new common-stock equity and not to the existing common-stock equity balance. 39 The regulated carrier would be required to supply the requisite information for computing the allowance. 39 The appropriate formula for computing such as allowance is as follows: k=Fs/(1+s) where: k is the required increment to the cost of the regulated firm's common-stock equity capital that will allow the company to recover its flotation costs; F is the flotation costs expressed as a decimal fraction of the dollar value of new common-stock equity sales; and s is the new common-stock equity sales expressed as a decimal fraction of the dollar value of existing common equity. Deferred Taxes and The Capital Construction Fund Under its current rules, the Commission does not address the issue of deferred taxes for calculating rate base. The Commission proposes to amend its rules to provide for the treatment of deferred taxes, including the Capital Construction Fund (``Fund''). The Fund is comprised of three components: (1) The capital account, which results from contributions, (2) capital gains on investment transactions, and (3) ordinary income, representing the earnings of Fund assets. Section 607 of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, 46 U.S.C. app. ยง1177, which governs the Fund, provides for different tax treatment for withdrawals from the various components of the Fund. Section 607 requires that the basis of vessels, barges or containers purchased with monies from the Fund be reduced by the amount of funds withdrawn from the ordinary income and capital gains components of the Fund. The proposed rule takes a similar approach, and would require carriers to reduce the cost of an asset as shown in rate base by the amount of funds withdrawn from the ordinary income and capital gains components of the Fund which are used in acquiring the asset. A certain portion of a carrier's physical capital (rate base) is financed by deferred taxes. Unlike the debt, preferred stock, and common-stock equity components of financial capital, deferred taxes cost the carrier nothing. Deferred taxes are in the nature of an interest-free loan from the government. Given that these funds are obtained at zero cost, we believe that the carrier should not be allowed a return on that portion of rate base which results from deferred taxes, except on that portion that results from deferred taxes that may arise from the Fund or the expired Investment Tax Credit, and that rate base be reduced accordingly. This treatment comports with the treatment of deferred taxes by other federal agencies, as well as a majority of state regulatory agencies. 40 When it is necessary to allocate such accumulated deferred taxes between Commission and non-Commission regulated activities, such allocation shall be on the ratio of vessels and other property and equipment included in rate base, less accumulated depreciation, to total company vessels and other property and equipment, less accumulated depreciation. 40 See NARUC, ``Table 39_Treatment Of Accumulated Deferred Income Taxes In Rate Base_All Utilities,'' supra note 4, at 93&hyph;94. Working Capital The inclusion of working capital in rate base is intended to recognize the necessity for the carrier to maintain an adequate supply of cash for the purpose of meeting expenditure requirements during the period between the payment of expenses and the collection of revenue. Average voyage expense is used as the measure of working capital for a self-propelled vessel operator under the Commission's existing rule. With regard to the treatment of insurance expense in the computation of average voyage expense, the Commission's current regulations provide for the inclusion of 90 days' hull and machinery insurance and protection and indemnity insurance. Hawaii suggests that insurance expense be treated in the same manner as other operating expenses, i.e., include that amount applicable to the duration of an average voyage. The proposed rule adopts that approach. Allocation of Assets and Expenses In 1980, the Commission amended its rules governing the allocation of assets and expenses. As a result of these changes, cargo cube or space occupied replaced weight or revenue ton as the basis for allocations. The rationale for this decision was that in a containership operation, the cost of providing service is the cost of providing space. The Commission concluded that the carrier's cost per container remains the same regardless of the amount of cargo in the container or revenue generated by the container. Accordingly, part 552 currently prescribes that vessels, accumulated depreciation and vessel expense shall be allocated on the cargo-cube-mile relationship as defined in 46 CFR 552.5(n), while those expenses related to cargo handling are allocated on the basis of cargo cube loaded and discharged. Other property and equipment, and administrative and general expenses are required to be allocated on the voyage expense relationship, as defined in 46 CFR 552.5(p).
