FR940812-0-00098 FR940812-0-00020 Friday August 12, 1994 Part III Environmental Protection Agency 40 CFR Part 58 Ambient Air Quality Surveillance Regulations; Final Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 155␣/␣Friday, August 12, 1994␣/␣Rules and Regulations ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Part 58 [AD&hyph;FRL&hyph;4691&hyph;5] Ambient Air Quality Surveillance Regulations AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule revises the EPA's ambient air quality surveillance regulations to take into account recent changes and developments in the overall management of ambient air quality data and to reflect current operating practices of State and local agencies. The revisions to the Ambient Air Quality Surveillance Regulations change the data reporting requirements for State and Local Air Monitoring Stations (SLAMS) and National Air Monitoring Stations (NAMS). The changes affect the number of monitoring sites required to submit air quality data to the Aerometric Information Retrieval System (AIRS) and the timing for such data submittals. The data from both the current SLAMS and NAMS monitors will be submitted on a quarterly basis within 90 days after the end of the calendar quarter. In addition, the revisions replace technical references to the former Storage and Retrieval of Aerometric Data (SAROAD) data base with references to the AIRS. Various technical revisions update the regulations to reflect organizational changes. These revisions reflect current practices of most State and local agencies and should expedite data access with the AIRS data base for air quality planning and decision making. EFFECTIVE DATE: These regulations take effect on October 1, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. David Lutz (MD&hyph;14), Technical Support Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711, phone: (919) 541&hyph;5476. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background The Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990 (Act), requires that States establish an air quality monitoring system as part of their State implementation plan (SIP), and that EPA establish a supplemental monitoring system throughout the United States (sections 110(a)(2) and 319 of the Act). These State and national air quality monitoring systems provide the critical information for purposes of defining ``nonattainment'' with the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS), evaluating progress towards achievement of the NAAQS pursuant to SIP's, and reporting air quality data to EPA to document the status and trends of the Nation's air quality. In the discharge of these and other responsibilities, EPA needs to have timely access to valid and complete ambient air quality data as obtained by State and local air pollution control agencies. The current regulations require that State and local agencies submit air quality data from certain designated sites (NAMS) to EPA within 120 days after the end of each calendar quarter. The data from other SLAMS (about 70 percent of the sites are SLAMS) were exempted from the quarterly reporting requirement and were required to be submitted in an annual report to the Administrator through the appropriate EPA Regional Office. Therefore, Part 58 includes two separate data processing and reporting requirements, a situation which States have found to be both inefficient and undesirable from a quality assurance standpoint. Consequently, most States have developed operational practices to process and report all ambient air quality data to EPA using one system. The EPA's revisions to part 58 are consistent with this general practice. The EPA has now completed the development of a new comprehensive air quality data system. The Air Quality Subsystem (AQS) of the AIRS has replaced the former SAROAD data bank. The AIRS is a significant enhancement to the national monitoring program and results in improved efficiency at the State and local levels by allowing those agencies to directly input air quality data to AQS, thereby eliminating the need for additional data processing by the EPA Regional Offices. Most State and local personnel have already been trained in the use of the AIRS system and can now directly input their air quality data. This major enhancement, along with the development of electronic transfer and processing of air quality data, reduces the amount of time needed by State and local agencies to submit air quality data to the AIRS. Consequently, these revisions to part 58 change the data reporting requirements for two reasons: (1) To provide uniform quarterly reporting requirements for both NAMS and SLAMS, and (2) to shorten the data reporting time requirements from 120 days after the end of the calendar quarter to 90 days. These regulations deal with changes to the ambient air quality monitoring, data reporting, and surveillance requirements of 40 CFR part 58. These changes are needed based on the developments outlined above and are required to reflect the implementation of AIRS. This will assure that high quality ambient air data are available to EPA on a more timely basis. The EPA's need for timely air data is due to various requirements of the Act, such as timely designations of attainment status and timely preparation and publication of annual reports, along with EPA's general need for consistent and timely access to ambient air quality data in AIRS within a reasonable timeframe after its collection. For example, under the old regulations, EPA may not have received SLAMS air quality data collected on January 1 of a given year until July 1 of the following year. Clearly the need exists to shorten this timeframe. Shorter reporting times are now feasible using readily available data processing equipment and standard operating procedures for data processing. Most State agencies already meet the 90-day data reporting timeframe required in these revisions. Earlier access to air quality data will allow EPA to be more responsive to the requirements of the amended Act and to the Nation's overall air quality program. Also, the EPA estimates the additional burden associated with this rule in reporting the data on a quarterly basis versus summary statistics on a yearly basis is 11,000 hours. This represents an average of 50 hours per respondent (55 States and/or Territories) per quarter. Further discussion of the estimate of this burden is included in a following section on the Paperwork Reduction Act.
