FR940302-0-00031 FR940302-0-00015 Summary of Comments and Recommendations In the March 18, 1993, proposed rule and associated notifications, all interested parties' were requested to submit factual reports of information that might contribute to the development of a final rule. Appropriate agencies of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Federal agencies, universities and other interested parties were contacted and requested to comment. A newspaper notice inviting general public comment was published in the San Juan Star on April 4, 1993. Two letters of comment were received and are discussed below. A public hearing was neither requested nor held. The Puerto Rico Department of Natural Resources supported the listing of Auerodendron pauciflorum as an endangered species. It stated that the species is only known from one site, the type locality, and is a member of a genus which consists of only seven species endemic to the West Indies. Dr. Duane Kolterman and Dr. Gary Breckon, of the University of Puerto Rico at Mayaguez, also supported the listing of the species as endangered. They stated that the species is one of the rarest plants in Puerto Rico and that an additional threat is the construction of transmission towers for the cellular telephone industry. Summary of Factors Affecting the Species After a thorough review and consideration of all information available, the Service has determined that Auerodendron pauciflorum should be classified as an endangered species. Procedures found at section 4(a)(1) of the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq .) and regulations (50 CFR part 424) promulgated to implement the listing provisions of the Act were followed. A species may be determined to be endangered or threatened due to one or more of the five factors described in section 4(a)(1). These factors and their application to Auerodendron pauciflorum Alain are as follows: A. The Present or Threatened Destruction, Modification, or Curtailment of Its Habitat or Range Auerodendron pauciflorum is found on privately owned land currently subject to intense pressure for rural, urban and tourist development. Hills in this area were destroyed for the construction of Highway 2. A large resort complex is currently proposed for the area and many hills are being utilized for the construction of transmission towers. Limestone hills are continuously being leveled for the production of construction material. These factors, as well as random cutting and the harvesting of yams, have contributed to the decline of the species and continue to threaten the remaining individuals. B. Overutilization for Commercial, Recreational, Scientific, or Educational Purposes Taking for these purposes has not been a documented factor in the decline of this species. C. Disease or Predation Disease and predation have not been documented as factors in the decline of this species. D. The Inadequacy of Existing Regulatory Mechanisms The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico has adopted a regulation that recognizes and provides protection for certain Commonwealth listed species. However, Auerodendron pauciflorum is not yet on the Commonwealth list. Federal listing provides immediate protection and enhances its protection and possibilities for funding needed research. E. Other Natural or Manmade Factors Affecting Its Continued Existence One of the most important factors affecting the continued survival of this species is its limited distribution. Because so few individuals are known to occur in a limited area, the risk of extinction is extremely high. The fruit has not been described and seedlings have not been observed in the field.
