FR940713-1-00068 FR940713-1-00014 ยง941.602 MROP funding. While section 5(j)(2) of the Act limits MROP funding to no more than 20 percent of available funding, recent Appropriation Acts have provided that HUD may approve applications for development and/or MROP based on applications submitted, or pursuant to a statutory funding set-aside. As a result, any notice of funding availability (NOFA) issued pursuant to 24 CFR part 941 will reflect the applicable statutory requirements. ยง941.603 MROP eligibility criteria. To be eligible for MROP funding, a project must meet the following criteria: (a) Rental. The project must be rental and not homeownership. (b) Federally assisted PHA-owned. The project must have been financed under section 5 of the Act and under ACC; or be a section 23 bond financed leased housing project which was converted to public housing by ACC amendment and is now covered by a cooperation agreement, has clear title vested in the PHA, and there are no legal obstacles affecting the PHA's use of the project during the required additional 40-year term of the ACC. (c) Five-year ADCC. The existing project must have had an approved actual development cost certificate (ADCC) for five years or more prior to the application submission deadline of the NOFA. (d) Obsolete project. The existing project must be determined to be obsolete; i.e., the project, or that portion designated to comprise the MROP project, must have design or marketability problems that have resulted in: (1) Current vacancies of more than 25 percent of the units available for occupancy; or (2)(i) Estimated costs for redesign, reconstruction or redevelopment (including any costs for lead-based paint abatement activities) that exceed 70 percent of the total current development cost limits for new construction of similar units in the area, but not more than 100 percent of the maximum cost based on the most recently issued MROP limits issued pursuant to section 5(j)(2)(D) of the Act (see ยง941.605(b)(2)); and (ii) The project or building has: an occupancy density or a building height that is significantly in excess of that which prevails in the neighborhood; or a bedroom configuration that could be altered to better serve the needs of families seeking occupancy to public housing; significant security problems in and around the project; or significant physical deterioration or inefficient energy and utility systems. (3) The deficiencies must have been determined correctable under the Comprehensive Grant Program (CGP) or the Comprehensive Improvement Assistance Program (CIAP) procedures (see 24 CFR part 968 and related issuances to ensure long-term viability). (e) Long-term viability. The project must be determined to have long-term viability (i.e., a useful life with full occupancy) of more than 20 years after completion of reconstruction, and the ACC for the MROP project must remain in effect for 40 years. (f) MROP project composition. (1) An MROP project may consist of one or more or all of the buildings of a single existing public housing project, provided that the funds reserved are sufficient to complete all the necessary redesign, reconstruction, or redevelopment for the entire structure(s) designated for the MROP project. Where funds available in a given year are insufficient or would require a disproportionate amount to fund all of the buildings of an existing project, staging over several years is not permitted, and the existing project must be separated by buildings (individually or in a combination) into portions to establish separate MROP projects, each to be funded separately, and each having a separate project number. The funds for each MROP project must be kept separate and may not be commingled. (2) If a PHA submits an MROP application for an entire project and it is determined to be approvable under a NOFA published after the effective date of this regulation, but because of funding limitations only a part of the project is funded, if funds become available in a future fiscal year, additional buildings of the project may be approved for MROP without regard to vacancy, cost and viability criteria of paragraph (e) of this section under a subsequent NOFA, provided that: (i) An application for a separate MROP project, or any portion of the project not funded, is submitted in response to a subsequent NOFA, and meets threshold approvability, and all other NOFA requirements, except for vacancy, cost and viability requirements; and (ii) Is selected on the basis of its rating and ranking among other MROP applications submitted in response to the NOFA. (g) MROP with modernization. MROP assistance may not be provided for any project or building assisted within five years of the MROP application by CGP or CIAP modernization funds under section 14 of the Act (through inclusion in an approved ``annual statement of work'') or HOPE VI under the FY 1993 and 1994 Appropriation Acts. (h) MROP with Demo/Dispo. Demolition/disposition (demo/dispo) of existing units may be included as part of an MROP only if required to meet the long-term viability requirement; however, 75 percent of the units in the project or portion of the project which comprise the MROP application must be reconstructed. An MROP application which involves partial demo/dispo must either indicate the date that a demo/dispo application was approved by HUD, or the date the demo/dispo application was submitted. If the demo/dispo application was not approved by the date of the MROP application, the MROP application must be accompanied by evidence of the approval by the unit of general local government in which the project is located; this approval may be obtained from the Chief Executive Officer.
