FR940208-2-00119 FR940208-2-00077 B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition NSCC does not believe a burden will be placed on competition as a result of the proposed rule change. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No comments were received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Section 17A(a)(1)(B) of the Act sets forth Congress findings that inefficient procedures for clearance and settlement of securities transactions impose unnecessary costs on investors and persons facilitating transactions by and acting on behalf of investors. 7 The Commission reasserts its belief, as stated in the previous New York Window approval order, that NSCC's proposed pilot program should help minimize inefficient procedures employed by individual New York City participants by concentrating these operations in one centralized facility. 8 In addition, the Commission also believes that the limited money settlement service should provide a more efficient mechanism by which the two participants can settle their debits and credits generated by the NYW processing. 7 15 U.S.C. 78q-1(a)(1)(B). 8 Supra note 3. Section 17A(b)(3)(F) of the Act requires that the rules of a clearing agency be designed to assure the safeguarding of securities and funds which are in its custody or control or for which it is responsible. 9 The Commission believes that the safety procedures established for the pilot program and approved in the previous New York Window approval order 10 continue to enable NSCC to meet its obligations under the Section 17A of the Act. In addition, the Commission believes the safeguards NSCC will employ in providing limited money settlement services to the two participants also enable NSCC to fulfill its safeguarding obligations. For example, NSCC will not make any payment on behalf of or to the limited money settlement services participants until NSCC has received funds sufficient to cover the amount of NSCC's payment. 9 15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(F). 10 Supra note 3. NSCC has requested that the Commission find good cause for approving the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of the filing. The Commission finds good cause for so approving the proposed rule change because the Commission has previously published notice of and has approved the NYW pilot program. NSCC's previous proposed rule change did not generate any comment letters, and none are expected on this proposal. The limited money settlement services have not been previously noticed or approved; however, the Commission does not believe the services raised any controversial issues. In addition, accelerated approval will allow the two participants to begin utilizing the new service immediately and to begin benefitting from the efficient and centralized payment procedures provided by NSCC. During the temporary approval period, NSCC will continue to evaluate the New York Window program and the limited money settlement services. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submissions, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549, and at the principal offices of NSCC. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;93&hyph;14 and should be submitted by March 1, 1994. V. Conclusion It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 11 that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;93&hyph;14) be, and hereby is, approved until January 31, 1995. 11 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2). For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 12 12 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1992). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2827 Filed 2&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
