FR940222-0-00034 FR940222-0-00011 Comment: It is not uncommon for physicians to have a contract with an academic hospital to provide individual, personal services to hospital patients and for the contract to provide for the physicians to bill the patient or their insurer directly for those services. In these cases, the hospital does not bill patients/insurers and makes no payment to the physician for the services. To require hospitals to change such billing arrangements serves no useful purpose. Response: We agree, and it was not our intent to require hospitals to change their billing arrangements. The CHAMPUS regulation has always had the requirement that physicians who are employed by or under contract to the hospital cannot bill for their services. This, however, is intended to apply only to those contracts which incorporate payment to the physicians. It does not include contracts which only provide physicians with normal privileges to admit patients and to render services in the hospital on a fee-for-service basis. In order to reflects this intent, we have modified the language in ยง199.4 (c)(3)(xiii)(A)( 4 ) as well as in ยง199.6 (c)(1). Comment: In addition to interns and residents, fellows in certain subspecialties are also ``physicians in training.'' It is unclear from the document whether or not a fellow in a subspecialty would be considered a ``physician in training.'' Response: We consider fellows to be physicians in training, and we have added them to the definition in ยง199.2. Section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) of 1980 (Pub. L. 96&hyph;354) requires that each federal agency prepare and make available for public comment a regulatory flexibility analysis when the agency issues a regulation which would have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. The Department of Defense certifies, pursuant to section 605(b) of title 5, United States Code, enacted by the Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 96&hyph;354), that this final amendment will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small businesses, organizations, or government jurisdictions. For purposes of the RFA, we consider small entities to include all hospitals and third-party payers. We have determined that this final amendment is a routine amendment necessary to provide specific requirements for existing policies and to implement legislation which authorized expanded CHAMPUS benefits, and relieved administrative requirements for the CHAMPUS beneficiary and provider community. It is not, therefore, a ``major rule'' under Executive Order 12291. This final rule only provides specific requirements for existing policies; expands benefits; and ensures equitable administration of CHAMPUS requirements among mental health providers with comparable education and training while also protecting CHAMPUS beneficiaries from incurring added costs for mental health care not normally covered under the CHAMPUS program. It will not involve any significant burden on CHAMPUS beneficiaries or providers. Although this change does not qualify as a ``major rule'' under Executive Order 12291, a cost analysis for costs associated with implementing screening mammogram and Pap tests was provided in the proposed rule amendment on screening mammogram and PAP tests. Additionally, an increase in program costs related to implementation of this final amendment for the issues related to certified marriage and family therapists and physicians in teaching settings are not expected to be substantial, since this amendment will eliminate administrative requirements for certified marriage and family therapists for CHAMPUS, the beneficiary and the provider population and only better defines the specific requirements for coverage of existing policies related to physicians in teaching settings. This final rule does not impose information collection requirements. Therefore, it does not need to be reviewed by the Executive Office of Management and Budget under authority of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501&hyph;3511). List of Subjects in 32 CFR Part 199 Claims, Handicapped, Health insurance, Military personnel. Accordingly, 32 CFR part 199 is amended as follows: 1. The authority citation for part 199 continues to read as follows:
