FR940627-0-00137 FR940627-0-00019 VI. Emission Generation A. General Approach As part of the registration requirements, F/FA manufacturers are required to conduct a detailed characterization of the combustion and evaporative emissions of their products, as well as biological tests in which animals are exposed to these emissions. The next sections describe the methods specified in the rule for generating the emissions to be used in these chemical and biological tests. As proposed in the NPRM, combustion emissions are to be generated using applicable portions of the FTP. 22 To control some of the inherent variability of FTP emissions generated under transient engine operation, 23 this final rule requires the use of a mixing chamber or other apparatus (see Section VI.B.2). This is one of the approaches discussed for consideration in the Reopening Notice. EPA is permitting the use of either the engine dynamometer or the chassis dynamometer for emission generation during biological testing using FTP or FTP-equivalent cycles. For the reasons discussed in the Reopening Notice, EPA has decided to require the use of non-catalyzed emissions (i.e., untreated exhaust emissions) 24 for biological testing in order to assure that the test animals are exposed to the full range of emission species potentially resulting from the combustion of F/FAs. A brief summary of the rationale behind this decision is included below. 22 Federal Test Procedure (FTP) are the standard exhaust and evaporative emissions test procedures described in 40 CFR part 86 and used by EPA to certify new vehicles. 23 Transient engine operation is achieved by varying the engine speed and/or engine load, which typically results in an emission stream varying in quantity and composition over time. 24 Exhaust emission not subject to an aftertreatment device such as a functional catalyst or particulate trap. It is important to keep in mind that the purpose of this program is not to test the effectiveness of emission control devices or to directly evaluate the emission performance of various vehicles and engines. Rather, it is to examine the potential toxicologic effects of the emissions produced by F/FAs in use. With modern emission control technology in place, most of the ambient air pollutant species attributable to automobile exhaust come from two sources: Malfunctioning vehicles (``high emitters'') and normal vehicles during their cold start period, when their engines run rich and their catalytic converters have not yet reached effective operating temperatures. The variety of emissions from these two important sources are not well represented by hot, catalyzed exhaust generated from well- maintained, modern vehicles. Emissions during the cold-start include hundreds of organic chemical species which are generated before the catalytic converter reaches its effective temperature. Once the catalytic converter is warmed-up, its efficiency increases to the point where only a dozen or so simple compounds remain in readily measurable amounts in the catalyzed exhaust. Thus, the use of catalyzed exhaust in the biological testing program would exclude from the tests relevant emission species that could potentially be harmful to human health or the environment. In fact, laboratory animals would be exposed to only very few of the organic emission species associated with the combustion of the fuel or additive of interest. In contrast, the ambient air normally contains the full range of combustion emissions, since cold-start emissions are continuously reintroduced and some ``high emitters'' are always in operation. Since humans experience long-term exposure to these emissions, EPA believes it is important that they be included in the test exposure atmosphere. EPA's analysis 25 of non-catalyzed emission data demonstrates that emissions that receive no aftertreatment represent a comprehensive aggregate of characteristic combustion products at enriched concentrations, including the species which may otherwise be emitted only during the cold start or by high- emitting vehicles. In order to simulate emissions that include the full range of potential species produced in the combustion of F/FAs, EPA is requiring the use of non-catalyzed emissions for biological testing in this program. 25 See memorandum from Stephen Mayotte to Docket A&hyph;90&hyph;07 (Item No. IV&hyph;B&hyph;02) regarding ``Engine-out versus Tailpipe Emissions in Light-duty Vehicles.'' With the exception of exhaust after-treatment devices, this final rule requires that all normally required emission control equipment be present and fully operational on all test vehicles and heavy-duty engines used in the generation of non-catalyzed emissions. In order to maintain the appropriate operation of the exhaust system while obtaining non-catalyzed emissions, EPA requires the use of non-functional aftertreatment devices (e.g., a blank catalyst with no catalytic wash coat) in order to simulate the back pressure, residence time, and mixing characteristics usually provided by normally functioning aftertreatment devices. Special emission generation allowances for the testing of specific additives which are introduced for use in conjunction with certain aftertreatment devices are discussed in Section VI.F.
