FR941207-0-00049 FR941207-0-00009 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;207&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;9085; AD 94&hyph;25&hyph;01] Airworthiness Directives; Boeing Model 747 Series Airplanes Equipped with Pratt & Whitney Model JT9D&hyph;70 Engines AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule; request for comments. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain Model 747 series airplanes. This action requires inspections to detect cracking of the surfaces of the outboard strut spring beam, and replacement of cracked spring beams. It also requires an inspection to detect damage to the structure that is adjacent to the cracked spring beam, and replacement of any cracked parts. This amendment is prompted by a report of failure of a spring beam due to cracking that was propagated by fatigue. The actions specified in this AD are intended to prevent failure of a spring beam, which could lead to loss of an outboard strut. DATES: Effective on December 22, 1994. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in the regulations is approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of December 22, 1994. Comments for inclusion in the Rules Docket must be received on or before February 6, 1995. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;207&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. The service information referenced in this AD may be obtained from Boeing Commercial Airplane Group, P.O. Box 3707, Seattle, Washington 98124&hyph;2207. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Tim Backman, Aerospace Engineer, Airframe Branch, ANM&hyph;120S, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, Seattle Aircraft Certification Office, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2776; fax (206) 227&hyph;1181. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Recently, the FAA received a report that the spring beam on a Boeing Model 747&hyph;200 series airplane equipped with Pratt & Whitney (P&W) Model JT9D&hyph;70 engines was severed (failed) forward of the mid pivot bolt housing at the outboard spring beam on the number 4 outboard strut. Investigation revealed that cracking initiated at a flaw (porosity) in the material of the spring beam and propagated due to fatigue. The subject airplane was operated as a freighter and had accumulated 15,809 total flight cycles on the struts. This airplane was originally delivered with P&W Model JT9D&hyph;3 engines and struts, but was later reconfigured with P&W Model JT9D&hyph;70 engines and struts. Spring beams are used in place of midspar fittings on the outboard struts of all Model 747 series airplanes, except those equipped with P&W Model JT9D&hyph;3 and &hyph;7 engines. (The P&W Model JT9D&hyph;3 and &hyph;7 engines have midspar fittings at the outboard strut.) Airplanes equipped with P&W Model JT9D&hyph;70 engines have spring beams that are made of titanium. All other spring beams are made of steel, which analyses and tests have shown to be more resistant to fatigue cracking than titanium spring beams. Fatigue cracking, if not corrected, could result in failure of a spring beam, which could lead to the loss of an outboard strut. The FAA has reviewed and approved Boeing Alert Service Bulletin 747&hyph;54A2171, dated October 31, 1994, which describes procedures for repetitive detailed visual inspections to detect cracking of the upper, lower, and side surfaces of the spring beam, and replacement of cracked spring beams with new spring beams. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other airplanes of the same type design, this AD is being issued to prevent failure of a spring beam due to fatigue cracking, which could lead to the loss of an outboard strut. This AD requires repetitive detailed visual inspections to detect cracking of the surfaces of the spring beam from the root of the clevis lugs to the forward journal, and replacement of cracked spring beams with new spring beams. This AD also requires an additional detailed visual inspection to detect damage of the adjacent spring beam and all support fittings of the affected strut, and replacement of any cracked parts with new parts. The actions are required to be accomplished in accordance with the alert service bulletin described previously. As an alternative to the repetitive detailed visual inspections, this AD also provides for an optional terminating action, which entails removing the spring beam, accomplishing a fluorescent dye penetrant inspection, and accomplishing a zero-time overhaul of the spring beam, in accordance with Section 54&hyph;00&hyph;01 of the Boeing Overhaul Manual, and reinstalling that spring beam. As a result of recent communications with the Air Transport Association (ATA) of America, the FAA has learned that, in general, some operators may misunderstand the legal effect of AD's on airplanes that are identified in the applicability provision of the AD, but that have been altered or repaired in the area addressed by the AD. The FAA points out that all airplanes identified in the applicability provision of an AD are legally subject to the AD. If an airplane has been altered or repaired in the affected area in such a way as to affect compliance with the AD, the owner or operator is required to obtain FAA approval for an alternative method of compliance with the AD, in accordance with the paragraph of each AD that provides for such approvals. A note has been included in this rule to clarify this requirement. Since a situation exists that requires the immediate adoption of this regulation, it is found that notice and opportunity for prior public comment hereon are impracticable, and that good cause exists for making this amendment effective in less than 30 days. Comments Invited Although this action is in the form of a final rule that involves requirements affecting flight safety and, thus, was not preceded by notice and an opportunity for public comment, comments are invited on this rule. Interested persons are invited to comment on this rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified under the caption ADDRESSES . All communications received on or before the closing date for comments will be considered, and this rule may be amended in light of the comments received. Factual information that supports the commenter's ideas and suggestions is extremely helpful in evaluating the effectiveness of the AD action and determining whether additional rulemaking action would be needed. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the rule that might suggest a need to modify the rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report that summarizes each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this AD will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this rule must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;NM&hyph;207&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. The regulations adopted herein will not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this final rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. The FAA has determined that this regulation is an emergency regulation that must be issued immediately to correct an unsafe condition in aircraft, and that it is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866. It has been determined further that this action involves an emergency regulation under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979). If it is determined that this emergency regulation otherwise would be significant under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures, a final regulatory evaluation will be prepared and placed in the Rules Docket. A copy of it, if filed, may be obtained from the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES. List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Incorporation by reference, Safety. Adoption of the Amendment Accordingly, pursuant to the authority delegated to me by the Administrator, the Federal Aviation Administration amends part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 39) as follows: PART 39_AIRWORTHINESS DIRECTIVES 1. The authority citation for part 39 continues to read as follows:
