FR940428-0-00006 FR940428-0-00003 Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 9 CFR Parts 54 and 79 [Docket No. 93&hyph;050&hyph;2] Scrapie: Sheep and Goats Less Than 1 Year of Age Moved to Slaughter AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: We are amending the scrapie regulations to allow sheep and goats less than 1 year of age from scrapie-infected or source flocks to move interstate to slaughter, without being permanently identified with an indelible ``S'' mark, if they are accompanied by a permit and moved in a sealed means of conveyance. We are also providing that the diagnosis of scrapie necessary to categorize a flock as an infected flock, source flock, or trace flock must have been made after March 31, 1989, and are providing that flank tattoos and ear tattoos are acceptable forms of identification for certain sheep and goats moved interstate. These changes will provide safeguards necessary to guard against the interstate spread of scrapie, while eliminating unnecessarily restrictive marking and identification requirements. EFFECTIVE DATE: May 31, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Dan Harpster, Senior Staff Veterinarian, Miscellaneous Diseases Staff, Veterinary Services, APHIS, USDA, room 701, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20872, (301) 436&hyph;6954. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulations in 9 CFR part 79 (referred to below as the regulations) contain provisions restricting the interstate movement of sheep and goats because of scrapie. Scrapie is a progressive degenerative disease of the central nervous system of sheep and goats. The disease develops slowly, with an incubation period lasting from months to years. The regulations are designed to prevent the interstate transmission of scrapie. On November 12, 1993, we published in the Federal Register (58 FR 59955&hyph;59959, Docket No. 93&hyph;050&hyph;1) a proposal to amend the regulations to allow sheep and goats less than 1 year of age from scrapie-infected or source flocks to move interstate to slaughter, without being permanently identified with an indelible ``S'' mark, if they are accompanied by a permit and are moved in sealed means of conveyance. We also proposed to provide that the diagnosis of scrapie necessary to categorize a flock as an infected flock, source flock, or trace flock must have been made after March 31, 1989, and proposed to make flank tattoos and ear tattoos acceptable forms of identification for certain sheep and goats moved interstate. We solicited comments concerning our proposal for a 60-day comment period ending January 11, 1994. We received four comments by that date, from a member of the lamb industry, a veterinary medical association, and two sheep industry associations. One commenter supported the entire proposal. One commenter raised issues beyond the scope of the proposal. The other two commenters supported the proposal with one qualification. Both indicated that our proposal stated that flank tattoos and ear tattoos should be considered acceptable forms of identification because electronic implant devices are ``unavailable.'' The commenters stated that, rather than being unavailable, electronic implant devices enjoy widespread acceptance and usage. Both commenters stated that such devices offer more consistency and are more likely to be permanent than other forms of identification. One of the commenters recommended that the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) coordinate the distribution and application of electronic implants for the voluntary scrapie flock certification program. We are making no changes based on these comments. We agree with the commenters that electronic implant devices are in many ways superior to either flank tattoos or ear tattoos. However, at present, electronic implant devices are cost-prohibitive for many owners. In addition to this problem, there does not yet exist an internationally recognized set of standards for electronic implant devices. Therefore, a reader capable of reading one type of electronic implant device might not be able to read another. Although APHIS is committed to purchasing electronic implant readers as part of the voluntary scrapie flock certification program, we do not consider such purchases advisable until one reader can be used on several different companies' implants. For these reasons, we consider it appropriate at this time to allow forms of identification other than electronic implant devices. Therefore, based on the rationale set forth in the proposed rule and in this document, we are adopting the provisions of the proposal as the final rule. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866 and therefore has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget.
