FR940119-0-00064 FR940119-0-00014 (3) The appellant may request a review of the initial decision by the Regional Director by so requesting in writing within 30 days of the notice of initial decision. If the appellant does not request a review of the initial decision within 30 days, the initial decision shall become the final administrative action of the Department of Commerce. The appellant's request for review must elect either to have the review conducted by a hearing officer appointed by the Regional Director or by an Advisory Appeals Board if established pursuant to paragraph (a)(9)(iv)(B) of this section. (4) Recommendations to the Regional Director _(i) Hearing Officer. If the initial decision is reviewed by a hearing officer, the hearing officer shall make findings and a recommendation to the Regional Director which shall be advisory only. (ii) Advisory Appeals Board. If an Advisory Appeals Board is established under ยง650.4(a)(9)(iv), an appellant may request that the initial decision of his/her appeal be reviewed by the Appeals Board. If such a request is made, the Regional Director shall forward the request to the Appeals Board within 15 days after receipt. Any initial decision reviewed by an Appeals Board made up of other than Federal employees shall be open to the public, including all documentation presented to support the appeal. The Appeals Board shall make findings and a recommendation to the Council, which shall be advisory only. The Council in turn shall make findings and an advisory-only recommendation to the Regional Director. (5) Upon receiving the findings and recommendation, the Regional Director will issue a final decision on the appeal. The Regional Director's decision is the final administrative action of the Department of Commerce. (6) Status of vessels pending appeal of DAS allocations. A vessel, for which an appeal of its DAS category has been initiated, may fish under the DAS allocation allowed under the next higher category than the vessel's initial category placement if the vessel has on board a letter of authorization from the Regional Director, regardless of what category the vessel is appealing to be placed in, and is subject to all requirements applicable to such category of vessels unless otherwise exempted. That is, if a vessel was initially placed in the Part-time category, that vessel may fish up to the maximum number of DAS allocated to Full-time vessels until the Regional Director has made a final determination on the appeal. If a vessel is initially placed in the Occasional category, that vessel may fish up to the DAS allocated to Part-time vessels, regardless of what category the Occasional vessel is appealing to be placed in, until the Regional Director has made a final determination on the appeal. Any DAS spent fishing for scallops shall be counted against the DAS allocation of the category that the vessel is ultimately placed in. If, before this appeal is decided, a vessel exceeds the number of DAS it is finally allocated after appeal, the excess DAS will be subtracted from the vessel's allocation of DAS in 1995. (g) End-of-year carry-over. Limited access vessels with unused DAS on December 31 of any year may carry-over a maximum of 10 DAS into the next year. At no time may more than 10 DAS be carried over. (h) Good Samaritan credit. Limited access vessels fishing under the DAS program and that spend time at sea for one of the following reasons, and that can document the occurrence through the Coast Guard, will not accrue DAS for the time documented: (1) Time spent assisting in a Coast Guard search and rescue operation; or (2) Time spent assisting the Coast Guard in towing a disabled vessel. ยง650.25 Monitoring requirements. (a) Full-time and Part-time limited access vessels. To be issued a Full-time or Part-time limited access scallop permit as specified in ยง650.4(a), all vessels must provide documentation to the Regional Director that the vessel has an operational VTS unit on board that is part of an approved VTS as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and meets the minimum performance criteria specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, or as modified annually as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. (1) Approval. The Regional Director will annually approve VTSs that meet minimum performance criteria specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Any changes to the performance criteria will be published annually in the Federal Register and a list of approved VTSs will be published in the Federal Register upon addition or deletion of a VTS from the list. In the event that a VTS is deleted from the list, vessel owners that purchased a VTS unit that is part of that VTS prior to publication of the revised list will be considered to be in compliance with the requirement to have an approved unit unless otherwise notified by the Regional Director. (2) Minimum VTS performance criteria. The basic required features of the VTS are as follows: (i) The VTS shall be tamper proof, i.e. , shall not permit the input of false positions; furthermore, if a system uses satellites to determine position, satellite selection should be automatic to provide an optimal fix and should not be capable of being manually overridden by any person on board a fishing vessel or by the vessel owner; (ii) The VTS shall be fully automatic and operational at all times regardless of weather and environmental conditions; (iii) The VTS shall be capable of tracking vessels in all U.S. waters in the Atlantic Ocean from the shoreline of each coastal state to a line 215 nautical miles offshore and shall provide position accuracy to within 400 meters (1,300 feet); (iv) The VTS shall be capable of transmitting and storing information including vessel identification, date, time, and latitude/longitude;
