FR940429-2-00131 FR940429-2-00089 Applicants making requests for CHSP funds should take this practice into account and make early submission of their materials to avoid any risk of lost eligibility brought about by unanticipated delivery-related problems. Applications received after the date and time stated herein will not be accepted, and will be returned to the applicant. Each application package must be identified on the envelope or wrapper as follows: CHSP FY 1994 Application Package, Due by 3 p.m., Eastern Daylight Time July 13, 1994. Determination whether an application is received in a timely manner is solely the responsibility of FmHA Headquarters. The decision of that Office is not subject to appeal. E. Eligibility Review HUD Field Office/FmHA State office staff will review all timely applications for eligibility. Both applicants and projects will be reviewed to determine that the applicant entity and the project included in the application, if different, is eligible under the terms of this NOFA and the common rule to participate in the FY 1994 CHSP. Applicants must submit a copy of their charter or other evidence of legal status and of their authority to run a CHSP, or evidence of non-profit status as a local non-profit housing sponsor, as appropriate. Applicants that are applying as local non-profit housing sponsors or PHA/IHAs must ALSO submit proof of ownership of the project submitted in the application. Applicants must also submit proof of project eligibility, as shown by a copy of the regulatory agreement, the HAP contract, or other document which shows the project's legal identity. All proofs of eligibility or ownership must be legally signed and dated on or before the application deadline. Eligibility will also include determination that the application was submitted to the appropriate HUD or FmHA office. Applicants and/or projects which are not eligible or have been submitted to the incorrect HUD field office/FmHA State office will be rejected and so notified by the appropriate office at this time. Applications which pass eligibility review will proceed to threshold/technical deficiency review. If eligibility material is missing, it will be treated as a deficiency, subject to sections II.F(4) and III below. F. Threshold and Technical Deficiency Review 1. General. HUD Field Offices/FmHA Headquarters staff will review applications for threshold and technical acceptability concurrently. 2. First, each application will be checked for completeness. Any application missing three or more exhibits other than certifications will be rejected by the HUD Field Office/FmHA Headquarters, with the applicant being notified. 3. Second, the applications will be checked for threshold eligibility. During this review, an applicant (or project in the case of an application from a governmental jurisdiction) will be rejected if: a. The project is not 85 percent occupied; b. It has not met the match requirement (i.e., there is a lack of clear and documented evidence of at least a 50 percent eligible match for the supportive services from the applicant or project owners, or from third party providers, for the first year of the five-year grant).
