FR940825-1-00014 FR940825-1-00002 (d) Firestopping shall consist of approved noncombustible materials securely fastened in place. In open spaces of wood framing, firestops may be of approved noncombustible materials or of two-inch lumber installed with tight joints or the equivalent. (e) The integrity of all firestopping and draftstopping materials shall be continuously maintained. (f) Firestopping shall be installed in the locations specified in section f.11.(a), including: (1) concealed wall spaces; (2) connections between horizontal and vertical spaces; (3) concealed spaces between stairway stringers at the top and bottom of the run; and (4) ceilings and floor openings. (g) Draftstopping shall be installed in ATCTs of Types III and IV construction in locations specified below: (1) Floors. Where ceilings are suspended below solid wood joists or suspended or attached directly to the bottom of open-web wood floor trusses, the space between the ceiling and the floor above shall be divided by draftstopping installed so that horizontal areas do not exceed 1,000 square feet. (2) Draftstopping materials shall not be less than half-inch gypsum board, 3/8-inch plywood or other approved materials adequately supported. (3) Concealed roof spaces shall be provided with draftstopping such that no horizontal area exceeds 3,000 square feet. Exception: Draftstopping is not required in a concealed space when ATCTs are equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system, provided that automatic sprinklers are also installed in combustible concealed spaces. 12. Hazardous Areas. Rooms or Areas designated as hazardous areas shall be separated from the remainder of the ATCT by fire separation assemblies as follows: (a) Boiler and furnace rooms. Boiler and furnace rooms shall be separated by 1-hour fire resistance rated construction or provided with an automatic fire suppression system. (b) Storage rooms. (1) Storage rooms greater than 50 square feet in area shall be separated by 1-hour fire resistance rated construction. (2) Storage rooms greater than 100 square feet in area shall be separated by 2-hour fire resistance rated construction. (c) Engine generator rooms shall be separated from the remainder of the ATCT by 2-hour fire resistance rated construction. (d) Other Electrical Equipment Rooms. Other electrical equipment rooms shall be separated by 1 hour fire resistance rated construction or provided with an automatic fire suppression system. 13. Connections to Base Buildings. (a) The base building shall be separated from the ATCT by a fire separation assembly with a minimum fire resistance rating equivalent to the rating required of the stair shaft. (b) The exit stairway of an ATCT which is directly connected to a base building, or is connected to a base building by a link, shall be a smokeproof enclosure or pressurized in accordance with this standard. (c) ATCTs surrounded by a base building shall have the following: A. At least one smokeproof or pressurized stairway. B. ATCT stairways that discharge into a base building at the level of exit discharge with these considerations: (a) Means of Egress on the level of exit discharge shall be free and unobstructed to the exterior of the building. (b) Entire level of exist discharge is provided with automatic sprinkler protection, and any nonsprinklered areas are separated by fire rated construction equivalent to the rating required for the stair shaft. (c) Smoke detectors shall be provided in all hazardous areas of the base building not separated by fire rated construction equivalent to the rating required for the stairway. (d) Smoke detectors shall be provided on the base building side of openings between the ATCT and the base building. C. Where the ATCT exist stairway does not discharge onto the level of exit discharge of the base building (as in an ATCT on top of a terminal) safe and continuous passageways, aisles, or corridors leading directly to base building exits shall be maintained and so arranged as to provide convenient access for each occupant to at least two exists by separate ways of travel, except as a single exit or limited dead ends are permitted by other provisions of this standard.
