FR940419-2-00039 FR940419-2-00033 Administration for Children and Families [Program Announcement No. 93656&hyph;941] Temporary Child Care for Children With Disabilities and Crisis Nurseries Program AGENCY: Administration on Children, Youth and Families (ACYF), Administration for Children and Families (ACF), Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS). ACTION: Announcement of the availability of financial assistance and request for applications from States to support demonstration projects to provide temporary child care for children with disabilities and children with chronic illnesses, and crisis nurseries for abused and neglected children and children at risk of abuse and neglect. SUMMARY: The Administration on Children, Youth and Families (ACYF) announces the availability of fiscal year 1994 funds for competing new discretionary grants under the Temporary Child Care for Children with Disabilities and Crisis Nurseries Program. Funding for ACYF grants and the Cooperative Agreement identified in this announcement is authorized by legislation governing ACF programs in the Administration on Children, Youth and Families. This announcement contains all of the necessary application material to apply for these grants and the Cooperative Agreement. DATES: The closing date for the submission of all applications under this announcement is June 20, 1994. ADDRESSES: Applications may be mailed to the Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., 6th Floor East, OFM/DDG, Washington, DC 20447. (Reference announcement number and priority area.) Hand delivered applications are accepted during the normal working hours of 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, on or prior to the established closing date at: Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 6th Floor OFM/DDG, 901 D Street, SW., Washington, DC 20447. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Children's Bureau, P.O. Box 1182, Washington, DC 20013, Telephone: Ory Cuellar (202) 205&hyph;8899 or Shirley Haile-Howard (202) 205&hyph;8788. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Administration on Children, Youth and Families (ACYF) administers national programs for children and youth, works with States and local communities to develop services which support and strengthen family life, seeks out joint ventures with the private sector to enhance the lives of children and their families, and provides information and other assistance to parents. The concerns of ACYF extend to all children from birth through adolescence. Many of the programs administered by the agency focus on children from low-income families; children and youth in need of foster care, adoption or other child welfare services; preschool children; children with disabilities; abused and neglected children; runaway and homeless youth; and children from American Indian and migrant families.
