FR940728-2-00014 FR940728-2-00009 1. For CV, we recalculated profit based on revised general administrative and interest expense rates provided at verification. In instances where we compared Enlin's U.S. prices to CV, we made deductions, where appropriate, for the weighted-average home market or third country direct selling expenses as appropriate. Currency Conversion We made currency conversions based on the official exchange rates in effect on the dates of the U.S. sales as certified by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we verified information provided by Enlin, Ta Chen and Yih Tai by using standard verification procedures, including the examination of relevant sales and financial records, and selection of original source documentation containing relevant information. Interested Party Comments Comment 1: Enlin contends that certain corrections requested by the Department, to revise certain expenses affected by a change in the reporting of weight of cross-shaped fittings, should be disregarded as insignificant under 19 CFR 353.59. DOC Position: We disagree with Enlin. The Department has discretion under 19 CFR 353.59(a) to disregard insignificant adjustments. However, in this case we have sufficient verified information to revise these related expenses and have done so for the final determination. Comment 2: Enlin contends that its profit calculation, which was provided in its April 21, 1994, response to the Department's Section D deficiency letter, should be updated to reflect changes made to COP based on the use of 1993 audited financial statement information in the calculation of general and administrative and interest expense. DOC Position: We agree with Enlin. At verification, Enlin updated its general expense figure to reflect the audited 1993 figures, as opposed to the 1992 figures used in the original calculation. Therefore, the Department adjusted Enlin's submitted profit percentage to reflect the changes made to Enlin's general expenses. Comment 3: At verification, the Department noted that Ta Chen incorrectly reported the date of shipment for its U.S. purchase price sales. Ta Chen reported the date the SST pipe fittings were exported rather than the date the SST pipe fittings were shipped from the factory. Ta Chen requests that, when the Department makes an adjustment to its reported date of shipment, based on the average time between shipment and export of specific sales examined at verification, it should not take into account one shipment in particular because it was shipped in an atypical manner. DOC Position: We disagree with respondent. At verification, the Department selected a number of U.S. purchase price sales and noted the period between shipment and export for most of the sales examined. The Department's observations were made on Ta Chen's actual experience. We found no indication that the shipment in question was unusual or distortive. Accordingly, we have included this shipment in calculating the average lag time between factory shipment and export in order to estimate shipment dates for Ta Chen's U.S. purchase price sales. For those sales specifically examined at verification, we used the actual lag time noted. Comment 4: Ta Chen claims that the Department should not use the interest rate available to its U.S. subsidiary, TCI, to calculate imputed credit for its purchase price sales because Ta Chen receives lower U.S. denominated financing specifically for these sales. Ta Chen further argues that to use TCI's interest rate for purchase price sales would be inconsistent with Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value, Certain Forged Steel Crankshafts from the United Kingdom, (52 FR 32951 (September 1, 1987) ( Crankshafts ). At verification, the Department noted that TCI receives payment from the U.S. customer for purchase price sales and reimburses Ta Chen for the price of the merchandise. Ta Chen argues that it bears the burden of TCI's costs for purchase price sales and thus it is appropriate to use the Taiwan interest rate for U.S. dollar borrowing. DOC Position: We agree with respondent that the U.S. dollar interest rate at which Ta Chen borrowed in the home market is the most appropriate for U.S. purchase price sales, but for a reason other than that expressed in Crankshafts. In Crankshafts, the Department stated that its policy at that time was to use the home market interest rate to compute credit for U.S. purchase price sales where respondent did not receive U.S. dollar denominated financing. However, in accordance with, United Engineering and Forging v. United States 779 F. Supp. 1375, 1386&hyph;7 (CIT 1991) and LMI La Metalli Industriale, S.p.A. v. United States 912 F.2d 455 (Fed. Cir. 1990), the Department is required to use the lowest rate at which the respondent has borrowed or to which the respondent has access. See Final Determinations of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Certain Hot-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products, Certain Cold-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products, Certain Corrosion-Resistant Carbon Steel Flat Products, and Certain Cut-to-Length Carbon Steel Plate from Canada, 59 Fed. Reg. 37099, 37113 (1993). Ta Chen, as a whole, had access to U.S. dollar funding at two interest rates. Accordingly, it is reasonable to assume that Ta Chen would have been able to borrow at the lower rate. Therefore, we used the lower U.S. dollar borrowing rate for both ESP and PP sales, in this case Ta Chen's home market borrowing rate for U.S. dollars. Comment 5: Ta Chen contends that conversion costs used in its calculation of COM included the labor and material cost of packing, which was recorded separately in Ta Chen's submitted costs. Ta Chen claims that these packing labor and material costs are double counted, as both packing and COM, and thus should be removed from COM. DOC Position: We agree with Ta Chen. At verification, the Department verified that the packing labor and material costs had been included in Ta Chen's reported conversion costs used in the calculation of COM. In order to avoid double counting these costs as both packing and COM, we reduced COM by the packing labor and material amounts reported. Comment 6: Ta Chen states that it allocated total material input costs over good product produced, without adjusting for revenue received from the sale of scrap generated in production. Ta Chen claims that the Department should thus reduce reported material costs to account for revenue from the sale of scrap. DOC Position: We agree with Ta Chen. At verification, the Department was able to confirm the amount of scrap sales during the POI and the fact that they had not been included as a reduction of Ta Chen's material costs when calculating COM. Continuation of Suspension of Liquidation We are directing the Customs Service to continue to suspend liquidation of all entries of Class 150 Stainless Steel Pipe Fittings from Taiwan, except for those of Ta Chen and Yih Tai, that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after March 8, 1994, the date of publication of our preliminary determination in the Federal Register . The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or posting of a bond equal to the estimated amount by which the FMV of the merchandise subject to this investigation exceeds the U.S. price, as shown below. This suspension of liquidation will remain in effect until further notice. The weighted-average dumping margins are as follows: ␣ 1Producer/manufacturer exporter 1Weighted-average margin (percent) Enlin Steel Corporation 7.47 Ta Chen Stainless Pipe Co., Ltd. 0.003 Yih Tai Industries Co., Ltd. 0.08 All Others 7.47 ITC Notification In accordance with section 735(d) of the Act, we have notified the U.S. International Trade Commission of our determination. Notification to Interested Parties This notice also serves as the only reminder to parties subject to administrative protective order (APO) of their responsibility concerning the return or destruction of proprietary information disclosed under APO in accordance with 19 CFR 353.34(d). Failure to comply is a violation of the APO. This determination is published pursuant to section 735(d) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.20(a)(4). Dated: July 21, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18445 Filed 7&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
