FR941104-1-00036 FR941104-1-00006 The petitioner states that along the eastern edge of the proposed St. Helena area, geologic and geographic evidence support the inclusion of Spring Valley and Pratt Valley and the exclusion of Conn Valley and the higher mountain slopes. Proposed Boundary The boundary of the proposed St. Helena viticultural area may be found on three United States Geological Survey (U.S.G.S.) maps with a scale of 1:24,000. The boundary is described in proposed ยง9.149. Paperwork Reduction Act The provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, Public Law 96&hyph;511, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35, and its implementing regulations, 5 CFR Part 1320, do not apply to this notice of proposed rulemaking because no requirement to collect information is proposed. Regulatory Flexibility Act It is hereby certified that this proposed regulation will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The establishment of a viticultural area is neither an endorsement nor approval by ATF of the quality of wine produced in the area, but rather an identification of an area that is distinct from surrounding areas. ATF believes that the establishment of viticultural areas merely allows wineries to more accurately describe the origin of their wines to consumers, and helps consumers identify the wines they purchase. Thus, any benefit derived from the use of a viticultural area name is the result of the proprietor's own efforts and consumer acceptance of wines from that region. Accordingly, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required because the proposal, if promulgated as a final rule, is not expected (1) to have significant secondary, or incidental effects on a substantial number of small entities; or (2) to impose, or otherwise cause a significant increase in the reporting, recordkeeping, or other compliance burdens on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12866 It has been determined that this proposed regulation is not a significant regulatory action as defined by Executive Order 12866. Accordingly, this proposal is not subject to the analysis required by this Executive Order. Public Participation ATF requests comments from all interested parties. Comments received on or before the closing date will be carefully considered. Comments received after that date will be given the same consideration if it is practical to do so, but assurance of consideration cannot be given except as to comments received on or before the closing date. ATF will not recognize any comment as confidential. Comments may be disclosed to the public. Any material which a commenter considers to be confidential or inappropriate for disclosure to the public should not be included in the comment. The name of the person submitting a comment is not exempt from disclosure. During the comment period, any person may request an opportunity to present oral testimony at a public hearing. However, the Director reserves the right to determine, in light of all circumstances, whether a public hearing will be held. Drafting Information The principal author of this document is Robert White, Wine and Beer Branch, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. List of Subjects in 27 CFR Part 9 Administrative practices and procedures, Consumer protection, Viticultural areas, and Wine. Authority and Issuance Title 27, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 9, American Viticultural Areas, is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 9_AMERICAN VITICULTURAL AREAS Paragraph 1. The authority citation for Part 9 continues to read as follows: Authority: 27 U.S.C. 205. Par. 2. Subpart C is amended by adding ยง9.149 to read as follows:
