FR940816-2-00054 FR940816-2-00043 F. ``Integrated joint venture'' means a joint arrangement to provide health-care services in which physicians who would otherwise be competitors pool their capital to finance the venture, by themselves or together with others, and share a substantial risk of loss from their participation in the venture. II It is further ordered that each surgeon respondent directly or indirectly, or through any corporate or other device, in connection with the provision of health-care services in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in Section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. ยง44, forthwith cease and desist from entering into, attempting to enter into, organizing or attempting to organize, implementing or attempting to implement, or continuing or attempting to continue any combination, agreement, or understanding, express or implied, for the purpose or with the effect of: A. Preventing the offering or delivery of surgical services by the District, Broward General, North Broward, or any other provider of health-care services, including, but not limited to, any agreement to refuse to deal or threaten to refuse to deal with the District, Broward General, North Broward, or any other provider of health-care services; B. Dealing with the District, Broward General, North Broward, or any other provider of health-care services on collectively determined terms; or C. Encouraging, advising, pressuring, inducing, or attempting to induce any person to engage in any action prohibited by this order. Provided that nothing in this order shall be construed to prohibit any individual surgeon respondent from: 1. Entering into an agreement or combination with any other physician with whom the surgeon respondent practices in partnership or in a professional corporation, or who is employed by the same person as the surgeon respondent, to deal with any third party on collectively determined terms; or 2. Forming, facilitating the formation of, or participating in an integrated joint venture and dealing with any third party on collectively determined terms through the joint venture, as long as the surgeons participating in the joint venture remain free to deal individually with third parties. III It is further ordered that respondent Richard A. Johnson, M.D., shall: A. Dissolve Trauma Associates within one hundred and eighty (180) days after the date on which this order becomes final; and B. file a verified written report demonstrating how he has complied with Section III.A. above, within two hundred and ten (210) days after the date on which this order becomes final. IV It is further ordered that respondent Trauma Associates shall: A. Within thirty (30) days after the date on which this order becomes final, and prior to the dissolution provided for in Section III.A. above, distribute by first-class mail a copy of this order and the accompanying complaint to each party with whom Trauma Associates has entered into contract negotiations or finalized a contract concerning the provision of trauma surgical services; and B. Within sixty (60) days after the date on which this order becomes final, and prior to the dissolution provided for in Section III.A. above, file a verified written report demonstrating how it has complied with Section IV.A. above. V It is further ordered that each surgeon respondent shall: A. File a written report with the Commission within ninety (90) days after the date the order becomes final, and annually thereafter for three (3) years on the anniversary of the date order became final, and at such other times as the Commission may by written notice require, setting forth in detail the manner and form in which the surgeon respondent has complied and is complying with the order; B. For a period of five (5) years after the date on which this order becomes final, notify the Commission in writing within thirty (30) days after the surgeon respondent forms or participates in the formation of, or joins or participates in, any integrated joint venture; and C. For a period of five (5) years after the date on which this order becomes final, maintain and make available to Commission staff, for inspection and copying upon reasonable notice, records sufficient to describe in detail any action taken in connection with the activities covered by this order.
