FR940110-1-00073 FR940110-1-00006 c. Monitoring of District Bank priority or priorities. Section 960.14(g) of the proposed rule sets forth the requirement for monitoring compliance with the District Bank priority or priorities established pursuant to proposed §960.10(d)(4). Section 960.14(g)(1) of the proposed rule provides that if an applicant in its AHP application commits to fund a project that meets a District Bank priority or priorities, the Bank or its designee shall monitor the project to verify that it continues to meet the priority or priorities. Section 960.14(g)(2) of the proposed rule provides that the Bank shall set forth in its AHP implementation plan the nature, frequency and duration for monitoring compliance with the District Bank priority or priorities. d. Monitoring of economic mobility priority. Section 960.14(h) of the proposed rule sets forth the requirement for monitoring compliance with the economic mobility priority set forth under §960.5(d)(5) of the proposed rule. Section 960.14(h) provides that if an applicant in its AHP application commits to fund a project that meets the requirements of §960.5(d)(5), the Bank or its designee shall obtain a certification from the sponsor or the owner upon completion and full occupancy of the project, as required under §960.15(c)(4), that the sponsor or the owner has met such requirements, as committed to in the AHP application. J. Reporting Requirements Section 960.15 of the proposed rule sets forth the reporting requirements for the Banks, the applicants, and the sponsors or owners of AHP-assisted projects. Section 960.15(a) of the proposed rule provides that each Bank shall provide accurate and timely reports and documentation to, and in the format requested by, the Board concerning the Bank's AHP, as the Board may from time to time require. See 12 CFR 960.6(a). 1. Applicant Reporting Requirements Section 960.15(b)(1) of the proposed rule carries forward the requirement in the Board's existing AHP regulation that each Bank shall require an applicant receiving a subsidized advance or direct subsidy to report at least annually to the Bank on the manner in which it has used the funds, with such reports continuing until the funds have been fully disbursed by the applicant. See 12 CFR 960.6(b). The proposed rule eliminates the requirement in the Board's existing AHP regulation that the applicant certify that the AHP subsidy has been passed through to the borrower and continues to be used for approved purposes because, as discussed previously in the section on monitoring requirements, under the proposed rule applicants are not required to monitor the use of a subsidy in AHP-assisted projects, except during the period when a subsidized advance or direct subsidy is used to finance construction or rehabilitation of a project or where the applicant has agreed to undertake monitoring. See 12 CFR 960.6(c). Section 960.15(b)(2) of the proposed rule adds a new requirement that if subsidized advances or direct subsidies are used to finance construction or rehabilitation of an AHP-assisted project, the Bank shall require the applicant to report to the Bank at reasonable intervals determined by the Bank, and described in the Bank's AHP implementation plan, on the progress of the construction or rehabilitation, until completion. This reporting requirement coincides with the requirement in §960.14(d) of the proposed rule that the Bank shall require the applicant to monitor the construction or rehabilitation of an AHP-assisted project and make progress reports to the Bank where AHP subsidized advances or direct subsidies are used to finance such construction or rehabilitation. 2. Sponsor and Owner Reporting Requirements Section 960.15(c) of the proposed rule sets forth the reporting requirements for sponsors and owners. These requirements coincide with the monitoring requirements set forth in §960.14(e) through (h) of the proposed rule. Section 960.15(c)(1)(i) of the proposed rule provides that where a subsidized advance or direct subsidy is used to finance the purchase of an owner-occupied housing unit, the Bank shall require the sponsor to certify at the time a household enters into a purchase contract for such unit or at the closing on the financing for such unit that the unit has been sold to a household with an income at or below the level committed to in the AHP application. Where a subsidized advance or direct subsidy is used to finance the rehabilitation of an owner-occupied housing unit, the Bank shall require the sponsor to certify at the time a loan or grant is committed to fund such rehabilitation that the household that owns and occupies the unit has an income at or below the level committed to in the AHP application. Section 960.15(c)(1)(ii) of the proposed rule provides that if an owner-occupied housing unit assisted by a grant provided under the AHP is not subject to a deed restriction or other legally enforceable mechanism restricting transfer of ownership to a household with an income at or below the level committed to in the AHP application, the Bank shall require the sponsor to report to the Bank or its designee, at least annually for the required long-term period, the number of any such units that are sold to households whose incomes exceed the level committed to in the AHP application, and to certify to the Bank that it is continuing to satisfy its commitment pursuant to its legally binding agreement with the Bank. Section 960.15(c)(2) of the proposed rule provides that the Bank shall require the sponsor or the owner to certify upon initial full occupancy of the units in an AHP-assisted rental housing project, but no later than one year after initial disbursement of the subsidized advance or direct subsidy, and annually thereafter, that the project's units, or portion thereof, are affordable for and occupied by households with incomes at or below the levels committed to in the AHP application. Section 960.15(c)(3) of the proposed rule provides that if an applicant in its AHP application commits to fund a project that will provide housing units for persons with a special need, or will provide a continuing special service to occupants pursuant to §960.10(d)(3) of the proposed rule, the Bank shall require the sponsor or the owner to certify upon completion and full occupancy of the project that the project's units, or portion thereof, are occupied by persons with such special needs or that a special service is being provided to occupants, as committed to in the AHP application. Section 960.15(c)(4) of the proposed rule provides that if an applicant in its AHP application commits to fund a housing project that meets the requirements of the economic mobility priority under §960.10(d)(5) of the proposed rule, the Bank shall require the sponsor or the owner to certify upon completion and full occupancy of the project that the sponsor or owner has met such requirements, as committed to in the AHP application.
