FR940802-0-00062 FR940802-0-00008 (i) Prior to January 1, 1996, renewable oxygen compliance total using the following formula: E:GRAPHICSER02AU94.000 (ii) Beginning on January 1, 1996, the renewable oxygen compliance total using the following formula: E:GRAPHICSER02AU94.001 where CT ro =the compliance total for renewable oxygen V i =the volume of reformulated gasoline or RBOB batch i n=the number of batches of reformulated gasoline and RBOB produced or imported during the averaging period (iii) The renewable oxygen actual total using the following formula: E:GRAPHICSER02AU94.002 where AT ro =the actual total for renewable oxygen V i =the volume of gasoline or RBOB batch i RO i =the oxygen content, in wt%, in the form of renewable oxygenate of gasoline or RBOB batch i n=the number of batches of gasoline or RBOB produced or imported during the averaging period (iv) Compare the renewable oxygen actual total with the renewable oxygen compliance total. (2) (i) The actual total must be equal to or greater than the compliance totals to achieve compliance, subject to the credit transfer provisions of paragraph (e) of this section. (ii) If the renewable oxygen actual total is less than the renewable oxygen compliance total, renewable oxygen credits must be obtained from another refinery or importer in order to achieve compliance. (iii) The total number of renewable oxygen credits required to achieve compliance is calculated by subtracting the renewable oxygen actual total from the renewable oxygen compliance total. (iv) If the renewable oxygen actual total is greater than the renewable oxygen compliance total, renewable oxygen credits are generated. (v) The total number of renewable oxygen credits which may be traded to a refiner for a refinery, or to another importer, is calculated by subtracting the renewable oxygen compliance total from the renewable oxygen actual total. (e) Credit transfers. Compliance with the renewable oxygenate standard specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be achieved through the transfer of renewable oxygen credits, provided that the credits meet the criteria specified in §§80.67(h)(1) (i) through (iv) and §§80.67(h) (2) and (3). (f) Record keeping. Any refiner or importer, or any oxygenate blender who blends oxygenate with any RBOB designated as ``any renewable oxygenate,'' ``non VOC controlled renewable ether only'' or ``renewable ether only'' shall for a period of five years maintain the records specified in this paragraph (f) in a manner consistent with the requirements under §80.74, and deliver such records to the Administrator upon request. The records shall contain the following information:
