FR940719-0-00052 FR940719-0-00018 (b) Functions. The principal functions of the Office of Policy and Assessment are: (1) Facilitation of the development and implementation of Agency policy, including systematic review and evaluation of that policy; (2) Development and coordination of FEMA's strategic planning process; (3) Development of standards and mechanisms for evaluation of Agency performance; (4) Development and implementation of a system for identifying shortfalls in Agency programs and performance and for monitoring progress towards their remediation; (5) Oversight of FEMA's implementation of the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993, Pub. L. 103&hyph; 62, 107 Stat. 285. (6) Oversight of implementation of FEMA's environmental responsibilities; (7) Support of the FEMA Executive Board; (8) Oversight of, and provision of guidance for, FEMA's renewal and participation in the Reinvention Laboratory process; and (9) Facilitating institutional change and innovation. (c) Delegated authorities. The Director of the Office of Policy and Assessment is authorized to exercise the duties and powers of the Director in the Director's capacity as agency head in support of the functions listed in paragraph (b) of this section. ยง2.17 Office of Human Resources Management. (a) Mission. The Office of Human Resources Management provides and maintains a workforce capable of carrying out FEMA's mission. (b) Functions. The principal functions of the Office of Human Resources Management are: (1) Administration of FEMA's classification and position management programs; (2) Recruitment and placement of employees; (3) Administration of compensation and leave programs; (4) Management of FEMA's disaster personnel program; (5) Administration of workforce and workplace programs; (6) Management of FEMA's labor relations, employee relations, and employee benefit programs; (7) Administration of performance management and incentive awards programs; (8) Establishment and maintenance of personnel records; and (9) Coordination of affirmative employment programs with the Office of Equal Rights and support of FEMA's Offices, Administrations, and Directorates in meeting their affirmative actions goals. (c) Delegated authorities. The Director of the Office of Human Resources Management is authorized to exercise the duties and powers of the Director in the Director's capacity as agency head in support of the functions listed in paragraph (b) of this section. ยง2.18 Office of Equal Rights. (a) Mission. The Office of Equal Rights assists management in fulfilling its responsibilities to ensure Equal Rights for all employees and applicants for employment, and to guarantee protection for the civil rights of every American receiving assistance from FEMA. (b) Functions. The principal functions of the Office of Equal Rights are: (1) Development, in coordination with Agency management, of multi-year Affirmative Employment Plans and annual updates covering women, minority group members, and persons with disabilities; (2) Training regarding Equal Rights and Civil Rights and Responsibilities; (3) Investigation and non-adjudicatory resolution of complaints of discrimination and referral of unresolved complaints to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or the Department of Justice; and (4) Ensuring compliance with Civil Rights guidance in FEMA's programs and operations. (c) Delegated authorities. The Director of the Office of Equal Rights is authorized to exercise the duties and powers of the Director as set forth in:
