FR940228-1-00167 FR940228-1-00010 4. Should the Secretary compile and maintain a list of State tuition recovery funds if that meets the requirements that permit an institution's participation in that fund to operate in lieu of its cash reserve requirements? •The Secretary should compile and maintain a list of State tuition recovery funds that meet the requirements that permit an institution's participation in that fund to operate in lieu of the cash reserve requirements. [New York, San Francisco, Atlanta] •An institution should provide the name and address of the State tuition recovery fund to confirm that they will be able to use the State tuition recovery fund to pay refunds. [Atlanta] G. Section 498(d) authorizes the Secretary to establish procedures and standards relating to administrative capability, including the consideration of past performance of institutions or individuals in control of such institutions and maintenance of records. Issues that the community was asked to address and the community's views: 1. What measures of past performance will be used, and what time periods should be included in the review? •No other standards of administrative capability or financial responsibility should be considered. There is an inundation of oversight responsibility and the requirements placed on institutions is sufficient. [Kansas City, San Francisco, Atlanta] •In certain cases, institutional administrators should meet a minimum experience requirement (e.g., five years of prior experience in administration.) [San Francisco] •School owners, corporate directors and officers, and the chief school administrator should be required to monitor and investigate school compliance, take whatever steps are within the person's authority to effect the correction of non-compliance, and report to the Department, the accrediting agency, and the State licensing agency any non-compliance that has not been corrected. California law requires this. [San Francisco] •The current §668.14 and §668.15 should be used to measure administrative capability with the exception of the withdrawal rates. [Kansas City] •A minority of the group recommended that the Secretary look into all complaints filed against institutions with the local law enforcement authorities even though the complaint may not warrant pulling of an institution's license or loss of accreditation. [Kansas City] •The Department should look at the past two audits to see that performance reviews have corrected all the deficiencies as a basis that the institution is administratively capable. This should not be determined arbitrarily, but should be determined by a review. [New York] •Research data is needed to establish a basis for past performance. Other measures of past performance that should be used: Placement, default and withdrawal rates, past performance reviews and implementation of recommendations, personnel turnover, and faculty/student ratio. [San Francisco] •Default rates, course completion and withdrawal rates, and job placement rates must be considered together. These should be triggers that, in certain combinations, should cause more review of administrative capability. Mitigating circumstances must be considered. [New York] •Standards for default rates, course completion and withdrawal rates, and job placement rates should be applicable to all institutions. No new standards should be set without historical data. [San Francisco] •Student or consumer complaints against an institution should be taken into consideration if a pattern of legitimate complaints indicate a need for review by an outside entity. [New York] •There should be no standard measure of an institution's administrative capability with respect to student or consumer complaints against an institution. The Department should review trends and the nature of complaints. [San Francisco] H. Section 498(g) provides that the Secretary may certify an institution's eligibility for a period not to exceed four years. Issues that the community was asked to address and the community's views: 1. Should the Secretary adopt rules addressing the length of a period of eligibility and if so what should these standards be? •The four-year periods of eligibility should be based on award years. [Kansas City]
