FR940907-1-00016 FR940907-1-00006 33 CFR Part 117 [CGD05&hyph;94&hyph;050] RIN 2115&hyph;AE47 Drawbridge Operation Regulations; Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway, Sunset Beach, NC AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: At the request of the North Carolina Department of Transportation, the Coast Guard is proposing to change the regulations that govern the operation of the drawbridge across the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway, mile 337.9, at Sunset Beach, North Carolina. This proposal would restrict bridge openings in the month of November to help reduce highway traffic congestion problems, public safety, and welfare concerns associated with frequent bridge openings caused by recreational boat traffic. The proposed changes to these regulations are, to the extent practical and feasible, intended to provide for regularly scheduled drawbridge openings to help reduce motor vehicle traffic delays and congestion on the roads and highways linked by this drawbridge. DATES: Comments must be received on or before November 7, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to Commander (ob), Fifth Coast Guard District, 431 Crawford Street, Portsmouth, Virginia 23704&hyph;5004, or may be delivered to Room 109 at the same address between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday and through Friday, except Federal holidays. The telephone number is (804) 398&hyph;6222. Comments will become part of this docket and will be available for inspection at Room 109, Fifth Coast Guard District. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ann B. Deaton, Bridge Administrator, Fifth Coast Guard District, at (804) 398&hyph;6222. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments The Coast Guard encourages interested persons to participate in this rulemaking by submitting written data, views, or arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their names and addresses, identify this rulemaking (CGD05&hyph;94&hyph;050) and the specific section of this proposal to which each comment applies, and give the reason for each comment. The Coast Guard requests that all comments and attachments be submitted in an unbound format suitable for copying and electronic filing. If not practical, a second copy of any bound material is requested. Persons wanting acknowledgment of receipt of comments should enclose a stamped, self-addressed postcard or envelope. The Coast Guard will consider all comments received during the comment period. It may change this proposal in view of the comments. The Coast Guard plans no public hearing. Persons may request a public hearing by writing to the Commander (ob) at the address under ADDRESSES . The request should include reasons why a hearing would be beneficial. If it determines that the opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will hold a public hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice. Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this document are Linda L. Gilliam, Project Manager, Bridge Section, and LT Monica L. Lombardi, Project Counsel, Fifth Coast Guard District Legal Office. Background and Purpose The North Carolina Department of Transportation has requested, on behalf of the Town of Sunset Beach, North Carolina, that the drawbridge across the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway, mile 337.9, at Sunset Beach, North Carolina, be further restricted through the month of November. This would help to reduce highway traffic congestion problems, public safety, and welfare concerns associated with frequent bridge openings caused by recreational boat traffic. Currently, the drawbridge opens on the hour from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. for pleasure vessels from April 1 to October 31. It opens on signal at any time for vessels of the United States, State and local government vessels, commercial vessels, and any vessel in an emergency involving danger to life or property. This proposal extends this schedule to November 30 with drawbridge openings occurring on the hour from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. The North Carolina Department of Transportation conducted a study of the drawlogs for this drawbridge for the month of November and it revealed that the drawbridge opened 558 times in 1992 and 571 times in 1993. These openings exceeded the openings for every other month during the same years. Based on this information, the Coast Guard believes these proposed regulations will permit an orderly flow of recreational vessel traffic through the draw. This should not unduly restrict recreational vessel passage through the bridge, since they can plan their vessel transits around the hourly restriction. Regulatory Evaluation This proposed action is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this proposal to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary.
