FR940406-0-00158 FR940406-0-00011 (v) The manufacturer may substitute slave tires for the drive wheel tires on the vehicle as specified in paragraph §86.135&hyph;90(e): Provided, that the slave tires are the same size. (vi) If the Administrator elects to use the evaporative/refueling canister preconditioning procedure described in §86.132&hyph;96(k), the cold start exhaust emission test described in §86.137&hyph;96 shall follow the heat build procedure described in §86.133&hyph;90 by not more than one hour. (vii) In performing exhaust sample analysis under §86.140&hyph;94. (A) When testing diesel vehicles, or methanol-fueled Otto-cycle vehicles, the manufacturer shall allow a minimum of 20 minutes warm-up for the HC analyzer, and for diesel vehicles, a minimum of two hours warm-up for the CO, CO 2 , and NO X analyzers. (Power is normally left on infrared and chemiluminescent analyzers. When not in use, the chopper motors of the infrared analyzers are turned off and the phototube high voltage supply to the chemiluminescent analyzers is placed in the standby position.) (B) The manufacturer shall exercise care to prevent moisture from condensing in the sample collection bags. (viii) The manufacturer need not comply with §86.142&hyph;90 or §86.155&hyph;98, since the records required therein are provided under other provisions of this subpart G. (ix) If a manufacturer elects to perform the background determination procedure described in paragraph (a)(2)(xi) of this section in addition to performing the refueling emissions test procedure, the elapsed time between the initial and final FID readings shall be recorded, rounded to the nearest second rather than minute as described in §86.154&hyph;98(e)(8). In addition, the vehicle soak described in §86.153&hyph;98(e) shall be conducted with the windows and luggage compartment of the vehicle open. (x) The Administrator may elect to perform a seal test, described in §86.153&hyph;98(b), of both integrated and non-integrated systems instead of the full refueling test. When testing non-integrated systems, an manufacturer may conduct the canister purge described in §86.153&hyph;98(b)(1) directly following the preconditioning drive described in §86.132&hyph;96(e) or directly following the exhaust emissions test described in §86.137&hyph;96. (xi) In addition to the refueling test, a manufacturer may elect to perform the following background emissions determination immediately prior to the refueling measurement procedure described in §86.154&hyph;98, provided EPA is notified of this decision prior to the start of testing in an SEA. (A) The SHED shall be purged for several minutes immediately prior to the background determination. Warning: If at any time the concentration of hydrocarbons, of methanol, or of methanol and hydrocarbons exceeds 15,000 ppm C, the enclosure should be immediately purged. This concentration provides a 4:1 safety factor against the lean flammability limit. (B) The FID (or HFID) hydrocarbon analyzer shall be zeroed and spanned immediately prior to the background determination. If not already on, the enclosure mixing fan and the spilled fuel mixing blower shall be turned on at this time. (C) Place the vehicle in the SHED. The ambient temperature level encountered by the test vehicle during the entire background emissions determination shall be 80 ○F # 3 ○F. The windows and luggage compartment of the vehicle must be open and the gas cap must be secured. (D) Seal the SHED. Immediately analyze the ambient concentration of hydrocarbons in the SHED and record. This is the initial background hydrocarbon concentration. (E) Soak the vehicle for ten minutes # 1 minute. (F) The FID (or HFID) hydrocarbon analyzer shall be zeroed and spanned immediately prior to the end of the background determination. (G) Analyze the ambient concentration of hydrocarbons in the SHED and record. This is the final background hydrocarbon concentration. (H) The total hydrocarbon mass emitted during the background determination is calculated according to §86.156&hyph;98. To obtain a per-minute background emission rate, divide the total hydrocarbon mass calculated in this paragraph by the duration of the soak, rounded to the nearest second, described in paragraph (a)(2)(xi)(G) of this section. (I) The background emission rate is multiplied by the duration of the refueling measurement obtained in paragraph (a)(2)(ix) of this section. This number is then subtracted from the total grams of emissions calculated for the refueling test according to §86.156&hyph;98(a) to obtain the adjusted value for total refueling emissions. The final results for comparison with the refueling emission standard shall be computed by dividing the adjusted value for total refueling mass emissions by the total gallons of fuel dispensed in the refueling test as described in §86.156&hyph;98(b). (xii) In addition to the requirements of subpart B of this part, the manufacturer shall prepare gasoline-fueled and methanol-fueled vehicles as follows prior to emission testing: (A) The manufacturer shall inspect the fuel system to ensure the absence of any leaks of liquid or vapor to the atmosphere by applying a pressure of 14.5 # 0.5 inches of water (3.6 # 0.1 Kpa) to the fuel system allowing the pressure to stabilize and isolating the fuel system from the pressure source. Following isolation of the fuel system, pressure must not drop more than 2.0 inches of water (0.5 Kpa) in five minutes. If required, the manufacturer shall perform corrective action in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section and report this action in accordance with §86.609&hyph;98(d). (B) When performing this pressure check, the manufacturer shall exercise care to neither purge nor load the evaporative or refueling emission control systems. (C) The manufacturer may not modify the test vehicle's evaporative or refueling emission control systems by component addition, deletion, or substitution, except to comply with paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section if approved in advance by the Administrator.
