FR941230-0-00028 FR941230-0-00004 Agricultural Marketing Service 7 CFR Part 925 and 944 [Docket No. FV93&hyph;925&hyph;1FR] Table Grapes Grown in Southeastern California and Table Grapes Imported into the United States; Revision in Minimum Grade Requirements AGENCY: Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule amends the minimum quality requirements currently in effect for table grapes grown in southeastern California under Marketing Order No. 925 and for table grapes imported into the United States. This final rule will allow for the handling of grapes which satisfy all the requirements of the U.S. No. 1 Institutional grade except for bunch size tolerance. The objective of this rule is to help handlers and importers market grapes which do not meet the U.S. No. 1 Institutional grade because of a greater variance in bunch size. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 30, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Charles L. Rush, Marketing Order Administration Branch, Fruit and Vegetable Division, AMS, USDA, P.O. Box 96456, Room 2523&hyph;S, Washington, DC 20090&hyph;6456, telephone (202) 720&hyph;5127; or Rose Aguayo, California Marketing Field Office, Marketing Order Administration Branch, Fruit and Vegetable Division, AMS, USDA, 2202 Monterey Street, Suite 102B, Fresno, California 93721, telephone (209) 487&hyph;5901 . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This final rule is issued under Marketing Agreement and Order No. 925 [7 CFR Part 925], regulating the handling of grapes grown in a designated area of southeastern California. The marketing agreement and order are authorized under the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended [7 U.S.C. 601&hyph;674], hereinafter referred to as the Act. This final rule is also issued pursuant to section 8e of the Act, which requires the Secretary of Agriculture to issue grade, size, quality, or maturity requirements for certain listed commodities imported into the United States that are the same as, or comparable to, those imposed upon the domestic commodities under Federal marketing orders. Table grapes were added to the list of commodities specified in section 8e in 1982. The Department of Agriculture (Department) is issuing this rule in conformance with Executive Order 12866. This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This rule is not intended to have retroactive effect. This final rule will not preempt any State or local laws, regulations, or policies, unless they present an irreconcilable conflict with this action. The Act provides that administrative proceedings must be exhausted before parties may file suit in court. Under section 608c(15)(A) of the Act, any handler subject to an order may file with the Secretary a petition stating that the order, any provision of the order, or any obligation imposed in connection with the order is not in accordance with law and requesting a modification of the order or to be exempted therefrom. A handler is afforded the opportunity for a hearing on the petition. After the hearing the Secretary would rule on the petition. The Act provides that the district court of the United States in any district in which the handler is an inhabitant, or has his or her principal place of business, has jurisdiction in equity to review the Secretary's ruling on the petition, provided a bill in equity is filed not later than 20 days after date of the entry of the ruling. There are no administrative procedures which must be exhausted prior to any judicial challenge to the provisions of import regulations issued under section 8e of the Act. Pursuant to requirements set forth in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA), the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) has considered the economic impact of this action on small entities. The purpose of the RFA is to fit regulatory actions to the scale of business subject to such actions in order that small businesses will not be unduly or disproportionately burdened. Marketing orders issued pursuant to the Act, and rules issued thereunder, are unique in that they are brought about through group action of essentially small entities acting on their own behalf. Thus, both statutes have small entity orientation and compatibility. Import regulations issued under the Act are based on those established under Federal marketing orders. There are approximately 20 handlers of California desert grapes subject to regulation under the marketing order, and approximately 90 producers. In addition, there are approximately 70 importers of table grapes subject to the requirements of the table grape import regulation. Small agricultural service firms, which include handlers and importers, have been defined by the Small Business Administration [13 CFR 121.601] as those having annual receipts of less than $5,000,000, and small agricultural producers are defined as those whose annual receipts are less than $500,000. The majority of the table grape handlers, producers and importers may be classified as small entities.
