FR940505-1-00508 FR940505-1-00012 (3) Notification. Following the authorization of emission reduction credits, the EPA shall issue a Authorization Certificate to the owner(s) by certified mail or in person. The authorization certificate shall contain the following information: (i) Authorization Certificate number; (ii) Date of authorization which expires pursuant to paragraph (e)(6) of this section; (iii) Street address and Application Number of the site creating the surplus emissions reductions for which the ERC Certificate is issued; (iv) Signature of the responsible EPA official; (v) The name of the owner, typed on the certificate, and the owner's signature. If the owner is a public or private business entity, a person authorized to sign on behalf of the owner shall sign the certificate; (vi) The life of the credit specifying the date and duration (and time of year, for seasonal emissions reductions) of the expected reduction; (vii) Conditions of operation or use, including restrictions on the use of the reductions (e.g., on site only, replacement equipment only, seasonal equipment only, etc.), and current rules which affect the value of the ERCs; and (viii) The mechanism by which the credit was created (e.g., shutdown, installation of Flue Gas Recirculation system, 1D/3D cyclone, etc.). (4) Registration. When an Authority to Construct permit using authorized emission reduction credits has been issued, the following information shall be entered in the register: (i) All information required in paragraph (e)(3) of this section except the information in paragraph (e)(3)(v) of this section, which can not be entered into the register; (ii) Date that the Authorized ERC Certificate was surrendered to the EPA; (iii) Permit numbers to which ERCs are being applied; (iv) Name and address of ERC user; (v) Name (if any), address, and application number of site where ERCs are being used as offsets; and (vi) Number of ERCs being used for offsets. (5) Public inspection. The information entered in the register pursuant to paragraph (e)(4) of this section shall be available for public inspection at the EPA Region IX office after the date of use of authorized ERCs as offsets. In addition, all such information shall be transmitted to the district, the California Air Resources Board, and (for trades proposed within 100 km of a Class I area, or for trades more than 100 km from a Class I area that might reasonably be anticipated to impact such area) the appropriate Federal Land Manager. (6) Expiration of authorization. If an Authority to Construct permit is not granted within one year of the authorization of an ERC, the ERC will lose its authorized status and must reapply for authorization when a source again applies to use the ERC. (7) Moratorium. If the EPA determines that additional emission reductions are necessary, a moratorium on authorizations of ERCs may be imposed. Prior to imposing a moratorium, the EPA shall provide notice to holders of ERCs and other interested parties and a 30-day opportunity for public comment on the proposed issuance of a moratorium. The moratorium shall be lifted upon determination by the EPA that additional emission reductions are not necessary.
