FR940805-1-00041 FR940805-1-00008 III. Review of State Submittal The basic I/M program SIP submittal has been reviewed against the requirements of the November 5, 1992, final rule and approvability criteria of the USEPA Checklist . An analysis of whether the Minnesota basic I/M program satisfies the requirements of the final rule and Checklist is provided below. Applicability Section 51.350 of the final rule requires I/M SIP submittals to describe the applicable areas in detail and to include the legal authority or rules necessary to establish program boundaries. The Twin Cities seven county metropolitan area has been classified as moderate nonattainment for CO and has a design value less than 12.7 ppm. Therefore, the area is required to implement a Basic I/M program as part of the State's CO SIP. On April 8, 1988 Minnesota Statute §§116.60&hyph;116.65 was enacted by the Minnesota legislature, establishing a basic I/M program in the Twin Cities seven county metropolitan area and directing MPCA to develop and adopt administrative rules to govern the I/M program. Minnesota Rules parts 7023.1010_7023.1105 were adopted by the MPCA Citizen's Board on July 25, 1989. Minnesota's centralized I/M program has been in operation since July 1991. The geographic coverage of the program complies with the requirements of the Federal I/M rule and is approvable. Basic I/M Performance Standard Section 51.352 outlines the method States are to follow to arrive at a minimum performance standard. The performance standard sets an emission reduction target that the program must meet in order for the SIP to be approvable. The SIP must also demonstrate that the program will meet the performance standard in actual operation, with provisions for appropriate adjustments if the standard is not met. The performance standard for which the MPCA must be able to demonstrate compliance was established using the Mobile 5a model inputs and local characteristics outlined at §51.352(a)(1)&hyph;(12). CO nonattainment areas are required to demonstrate compliance with the performance standard by 1996. The State has submitted a modeling demonstration using the EPA computer model Mobile 5a demonstrating compliance with the basic performance standard. Network Type and Evaluation Section 51.353 of the final rule requires SIPs to include a description of the network to be employed, the required legal authority, and a description of the evaluation schedule and protocol, sampling methodology, the data collection and analysis system, the resources and personnel for evaluation, and related details of the evaluation program. Areas that are required to implement basic I/M programs can at their own discretion choose between a centralized, decentralized, or hybrid testing network as long as the program demonstrates compliance with the performance standard of Section 51.352. Through a contractual agreement, Minnesota operates a centralized program, consisting of eleven inspection stations with 46 testing lanes. The MPCA compiles data on failure rate, compliance rate, the number of certificates issued, and other similar matters and publishes an annual report on the I/M program. Adequate Tools & Resources Section 51.354 requires States to demonstrate that the appropriate administrative, budgetary, personnel, and equipment resources have been allocated for the I/M program and discuss how the performance standard will be met. Appendix 10 of the submittal contains the fiscal year 1994 budget for the I/M program. The submittal also provides a description of the program staffing levels and equipment resources. Test Frequency & Convenience Section 51.355 requires the SIP to describe in detail the test schedule of the program. If testing is not performed on an annual basis, the description is to include the test year selection scheme. In addition, the SIP should include the legal authority necessary to implement and enforce the test frequency requirement and explain how the test frequency will be integrated with the enforcement process. Minnesota's program is based upon annual testing. Vehicle owners subject to the program are required to submit their vehicles to testing prior to annual vehicle registration renewal. The State's vehicle registration program is administered by the Minnesota Department of Public Safety. The Department of Public Safety's vehicle registration computer system tracks those vehicle owners who are required to provide proof of compliance with the I/M program, in order to renew vehicle registration. Vehicle Coverage SIPs are to include a detailed description of the number and types of vehicles to be covered by the program and a plan for how those vehicles are to be identified. The SIP should also include a description of any special exemptions granted by the program, an estimate of the percentage and number of subject vehicles which will be exempted. Exempted vehicles should be accounted for in the emission reduction analysis. The SIP should also include the legal authority or rule necessary to implement and enforce the vehicle coverage requirement. Vehicles subject to the Minnesota basic I/M performance standard include: vehicles registered or required to be registered within the Twin Cities metropolitan area boundaries; fleet vehicles primarily operated within the I/M program area boundaries; and Federal vehicles located within the I/M program area boundaries. The Minnesota program subjects all 1976 and newer model year vehicles registered or customarily domiciled in the Twin Cities seven county area to the I/M program. Vehicles with exchanged engines that were manufactured before 1976 are not subject to I/M testing. Although Section 51.356 states that the performance standard for basic I/M assumes coverage of all 1968 and later light duty vehicles, States can adopt other levels of model year coverage provided if the necessary emission reductions are achieved. The Checklist requests that States provide a description of the number and types of vehicles subject to the I/M program and a plan for how subject vehicles will be identified. Appendix 12 of the Submittal provides a detailed inventory of vehicles tested by model year between July 1, 1992, and June 30, 1992. Vehicles required to undergo testing are identified by the Minnesota Department of Public Safety as part of the annual vehicle registration and license plates renewal process. The Minnesota I/M program exempts the following vehicles from the I/M program: 1. Motor vehicles manufactured before the 1976 model year or with an engine manufactured before the 1976 model year. 2. Motor vehicles registered as classic, pioneer, collector, or street rod.
