FR940512-1-00072 FR940512-1-00010 (2) Convincing evidence of demonstrated success in satisfying, or a clearly defined plan to satisfy, the assurances in section 725(c) of the Act and subpart F of this part. (d) Quality of key personnel (10 points). (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows the qualifications of the key personnel the applicant plans to use on the project, including_ (i) The qualifications of the project director, if one is to be used; (ii) The qualifications of each of the other management and decision-making personnel to be used in the project; (iii) The time that each person referred to in paragraphs (d)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section will commit to the project; (iv) How the applicant, as part of its nondiscriminatory employment practices, will ensure that its personnel are selected for employment without regard to race, color, national origin, gender, age, or disability; and (v) The extent to which the applicant, as part of its nondiscriminatory employment practices, encourages applications for employment from persons who are members of groups that have been traditionally under-represented, including_ (A) Members of racial or ethnic minority groups; (B) Women; (C) Persons with disabilities; and (D) Elderly individuals. (2) To determine personnel qualifications under paragraphs (d)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section, the Secretary considers_ (i) Experience and training in fields related to the objectives of the project; and (ii) Any other qualifications that pertain to the objectives of the project. (e) Budget and cost effectiveness (10 points). The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows the extent to which_ (1) The budget is adequate to support the project; and (2) Costs are reasonable in relation to the objectives of the project. (f) Evaluation plan (5 points). The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows the quality of the evaluation plan for the project, including the extent to which the applicant's methods of evaluation_ (1) Are appropriate for the project; (2) Will determine how successful the project is in meeting its goals and objectives; and (3) Are objective and produce data that are quantifiable. ( Cross-reference: See 34 CFR 75.590) (g) Plan of operation (20 points). The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows the quality of the plan of operation for the project, including_ (1) The quality of the design of the project; (2) The extent to which the plan of management ensures proper and efficient administration of the project; (3) How well the objectives of the project relate to the purpose of the program; (4) The quality and adequacy of the applicant's plan to use its resources (including funding, facilities, equipment, and supplies) and personnel to achieve each objective; (5) How the applicant will ensure that project participants who are otherwise eligible to participate are selected without regard to race, color, national origin, gender, age, or disability; and (6) A clear description of how the applicant will provide equal access to services for eligible project participants who are members of groups that have been traditionally under-represented, including_ (i) Members of racial or ethnic minority groups; (ii) Women; (iii) Elderly individuals; and (iv) Children and youth. (h) Involvement of individuals with significant disabilities (5 points). (1) The Secretary reviews each application for information that shows that individuals with significant disabilities are appropriately involved in conducting center activities. (2) The Secretary looks for information that shows that individuals with significant disabilities or their parents, guardians, or other legally authorized representatives or advocates, as appropriate, will be substantially involved in planning, policy direction, and management of the center, and, to the greatest extent possible, that individuals with significant disabilities will be employed by the center. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 796f&hyph;1(d)(2)(B)) ยง366.28 Under what circumstances may the Secretary award a grant to a center in one State to serve individuals in another State? (a) The Secretary may use funds from the allotment of one State to award a grant to a center located in another State if the Secretary determines that the proposal of the out-of-State center to serve individuals with significant disabilities who reside in the other State is consistent with the State plan of the State in which these individuals reside. (b) An applicant shall submit documentation demonstrating that the arrangements described in paragraph (a) of this section are consistent with the State plan of the State in which the individuals reside. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 711(c) and 796f(c) and (d))
