FR941006-0-00034 FR941006-0-00011 (b) Awards will be based on the average number of aliens incarcerated by each applicant during the reimbursement period multiplied by the average inmate cost per year, divided into the appropriation for that reimbursement period. Each State will receive the same percentage of actual cost. In FY 1995, Congress has appropriated a total of $130 million for the purpose of making grants to States. (c) Reimbursement will be based on an average of four one-day counts of individual aliens housed by the State during the reimbursement period (i.e., one year). These four counts must fall within the period from October 1 through September 30 of the reimbursement year and be evenly spaced. For example, for this fiscal year 1995, counts could be November 15, 1994 and February 15, May 15 and August 15, 1995 or December 23, 1994, and March 24, June 23, and September 22, 1995. (d) Applicants are expected to provide some narrative explanation of the method used for these counts and the type of records underlying the counts. BJA will consult with the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) in determining the validity of the applicant's average alien count. (e) Each State's application narrative must also provide an average cost per bed space, per year, supported by descriptive information indicating how these actual costs of incarceration, incurred during the period for which they are seeking reimbursement, were derived. This method takes into account the widely varying costs of incarceration in the different States. BJA will consult with BJS in determining the validity of applicant's average inmate costs per year. (f) If a State uses a fiscal year different than the Federal fiscal year (October 1 to September 30), the State may use cost of incarceration calculations based upon its own fiscal year calculations. The reimbursement period, however, will still be based on the Federal fiscal year, and the four one-day counts of individual aliens pursuant to paragraph (c) of this action should fall within the reimbursement period. (g) In addition each State will be asked to provide specific information on each individual alien included in any one of the four one-day counts. An unduplicated listing containing this information must be provided in hard copy and should also be provided in an automated data entry format, if possible. The following information should be provided: (1) Name (last name first). (2) AKA (also known as) and full surnames. (3) Alien Identification number (e.g., A24 456 789) if any. (4) Social Security number, if any. (5) Inmate Number. (6) Date of Birth. (7) Place of Birth. (8) Primary Conviction Offense and Longest Sentence Imposed. (9) Probable Earliest Release Date. (10) Incarcerating Facility. (11) INS Detainer Number, if any. §82.5 Method for calculating distribution of funds. (a) Assistance amounts will be calculated on a pro rata or proportional share of actual costs of incarceration as borne by the State. That is, there will not be a national average payment per alien or bed space, but rather a percentage, applied across the board, to each State's actual costs for each bed space filled. This percentage will depend on the total amount of the appropriation by Congress for the fiscal year and the total amount of actual costs incurred by all applying States during the reimbursement period. (b) The ``formula'' thus becomes: State A's average number of aliens incarcerated that year times its average cost for a bed space filled by any prisoner during that year plus State B's average number of aliens incarcerated that year times its average cost for a bed spaces filled by any prisoner during that year plus State C's *␣*␣*, etc., for all applicant States. This provides a total dollar amount of all assistance requested. The actual appropriation provided for the fiscal year divided by that total dollar amount provides a ratio or percentage, e.g., 15% or 25%, which is then applied to each State's total request to calculate their actual award amount. It is not anticipated that the FY 1995 appropriation will allow 100% reimbursement of actual costs. However, each State will receive the same percentage of actual costs as all others.
