FR940527-1-00029 FR940527-1-00014 •Specific adjustment for taxes to the capital prospective payment system federal rate. •Revision of provision relating to exceptions payments. •Extraordinary circumstances exceptions payments. •Funding of depreciation. 5. Changes for Hospitals Excluded from the Prospective Payment System In section VI of this preamble, we discuss changes to the regulations at 42 CFR parts 412 and 413 for hospitals and hospital units excluded from the prospective payment system. The proposed changes concern the following: •New requirements for certain long-term care hospitals excluded from the prospective payment systems. •Removal of the 1986 malpractice rule. •Related technical changes. 6. Determining Prospective Payment Rates and Rate-of-Increase Limits In the addendum to this proposed rule, we set forth proposed changes to the amounts and factors for determining the FY 1995 prospective payment rates for operating costs and capital-related costs. We are also proposing new update factors for determining the rate-of-increase limits for cost reporting periods beginning in FY 1995 for hospitals and hospital units excluded from the prospective payment system. 7. Impact Analysis In Appendix A, we set forth an analysis of the impact that the proposed changes described in this rule would have on affected entities. 8. Capital Acquisition Model Appendix B contains the technical appendix on the proposed FY 1995 capital acquisition model and budget neutrality adjustment. 9. Report to Congress on the Update Factor for Prospective Payment Hospitals and Hospitals Excluded from the Prospective Payment System Section 1886(e)(3)(B) of the Act requires that the Secretary report to Congress no later than March 1, 1994 on our initial estimate of an update factor for FY 1995 for both prospective payment hospitals and hospitals excluded from the prospective payment system. This report is included as Appendix C to this proposed rule. 10. Proposed Recommendation of Update Factor for Hospital Inpatient Operating Costs As required by sections 1886 (e)(4) and (e)(5) of the Act, Appendix D provides our recommendation of the appropriate percentage change for FY 1995 for the following: •Large urban, other urban, and rural average standardized amounts (and hospital-specific rates applicable to sole community hospitals) for hospital inpatient services paid for under the prospective payment system for operating costs. •Target rate-of-increase limits to the allowable operating costs of hospital inpatient services furnished by hospitals and hospital units excluded from the prospective payment system. 11. Framework for Capital Update In Appendix E, we are setting forth a preliminary framework for developing the annual update factor for inpatient hospital capital-related costs. 12. Discussion of Prospective Payment Assessment Commission Recommendations The Prospective Payment Assessment Commission (ProPAC) is directed by section 1886(e)(2)(A) of the Act to make recommendations on the appropriate percentage change factor to be used in updating the average standardized amounts. In addition, section 1886(e)(2)(B) of the Act directs ProPAC to make recommendations regarding changes in each of the Medicare payment policies under which payments to an institution are prospectively determined. In particular, the recommendations relating to the hospital inpatient prospective payment systems are to include recommendations concerning the number of DRGs used to classify patients, adjustments to the DRGs to reflect severity of illness, and changes in the methods under which hospitals are paid for capital-related costs. Under section 1886(e)(3)(A) of the Act, the recommendations required of ProPAC under sections 1886(e)(2) (A) and (B) of the Act are to be reported to Congress not later than March 1 of each year. We are printing ProPAC's March 1, 1994 report, which includes its recommendations, as Appendix F of this document. The recommendations, and the actions we are proposing to take with regard to them (when an action is recommended), are discussed in detail in the appropriate sections of this preamble, the addendum, or the appendices to this proposed rule. See section VII of this preamble for specific information concerning where individual recommendations are addressed. For a brief summary of the ProPAC recommendations, we refer the reader to the beginning of the ProPAC report as set forth in Appendix F of this proposed rule. ProPAC also produced technical appendices in its March 1, 1994 report that provide background material and detailed analyses used in preparation of the ProPAC recommendations. For further information relating specifically to the ProPAC report or to obtain a copy of the technical appendices, contact ProPAC at (202) 401&hyph;8986.
