FR941121-2-00135 FR941121-2-00099 Analysis of Comments and Changes In response to the Secretary's invitation in the notice of proposed priorities, six parties submitted comments. An analysis of the comments and of the changes in the proposed priorities follows. Technical and other minor changes_as well as suggested changes the Secretary is not legally authorized to make under the applicable statutory authority_are not addressed. Priority_Examining Alternatives for Outcome Assessment for Children With Disabilities Comment: One commenter suggested that the development of new assessment instruments should be accompanied by checks for reliability and validity. Discussion: The purpose of the priority is to support research projects, not instrument development. The Secretary believes that the priority as written allows applicants to address technical characteristics such as reliability and validity among the possible research issues to be studied. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter expressed concern that old definitions of technical adequacy might be inappropriate for alternative forms of assessment. Discussion: The priority as written does not specify what technical criteria should be applied to alternative assessments, but raises this question as one possible research issue. The Secretary prefers that applicants be given flexibility to propose the technical criteria to be applied to alternative assessments. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter suggested that Issue 4 ``Including students with disabilities in general assessments'' be expanded to include other forms of diversity such as cultural and racial backgrounds. Discussion: As written, the priority's focus on students with disabilities is consistent with the authorizing statute. Applicants may add other forms of diversity to this focus as appropriate for their particular research issues. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter suggested that encouragement be given to collaboration of State and local educational agencies and universities. Discussion: The organizations specified by the commenter are all eligible applicants under this program. Collaboration may or may not be appropriate for the type of research proposed. Applicants may develop collaborative arrangements as appropriate for their proposed program of research. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter suggested that the research issues listed in the priority be expanded to include issues focused specifically on accountability and issues related to professional skill and knowledge. Another commenter suggested that the list be expanded to include the issue of comparability of measures across different patterns of age, race, ethnicity, language, and migration status.
