FR940919-0-00043 FR940919-0-00012 III. Effective Date This amendment is effective immediately upon final publication in the Federal Register . The Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984 amended section 3010 of RCRA to allow rules to become effective in less than six months when the regulated community does not need the six-month period to come into compliance. That is the case here because this amendment reduces the existing requirements for persons generating hazardous wastes. In light of the unnecessary hardship and expense that would be imposed on this petitioner by an effective date six months after publication and the fact that a six-month deadline is not necessary to achieve the purpose of section 3010, EPA believes that this amendment should be effective immediately upon final publication. These reasons also provide a basis for making this amendment effective immediately, upon final publication, under the Administrative Procedure Act, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553(d). IV. Regulatory Impact Under Executive Order 12866, EPA must conduct an ``assessment of the potential costs and benefits'' for all ``significant'' regulatory actions. This amendment is not significant, since its effect reduces the overall costs and economic impact of EPA's hazardous waste management regulations. This reduction is achieved by excluding an additional amount of waste generated at a specific facility from EPA's lists of hazardous wastes, thereby enabling this facility to treat its waste as non-hazardous. There is no additional economic impact due to today's rule. Therefore, this rule is not a significant regulation, and no cost/benefit assessment is required. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has also exempted this rule from the requirement for OMB review under section (6) of Executive Order 12866. V. Regulatory Flexibility Act Pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;612, whenever an agency is required to publish a general notice of rulemaking for any proposed or final rule, it must prepare and make available for public comment a regulatory flexibility analysis that describes the impact of the rule on small entities ( i.e., small businesses, small organizations, and small governmental jurisdictions). No regulatory flexibility analysis is required, however, if the Administrator or delegated representative certifies that the rule will not have an impact on any small entities. This amendment will not have any adverse economic impact on small entities because its effect will be to reduce the overall costs of EPA's hazardous waste regulations and will be limited to one facility. Accordingly, I hereby certify that this amendment will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This amendment therefore, does not require a regulatory flexibility analysis. VI. Paperwork Reduction Act Information collection and recordkeeping requirements associated with this final amendment have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (P.L. 96&hyph;511, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ) and have been assigned OMB Control Number 2050&hyph;0053. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 261 Hazardous Waste, Recycling, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: September 7, 1994. Elizabeth A. Cotsworth, Acting Director, Office of Solid Waste.
