FR940512-2-00127 FR940512-2-00065 The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Vespasian Warner Public Library, 120 West Johnson Street, Clinton, Illinois 61727. Attorney for licensee: Sheldon Zabel, Esq., Schiff, Hardin and Waite, 7200 Sears Tower, 233 Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606. NRC Project Director: John N. Hannon. Northern States Power Company, Docket No. 50&hyph;263, Monticello Nuclear Generating Plant, Wright County, Minnesota Date of amendment request: March 28, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment would revise technical specifications Tables 3.2.4 and 4.2.1, to change one of the initiating parameters of the reactor building ventilation isolation system and standby gas treatment system (SGTS) from Low Reactor Water Level to Low Low Reactor Water Level. This revision is being made in order to improve plant performance by reducing the potential for unnecessary secondary containment isolation and SGTS initiations. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: The proposed amendment will not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The function of the Standby Gas Treatment System and secondary containment is to mitigate the consequences of a loss of coolant accident and fuel handling accidents. The proposed changes maintain this capability. The revised Standby Gas Treatment System initiation and secondary containment isolation parameter of low low reactor water level provides the required detection of loss of coolant accidents and is consistent [with] ECCS actuation to mitigate the consequences of this accident. The low low reactor water level instrumentation is set to trip when reactor water level is 6'6'' above the top of the active fuel. This trip currently initiates closure of the Group 1 Primary containment isolation valves, activates the Emergency Core Cooling systems and starts the emergency diesel generator. This trip setting level was chosen to be low enough to prevent spurious operation but high enough to initiate Emergency Core Cooling system operation and primary system isolation so that no melting of the fuel cladding will occur, post accident cooling can be accomplished, and the guidelines of the 10 CFR 100 will not be violated. Therefore, this amendment will not cause a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated for the Monticello plant. The proposed amendment will not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously analyzed. The proposed changes to Technical Specifications for the standby gas treatment system and secondary containment do not alter the function 8 of the systems or its interrelationships with other systems. An adverse interaction which could be postulated to occur is the initiation of the Standby Gas Treatment System without a coordinated trip of the Mechanical Vacuum Pump. The Mechanical Vacuum Pump is operated during plant startups to draw a vacuum on the main condenser prior to admission of steam. The Mechanical vacuum discharges to the offgas stack and thus can create a back pressure on the Standby Gas Treatment System, reducing initiation of Standby Gas Treatment System flow below required values. The proposed initiation of Standby Gas Treatment System on low low reactor water level maintains the necessary coordination by having the Standby Gas Treatment System initiate subsequent to isolation or tripping of the Mechanical Vacuum Pump on a low reactor water level signal from the primary containment isolation logic. Therefore, this amendment will not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously analyzed. The proposed amendment will not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. The proposed amendment changes the initiation of the Standby Gas Treatment System and secondary containment isolation from being concurrent with the low reactor water signal (which is indicative that the reactor core is in danger of being inadequately cooled) to being concurrent with reactor low low water level (which is also an indicator that the capability to cool the core is threatened and assures that no melting of the fuel cladding will occur, post accident cooling can be accomplished, and the guidelines of 10 CFR 100 will not be violated). A review of the accident analyses provided in Section 14 of the USAR has determined that these analyses did not specifically credit initiation of the Standby Gas Treatment Systems and secondary containment isolation at the accident precursor reactor water level of low level. Furthermore, this review determined that the low low reactor water level setpoint has no adverse impact on the ability of the Standby Gas treatment System and secondary containment to perform its design basis function as credited in the accident analyses. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Minneapolis Public Library, Technology and Science Department, 300 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55401 Attorney for licensee: Gerald Charnoff, Esq., Shaw, Pittman, Potts and Trowbridge, 2300 N Street, NW, Washington, DC 20037 NRC Project Director: Ledyard B. Marsh.
