FR940317-2-00089 FR940317-2-00058 Principal Participants Name: Date: Address: Telephone No.: Required Organization Approval Name: Date: Address: Telephone No.: Organization Financial Officer Name: Date: Address: Telephone No.: 2. Project Description. Each proposal shall provide, in ten pages or less, a complete and accurate description of the proposed project. This section should provide the basic information to be used in evaluating the proposal to determine its priority for funding. Applicants must identify other possible sources of financial support for a particular project, and list those sources from which financial support has been or will be requested. The information provided in this section must be brief and specific. Detailed background information may be included as supporting documentation to the proposal. The following format shall be used for the project description: (a) Project Goals and Objectives. The project's objectives must be clearly and unambiguously stated. The proposal should justify the project including the problems it intends to clarify and the development it may stimulate. (b) Project Outline. The proposal should show the project format and agenda, including a list of principal areas or topics to be addressed. (c) Project Benefits. The proposal should indicate the direct and indirect benefits that the project seeks to achieve and to whom these benefits will accrue. (d) Project Management. The proposal should describe the physical facilities required for the conduct of project. Further, the proposal should include brief biographical sketches of individuals responsible for planning the project. (e) Project Costs. Nonprofit organization shall adhere to the cost principles set forth in OMB Circular A&hyph;122. Educational institutions shall adhere to the cost principles set forth in OMB Circular A&hyph;21, and state and local government shall adhere to the cost principles set forth in OMB Circular A&hyph;87. The proposal must provide a detailed schedule of project costs, identifying in particular_ (1) Salaries_ in proportion to the time or effort directly related to the project; (2) Equipment (rental only); (3) Travel and Per Diem/Subsistence in relation to the project; (4) Publication Costs; (5) Other Direct Costs (specify)_e.g., supplies or registration fees; Note _Dues to organizations, federations or societies, exclusive of registration fees, are not allowed as a charge. (6) Indirect Costs (attached negotiated agreement/cost allocation plan); and (7) Supporting Documentation. The supporting documentation should contain any additional information that will strengthen the proposal. Proposal Submission and Deadline This notice is valid for Federal Government Fiscal Year 94 (October 1, 1998 to September 30, 1994). Potential grantees are advised, however, that due to the limited funding available for new research grants to educational institutions, such proposals received after May 20, 1994, will be considered for FY94 funding to the extent practicable. Funds For Fiscal Year 94, the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research, anticipates making a total of approximately $1,218,000.00 available for funding research grants to educational institutions. Of this amount, approximately $817,000.00 will be available for new research grants in FY94. Because of this limitation, proposed grant budgets should be restricted to about $50,000.00 per year, with total project funding not exceeding $100,000.00 over a period of two years.
