FR940202-0-00060 FR940202-0-00006 §1.1273&hyph;1 Definition of OID. (a) In general . Section 1273(a)(1) defines OID as the excess of a debt instrument's stated redemption price at maturity over its issue price. Section 1.1273&hyph;2 defines issue price, and paragraph (b) of this section defines stated redemption price at maturity. Paragraph (d) of this section provides rules for de minimis amounts of OID. Although the total amount of OID for a debt instrument may be indeterminate, §1.1272&hyph;1(d) provides a rule to determine OID accruals on certain debt instruments that provide for principal payments uncertain as to time. See Example 10 in §1.1272&hyph;1(j). (b) Stated redemption price at maturity. A debt instrument's stated redemption price at maturity is the sum of all payments provided by the debt instrument other than qualified stated interest payments. If the payment schedule of a debt instrument is determined under §1.1272&hyph;1(c) (relating to certain debt instruments subject to contingencies), that payment schedule is used to determine the instrument's stated redemption price at maturity. (c) Qualified stated interest _(1) Definition _(i) In general . Qualified stated interest is stated interest that is unconditionally payable in cash or in property (other than debt instruments of the issuer), or that will be constructively received under section 451, at least annually at a single fixed rate (within the meaning of paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section). (ii) Unconditionally payable. Interest is unconditionally payable only if late payment (other than a late payment that occurs within a reasonable grace period) or nonpayment is expected to be penalized or reasonable remedies exist to compel payment. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, interest is not unconditionally payable if the lending transaction does not reflect arm's length dealing and the holder does not intend to enforce such remedies. For purposes of determining whether interest is unconditionally payable, the possibility of nonpayment due to default, insolvency, or similar circumstances, or due to the exercise of a conversion right described in §1.1272&hyph;1(e) is ignored. (iii) Single fixed rate _(A) In general. Interest is payable at a single fixed rate only if the rate appropriately takes into account the length of the interval between payments. Thus, if the interval between payments varies during the term of the debt instrument, the value of the fixed rate on which a payment is based generally must be adjusted to reflect a compounding assumption that is consistent with the length of the interval preceding the payment. See Example 1 in paragraph (f) of this section. (B) Special rule for certain first and final payment intervals. Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(A) of this section, if a debt instrument provides for payment intervals that are equal in length throughout the term of the instrument, except that the first or final payment interval differs in length from the other payment intervals, the first or final interest payment is considered to be made at a fixed rate if the value of the rate on which the payment is based is adjusted in any reasonable manner to take into account the length of the interval. See Example 2 of paragraph (f) of this section. The rule in this paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(B) also applies if the lengths of both the first and final payment intervals differ from the length of the other payment intervals. (2) Debt instruments subject to contingencies. The determination of whether a debt instrument described in §1.1272&hyph;1(c) (a debt instrument providing for an alternative payment schedule (or schedules) upon the occurrence of one or more contingencies) provides for qualified stated interest is made by analyzing each alternative payment schedule (including the stated payment schedule) as if it were the debt instrument's sole payment schedule. Under this analysis, the debt instrument provides for qualified stated interest to the extent of the lowest fixed rate at which qualified stated interest would be payable under any payment schedule. See Example (4) of paragraph (f) of this section. (3) Variable rate debt instrument. In the case of a variable rate debt instrument, qualified stated interest is determined under §1.1275&hyph;5(e). (4) Stated interest in excess of qualified stated interest . To the extent that stated interest payable under a debt instrument exceeds qualified stated interest, the excess is included in the debt instrument's stated redemption price at maturity. (5) Short-term obligations. In the case of a debt instrument with a term that is not more than 1 year from the date of issue, no payments of interest are treated as qualified stated interest payments. (d) De minimis OID _(1) In general . If the amount of OID with respect to a debt instrument is less than the de minimis amount, the amount of OID is treated as zero, and all stated interest (including stated interest that would otherwise be characterized as OID) is treated as qualified stated interest. (2) De minimis amount . The de minimis amount is an amount equal to 0.0025 multiplied by the product of the stated redemption price at maturity and the number of complete years to maturity from the issue date. (3) Installment obligations . In the case of an installment obligation (as defined in paragraph (e)(1) of this section), paragraph (d)(2) of this section is applied by substituting for the number of complete years to maturity the weighted average maturity (as defined in paragraph (e)(3) of this section). Alternatively, in the case of a debt instrument that provides for payments of principal no more rapidly than a self-amortizing installment obligation (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section), the de minimis amount defined in paragraph (d)(2) of this section may be calculated by substituting 0.00167 for 0.0025.
