FR940927-1-00010 FR940927-1-00004 Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;89&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Discussion Transport Canada Aviation, which is the airworthiness authority for Canada, recently notified the FAA that an unsafe condition may exist on certain de Havilland Model DHC&hyph;8&hyph;100 and &hyph;300 series airplanes. Transport Canada Aviation advises that there have been reports of corrosion forming on areas of the airplane structure where black Orcon film covers the thermal insulation blankets. Investigation revealed that the black Orcon film used to insulate the forward fuselage, passenger compartment, flight compartment, and ventilation ducts contains carbon. The cause of this corrosion has been attributed to the formation of condensation on any aluminum airplane structure when it is in contact with the carbon in the black Orcon film. Such corrosion, if not detected and corrected in a timely manner, could result in degradation of the strength of the airplane fuselage structure and could lead to sudden loss of cabin pressure. Bombardier, Inc. (formerly de Havilland) has issued Service Bulletins S.B. 8&hyph;25&hyph;89, Revision D; S.B. 8&hyph;25&hyph;90, Revision B; S.B. 8&hyph;25&hyph;91, Revision C; S.B. 8&hyph;25&hyph;92, Revision D; and S. B. 8&hyph;25&hyph;93, Revision B; all dated January 19, 1994. These service bulletins describe procedures for one-time visual inspection to detect corrosion on areas of the airplane structure where black film thermal insulation is used, and repaired, if necessary. The service bulletins also describe procedures for replacement of black Orcon film insulation blankets with AN4C aluminized (silver) film thermal insulation blankets in various areas of the airplane structure. Transport Canada Aviation classified these service bulletins as mandatory and issued Canadian Airworthiness Directive CF&hyph;94&hyph;08, dated April 26, 1994, in order to assure the continued airworthiness of these airplanes in Canada. This airplane model is manufactured in Canada and is type certificated for operation in the United States under the provisions of section 21.29 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 21.29) and the applicable bilateral airworthiness agreement. Pursuant to this bilateral airworthiness agreement, Transport Canada Aviation has kept the FAA informed of the situation described above. The FAA has reviewed all available information, and determined that AD action is necessary for products of this type design that are certificated for operation in the United States. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other airplanes of the same type design registered in the United States, the proposed AD would require a one-time visual inspection to detect corrosion on areas of the airplane structure where black film thermal insulation is used, and repaired, if necessary. This proposed AD also would require replacement of black Orcon film thermal insulation blankets with AN4C aluminized (silver) film insulation blankets. The actions would be required to be accomplished in accordance with the service bulletins described previously. The FAA estimates that 125 airplanes of U.S. registry would be affected by this proposed AD, that it would require approximately 650 work hours to accomplish the required actions, at an average labor charge of $55 per work hour. The FAA has been advised that the manufacturer plans to provide required parts and to accomplish the required modification at no expense to operators. Therefore, there is no cost impact on U.S. operators that is associated with this proposed rule with regard to labor charges or parts costs. The FAA does recognize, however, that while operators may incur administrative costs associated with compliance to this proposed rule, the one-year compliance time specified in paragraph (a) of this proposed AD should allow ample time for the proposed requirements to be accomplished coincidentally with scheduled major airplane inspection and maintenance activities, thereby minimizing the costs associated with special airplane scheduling. The regulations proposed herein would not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this proposal would not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. For the reasons discussed above, I certify that this proposed regulation (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under the DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979); and (3) if promulgated, will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A copy of the draft regulatory evaluation prepared for this action is contained in the Rules Docket. A copy of it may be obtained by contacting the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES . List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Safety. The Proposed Amendment Accordingly, pursuant to the authority delegated to me by the Administrator, the Federal Aviation Administration proposes to amend part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 39) as follows:
