FR940620-2-00098 FR940620-2-00062 Monday June 20, 1994 Part VI Department of Labor Employment and Training Administration Department of Education Office of Vocational and Adult Education Job Training Partnership Act: School-to-Work Opportunities; Urban/Rural Opportunities Grants; Application Procedures; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 117␣/␣Monday, June 20, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Employment and Training Administration DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Office of Vocational and Adult Education Job Training Partnership Act: School-to-Work Opportunities; Urban/Rural Opportunities Grants; Application Procedures AGENCY: Employment and Training Administration, Labor. Office of Vocational and Adult Education, Education. ACTION: Notice of availability of funds and solicitation for grant applications (SGA). SUMMARY: This notice contains all of the necessary information and forms needed to apply for grant funding. This notice announces the competition for Urban/Rural Opportunities Grants financed under the authority of Title IV of the Job Training Partnership Act, to enable local partnerships serving youth who reside or attend school in high poverty areas to begin development and implementation of School-to-Work Opportunities initiatives in high poverty areas of urban and rural communities. These initiatives will offer young Americans in such communities access to School-to-Work Opportunities programs specifically designed to address barriers to their successful participation in such programs and to prepare them for first jobs in high-skill, high-wage careers and further postsecondary education and training. DATES: Applications for grant awards will be accepted commending June 20, 1994. The closing date for receipt of applications is (60 days from date of publication), at 2 p.m. (Eastern Time) at the address below. Telefacsimile (FAX) applications will not be honored. ADDRESSES: Applications shall be mailed to: U.S. Department of Education, Application Control Center, Attention: (CFDA # 17.249), Washington, DC 20202&hyph;4725. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Marian Banfield, U.S. Department of Education, telephone: (202) 205&hyph;8838 (this is not a toll-free number). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section A. Purpose
