FR940203-2-00120 FR940203-2-00068 (f) Management Plan. (10 points) Does the entity submitting the application on behalf of the State have the capacity to manage the implementation of a comprehensive statewide School-to-Work Opportunities system? Does the State's management plan anticipate barriers to statewide implementation and include a system for addressing them as they arise? Does the management plan include a process for incorporating methods to improve or redesign the implementation system based on program outcomes, for example through an evaluation plan? Will the State's performance standards be applied to local partnerships and will the standards be used to evaluate and improve their outcomes? Are key personnel under the plan qualified to perform the required activities, particularly to maintain the essential partnerships at the State level in a manner sufficient to implement the plan? Will Federal funds under the School-to-Work Opportunities Program grant be used to support partnerships that seek to carry out local School-to-Work Opportunities programs? Other Factors In addition to considering the factor of geographic distribution authorized under 34 CFR 426.25 of the Cooperative Demonstration program regulations, prior to making final funding decisions, the Secretaries also will consider as a factor the diversity of approaches to School-to-Work Opportunities proposed by each applicant. Intergovernmental Review This program is subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 and the regulations in 34 CFR part 79. The objective of the Executive order is to foster an intergovernmental partnership and a strengthened federalism by relying on processes developed by State and local governments for coordination and review of proposed Federal financial assistance. In accordance with the order, this document is intended to provide early notification of the Department's specific plans and actions for this program. Applicable Program Regulations: 34 CFR parts 400 and 426. Program Authority: 20 U.S.C. 2420a. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.199&hyph;H Cooperative Demonstration Program) Dated: January 25, 1994. Richard W. Riley, Secretary of Education. Robert B. Reich, Secretary of Labor. Appendix_Analysis of Comments and Changes General Comment: One commenter noted that Congress is currently debating the exact requirements for programs under the proposed School-to-Work Opportunities bill and expressed the belief that States are not immediately prepared to implement Statewide plans and systems. The commenter suggested that it would be preferable to extend the comment period for this notice until after Congress has agreed to the statutory program requirements. The commenter suggested that if the Departments choose to award implementation grants prior to the enactment of School-to-Work Opportunities legislation, they would have the authority to include provisions not contained in the original Administration bill nor, indeed, in the House or the Senate versions, so long as these provisions are consistent with the broad provisions for the Cooperative Demonstration Program authorized under section 420A of the Perkins Act, and 34 CFR 426.4, under which the funds for this competition were appropriated. Discussion: The Secretaries do not agree that the comment period should be extended until the School-to-Work Opportunities bill is enacted into law by Congress. Indicative of Congressional intent to allow States and localities to begin establishing School-to-Work Opportunities systems, Congress has appropriated funds under existing authority for this fiscal year 1994 competition. The Secretaries wish to award grants as soon as possible after July 1, 1994, when the funds become available, so that the States that compete successfully for those funds may have School-to-Work Opportunities systems operating in the 1994&hyph;95 school year. Waiting until enactment to publish a notice inviting applications would inevitably result in significant delays in both awarding funds and initiating programs and activities. At the same time, however, the Secretaries want to make certain that, to the greatest extent practicable, this priority reflects the most current Congressional action to date on the pending legislation. Accordingly, where provisions of the House and Senate bills are identical and differ from the provisions in the proposed notice, and where the House and Senate modifications are consistent with relevant existing authorities, the Secretaries have reflected those modifications in this final notice. Changes: Changes have been made in the notice to reflect House and Senate modifications to the proposed School-to-Work Opportunities legislation, where those changes are consistent with relevant existing statutory authorities. Comment: One commenter stated that, because the Federal Government already carries out the function of career education through the National Occupational Information Coordinating Committee, the Secretaries should add a fourth Federal role to the three already delineated in the ``Background'' section of the notice, ``to assist States in the provision of accurate and timely occupational and career development information for purposes of program planning, career guidance and counseling, and individual career exploration, choice and educational planning.''
