FR940621-2-00116 FR940621-2-00073 South: Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Tennessee, Kentucky, Arkansas, Texas, District of Columbia, Delaware, Oklahoma, and West Virginia; Midwest: Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, Wisconsin, Missouri, Iowa, Minnesota, Kansas, Nebraska, South Dakota, and North Dakota; West: Montana, Wyoming, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, Utah, Nevada, Idaho, Oregon, Washington, Alaska, Hawaii, and California. While each grantee will participate in national coordination of the Children's Advocacy Program through representation on the Board of Directors of the National Network of Children's Advocacy Centers, the primary focus of each will be on delivery of technical assistance and training to children's advocacy centers, and on communities interested in establishing multi-disciplinary, facility-based local advocacy centers in the census regions where they are located or are otherwise designated to serve. Pursuant to the Act, codified at 42 U.S.C. 13001b(b)(2)(A), the Regional Children's Advocacy Centers will assist communities in: •Developing a comprehensive, multi-disciplinary response to child abuse; •Establishing free-standing facilities for providing multi-disciplinary services to child victims and their families; •Preventing or reducing trauma to children caused by multiple contacts with community professionals; •Providing families with needed services; •Maintaining open communication and case coordination among community professionals and agencies involved in child protection efforts; •Coordinating and tracking investigative, preventive, prosecutorial, and treatment efforts; •Supporting effective investigative, preventive, prosecutorial, and treatment efforts; •Enhancing professional skills of professionals and volunteers who support local children's advocacy centers; and •Enhancing community understanding of child abuse. Eligibility Requirements Applicants are invited from local public and private/non-profit children's advocacy agencies and organizations who can demonstrate the existence of a combination of two or more of the following: •The successful operation of a facility-based children's advocacy center; •Multi-disciplinary staff experienced in providing coordinated services to child victims and non-offending family members; •Experience in providing training and technical assistance to other children's advocacy centers; •National expertise in providing training and technical assistance to communities with respect to supporting the work of professionals and volunteers providing multi-disciplinary services to child victims and their families. Selection Criteria Applications will initially be screened to determine if the applicant meets the eligibility requirements. They will then be reviewed and rated as a regional group on the extent to which they meet the following criteria: 1. Conceptualization of the Problem. (15 Points) The applicant must demonstrate a clear understanding of the status and developmental needs of children's advocacy centers in the census region in which they would target their services. 2. Statement of Objectives. (10 Points) The objectives to be achieved by the project must be clearly defined with a delineation of the services which would be provided during this grant period. 3. Project Design. (15 Points) The procedures, workplan, tasks and proposed products of the project must clearly reflect how identified activities will achieve the stated objectives. 4. Project Management. (10 Points) The project's management structure and staffing must be adequate for the successful implementation and completion of the project. The management plan describes a system whereby logistic activities are handled in the most efficient and economical manner. 5. Staffing. (20 Points) The staff must demonstrate a high degree of expertise in management and delivery of multi-disciplinary investigation and intervention services to victims of child abuse and their families. 6. Organizational Capability. (20 Points) The applicant organization's ability to conduct the project successfully must be documented in the proposal. Organizational experience with facility based, multi-disciplinary responses to victims of child abuse is mandatory. 7. Budget. (10 Points) The proposed budget must be reasonable, allowable and cost effective with respect to the activities to be undertaken. Selection Process If no acceptable applications are submitted from one or more of the designated regions, the next highest rated application from one of the other regions may be selected if it is feasible to provide the required services to the targeted region. Award Period Each project will be funded for 12 months. Additional funding will depend upon future appropriations and satisfactory performance under the assistance award. Award Amount Up to $125,000 will be available for each of the four projects. Due Date Applications must be received by mail or delivered to OJJDP by August 22, 1994, at Room 709, 633 Indiana Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20531. John J. Wilson Acting Administrator, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14973 Filed 6&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;18&hyph;P
