FR940324-1-00059 FR940324-1-00020 (2) Long-range planning estimates of construction costs and annual maintenance needs. This construction data will be provided to FHWA as part of the annual Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) requirements of 23 U.S.C. 135. (b) An overall needs analysis will be an ongoing function by the BIA to provide appropriate information necessary to develop a relative needs data base. This data will be used in the budgetary process and as support for any needs study to: (1) Make reports to Congress from time to time or as required. (2) Determine the costs for all identified Indian Reservation Roads improvements. (c) The BIA shall provide assistance to tribal governments in developing their administrative capabilities for managing their reservation transportation systems and economic development plans. §170.7 Transportation planning. The BIA shall carry out a transportation planning process for IRR to support the construction and improvement program similar to 23 U.S.C. 134, 135, 307, and in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 204 (h) and (j). Transportation plans shall be developed using an in-depth and comprehensive evaluation of all factors and elements influencing the orderly development of transportation systems. Planning will establish a definitive system for determining the needs for both new and improved highway facilities commensurate with social, environmental, and economic conditions, and shall provide the information needed for developing future transportation programs and distribution of IRR funds in accordance with the relative needs of the various Indian Reservations and tribal priorities. Transportation planning shall consider the information contained in management systems for highway pavement, bridges, and safety. BIA's transportation planning process shall be reviewed and deemed adequate by FHWA. §170.8 Selection of road construction project priorities. (a) The Superintendent shall inform the appropriate local tribal officials of all financial and technical information relating to the IRR program and alternatives of proposed road developments, arranging for technical assistance from other offices as required. The Superintendent shall recommend to the tribe those proposed road projects having the greatest need as determined by a comprehensive transportation analysis. Tribes shall develop a prioritized list of projects. Where more than one tribe is involved, the Superintendent shall make special efforts to ensure that all tribes are informed and given an opportunity to participate in priority decisions. Where the Superintendent and the tribe or tribes cannot agree on priorities, the Superintendent shall forward the proposals for review and decision to the Area Office. (b) The Assistant Secretary_Indian Affairs may establish priorities for programs of national scope and for administrative purposes with the concurrence of the Secretary of Transportation and in consultation with national Indian organizations. Such national priorities may include safety, hazard elimination, bridge programs, and economic development. §170.9 Annual program approval. (a) The Secretary and the Secretary of Transportation, or an authorized representative, shall approve all projects in the IRR construction program before any expenditures are made. An annual transportation improvement program shall be developed for approval of the Secretary and the Secretary of Transportation or an authorized representative, pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 135. (b) Since IRR are defined in 23 U.S.C. 101 as public roads, no funds appropriated for IRR may be spent for the construction, maintenance, or improvement of roads which are not public roads, except in emergencies hazardous to life or property, which are subsequently reimbursed back to the IRR program, or except as noted in section 1032(d) of the ISTEA. §170.10 Allocations. After October 1 of each fiscal year, the Secretary of Transportation shall allocate the sums appropriated for such fiscal year as provided in 23 U.S.C. 202. Funds for IRR construction projects shall be allocated according to the relative needs of the various reservations as jointly identified by the Secretary and the Secretary of Transportation. Allocations may be modified during the year to ensure maximum benefit to the Indian people. The Secretary will identify the amount of IRR funds allocated to each BIA Area Office and how this amount was determined. The Secretary also will document how each BIA Area Office distributes these funds. §170.11 Availability of funds. Funds authorized for IRR shall be available for contract or Force Account construction upon distribution, or on October 1 of the fiscal year for which authorized if no distribution is required. Any amount of contract authority remaining unobligated at the end of a fiscal year that is greater than the funds authorized during that fiscal year and the prior three (3) fiscal years combined shall be considered lapsed and will be withdrawn. The Secretary has authority to incur obligations, approve projects, and enter into contracts under such authorizations, and the action in doing so is deemed a contractual obligation of the United States for the payment of the cost thereof, and such funds shall be deemed to have been expended when so obligated (23 U.S.C. 203).
