FR940921-0-00041 FR940921-0-00016 E. Fuel Economy Today's rule contains fuel economy test procedures and calculations for measuring the fuel economy of natural gas-fueled light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks. The driving cycles adopted for natural gas vehicles are the same as those currently in place for gasoline-fueled vehicles. Also, the measurement and calculation procedures for natural gas vehicles rely on the same principle of carbon balance as the current gasoline procedures, but include a gasoline/natural gas equivalency factor of 100 standard cubic feet of natural gas equalling 0.823 gallons of gasoline. These procedures and calculations will allow these vehicles to be included in a manufacturer's corporate average fuel economy (CAFE) under the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act (MVICSA), 15 U.S.C. ยง2001 et seq. The Alternative Motor Fuels Act of 1988, 11 provides that alternative fueled vehicles (including natural gas-fueled vehicles) may be included in a manufacturer's CAFE calculation on a favorable basis in order to encourage the manufacture of such vehicles. The AMFA provides that, for purposes of including natural gas vehicles in the CAFE calculation, fuel consumption of natural gas vehicles is only fifteen percent of equivalent gasoline fuel consumption. The AMFA also mandates the 0.823 gasoline/natural gas equivalency factor included in today's rule. Regulations governing the calculation and use of natural gas vehicle CAFE credits are contained in a separate rulemaking action. 12 11 Public Law 100&hyph;494, October 14, 1988. 12 56 FR 8856, March 1, 1991. As will be discussed further in the Public Participation section of this rule, the Agency is not promulgating fuel economy procedures for LPG vehicles today, but will do so in a separate rulemaking action. F. Aftermarket Conversions Today's rule contains provisions for the certification of aftermarket conversions ( i.e., conversions which allow a vehicle or engine to operate on a fuel other than the fuel for which it was originally designed and certified). An exemption from the tampering prohibitions contained in section 203(a)(3) of the Clean Air Act can be secured through this certification process. The provisions contained in today's rule for securing such an exemption consist of three main parts: applicable standards, test procedures, and warranty/liability issues. It has always been the Agency's policy that an aftermarket conversion not degrade the emissions performance of the original vehicle as a condition of being exempt from prosecution for tampering violations. Today's rule merely clarifies that policy by providing specific procedures by which one can certify that a conversion does meet this requirement, and thus secure an exemption from the tampering prohibition. Consistent with this policy, the emission standards which an aftermarket conversion shall meet in order to secure the tampering prohibition exemption are essentially the same standards the original vehicle was certified as meeting. In the case of conversions to natural gas, the converted vehicle would not be required to meet the THC standard, but must meet an NMHC standard which provides an equivalent amount of NMHC control as that afforded by the original THC standard. In the case of conversion to multi-fuel operation (i.e., where the vehicle has the ability to switch between two fuels, such as gasoline and natural gas, or where the vehicle operates on two fuels simultaneously, but retains the ability to operate exclusively on the original fuel), the vehicle would still be required to meet the emission standards it was originally certified to when operating on the original fuel, in addition to meeting the applicable requirements on the new fuel. The test procedures applicable to aftermarket conversions under this program are those currently in place new vehicle certification as outlined in 40 CFR Part 86. The small volume manufacturers certification program contained in 40 CFR 86.092&hyph;14 is also available for aftermarket conversion certification provided the company or individual seeking certification meets the sales limits described in that section. These procedures utilize the same test cycles and analytical procedures that are used for new vehicle certification. In the case of aftermarket conversions a certificate of conformity must be sought for each engine family/conversion system combination and for each model year vehicle for which the system is intended. As a condition of exemption from the tampering prohibition, conversion manufacturers and installers must accept in-use liability for warranty and recall as outlined in section 207 of the Act and its implementing regulations. 13 This is consistent with EPA's policy that aftermarket conversions not degrade the emissions performance of the original vehicle. It will also assure that the conversion will meet the applicable emission standards throughout its useful life. Since conversions generally rely, at least in part, on emission control equipment already on the original vehicle for emissions control, the useful life of a conversion will not extend beyond the useful life of the original vehicle. 13 Code of Federal Regulations, Title 40, Part 86.
