FR941230-2-00085 FR941230-2-00048 Notice Pursuant to the National Cooperative Research and Production Act of 1993; Fuel Filtration Cooperative Research Program Notice is hereby given that, on October 5, 1994, pursuant to Section 6(a) of the National Cooperative Research and Production Act of 1993, 15 U.S.C. 4301 et seq. (``the Act''), Southwest Research Institute (``SwRI'') has filed written notifications simultaneously with the Attorney General and the Federal Trade Commission disclosing (1) the identities of the parties and (2) the nature and objectives of the venture. The notifications were filed for the purpose of invoking the Act's provisions limiting the recovery of antitrust plaintiffs to actual damages under specified circumstances. Pursuant to Section 6(b) of the Act, the identities of the parties are: AlliedSignal, Inc., Perrysburg, OH; Caterpillar, Inc., Mossville, IL; DAVCO Manufacturing Corporation, Saline, MI; Donaldson Company, Inc., Minneapolis, MN; Fleetguard, Inc., Cookeville, TN; General Motors Corporation, AC Rochester Division, Flint, MI; Kaydon Corporation, LeGrange, GA; Pall Corporation, Glen Cove, NY; Parker Hannifin Corporation, RACOR Division, Modesto, CA; Stanadyne Automotive Corporation, Windsor, CT. Its general areas of planned activities are to investigate potential problems of harmful contamination for diesel engines which may be solved through improved filtration by establishing the sensitivity of high pressure diesel fuel injection equipment to harmful fuel contamination and utilizing the knowledge gained from the contamination study and the analysis of the impact of the fuel filter operating environment to establish a methodology for developing a more realistic fuel filtration evaluation. Membership in the program remains open, and SwRI intends to file additional written notifications disclosing all changes in the membership or planned activities. Constance K. Robinson, Director of Operations, Antitrust Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;32124 Filed 12&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;01&hyph;M
