FR941213-2-00031 FR941213-2-00022 Energy Research Financial Assistance Program Notice 95&hyph;07; Energy Biosciences AGENCY: Department of Energy (DOE). ACTION: Notice inviting grant preapplications. SUMMARY: The Office of Basic Energy Sciences of the Office of Energy Research (ER), U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) announces its interest in receiving preapplications from potential applicants for research funding in the Energy Biosciences program area. The intent in asking for a preapplication is to save the time and effort of applicants in preparing and submitting a formal project application that may be inappropriate for the program. The preliminary screening of research ideas is aimed also at relieving some of the burden of the scientific community in peer reviewing an excessive number of research applications. The preapplication should consist of a two to three page concept paper about the research being contemplated as a potential, formal application to the Energy Biosciences program. The concept paper should focus on the objectives of the planned research, its scientific goals and their significance, an outline of the approaches planned, and any other information that relates to the planned research. No budget information or biographical data need be included; nor is an institutional endorsement necessary. The preapplication gives DOE the opportunity to evaluate the technical suitability of submitting a formal application for support of research ideas. A response indicating the appropriateness of submitting a formal application will be sent from the Division of Energy Biosciences office in time to allow for an adequate preparation period for a formal application. DATES: For timely consideration, all preapplications should be received by February 22, 1995. Earlier submissions are encouraged and fax submissions are acceptable (Fax Number [301] 903&hyph;1003). A response to timely preapplications will be communicated by April 20, 1995. The deadline for receipt of formal applications is June 7, 1995. ADDRESSES: Preapplications referencing Program Notice 95&hyph;07 should be forwarded to: U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, ER&hyph;17, Division of Energy Biosciences, Washington, D.C. 20585, Attn: Program Notice 95&hyph;07. The following address must be used when submitting preapplications by U.S. Postal Service Express, any commercial mail delivery service, or when handcarried by the applicant: U.S. Department of Energy, Division of Energy Biosciences, ER&hyph;17, 19901 Germantown Road, Germantown, MD 20874. Fax submissions are acceptable (Fax Number [301] 903&hyph;1003). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Pat Snyder, Division of Energy Biosciences, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, ER&hyph;17, Washington, D.C. 20585, telephone: (301) 903&hyph;2873. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Before preparing a formal application, potential applicants should submit a brief preapplication in accordance with 10 CFR 600.10(d)(2), which consists of two to three pages of narrative describing research objectives. These will be reviewed relative to the scope and the research needs of the Energy Biosciences program. The Energy Biosciences program has the mission of generating fundamental biological information about plants and non-medical related microorganisms that can provide support for future energy related biotechnologies. The objective is to pursue basic biochemical, genetic and physiological investigations that may contribute towards providing alternate fuels, petroleum replacement products, energy conservation measures as well as other technologies, such as phytoremediation, related to DOE programs. Areas of interest include bioenergetic systems, including photosynthesis; control of plant growth and development, including metabolic, genetic, and hormonal and ambient factor regulation, metabolic diversity, ion uptake, transport and accumulation, stress physiology and adaptation; genetic transmission and expression; plant-microbial interactions, plant cell wall structure and function; lignocellulose degradative mechanisms; mechanisms of fermentations, genetics of neglected microorganisms, energetics and membrane phenomena; thermophily (molecular basis of high temperature tolerance); microbial interactions; and one-carbon metabolism, which is the basis of biotransformations such as methanogenesis. The objective is to discern and understand basic mechanisms and principles. Funds are expected to be available for new grant awards in FY 1996. The magnitude of these funds available and the number of awards which can be made will depend on the budget process. The new awards made during FY 1994 averaged about $87,000 per year. Most awards are funded for a three-year period. The principal purpose in using preapplications at this time is to reduce the expenditure of time and effort of all parties. Information about development and submission of applications, eligibility, limitations, evaluations and selection processes, and other policies and procedures may be found in the Application Guide for the Office of Energy Research Financial Assistance Program and 10 CFR Part 605. The Application Guide for the Office of Energy Research Financial Assistance Program for formal submissions and copies of 10 CFR Part 605 are available from U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, ER&hyph;17, Division of Energy Biosciences, Washington, D.C. 20585. Telephone requests may be made by calling (301) 903&hyph;2873. Instructions for preparation of a formal application are number for this program is 81.049. Issued in Washington, D.C., on November 28, 1994. D.D. Mayhew, Director, Office of Management, Office of Energy Research. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30500 Filed 12&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
