FR940217-1-00089 FR940217-1-00014 However, for purposes of this part, the Secretary proposes to specify that with regard to the conduct of an officer or employee of a third-party servicer or a person, entity, or officer or employee of an entity with which the servicer contracts, that conduct would be a factor in determining the servicer's financial responsibility only if the individual or entity is used in a capacity that involves administering any aspect of the Title IV, HEA programs. For example, the Secretary would not hold the conduct of a custodian employed by a third-party servicer as an element in determining the servicer's financial responsibility, if that custodian had no responsibility for administering a Title IV, HEA program. The Secretary also proposes to specify that a third-party servicer would not be considered to be financially responsible if the servicer, or any principal or affiliate of the servicer (as those terms are defined in 34 CFR part 85), is debarred or suspended under E.O. 12549 or the FAR, or is engaging in activity that is cause under 34 CFR 85.305 or 85.405 for debarment or suspension under E.O. 12549 or the FAR. Like the proposed changes governing the past performance of individuals or organizations associated with institutions that participate in the Title IV, HEA programs and standard of conduct of participating institutions and third-party servicers, these changes are needed to establish appropriate safeguards to protect the integrity of the FFEL programs and the Federal financial interest if serious questions are raised about the honest and lawful conduct of a servicer's owners, officers, directors, employees, or affiliates whose duties involve the administration of or influence over the use of those funds. Under this section, a third-party servicer would be required to have an annual independent audit of its administration of the FFEL programs that examines the servicer's compliance with the Act and applicable regulations and its financial management of FFEL program activities. These requirements and audit exceptions would parallel the proposed audit requirements and exceptions under 34 CFR 668.23 (governing audit requirements for third-party servicers contracting with institutions to administer any aspect of the institution's participation in the Title IV, HEA programs), except that the report of the audit would have to be submitted to the Secretary within six months of the end of the audit report period. A third-party servicer's initial audit would have to cover the same period required of audits performed for third-party servicers contracting with institutions to administer any aspect of the institution's participation in the Title IV, HEA programs (discussed previously in 34 CFR 668.23). The Secretary believes that initial audits will be more useful and effective if they encompass an entire fiscal year. The Secretary also believes that allowing servicers additional time to prepare for the implementation of these regulations would enable servicers to comply more fully with these regulations as well as defray the costs associated with an audit of a partial fiscal year and minimize the burden associated with implementing these regulations, as called for under E.O. 12866. Subsequent audits would, as required by statute, encompass the entire period since the servicer's previous audit. In addition, the Secretary proposes that the audit report would be conducted in accordance with the audit guide developed by the Inspector General of the Department of Education unless the third-party servicer is a governmental entity or nonprofit organization. A third-party servicer that is a governmental entity would be required to have an audit conducted in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 7502 and 34 CFR part 80, appendix G (pursuant to the Single Audit Act). A third-party servicer that is a nonprofit organization would be required to have an audit conducted in accordance with Office of Management and Budget Circular A&hyph;133, ``Audit of Institutions of Higher Education and Other Nonprofit Institutions,'' as incorporated in 34 CFR 74.61(h)(3). These proposed rules would also limit a lender's ability to enter into a contract with a third-party servicer. As explained previously in the discussion for §682.200, under this proposal, a lender may not enter into a contract with a third-party servicer that the Secretary has determined does not meet the administrative capability or financial responsibility standards under this section. Further, a lender that contracts with a third-party servicer would have to provide the Secretary with the name and address of the third-party servicer, and, upon request, a copy of that contract. Sections 682.700␣Purpose and scope, 682.701␣Definitions of terms used in this subpart, 682.702␣Effect on participation, 682.703␣Informal compliance procedure, 682.704␣Emergency action, 682.705␣Suspension proceedings, 682.706␣Limitation or termination proceedings, 682.707␣Appeals in a limitation or termination proceeding, 682.708␣Evidence of mailing and receipt dates, 682.709␣Reimbursements, refunds, and offsets, 682.710␣Removal of limitation, and 682.711␣Reinstatement after termination. The Secretary proposes to amend subpart G to provide that the Secretary would have the authority to limit, suspend, or terminate a third-party servicer's ability to contract with an eligible lender if the Secretary determines the third-party servicer has violated any FFEL program requirement. Section 432(a)(1) of the Act authorizes the Secretary to take action against third-party servicers for any violation of any FFEL program requirement. Under these proposed regulations, the Secretary could also take emergency action against the servicer if the Secretary receives reliable information that the servicer is in violation of applicable requirements pertaining to the lender's portfolio of loans. The procedures under which the Secretary could take those actions and the procedures a third-party servicer could use to appeal those actions are consistent with the long-standing procedures the Secretary uses to take those actions against a lender, and the procedures a lender may use to appeal those actions.
