FR940711-2-00116 FR940711-2-00049 _Targeting services to a more at-risk population; _Improving the quality and intensity of services that lead to skills acquisition, long-term employability and increased earnings; _Placing greater emphasis on basic skills acquisition to qualify for employment or advanced education or training; and _Promoting comprehensive, coordinated human resource programs to address the multiple needs of at-risk populations. In addition, with the passage of the 1992 JTPA Amendments, the performance management system has been tasked, through its performance incentive policies, to improve service to out-of-school youth and also to foster employment in better quality jobs which offer high wages and employer-assisted benefits. These goals are reflected in the Secretary's six Title II&hyph;A and Title II&hyph;C (core) measures, national numerical standards for these measures, new incentive award criteria, and associated reporting requirements. Governors still retain authority to establish additional standards which reflect State policy and to develop the specific approach to determining incentive awards. This issuance specifies the national standards for PY's 1994&hyph;1995 and introduces the new criteria which must be a part of State incentive grant policies. Data to support additional non-cost measures will continue to be reported and Governors may use these measures, or others in making State incentive award determinations. Data on costs together with program performance will provide critical information for State monitoring, fiscal oversight, and assist States in measuring returns on their human resource investments. The Department has identified two additional goals for PY 1994&hyph;1995. These are: _Establishing a strong customer focus and orientation toward improving the program's responsiveness in meeting the individual needs of participants; and _Seeking and using customer feedback to monitor the appropriateness of JTPA services and to promote continuous program improvements. States and SDAs are encouraged to survey customers on a regular basis as an integral part of their program oversight to identify program weaknesses and to improve program services. Technical assistance will be made available on cost-effective ways to gather and utilize such information. 4. Secretary's National Standards for PY's 1994&hyph;1995. The Secretary's performance measures and national standards for Title II&hyph;A, Title II&hyph;C, section 204(d), and Title III (all of section 302(c)(1) State activities, and sections 302(c)(2) and 302(d) substate area activities) are as follows: PY 1994&hyph;1995 Performance Standards Title II&hyph;A Adult Follow-up Employment Rate 59% Adult Weekly Earnings at ␣␣Follow-up $245 Welfare Follow-up Employment ␣␣Rate 47% Welfare Weekly Earnings at ␣␣Follow-up $223 Title II&hyph;C Youth Entered Employment Rate 41% Youth Employability Enhancement Rate 40% Section 204(d) Older Worker Programs Entered Employment Rate 52% Average Hourly Wage at Placement $5.45 Title III Entered Employment Rate 67% Average Wage at Placement State Determined The Title II&hyph;A adult and welfare follow-up measures will continue to be based on individuals who terminate during the first three quarters of the program year and the last quarter of the previous program year.
