FR941213-2-00106 FR941213-2-00061 E. Panel Review Criteria The panel(s) will review and rate each application on the basis of the following Technical Review Factors; the panel(s) may request information from the Field Office, or make site visits, as needed: ␣ 1MROP Activities Panel Technical Review Factors 1Points (1) PHA's management capability to carry out the proposed MROP activities: (Maximum of 30 points) (a) PHMAP Overall Rating 60&hyph;100 and 15 (b) PHMAP ( # 12) Development & ( # 1) Modernization Scores A&hyph;B Average or 15 (c) PHMAP Overall Rating < 60, but contingent contract is included meeting procurement requirements with qualified entity to act as project administrator on PHA's behalf 30 (2) The expected term of useful life of the project or building after completion of MROP activities: (Maximum of 30 points) (a) The plan/strategy is comprehensive and demonstrates that the rehabilitation will result in a useful life of at least 20 years; e.g., management deficiencies are addressed; all physical deficiencies are addressed; local and resident support are integrated throughout the project improvement effort 1&hyph;10 (b) Degree of Resident Involvement and degree of PHA activity in resident initiatives, including resident management, economic development, and drug elimination efforts 1&hyph;5 (c) Degree of local government and private sector involvement and support 1&hyph;5 (d) Evidence of satisfactory maintenance of other developments in the PHA's inventory 1&hyph;10 (3) The likelihood of achieving full occupancy of the reconstructed units comprising the project or building after completion of MROP activities: (Maximum of 40) (a) Need_The PHA's needs for CIAP/CGP/URD are so great that there is little or no likelihood this project, which has demonstrated need, will be modernized in the foreseeable future without MROP funds 1&hyph;30 (b) Adequate occupancy systems/procedures are in place or will be in place to achieve full occupancy once modernized 1&hyph;10 n,s MROP Activities Panel Total Possible Points 100 V. MROP Activities Funding and Further Processing A. Each MROP activities application selected for funding by Headquarters shall: 1. Have funds reserved in an amount of at least 70 percent of the development cost limitation for the area and: a. The reservation amount will be ``trended'' to preclude the need for amendment funds; b. The trend will be calculated by multiplying the percent of development cost by 5.4 percent (1.054), rounded to the nearest $50; 2. Be assigned a development project number and entered into the appropriate HUD data systems; and 3. During and after fund reservation, development procedures shall be followed (24 CFR part 941 and Handbook 7417.1 REV&hyph;1) except : a. MROP activities work may only be accomplished by: (1) Sealed bid procurement method with award to the lowest responsible bidder; or (2) Competitive proposal method as permitted for modernization projects under Notice PIH 93&hyph;50 (HA), whereby the PHA would execute a fixed price contract in which the contractor would be responsible for design of specific work items identified in the Request for Proposals, soliciting and contracting for construction work, contract administration and construction inspection; the contract could either provide for progress payments, as in the sealed bid method, or a lump sum payment after successful completion of all work; b. CIAP modernization standards set forth in Handbook 7485.2 REV&hyph;1 must be used; c. The PHA must incorporate its approved MROP activities application into a PHA Proposal (Form HUD&hyph;52483A); d. The special MROP Annual Contributions Contract (Form HUD&hyph;53010&hyph;I), included in Notice PIH 89&hyph;41(HUD), must be used; e. There will be no amendment funds to increase the original amount of the MROP activities fund reservation. VI. Checklist of Application Submission Requirements A. Application Checklist PHAs may use the following application checklist, which enumerates the submission requirements of Section III of this NOFA. 1. Forms HUD&hyph;52822 and HUD&hyph;52825, CIAP Application and CIAP Budget; 2. Narrative statement addressing each of the eligibility criteria under Section I.D. of this NOFA, each of the restriction criteria under Section I.E. of this NOFA, and each of the Technical Review Factors under Section IV.E. of this NOFA; 3. Information/certification, as applicable, if the application involves demo/dispo or conversion of units; 4. HUD&hyph;52471, PHA Resolution in Support of Public Housing; 5. HUD&hyph;52472, Local Governing Body Resolution, if front-end funds are being requested by the PHA. [Note: If front-end funds are requested, the HUD 52471 must be appropriately modified.]; 6. PHA statement identifying its funding preferences if more than one application is being submitted; 7. HUD&hyph;50070, PHA Certification for a Drug-Free Workplace; 8. HUD&hyph;50071, Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans and Cooperative Agreements; 9. Form SF-LLL, Byrd Amendment Disclosure and Certification Regarding Lobbying, only if the applicant determines it is applicable; 10. Form HUD&hyph;2880, Disclosure of Government Assistance and Identity of Interested Parties. B. Application Packets Forms comprising the application package may be obtained from the HUD Field Office. VII. Other Matters A. Environmental Impact A Finding of No Significant Impact with respect to the environment has been made in accordance with HUD regulations at 24 CFR part 50, implementing section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332). The Finding of No Significant Impact is available for public inspection and copying between 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. weekdays at the Office of the Rules Docket Clerk, 451 Seventh Street, S.W., Room 10276, Washington, D.C. 20410. B. Federalism The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under section 6(a) of Executive Order 12612, Federalism, has determined that this NOFA will not have substantial, direct effects on States, on their political subdivisions, or on their relationship with the Federal government, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities between them and other levels of government. The NOFA will provide PHAs with funding for public housing development MROP activities.
