FR940505-1-00108 FR940505-1-00012 Employers of 25 or more employees who lease parking spaces for their employees may not offer free parking unless they offer employees the option of retaining the parking or accepting a cash allowance equal to the market cost of the parking space. The cash allowance will be considered taxable income, but under current law, up to $60 per month of the cash may be taken in the form of a transit pass, which would be tax-exempt. Those who opt for the parking space will be unaffected by the change. Whether the employee decides to take the free parking or the cash allowance, the company can still deduct the cost from corporate income tax. Research indicates that such a program may reduce single occupant commuting by 20 percent in densely developed areas where most employer-provided parking is through leased spaces. The improvement which is achieved will also assist employers in complying with the ECO programs in each of the FIP areas. (7) Special Issues for Mobile Sources. (a) Inspection and Maintenance. While stricter standards act to ensure that new vehicles are cleaner than were their predecessors, there has been no guarantee that these vehicles would ``stay clean'' in actual use. Historically, tampering, lack of proper maintenance, maladjustment, and control equipment failures have meant that cars on the road would emit on average 3 to 4 times more pollutants than the levels for which their control systems were certified. The evolution of vehicles to fuel injection and closed-loop computer control along with the reduction in availability of leaded fuel have significantly reduced the amount that owners tamper with or maladjust their vehicle emission control systems. Simply, the cost advantage of using leaded fuel has disappeared, and vehicle performance has become so closely tied with having all systems operating as designed that it is no longer widely perceived to be beneficial to remove or render inoperative any of the various vehicle systems. Malfunctions of the engine and emission control systems can still occur, however. Periodic vehicle emissions inspection and maintenance (I/M) programs are designed to identify and repair these malfunctions. For this reason, I/M plays an important role in the FIP proposal. The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 require areas such as the FIP areas which are classified as serious or worse ozone nonattainment to implement enhanced I/M programs. Up to this time, the State of California has not enacted an enhanced I/M program which meets the requirements of the national I/M rule which was published in 1992. A recently signed law in California retains the current Smog Check network of licensed inspection garages in slightly altered form. The national enhanced I/M regulations require that inspection and repair functions be conducted separately to avoid conflict of interest and improper testing unless there are other features which provide sufficient reductions to meet the enhanced I/M performance standard. EPA and the State are currently discussing a program design which would meet the enhanced I/M performance standard, but which would also preserve as much business as possible for the currently licensed inspection stations. This program has not yet achieved consensus among all parties and is not represented by specific legislation or as a SIP revision. The FIP I/M design must also deal with the further constraints that are imposed on EPA, namely that it cannot order the State to implement any of the FIP's required programs, nor can it add to its own appropriation in order to staff the various programs. That means that EPA must design programs which require the minimum level of oversight and administration. EPA is proposing an enhanced I/M program which follows closely the model program which sets the performance standard for all I/M programs nationwide. EPA would implement the program in the FIP areas through legal agreements between EPA and a private firm or firms which would provide testing services to California motorists. The firm(s) would be authorized to charge a specific fee for the test; EPA's oversight costs would have to be absorbed by the Agency.
