FR941125-1-00023 FR941125-1-00007 CO Emissions (Tons Per Day) 1␣ 11990 11995 12000 12004 Point sources 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Area sources 0.56 0.56 0.56 0.56 On-road mobile sources 9.74 7.95 6.16 4.73 Off-road mobile sources 5.93 5.99 6.06 6.11 n,s Totals 16.23 14.50 12.78 11.40 The IEPA believes the decrease in VOC and CO emissions and relatively constant NO X emissions (the small increase in NO X emissions between 1990 and 2004 is viewed by the IEPA to be inconsequential with respect to ozone concentration changes) between 1990 and 2004 demonstrates the maintenance of the ozone NAAQS for the required ten year maintenance period. It should be noted that the interim year emissions above were determined by the USEPA based on discussions with the IEPA. The USEPA and IEPA agreed that the interim year emission estimates should be based on linear interpolation between the 1990 and 2004 emission estimates. This is consistent with the source growth estimation procedure used by the State to estimate the 2004 emission levels, and USEPA believes that this method is appropriate and reasonable for estimating the interim year emissions. The USEPA believes that this method provides reasonable estimates of the emission levels in those years and does not underestimate those emissions. The interim year estimates support the IEPA's conclusion that the ozone NAAQS should be maintained in Jersey County for the period between 1990 and 2004. III. USEPA Analysis of Redesignation Request 1. Monitored Attainment of the NAAQS The IEPA has collected quality assured ozone data showing attainment of the ozone standard at all monitoring sites during the most recent three years of monitoring. These data are recorded in AIRS. 2. Approved State Implementation Plan Jersey County is covered by a SIP approved by the USEPA under section 110 and part D of the Act. Illinois has implemented this SIP. The implementation of this SIP included the adoption and implementation of USEPA approved RACT regulations and other required reasonably available control measures required by the pre-1990 Act. Illinois has complied with the amended Act. Illinois has submitted a 1990 base year emissions inventory for VOC, CO, and NO X emissions. This emissions inventory appears to be acceptable, and must be approved in final before the USEPA can approve the redesignation of Jersey County to attainment for ozone. The emission inventory is the subject of a separate rulemaking action. Illinois has also submitted a SIP revision requiring annual emission statements from major sources and the SIP was approved by USEPA on September 9, 1993, (See 58 FR 47379). As noted above, although Illinois' NSR regulations have not been approved by the USEPA, the USEPA does not consider this to be reasonable basis for disapproving Illinois' redesignation request since PSD requirements will replace NSR after Jersey County has been redesignated to attainment. Until such time, addition of major new sources or major modification of existing ozone precursor sources must be covered NSR permits acceptable to both the State of Illinois and the USEPA. Lack of adopted mobile source conformity regulations is inconsequential since such regulations are required whether Jersey County is designated as nonattainment or attainment for ozone. 3. Improvement of Air Quality Due to Permanent Emission Reductions Implementation of VOC emission controls in Jersey County and in the St. Louis/Metro-East St. Louis ozone nonattainment areas has led to permanent, enforceable emission reductions which can explain the observed improvement in ozone levels in Jersey County. 4. Maintenance Plan The contingency portion of the maintenance plan was found to be acceptable. In addition, an acceptable demonstration of maintenance for Jersey County has been made through emission projections to 2004. One issue concerning the contingency measures, however, must be noted. As discussed above, Illinois has chosen to include the implementation of tighter gasoline RVP (requiring lower RVP) requirements as a contingency measure. At the same time Illinois was finalizing its maintenance plans, the USEPA issued new guidance concerning the use of lower RVP as contingency measures in maintenance plans. This new guidance was provided in a November 8, 1993, memorandum from Michael Horowitz, Office of General Counsel, to Directors of Air and Radiation Divisions. The guidance indicates that, for States to include lower RVP as a contingency measure in maintenance plans, the maintenance plan must include several things with respect to this contingency measure. First, the maintenance plan must indicate that if the former nonattainment area fell back into nonattainment, the State would submit a request to the USEPA to find under section 211(c)(4)(C) of the Act that the lower RVP requirement is necessary for the area to achieve the ozone NAAQS. Second, since the implementation of a lower RVP would rely upon USEPA's determination of whether it was necessary to achieve attainment, the State must provide for the possibility that a lower RVP could not be implemented. To do so, the State would need to provide for a backup measure in the maintenance plan. The maintenance plan could also include a commitment to adopt, as an alternative to the specified measure, measures identified by the USEPA as practicable in its denial of the State's request for a lower RVP requirement. If the State chooses to adopt measures specified by the USEPA and the USEPA has provided several options for acceptable measures, the State must adopt the requisite number of these measures as is necessary to again achieve the standard. The State would need to include a schedule for submittal of the section 211(c)(4)(C) request to the USEPA and a schedule for final adoption and implementation of a lower RVP standard, or the back-up measure(s), or the alternative measures selected by the USEPA. The schedule would need to be tied to the triggering event for the contingency measure, not to USEPA action on the 211(c)(4)(C) request. Notwithstanding the November 8, 1993, policy discussed above, which was not available to Illinois at the time the State was finalizing and submitting it maintenance plans to the USEPA, USEPA should approve Illinois' maintenance plan as it currently exists. This is because Illinois has identified a wide range of contingency measures to choose from in the maintenance plan and is, therefore, not relying exclusively on lower RVP requirements as a contingency measure. If Illinois, however, upon the triggering of the need to implement contingency measures, chooses to implement requirements for lower RVP, Illinois must submit the section 211(c)(4)(C) request in compliance with the Act. Based on the above, it is recommended that the USEPA approve Illinois' request for the redesignation of Jersey County to attainment for ozone as well as Illinois' maintenance plan for this county. IV. USEPA's Proposed Rulemaking Action The USEPA proposes to approve the redesignation of Jersey County to attainment for ozone because the State of Illinois has met the requirements of the Act revising the Illinois ozone SIP. V. Request for Public Comments USEPA is requesting comments on the requested SIP revision and this proposed rule. As indicated at the outset of this notice, USEPA will consider any comments received by December 27, 1994. This action has been classified as a Table 2 action by the Regional Administrator under the procedures published in the Federal Register on January 19, 1989 (54 FR 2214&hyph;2225), as revised by an October 4, 1993 memorandum from Michael H. Shapiro, Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation. The OMB has exempted this regulatory action from Executive Order 12866 review.
