FR940627-0-00143 FR940627-0-00019 EPA is also requiring that vehicles and engines used for the testing of F/FAs be unaltered from original equipment manufacturer (OEM) specifications (with the exception of modifications in aftertreatment devices as described in Section VI.A). Rebuilds and alteration kits will only be allowed upon EPA's approval, when a F/FA manufacturer demonstrates to EPA that OEM equipment suitable for their F/FA product's testing is unavailable. As proposed in the NPRM (57 FR 13192&hyph;13193), vehicle and engine selection must follow the criteria outlined in ยง79.57(a) of the accompanying regulations. The selection method is described in detail in a memorandum entitled, ``Vehicle Selection Procedures for the Proposed Fuels and Fuel Additives Rulemaking'' (see Item No. II&hyph;B&hyph;6 in the public docket of this rule). As proposed, the final rule does not differentiate between light- duty vehicles and light-duty trucks. Thus, vehicles/engines are separated into two classes: light-duty and heavy-duty. The vehicle or engine selected must be a new vehicle or engine of the model year in which testing begins. However, vehicle selection criteria are to be based on technology characteristics of the previous model year. Any one of the top five selling models (based on sales figures from the year prior to testing) with the appropriate technology in a fuel group may be chosen. Each test vehicle or engine must be equipped with all of the normally required and functioning emission control equipment, with the exception of aftertreatment devices, when applicable (see Section VI.A). Considering the practical constraints of the rule, EPA is requiring that only one vehicle or engine model be used to generate emissions for these tiers. Although EPA recognizes that emission composition is somewhat dependent on vehicle models and may even vary in replicate tests of the same vehicle/fuel combination, the use of untreated exhaust in the testing program will greatly reduce the significance of these potential sources of variability. The purpose of the testing program is to determine potential health effects of F/FA emissions and not to establish in-use fleet average emission levels for different types of vehicles. However, EPA reserves the right to require the testing of F/FAs in additional vehicles or engines, under Tier 3, if there is concern for technology-based differences in toxicological effects. Furthermore, EPA could require the use of catalyzed exhaust to perform tests under Tier 3. Although EPA is routinely requiring only one vehicle or engine for the testing of F/FAs, EPA foresees that at least one backup vehicle/engine of the identical model may be needed to replace vehicles/engines that wear out or malfunction during the course of testing. The probability of needing a replacement vehicle or engine increases in the case of testing F/FAs containing atypical elements that require additional mileage accumulation (see next section). The decision concerning the timing of vehicle and engine replacements is the responsibility of the F/FA manufacturer seeking registration. EPA recommends that backup vehicles/engines (if present) accumulate mileage along with the primary test vehicle, so as to minimize testing interruptions if the backup vehicle/engine is needed. Manufacturers may, at their own discretion, alternate between backup vehicles (or engines) during testing to further decrease the probability of problems or interruptions. Similarly conditioned vehicles/engines (i.e., primary and backup vehicle/engine) would be expected to generate comparable emissions. Emissions from backup vehicles/engines must have their emissions characterized prior to use in the biological studies. Wide discrepancies between the emissions of primary and backup vehicle/engine emissions may be cause to void a test. During emission generation, vehicles and engines must be maintained in good condition by following the OEM recommendations for service schedule and parts replacement. If unscheduled maintenance becomes necessary, the vehicle or engine must be repaired to OEM specifications, using OEM or OEM-approved parts. In addition, the manufacturer is required to measure the basic emissions (as described in Section VII.B.2.a) after the unscheduled maintenance and before resuming testing, to demonstrate that the post-maintenance emissions are within 20 percent of pre-maintenance emission levels. If the basic emissions cannot be brought within 20 percent of their previous levels, then the manufacturer must restart testing using a new vehicle or engine. Provisions in the regulations allow for a limited amount of emission generation disruption without voiding the biological test. E. Mileage Accumulation New vehicles (or engines) to be used in emission generation for the testing of F/FAs are required to undergo a break-in period in which the vehicle (or engine) is run exclusively on the fuel or additive/base fuel mixture to be tested. The mileage accumulation requirements of this final rule follow the approaches discussed in the Reopening Notice. These requirements serve the purpose of stabilizing the emissions from the new vehicle or engine.
