FR941013-0-00030 FR941013-0-00011 Public reporting burden for this form is estimated to average .1382 hours per response, including time for reviewing instructions, gathering and maintaining data, and completing and reviewing the form. Direct comments on the burden estimate or any other aspect of this form to: Information Collection Officer, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 1849 C Street, NW, MS 224 ARLSQ, Washington, DC 20240; and the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (1018&hyph;0075), Washington DC 20503. Additional information collection requirements may be imposed if Local Advisory Committees subject to the Federal Advisory Committee Act are established under Subpart B. Such requirements will be submitted to OMB for approval prior to their implementation. Economic Effects This rule was not subject to QMB review under Executive Order 12866. The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ) requires preparation of flexibility analyses for rules that will have a significant effect on a substantial number of small entities, which include small businesses, organizations or governmental jurisdictions. The Departments have determined that this rulemaking will not have a significant economic effect on a substantial number of small entities within the meaning of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. This rulemaking will impose no significant costs on small entities; the exact number of businesses and the amount of trade that will result from this Federal land-related activity is unknown. The aggregate effect is an insignificant positive economic effect on a number of small entities. The number of small entities affected is unknown; but, the fact that the positive effects will be seasonal in nature and will, in most cases, merely continue preexisting uses of public lands indicates that they will not be significant. These regulations do not meet the threshold criteria of ``Federalism Effects'' as set forth in Executive Order 12612. Title VIII of ANILCA requires the Secretaries to administer a subsistence preference on public lands. The scope of this program is limited by definition to certain public lands. Likewise, these regulations have no significant takings implication relating to any property rights as outlined by Executive Order 12630. Drafting Information These regulations were drafted under the guidance of Richard S. Pospahala, of the Office of Subsistence Management, Alaska Regional Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Anchorage, Alaska. Additional guidance was provided by Thomas H. Boyd, Alaska State Office, Bureau of Land Management; Lou Waller, Alaska Regional Office, National Park Service; John Borbridge, Alaska Area Office, Bureau of Indian affairs; and Norman Howse, USDA-Forest Service. List of Subjects 36 CFR Part 242 Administrative practice and procedure, Alaska, Fish, National Forests, Public Lands, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Wildlife. 50 CFR Part 100 Administrative practice and procedure, Alaska, Fish, Public lands, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Subsistence, Wildlife. For the reasons set out in the preamble, title 36, part 242, and title 50, part 100, of the Code of Federal Regulations, are amended as set forth below. PART XXXX _SUBSISTENCE MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC LANDS IN ALASKA
