FR940620-1-00009 FR940620-1-00002 (b) The specific referral requirements of this part are limited to known or suspected criminal violations of the United States Code involving the assets, operations, or affairs of an institution. This part prescribes procedures for referring those violations to the proper Federal authorities and the Farm Credit Administration. (c) Nothing in this part should be construed as reducing in any way an institution's responsibility to report known or suspected criminal activities to the appropriate investigatory or prosecuting authorities, whether State or Federal, even if circumstances required for a report under §617.2 are not present. (d) Each referral required by §617.2(a) shall be made on the Referral Form in accordance with the Referral Form Instructions relating to its filing and distribution and the requirements of §617.2 (b) and (c). §617.2 Referrals. (a) Each institution and its board of directors shall exercise due diligence to ensure the discovery, investigation, and reporting of criminal activity. Within 30 calendar days of determining that there is a known or suspected criminal activity, the institution shall refer such criminal violation of the United States Code involving or affecting its assets, operations, or affairs to the appropriate regional offices of the United States Attorney and either or both the Federal Bureau of Investigation or the United States Secret Service, using the Referral Form. In the event that a Farm Credit Bank makes a loan through a Federal land bank association which services the loan, the Farm Credit Bank has the responsibility to refer known or suspected criminal violations under this section. A report is required in circumstances where there is: (1) Any known or suspected criminal activity (e.g., theft, embezzlement), mysterious disappearance, unexplained shortage, misapplication, or other defalcation of property and/or funds, regardless of amount, where an institution employee, officer, director, agent, or other person participating in the conduct of the affairs of such an institution is suspected; (2) Any known or suspected criminal activity involving an actual or potential loss (before reimbursement or recovery) of $1,000 or more, through false statements or other fraudulent means, where the institution has a substantial basis for identifying a possible suspect or group of suspects and the suspect(s) is not an employee, officer, director, agent, or other person participating in the conduct of the affairs of such an institution; (3) Any known or suspected criminal activity involving an actual or potential loss (before reimbursement or recovery) of $5,000 or more, through false statements or other fraudulent means, where the institution has no substantial basis for identifying a possible suspect or group of suspects; or (4) Any known or suspected criminal activity involving a financial transaction in which the institution was used as a conduit for such criminal activity (such as money laundering/structuring schemes). (b) A copy of the completed Referral Form, accompanied by any relevant documentation, shall be provided to the Farm Credit Administration's Office of General Counsel no later than 30 calendar days after the institution's management, has discovered (or should have discovered) a known or suspected criminal violation. (c) In circumstances where there is also a known or suspected violation of State or local criminal law, the institution shall also notify the appropriate State law enforcement authorities. (d) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the institution shall immediately notify by telephone the offices specified on the Referral Form upon discovery of cases involving known or suspected criminal violations requiring urgent attention or where a referable violation is ongoing. Such cases include, but are not limited to, those where: (1) There is a likelihood that the suspect(s) will flee; (2) The magnitude or the continuation of the known or suspected criminal violation may imperil the institution's continued operation; or (3) Key institution personnel are involved. §617.3 Notification of board of directors and bonding company. (a) Unless the criminal referral involves a member of the board of directors, the institution's board of directors shall be promptly notified of any criminal referral by the institution. (b) If the criminal referral involves a member of the board of directors, discretion shall be exercised in notifying the board of directors of such a criminal referral. (c) In any event, if any losses can be recovered under a surety bond or other contract for protection against losses, the institution involved shall promptly make all required notifications. §617.4 Institution responsibilities. Each institution shall establish effective policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with this part, including, but not limited to, adequate internal controls. Dated: June 13, 1994. Curtis M. Anderson, Secretary, Farm Credit Administration Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14893 Filed 6&hyph;17&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6705&hyph;01&hyph;P
