FR940413-2-00152 FR940413-2-00070 In light of the Commission's approval and enforcement of MSRB's rules, the Commission is sensitive to and has carefully considered these constitutional concerns in reviewing the proposed rule change. 64 The Commission acknowledges that the business disqualification provision may affect the propensity of municipal securities underwriters to make political contributions. Although political contributions involve both speech and associational rights protected by the First Amendment, a ``limitation on the amount that any one person or group may contribute to a candidate or political committee entails only a marginal restriction upon the contributor's ability to engage in free communication.'' 65 Even a significant interference with rights protected by the First Amendment may be justified by a sufficiently compelling government interest so long as the interference is closely drawn to avoid unnecessary abridgment of those protected rights. 66 64 Several commentators disagree with the MSRB's conclusion that it is not a state actor for purposes of constitutional protections. See letter from William H. Ellis, President and Chief Operating Officer, Piper Jaffray Inc., to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (March 10, 1994); letter from Marshall Bennett, President, and Bob Holden, Ethics Task Force, National Association of State Treasurers, to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (March 11, 1994); letter from Raymond J. McClendon, Vice-Chairman and Chief Operating Officer, Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co., Inc., to Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary, Commission (March 9, 1994). 65 Buckley v. Valeo, 424 U.S. 1, 20 (1976). 66 Id. at 25. Prevention of fraud and manipulation and the appearance of fraud and manipulation are compelling government interests. The MSRB's proposal is in the context of a closely regulated industry and is directly relevant to the concerns of the regulatory scheme. The MSRB's interests in seeking approval of the proposed rule change_the eradication of ``pay to play'' practices and other quid pro quo arrangements_are precisely the kind of interests which have been deemed sufficiently compelling to justify restrictions on political contributions. 67 As discussed above, ``pay to play'' arrangements can have detrimental effects on the municipal securities markets; the widespread perception that these practices are commonplace undermines the integrity of the market and diminishes investor confidence. Moreover, the restrictions inherent in the MSRB's proposed rule change are in the nature of conflict of interest limitations which are particularly appropriate in cases of government contracting and highly regulated industries. Unlike general campaign financing restrictions, such as certain provisions of the Federal Election Campaign Act, which seek to combat unspecified forms of undue influence and political corruption, conflict of interest provisions, such as the MSRB's proposal, are tied to a contributor's business relationship with governmental entities and are intended to prevent fraud and manipulation. 68 67 For example, Florida's Division of Bond Finance prohibits the awarding of municipal securities business to firms that make political contributions to the governor or to cabinet members. Florida State Board of Administration, Rule 19A&hyph;6.004. Florida also prohibits investment and law firms and their officers, directors, and employees that make contributions or engage in fundraising for state-level candidates from competing for business from the Florida Housing Finance Agency. Rules of the Florida Housing Finance Authority (1991). Several states prohibit contributions from corporations and regulated industries in state elections including Arizona, Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §16&hyph;919; Connecticut, Conn. Gen. Stat. Ann. §9&hyph;333o(a); North Dakota, N.D. Cent. Code §§16.1&hyph;08&hyph;02(1), 16.1&hyph;08&hyph;01(10); Pennsylvania, Penn. Stat. Ann. tit. 25, §3253; South Dakota, S.D. Codified Laws Ann. §12&hyph;25&hyph;2; West Virginia, W. Va. Code §3&hyph;8&hyph;8; Wisconsin, Wis. Stat. Ann. §11.38; and Wyoming, Wyo. Stat. §22&hyph;25&hyph;102. 68 Compare 2 U.S.C. 441(a), (b) (general contribution restrictions in federal campaigns applicable to individuals, corporations and labor unions) with 2 U.S.C. §441(c) (prohibition on contributions by federal contractors). Similarly, the prohibitions on solicitation and coordination of campaign contributions are justified by the same overriding purposes which support the business disqualification provisions. The provisions are intended to prevent circumvention of the disqualification provisions in cases where a dealer has or is seeking to establish a business relationship with a municipal issuer. Absent these restrictions, solicitation and coordination of contributions could be used as effectively as political contributions to distort the underwriter selection process. The solicitation and coordination restriction relate only to fundraising activities and would not prevent dealers and municipal finance professionals from expressing support for candidates in other ways. As previously noted, the Commission believes that the MSRB's proposed rule change is closely tailored to accomplish its goal of preventing fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices that stem from quid pro quo arrangements and minimizes any undue burdens on the protected speech and associational rights of municipal securities dealers and municipal finance professionals. The proposed rule change is narrowly crafted in terms of the conduct it prohibits, the persons who are subject to the restriction, and the circumstances in which it is triggered. The proposal is limited to contributions to officials of municipal issuers who can influence the hiring of a dealer in connection with negotiated offerings. The restrictions are triggered only in situations where a business relationship exists or will be established in the near future between the municipal securities dealer and a municipal issuer. Most employees and affiliates of dealers are not covered by the proposal, and the dealer's municipal finance professionals will be able to avail themselves of a personal contribution exception of up to $250, individually, with respect to officials for whom they are eligible to vote. The proposal does not restrict uncoordinated independent expenditures in support of candidates or political views. Moreover, because the contribution limitations take the form of a business disqualification, the proposal does not flatly prohibit individuals from making, or prevent candidates from receiving contributions. In addition, the proposal does not, as some commentators suggest, restrict the ability of municipal securities underwriters and their employees to demonstrate support for state and local officials. Underwriters and their employees may continue to contribute in other ways in political campaigns that do not involve soliciting or coordinating contributions. 69 69 A number of states separately limit individual contributions in state elections including, for example: Arizona $640 per state wide candidate, $250 per other offices, and a maximum of $2,000 in total contribution per calendar year, Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. §16&hyph;905; Florida, $500 per candidate, Flor. Stat. Ann. §106.08; and Montana, $1,500 collectively to candidates for governor and lieutenant governor, $750 to candidates for state office in a statewide election, $400 to candidates for public service commissioner, district court judge, or state senator, $250 to a candidate for any other public office, Mont. Code Ann. §§13&hyph;1&hyph;101, 13&hyph;37&hyph;216.
