FR940202-2-00162 FR940202-2-00073 (1) The extent of the need for the project in the area based on a determination by the Field Office. This determination will be made taking into consideration the Sponsor's evidence of need in the area based on the guidelines in ยง889.270(b)(17), as well as other economic, demographic and housing market data available to the Field Office. The data could include the availability of existing Federally assisted housing (HUD and FmHA) ( e.g., considering availability and vacancy rates of public housing) for the elderly and current occupancy in such facilities, Federally assisted housing for the elderly under construction or for which fund reservations have been issued, and in accordance with an agreement between HUD and the FmHA, comments from the FmHA on the demand for additional assisted housing and the possible harm to existing projects in the same housing market area (8 points). (2) The proximity or accessibility of the site to shopping, medical facilities, transportation, places of worship, recreational facilities, places of employment, and other necessary services to the intended occupants, adequacy of utilities and streets, freedom of the site from adverse environmental conditions, compliance with site and neighborhood standards (10 points); and (3) Suitability of the site from the standpoint of promoting a greater choice of housing opportunities for minority elderly persons/families (7 points); (c) In determining adequacy of the provision of supportive services and of the proposed facility consider (25 points maximum): (1) The extent to which the proposed design will meet the special physical needs of elderly persons (4 points); (2) The extent to which the proposed size and unit mix of the housing will enable the Sponsor to manage and operate the housing efficiently and ensure that the provision of supportive services will be accomplished in an economical fashion (4 points); (3) The extent to which the proposed design of the housing will accommodate the provision of supportive services that are expected to be needed, initially and over the useful life of the housing, by the category or categories of elderly persons the housing is intended to serve (2 points); (4) The extent to which the proposed supportive services meet the identified needs of the residents (8 points); and (5) The extent to which the Sponsor demonstrated that the identified supportive services will be provided on a consistent long-term basis (7 points). II. Application Process All applications for Section 202 capital advances submitted by eligible Sponsors must be filed with the appropriate HUD Field Office receiving an allocation and must meet the requirements of this Notice. No application will be accepted after 4 p.m. local time on May 3, 1994, unless that date and time is extended by a Notice published in the Federal Register . Applications received after that date and time will not be accepted, even if postmarked by the deadline date. Applications submitted by facsimile are not acceptable. Immediately upon publication of this NOFA, if names have not already been provided to the Multifamily Housing Clearinghouse, Field Offices shall notify elderly and minority media, all persons and organizations on their mailing lists and minority and other organizations within their jurisdiction involved in housing and community development and groups with special interest in housing for elderly households. Organizations interested in applying for a section 202 capital advance should contact the Multifamily Housing Clearinghouse at 1&hyph;800&hyph;955&hyph;2232 for a copy of the application package, and advise the appropriate Field Office whether they wish to attend the workshop described below. HUD encourages minority organizations to participate in this program as Sponsors. Field Offices will advise all organizations on their mailing list of the date, time and place of workshops at which the Section 202 Program will be explained. HUD strongly recommends that prospective applicants attend the local Field Office workshop. Interested persons with disabilities should contact the Field Office to assure that any necessary arrangements can be made for them to enable their attendance and participation in the workshop. While strongly urged to do so, if Sponsors cannot attend a workshop, Application Packages can be obtained from the Multifamily Housing Clearinghouse (see address and telephone number under SUMMARY above). However, Sponsors must contact the appropriate Field Office with any questions regarding the submission of applications and for any additional application requirements. At the workshops, application procedures and requirements will be explained. Also, concerns such as local market conditions, building codes, historic preservation, floodplain management, displacement and relocation, zoning and housing costs will be addressed. III. Application Submission Requirements
