FR940525-1-00081 FR940525-1-00008 (3) Requirements. (i) All requirements set forth in ยง381.414 shall be met. (ii) Specific requirements. (A) Nature of the claim. A health claim associating diets low in sodium with reduced risk of high blood pressure may be made on the label or labeling of a poultry product described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) of this section; Provided, That: ( 1 ) The claim states that diets low in sodium ``may'' or ``might'' reduce the risk of high blood pressure; ( 2 ) In specifying the disease, the claim uses the term ``high blood pressure''; ( 3 ) In specifying the nutrient, the claim uses the term ``sodium''; ( 4 ) The claim does not attribute any degree of reduction in risk of high blood pressure to diets low in sodium; and ( 5 ) The claim indicates that development of high blood pressure depends on many factors. (B) Nature of the food. ( 1 ) The product shall meet the requirements for ``low sodium'' as defined in ยง381.461; and ( 2 ) The product may meet the cholesterol criterion for ``extra lean'' as defined in ยง381.462. (4) Optional information. (i) The claim may identify one or more of the following risk factors for development of high blood pressure in addition to dietary sodium consumption: Family history of high blood pressure, growing older, alcohol consumption, and excess weight. (ii) The claim may include information from paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section, which summarizes the relationship between dietary sodium and high blood pressure and the significance of the relationship. (iii) The claim may indicate that it is consistent with ``Nutrition and Your Health: Dietary Guidelines for Americans.'' (iv) The claim may include information on the number of people in the United States who have high blood pressure. The source of this information must be identified, and it must be current information from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. (v) In specifying the nutrient, the claim may include the term ``salt'' in addition to the term ``sodium.'' (vi) In specifying the disease, the claim may include the term ``hypertension'' in addition to the term ``high blood pressure.'' (vii) The claim may state that individuals with high blood pressure should consult their physicians for medical advice and treatment. If the claim defines high or normal blood pressure, then it shall state that individuals with high blood pressure should consult their physicians for medical advice and treatment. (5) Model health claims. The following are model health claims that may be used in food labeling to describe the relationship between dietary sodium and high blood pressure: (i) Diets low in sodium may reduce the risk of high blood pressure, a disease associated with many factors. (ii) Development of hypertension or high blood pressure depends on many factors. [This product] can be part of a low sodium, low salt diet that might reduce the risk of hypertension or high blood pressure.
