FR940707-1-00026 FR940707-1-00009 Option # 3: Require an individual permit for any structure that will remain within a fairway for 120 days or longer. (l) *␣*␣* (1) The Department of the Army will grant no permits for the erection of structures in areas designated as fairways, except that district engineers may permit temporary anchors and attendant cables or chains for floating or semisubmersible drilling rigs to be placed within a fairway provided the following conditions are met: (i) The installation of anchors to stabilize semisubmersible drilling rigs within fairways must be temporary and shall be allowed to remain only 120 days. This period may be extended by the district engineer following the procedures prescribed by these regulations for an individual permit, including the issuance of a public notice and opportunity for a public hearing. Option # 4: Require individual permits for any structure within a fairway. (l) *␣*␣* (1) The Department of the Army will grant no permits for the erection of structures in areas designated as fairways, except that district engineers may permit temporary or permanent anchors and attendant cables or chains for floating or semisubmersible drilling and/or production systems to be placed within a fairway after following the procedures prescribed by these regulations for an individual permit, including the issuance of a public notice and opportunity for a public hearing. Regulatory Analyses and Notices This ANPRM seeks comments on a tentative proposal that may be further pursued through informal rulemaking based in part on comments received. This ANPRM does not establish any requirements but is rather a voluntary action intended to collect information regarding whether to pursue rulemaking on this issue. Therefore, no economic impact assessment has been prepared. The Corps will provide all regulatory analyses and notices, as appropriate, for any future rulemakings on this subject. Dated: June 16, 1994. John P. Elmore, Chief, Operations, Construction and Readiness Division, Directorate of Civil Works. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16348 Filed 7&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;92&hyph;M
