FR940810-2-00016 FR940810-2-00011 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Final Certification for the Relocation of the San Francisco Weather Service Forecast Office SUMMARY: On March 28, 1994 (59 FR 14387), the National Weather Service (NWS) published its proposed certification for the relocation of the San Francisco Weather Service Forecast Office, Redwood City, to Monterey, California, as required by the Weather Service Modernization Act, 15 U.S.C. 313n, (the Act). In accordance with the Act, the NWS provided the public a 60-day period in which to comment. After considering the comments received and consulting with the Modernization Transition Committee, the NWS has determined that this action will not result in any degradation of service to the affected area and has so certified. In accordance with the Act, the Secretary of Commerce has transmitted this certification to Congress, and the NWS is now publishing the final certification together with a summary of the supporting documentation. EFFECTIVE DATE: August 10 1994. ADDRESSES: Requests for copies of the final relocation certification package should be sent to Senator Raygor, Wx21, 1325 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Senator Raygor at 301&hyph;713&hyph;0391. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The National Weather Service (NWS) is relocating its forecast office for Northern California from Redwood City to Monterey. This is the first modernization action which requires a certification of no degradation of service under the Act. Based on the recommendation of the relevant Meteorologist-in-Charge, on June 24, 1994, the Assistant Administrator of the NWS certified that this relocation will not result in any degradation of service to the affected area as required by section 706 of the Act. On July 21, 1994, the Secretary of Commerce transmitted this certification to Congress. The NWS is now completing the certification requirements by publishing the final relocation Certification in the Federal Register . Published with this Notice are (1) the Certification by the Assistant Administrator of the Weather Service; (2) a memorandum from Norman C. Hoffmann, Meteorologist-in-Charge, WSFO San Francisco, endorsed by Dr. Thomas D. Potter, Director, Western Region, which recommends certification and summarizes the basis for the recommendation. This memorandum also sets forth the supporting documentation required by the Act, NWS regulations and certification criteria at 15 CFR part 946. However, this supporting documentation generally is too voluminous to publish with this Notice and can be obtained through the contact listed in ADDRESSES . This material includes: (1) A description of local weather characteristics and weather-related concerns which affect the weather services provided within the service area; (2) A detailed comparison of the services provided within the service area and the services to be provided after such action; (3) A description of any recent or expected modernization of National Weather Service operation which will enhance services in the service area; (4) An identification of any area within California which would not receive coverage (at an elevation of 10,000 feet) by the next generation weather radar network; (5) The evidence, based upon operational demonstration of modernized NWS operations, which was considered in reaching the conclusion that no degradation in service will result from such action including the relocation checklist and evidence from similar moves; (6) A copy of the letter appointing the liaison officer; and (7) The recommendation of the Modernization Transition Committee (the Committee), made at its June 22, 1994, meeting, that supports the certification. (The Committee did not issue any report evaluating the proposed certification as is its prerogative under section 706(b)(6) of the Act.)
