FR940930-0-00105 FR940930-0-00017 (ii) The non-HMO option provides free-standing coverage for optical services (such as refraction and the provision of eyeglasses), and the HMO does not. The employing entity must provide that employees who select the HMO option continue to be eligible for optical coverage. (iii) The non-HMO option includes dental coverage in its major medical package, with a common deductible applied to dental as well as non-dental benefits. The HMO provides no dental coverage as part of its pre-paid health services. Because the dental coverage is not free-standing, the employing entity is not required to provide that employees who select the HMO option continue to be eligible for dental coverage, but is free to do so. (e) Opportunity to select among coverage options: Requirement for affirmative written selection _(1) Opportunity other than during a group enrollment period. The employing entity or designee must provide opportunity (in addition to the group enrollment period) for selection among coverage options, by eligible employees who meet any of the following conditions: (i) Are new employees. (ii) Have been transferred or have changed their place of residence, resulting in_ (A) Eligibility for enrollment in a qualified HMO for which they were not previously eligible by place of residence; or (B) Residence outside the service area of a qualified HMO in which they were previously enrolled. (iii) Are covered by any coverage option that ceases operation. (2) Prohibition of restrictions. When the employees specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section are eligible to participate in the health benefits plan, the employing entity or designee must make available, without waiting periods or exclusions based on health status as a condition, the opportunity to enroll in an HMO, or transfer from HMO coverage to non-HMO coverage. (3) Affirmative written selection. The employing entity or designee must require that the eligible employee make an affirmative written selection in any of the following circumstances: (i) Enrollment in a particular qualified HMO is offered for the first time. (ii) The eligible employee elects to change from one option to another. (iii) The eligible employee is one of those specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. (f) Determination of copayment levels and supplemental health services. The selection of a copayment level and of supplemental health services to be contracted for must be made as follows: (1) For employees represented by a collective bargaining representative, the selection of copayment levels and supplemental health services is subject to the collective bargaining process. (2) For employees not represented by a bargaining representative, the selection of copayment levels and supplemental health services is subject to the same decisionmaking process used by the employing entity with respect to the non-HMO option in its health benefits plan. (3) In all cases, the HMO has the right to include, with the basic benefits package it provides to its enrollees for a basic health services payment, on a non-negotiable basis, those supplemental health services that meet the following conditions: (i) Are required to be offered under State law. (ii) Are included uniformly by the HMO in its prepaid benefit package. (iii) Are available to employees who select the non-HMO option but not available to those who select the HMO option. ยง417.156 When the HMO must be offered to employees.
