FR940616-0-00101 FR940616-0-00011 (c) Time period for compliance. The agency shall comply with the obligations established under this section within sixty days of July 18, 1994 except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made within three years of July 18, 1994, but in any event as expeditiously as possible. (d) Transition plan. In the event that structural changes to facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, the agency shall develop, within six months of July 18, 1994, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with disabilities or organizations representing individuals with disabilities, to participate in the development of the transition plan by submitting comments (both oral and written). A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum_ (1) Identify physical obstacles in the agency's facilities that limit the accessibility of its programs or activities to individuals with disabilities; (2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible; (3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; and (4) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan. (e) The requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section shall apply to the Property Disposition Programs. However, this section does not require HUD to make alterations to existing facilities that are part of the Property Disposition Programs unless such alterations are necessary to meet the needs of a current or prospective tenant during the time when HUD expects to retain legal possession of the facilities, and there is no alternative method to meet the needs of that current or prospective tenant. Nothing in this section shall be construed to require alterations to make facilities accessible to persons with disabilities who are expected to occupy the facilities only after HUD relinquishes legal possession. ยง9.151 Program accessibility: new construction and alterations. Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of the agency shall be designed, constructed, or altered and provide emergency egress so as to be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. The definitions, requirements, and accessibility standards that apply to buildings covered by this section are those contained in the UFAS, except where the ADAAG provides for greater accessibility for the type of construction or alteration being undertaken, and in this case, the definitions, requirements and standards of the ADAAG shall apply. ยง9.152 Program accessibility: alterations of Property Disposition Program multifamily housing facilities. (a) Substantial alteration. If the agency undertakes alterations to a PDP multifamily housing project that has 15 or more units and the cost of the alterations is 75 percent or more of the replacement cost of the completed facility, then the project shall be designed and altered to be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, a minimum of five percent of the total dwelling units, or at least one unit, whichever is greater, shall be made accessible for persons with mobility impairments. A unit that is on an accessible route and is adaptable and otherwise in compliance with the standards set forth in paragraph (d) of this section is accessible for purposes of this section. An additional two percent of the units (but not less that one unit) in such a project shall be accessible for persons with hearing or vision impairments. If state or local requirements for alterations require greater action than this paragraph, those requirements shall prevail. (b) Other alteration. (1) Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, alterations to dwelling units in a PDP multifamily housing project shall, to the maximum extent feasible, be made to be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. If alterations of single elements or spaces of a dwelling unit, when considered together, amount to an alteration of a dwelling unit, the entire dwelling unit shall be made accessible. Once five percent of the dwelling units in a project are readily accessible to and usable by individuals with mobility impairments, then no additional elements of dwelling units, or entire dwelling units, are required to be accessible under this paragraph. Once two percent of the dwelling units in a project are readily accessible to or usable by individuals with hearing or vision impairments, then no additional elements of dwelling units, or entire dwelling units, are required to be accessible under this paragraph. (2) Alterations to common areas or parts of facilities that affect accessibility of existing housing facilities, shall, to the maximum extent feasible, be made to be accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. (c) The agency may establish a higher percentage or number of accessible units than that prescribed in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section if the agency determines that there is a need for a higher percentage or number, based on census data or other available current data. In making such a determination, HUD shall take into account the expected needs of eligible persons with and without disabilities. (d) The definitions, requirements, and accessibility standards that apply to PDP multifamily housing projects covered by this section are those contained in the UFAS, except where the ADAAG provides for greater accessibility for the type of alteration being undertaken, and, in this case, the definitions, requirements and standards of the ADAAG shall apply.
