FR940927-2-00076 FR940927-2-00055 As with other MITTS products, Restructuring Companies Portfolio MITTS are not leveraged instruments, however, their price will still be derived and based upon the underlying linked security. Accordingly, the level of risk involved in the purchase or sale of a Restructuring Companies Portfolio MITTS is similar to the risk involved in the purchase or sale of traditional common stock. Nonetheless, because the final rate of return of a MITTS is derivatively priced, based on the price performance of a portfolio of securities, the Commission has several specific concerns regarding the trading of this type of product. The Commission notes that the Exchange's rules and procedures that address the special concerns attendant to the trading of hybrid securities will be applicable to Restructuring Companies Portfolio MITTS. In particular, by imposing the hybrid listing standards, suitability, disclosure, and compliance requirements noted above, the Commission believes the Exchange has addressed adequately the potential problems that could arise from the hybrid nature of Restructuring Companies Portfolio MITTS. Moreover, the Exchange will distribute a circular to its membership calling attention to the specific risks associated with Restructuring Companies Portfolio MITTS. The Commission realizes that Restructuring Companies Portfolio MITTS are dependent upon the individual credit of the issuer, Merrill Lynch. To some extent this credit risk is minimized by the Exchange's continued listing standards which require issuers to maintain an aggregate market value of $5 million for its publicly-held shares. 21 In addition, the Exchange's hybrid listing standards further require that Restructuring Companies Portfolio MITTS have at least $4 million in market value. In any event, financial information regarding Merrill Lynch, in addition to the information on the issuers of the underlying securities comprising the Restructuring Companies Portfolio, will be publicly available. 22 21 See supra note 10. 22 The companies that comprise the Restructuring Companies Portfolio are reporting companies under the Act. The Commission also has a systemic concern, however, that a broker-dealer, such as Merrill Lynch, or a subsidiary providing a hedge for the issuer will incur position exposure. As discussed in the MITTS Approval Orders, the Commission believes this concern is minimal given the size of Restructuring Companies Portfolio MITTS issuance in relation to the net worth of Merrill Lynch. 23 23 See MITTS Approval Orders, supra note 8. The Commission also believes that the listing and trading of Restructuring Companies Portfolio MITTS should not unduly impact the market for the underlying securities comprising the Restructuring Companies Portfolio. First, as discussed above, the underlying securities comprising the portfolio are well-capitalized, highly liquid stocks. Second, because all of the components of the Restructuring Companies Portfolio will initially be equally weighted, no single stock or group of stocks dominates the Restructuring Companies Portfolio. Finally, the issuers of the underlying securities comprising the Restructuring Companies Portfolio, are subject to reporting requirements under the Act, and all of the portfolio securities are either listed or traded on, or traded through the facilities of, U.S. securities markets. 24 Additionally, the NYSE's surveillance procedures will serve to deter as well as detect any potential manipulation. 24 The Commission notes that 16 of the component securities are traded on the NYSE and one is a National Market security traded through Nasdaq. Finally, the Commission notes that the value of the Restructuring Companies Portfolio will be disseminated at least once every minute throughout the trading day. The Commission believes that this result is appropriate because, unlike previously approved MITTS products which contain foreign components, the Restructuring Companies Portfolio is comprised solely of securities traded in the U.S. for which real-time price information is available. The Commission believes that providing access to the value of the Restructuring Companies Portfolio at least once every minute throughout the trading day is extremely important and will provide benefits to investors in the product. 25 25 In this regard, the Commission believes that it is useful and beneficial for all investors and market participants to have access to the value of the Restructuring Companies Portfolio as frequently as possible and encourages the NYSE and Merrill Lynch to further explore the possibilities in this area, i.e., calculating and disseminating the value of the portfolio at least once every 15 seconds as is done with other derivative products. The Commission finds good cause for approving Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice thereof in the Federal Register . As discussed above, the Commission believes that investors and market participants will benefit from having the value of the Restructuring Companies Portfolio calculated and disseminated as frequently as possible throughout the trading day. The Commission believes that Amendment No. 1 provides this benefit without unduly burdening either the Exchange or the issuer of the Restructuring Companies Portfolio MITTS. Additionally, the Commission notes that Amendment No. 1 provides for significantly greater access by investors and market participants to current values of the Restructuring Companies Portfolio than did the original proposal which was noticed for the full 21-day comment period without any comments being received by the Commission. Accordingly, the Commission believes it is consistent with Section 6(b)(5) of the Act to approve Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change on an accelerated basis.
