FR940830-0-00123 FR940830-0-00014 (d) A separate notice of intent shall be filed and recorded in the appropriate BLM State Office for each separate surface ownership in an individual State. (1) Each notice of intent submitted shall be accompanied by evidence of title of the surface owner(s). Evidence of title shall be either a certificate of title or abstract of title certified by a person, association, or corporation authorized by State law to execute such a certificate within that State, and acceptable to the Bureau of Land Management. (2) The notice of intent shall contain: (i) The names(s), mailing address(es), and telephone number(s) of the person(s) filing the notice; (ii) The names(s), mailing address(es), and telephone number(s) of the surface owner(s); (iii) The legal description of the lands to which the notice applies, to the nearest 5-acre subdivision or lot; (iv) The total number of acres under the specific notice of intent filed to the nearest whole acre; (v) A brief description of the proposed mineral activities; (vi) A map and legal description of the lands to be subject to mineral exploration, including access route(s); (vii) The name, mailing address, and telephone number of the person managing such activities; and (viii) A statement of the dates on which such activities will take place. (3) The legal description shall be based on the public land survey or on such other description as is sufficient to permit the authorized officer accurately to record the notice on the BLM land status records (i.e., to the nearest 5-acre subdivision or lot). (4) Upon acceptance of a notice of intent by the authorized officer, the notice of intent will be entered upon the official land status records of the Bureau of Land Management. (5) The total acreage covered at any time by notices of intent filed by any person and by affiliates of such person may not exceed 6,400 acres of such lands in any one State and 1,280 acres of such lands nationwide for a single surface owner. (6) If the surface owner(s) sells all or part of the surface during the authorized exploration period, the person who filed the notice of intent is not required to notify the new surface owner(s) prior to entry during the authorized exploration period. 26. Section 3833.1&hyph;3 is revised to read as follows: §3833.1&hyph;3 Service charges, rental fees, maintenance fees, and location fees; form of remittance and acceptance. (a) Payment and acceptance policy. All service charges, maintenance fees, and location fees shall be payable by United States currency, postal money order, or negotiable instrument payable in United States currency, and shall be made payable to the Department of the Interior_Bureau of Land Management, or by a valid credit card acceptable to the Bureau of Land Management. A check or negotiable instrument, including credit cards submitted for payment of charges and/or fees, for which payment is not honored by the issuing authority, and such refusal is not an error of the issuing authority, will be deemed to be a nonpayment of the charges or fees for which the check or negotiable instrument, including a credit card order, was tendered. See §3833.1&hyph;4 (f) and (g) for payments made by credit cards or from Declining Deposit Accounts. (b) Recordation of new mining claims, mill sites, or tunnel sites with the Bureau of Land Management. (1) New location notices or certificates submitted for recording pursuant to §3833.1&hyph;2 that are not accompanied by full payment of the maintenance and location fees required by §3833.1&hyph;4 or 3833.1&hyph;5 will not be accepted, and the submittal will be returned without further action by the authorized officer. The claimant may resubmit the filings with the proper payment of service charges and fees within the same 90-day filing period referred to in §3833.1&hyph;2(a). (2) Failure to provide full payment of service charges set forth in §3833.1&hyph;4 will be curable for new location notices or certificates submitted for recording pursuant to §3833.1&hyph;2 when the proper maintenance and location fees have been submitted. Such documents will be noted as being recorded on the date received provided that the claimant submits the proper service charge either within 30 days of receipt of a deficiency notice sent by the authorized officer, or on or before the 90th day of the filing period referred to in 3833.1&hyph;2(a), whichever date is later. (3) If the proper service charges have not been tendered pursuant to paragraph (b)(2), and if the claimant has not provided written instructions regarding the application of the funds received with the original filing, the authorized officer will apply such funds and serialize the claims in the order received. All notices or certificates for which there are insufficient funds to cover all service charges and maintenance and location fees will be returned to the claimant. (c) Mining claims, mill sites, and tunnel sites recorded and serialized by the Bureau of Land Management. (1) Failure to provide full payment of service charges set forth in §3833.1&hyph;4 will be curable for documents and filings made pursuant to §§3833.2 and 3833.3 and amended locations filed under §3833.1. Such documents and filings will be noted as being recorded on the date initially received, provided that the claimant submits the proper service charge within 30 days of receipt of a deficiency notice from the authorized officer. Failure to submit the proper service charge as required by this paragraph will cause filings made pursuant to §§3833.2 and 3833.3 and amended locations filed under §3833.1 to be rejected and returned to the claimant/owner. If a payment is received that partially covers the claims submitted, the payment shall be applied to mining claims and sites in ascending numerical order of serialization. (2) If a claimant fails to submit the proper maintenance fees on or before each August 31, the authorized officer will apply the fees received to existing recorded and serialized mining claims and sites in ascending numerical order of serialization, unless otherwise directed by the claimant. The authorized officer will note the deficient fees as being paid on the original date received, provided that the claimant submits the proper fees within 30 days of receipt of a deficiency notice from the authorized officer, if that much time remains before August 31. If there are less than 30 days before August 31, the correct fees shall be filed (see §3833.0&hyph;5(m)) by such claimant on or before the August 31 deadline. Failure to submit the proper fees will cause the forfeiture of remaining claims or sites by the claimant/owner. 27. Section 3833.1&hyph;4 is amended by revising the section reading; redesignating existing paragraphs (b) through (f) as (c) through (g), respectively; revising redesignated paragraphs (f) and (g); and adding a new paragraph (b), to read as follows: §3833.1&hyph;4 Service charges and location fees. * * * * * (b) Each notice or certificate of location of a mining claim, mill site, or tunnel site that is located on or after August 11, 1993, and before September 30, 1998, shall, when filed with BLM, be accompanied by a one time nonrefundable location fee of $25. * * * * *
