FR941220-2-00070 FR941220-2-00042 Federal Highway Administration Environmental Impact Statement: Putnam County, NY AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The FHWA is issuing this notice to advise the public that an environmental impact statement will be prepared for a proposed highway project in the Town of Southeast, Putnam County, New York. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Harold J. Brown, Division Administrator, Federal Highway Administration, New York Division, Leo W. O'Brien Federal Building, 9th Floor, Clinton Avenue and North Pearl Street, Albany, New York, 12207, Telephone (518) 472&hyph;3616, or A.J. Bauman, Regional Director, New York State Department of Transportation, Region 8, 4 Burnett Boulevard, Poughkeepsie, New York 12601, Telephone (914) 431&hyph;5750. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FHWA and the New York State Department of Transportation (NYSDOT), in cooperation with the Town of Southeast, with input from the County of Putnam, will be preparing an environmental impact statement (EIS) on a proposal to improve New York State Route 22. The proposed improvement will involve the reconstruction of the existing route from the northern terminus of Interstate 684 to Putnam County Route 65, Putnam Lake Road, a distance of 2.9 miles. Also under consideration in this proposal is construction of a grade separated interchange at Putnam County Route 54, Milltown Road. The project proposes to improve traffic operation and safety on the existing route. The proposed action is consistent with the NYSDOT transportation improvement program for the Route 22 corridor, between Interstate Route 684 and Route 55, which has been studied by the FHWA and NYSDOT since 1980. In 1990, the Route 22 Corridor Development Study_Final Project Development Report was completed. the Corridor Development Study identified existing traffic operation and safety problems, projected significant future increases in traffic demand, identified needed highway improvements and recommended in implementation plan. Improvement of Route 22 between Interstate Route 684 and County Route 65, Putnam Lake Road, was recommended, as were other improvements within the corridor. Alternatives under consideration include (1) taking no action, (2) expanding the existing two-lane highway to four lanes with a flush median and improved intersections; (3) expanding the existing two-lane highway to four lanes divided by a median barrier and with turning lanes at intersections; and (4) congestion management system strategies. Variations to horizonal and vertical alignment and the possible provision of an interchange at Milltown Road will also be studied with the various build alternatives. Based on studies done to date, issues that need to be analyzed in depth include the impacts on noise, air and water quality, cultural resources, floodplains, and adjacent right of way. The project's effect on features such as Bog Brook Reservoir and East Branch will also be addressed. Letters describing the proposed action and soliciting comments will be sent to appropriate Federal, State and local agencies, and to private organizations and citizens who have previously expressed interest in this proposal. If necessary, a scoping meeting will be held with involved Federal, State and local agencies. A public information meeting will be held after additional study. The EIS will be made available for agency and public review and comment, after which a public hearing will be held. To ensure that the full range of issues related to the proposed action are addressed and all significant issues identified, comments and suggestions are invited from all interested parties. Comments or questions concerning this proposed action and the EIS should be directed to the FHWA or NYSDOT at the addresses provided above. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.205, Highway Research, Planning and Construction. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation on Federal programs and activities apply to this program.) Harold J. Brown, Division Administrator, Albany, New York. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31229 Filed 12&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;29&hyph;M
