FR940919-0-00100 FR940919-0-00016 2. Used Oil EPA's capacity assessment does not include specific quantities of used oil which might be subject to this rule. Absent data to the contrary, EPA believes that the quantities of used oil that are land disposed and hazardous for TC organics are relatively small. (Used oil that is recycled and that exhibits the TC is not subject to the land disposal restrictions. See 261.6(a)(4).) EPA has requested information and conducted various studies of generation, management and characteristics of used oil. Although the data are not comprehensive, based on all indications, most used oil is either recycled or reused as fuel. In its May 20, 1992 (57 FR 21524) final listing determination for used oil, the Agency concluded that only a small portion of used oil is land disposed (less than 10 percent of the amount generated). Although in general used oil could be hazardous for TC organics (benzene) and metals (lead), the Agency furthermore observed that the trend of increased recycling and the phase down of lead in gasoline under the Clean Air Act would decrease both the quantity of used oil that is land disposed and the proportion of it that is hazardous. To update and refine its capacity analysis for this rule, EPA requested comments in the September 14, 1993 proposed rule (58 FR 48092) and reviewed available data sources. The Agency requested comments on the quantities of used oil that exhibit the toxicity characteristic and is subject to the LDRs. EPA received only one comment from a firm that collected over 113 million gallons of used oil for re-refining in 1992, but did not receive any comments on the amounts of used oil subject to the LDRs. To gain a broader perspective of used oil generation and management EPA examined 1991 data from the national Biennial Reporting System (BRS). EPA did not expect to obtain comprehensive total quantities of hazardous used oil generation and management; however, EPA was able to get the proportional management of reported waste oils. The BRS shows that less than one percent of all waste oil reported is landfilled. For example, in the `waste oil from changes' category of the 1991 BRS, approximately 1,400 tons was reported as landfilled. Although EPA believes the proportionate disposal (percent) is nationally representative, the total quantity was reported for waste streams from only a few states which indicates that the total is not comprehensive. We have received preliminary data from the State of New Jersey Hazardous Waste Facilities Siting Commission. New Jersey treats used oil as state hazardous waste and the Commission tracks generation and shipping/manifest data. In the oil category, approximately 1 percent of used oil generated is identified as land disposed (landfilled). Of this 1 percent we do not know how much would be hazardous for TC organics. Therefore, EPA believes that the quantities of used oil that are land disposed and are also hazardous for TC organics are small and sufficient reuse-as-fuel, energy recovery, and/or incineration capacity exists. EPA believes that a capacity variance is not warranted for these wastes. 3. Required Capacity for Other Newly Listed Organic Wastes This section presents EPA's analysis of required capacity for other listed organic wastes including coke by-product wastes and chlorinated toluene production wastes. a. Surface Disposed Coke By-Product Wastes K141_Process residues from the recovery of coal tar, including, but not limited to, tar collecting sump residues from the production of coke from coal or the recovery of coke by-products produced from coal. This listing does not include K087 (decanter tank tar sludge from coking operations). K142_Tar storage tank residues from the production of coke from coal or the recovery of coke by-products produced from coal. K143_Process residues from the recovery of light oil, including, but not limited to, those generated in stills, decanters, and wash oil units from the recovery of coke by-products produced from coal. K144_Wastewater sump residues from light oil refining, including, but not limited to, intercepting or contamination sump sludges from the recovery of coke by-products produced from coal. K145_Residues from naphthalene collection and recovery operations from the recovery of coke by-products produced from coal. K147_Tar storage tank residues from coal tar refining. K148_Residues from coal tar distillation, including but not limited to still bottoms.
