FR941007-1-00163 FR941007-1-00009 (4) A savings association that receives an ``outstanding'' rating on both the service test and the investment test and a rating of at least ``high satisfactory'' on the lending test shall receive an assigned rating of ``outstanding''; and (5) No savings association may receive an assigned rating of ``satisfactory'' unless it receives a rating of at least ``low satisfactory'' on the lending test. (c) Effect of evidence of discriminatory or other illegal credit practices. Evidence of discriminatory or other illegal credit practices shall adversely affect the OTS's evaluation of a savings association's performance. In determining the effect on the savings association's assigned rating, the OTS shall consider the nature and extent of the evidence, the policies and procedures that the savings association has in place to prevent discriminatory or other illegal credit practices, any corrective action that the savings association has taken or has committed to take, particularly voluntary corrective action resulting from self-assessment, and other relevant information, such as the savings association's past fair lending performance. (d) Effect of successive ``needs to improve'' ratings. A savings association that would otherwise receive an assigned rating of ``needs to improve'' shall receive an assigned rating of ``substantial noncompliance'' if the savings association received no better than a ``needs to improve'' rating on each of its two previous examinations. ยง563e.29 Effect of ratings on applications. (a) CRA performance. Among other factors, the OTS shall take into account the record of performance under the CRA of each applicant savings association, and for applications under section 10(e) of the Home Owners' Loan Act, of each subsidiary of an applicant, and of each proposed subsidiary savings association, in considering any application: (1) For establishment of a domestic branch or other facility that would be authorized to take deposits; (2) For relocation of the home office or a branch office; (3) For merger or consolidation with or the acquisition of assets or assumption of liabilities of a depository institution; (4) For a Federal thrift charter; and (5) For acquisitions subject to section 10(e) of the Home Owners' Loan Act. (b) Charter application. An applicant for a Federal thrift charter shall submit a description of how it will meet its CRA objectives when the application is made. In considering the application, the OTS shall take the description into account and may deny or condition approval on that basis. (c) Interested parties. In considering CRA performance in an application described in paragraph (a) of this section, the OTS shall take into account any views expressed by State or other Federal financial supervisory agencies or other interested parties which are submitted in accordance with the applicable public comment procedures. (d) Denial or conditional approval of application. An applicant's record of performance may be the basis for denying or conditioning approval of an application described in paragraph (a) of this section. Subpart C_Records, Reporting and Disclosure Requirements ยง563e.41 Service area delineation.
