FR940627-0-00037 FR940627-0-00009 C. Availability And Pricing Of Transportation Services The Commission proposed to eliminate current §250.16(b)(1)(iv) that requires pipeline tariffs to include the procedures used to inform affiliated and non-affiliated shippers of the availability and pricing of transportation service and of the capacity available for transportation. The Commission concluded this requirement was superfluous in light of the Order No. 636 requirement for pipelines to provide equal and timely access on their EBBs to information relevant to the availability of service on their systems. 48 48 18 CFR 284.8(b) (3), (4); 18 CFR 284.9(b) (3), (4). Indicated Parties contend that the current Order No. 636 requirements do not require pipelines to post the procedures used to determine the availability of transportation services, the amount of capacity the pipelines have available, or the pricing of services. They submit that the Commission should ensure that pipeline tariffs require pipelines to post information on ``operationally available'' capacity on their EBBs and to describe the procedures used in posting the information, such as the timing of postings. The Commission concludes that the requirements of Part 284 provide sufficient disclosure of the necessary information about capacity on pipelines. Towards that end, the Commission recently issued Order No. 563 detailing the information about capacity that the pipelines must disclose on their EBBs (as well as through downloadable files), including operationally available capacity. 49 In that proceeding, the Commission found no need for requiring pipelines to file tariffs setting forth the way in which the pipelines will provide the information required by the rule. 50 49 Order No. 563, III FERC Stats. & Regs. Preambles at 31,007. 50 Order No. 563, III FERC Stats. & Regs. Preambles at 31,004. VIII. Transportation Information Current §250.16 requires pipelines to post a variety of information about affiliate transportation service requests and affiliate discounts on the pipelines' EBBs. The regulations also require the pipelines to maintain the same information for non-affiliate transactions, so that it can be provided to the Commission upon request. In the NOPR, the Commission proposed to reduce significantly the information concerning shippers' requests for transportation service, retaining only a few elements, principally relating to the position of requests in the pipelines' transportation queues. 51 But the Commission was unsure about the value of these requirements and requested comments on whether they should be retained. In the NOPR, the Commission proposed to retain the maintenance and posting requirements related to affiliate and non-affiliate discounts, but proposed to limit these requirements to interruptible transportation. 51 The request for service items proposed to be retained were: the identity of the shipper requesting service, the date the request was received, the affiliation of the requester with the pipeline, the maximum daily volume of gas requested, the position of the request in the transportation queue, the disposition of the request, complaints concerning requested or provided service, and any tariff waivers granted in providing the requested service. A. Capacity Allocation Log Many commenters contend all service request information should be deleted. WGM and WNG/Northwest contend the original basis for these requirements was to monitor the process of awarding contracts so that affiliates would not receive preferential queue positions. They maintain this rationale is no longer valid since queues are no longer used in the restructured environment. Numerous other commenters similarly contend that queues no longer have any effect on curtailment or bumping rights. 52 Texas Gas also points out that §284.13 of the Commission's regulations requires pipelines to keep, and make publicly available, a log of requests for service that contains much of the same information as required by §250.16. 53 52 AER/MRT (should at least provide a ``not applicable'' designation for pipelines without queues), Columbia, KGPC, Natural (arguing request date revealed by proposed §250.16(c)(2) so queue position not needed), Panhandle Eastern Pipelines, Questar, Tenneco, Texas Gas, and TGPL. 53 Texas Gas further argues that the information required to be provided about the disposition of a service request is meaningless, and that, even if it has some value, the information is supplied through other filing requirements. Panhandle Eastern Pipelines, Natural, and TGPL contend the requirement to post complaints parallels the Commission's requirement to disclose complaint procedures in the tariff and only one should be retained. TGPL and Natural contend that complaints are solely between the pipeline and the complaining party, so electronic posting serves no purpose. TGPL further argues that posting of complaints is too complex for electronic format. AER/MRT request that complaints by end-users should not be included since the Commission has proposed deleting the requirement to post the state of the ultimate end-user (former §250.16(b)(2)(xi)). AER/MRT and TGPL contend the requirement to post tariff waivers duplicates Standard L, which requires pipelines to maintain a log of tariff waivers that must be available for copying on a daily basis. Indicated Parties, however, requests the waiver provision be amended to require separate reporting of waivers granted to affiliates and sales marketing units. The Commission agrees that the data now required to be posted concerning service requests do not reflect the methods used by the pipelines to allocate capacity. As the commenters point out, Commission policy and pipeline tariffs require that interruptible transportation be allocated first on the basis of price paid when the pipeline is unable to provide the amount of requested service. If the rate bid still is not sufficient to allocate interruptible capacity, some pipelines rely on pro rata allocation or some other means to allocate capacity that does not depend on contract dates or other similar information. For these pipelines, the Commission agrees that posting contract information is not necessary because that information bears no relation to the capacity allocation decision.
