FR940919-2-00191 FR940919-2-00081 IV. Funding Universal Service in a Competitive Environment 34. Today, most experts agree that current pricing policies support universal service by generating subsidies that reduce the costs of providing POTS in particular areas and make service more affordable for certain groups of customers. By and large, such subsidies have been internally generated_ i.e. , created by setting the pricing of certain services above the costs of providing them_rather than funded by external sources, such as taxes. 47 The growth of competition, which to some extent reduces the need for subsidies and is by no means incompatible with universal service, does put pressure on existing funding mechanisms. Above-cost pricing creates market opportunities for new entrants. New entry, in turn, drives prices towards costs, in the process, eliminating excess revenues that were available, prior to competitive entry, to subsidize universal services like POTS. The challenge for policymakers is to develop funding mechanisms that help achieve universal service goals, but are sustainable in a competitive environment. 47 Thus, for example, rates for the local telephone facilities used to originate and terminate long distance services_so-called access facilities_have been set above cost to subsidize local telephone rates. Long distance service providers pass those access costs through to subscribers. See, e.g., Infrastructure Report, supra note 15, at 290&hyph;291. Local service rates for business customers typically exceed relevant costs to provide support for local service to residential users. See, e.g., Bruce Egan and Steven Wildman, Funding the Public Telecommunications Infrastructure 7 (unpublished paper presented at a conference sponsored by The Benton Foundation and The Columbia Institute for Tele-Information, Washington, DC., Oct. 15, 1993) (Egan and Wildman). Finally, the common regulatory practice of requiring uniform rates throughout a geographic area_so-called ``geographic rate averaging''_may result in above-cost rates for some customers and below cost rates for others. See, e.g., David Kaserman and John Mayo, Telecommunications Cross-Subsidies, 11 Yale J. on Reg. 119, 130 (1994). Although internally generated subsidies are widely used to fund universal service, they are not the only mechanisms. For example, subsidies to fund 911 emergency services and services for the hearing impaired increasingly are generated directly through a separate charge on each subscriber's bills. See Egan and Wildman, supra, at 7.
