FR940214-2-00092 FR940214-2-00055 Under the proposal, the last sentence from Rule 6.37(b)(1), which provides an exemption from the maximum specified bid/ask differentials for in-the-money options series in certain circumstances, would be moved to Rule 6.37(b)(3). 6 Additionally, new language is proposed to be added to Rule 6.37(b)(3) which would allow two Floor Officials to waive the requirements of Rule 6.37(b)(1) for at-the-money and out-of-the-money options series, on a case-by-case basis, when the bid/ask differential for the underlying security is greater than one-half of a point. In such instances, the spreads for at-the-money and out-of-the-money options series may be, at most, one-half as wide as the bid/ask differential in the underlying security in the primary market. The proposed rule also provides that exemptions granted pursuant to the rule are subject to Committee review. 6 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 4. The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of section 6(b)(5). 7 In particular, the Commission believes that the proposed rule change is designed to facilitate transactions in securities, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and to promote just and equitable principles of trade. Specifically, by incorporating objective standards into the rule and providing Floor Officials with the discretion to grant exemptions when those standards are met, the proposal will give Market Makers more flexibility to apply to alter the maximum bid/ask differential when quoting options where the market in the underlying security is illiquid and therefore has wider spreads. The Commission notes that under the current rule, Market Makers may already obtain approval to alter the spreads specified in the rule for any options series. Such approval, however, must be obtained from the Committee at either a regular or special meeting of the Committee. 8 The proposal would alleviate any potential delay in granting Market Makers requests to adjust their spreads by permitting such relief to be granted by two Floor Officials rather than the full Committee. 7 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1982). 8 Telephone conversation between Michael Pierson, Senior Attorney, Market Regulation, PSE, and Brad Ritter, Attorney, Office of Derivatives Regulation, Division of Market Regulation, Commission, on February 2, 1994. Although the Commission recognizes that the proposal could result in more requests by Market Makers to obtain permission to increase maximum spreads because such requests could be granted by two Floor Officials as opposed to the full Committee, the Commission believes that the rule ensures that exemptions can only be granted in limited circumstances. First, an exemption can only be granted for at-the-money and out-of-the-money options series where the spread in the underlying security is greater than one-half of a point. Second, even with the exemption for the bid/ask differentials for at-the-money and out-of-the-money options series, the maximum spread for those series can be at most, one-half as wide as the spread in the underlying security. Finally, any exemption granted by the Floor Officials will be subject to Committee review. This review authority will allow the full Committee to monitor the use of the exemptions and to detect any situations where, for example, exemptions have been improperly granted by certain Floor Officials, and to take appropriate steps to prevent subsequent abuses of the rule. The Commission finds good cause for approving Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice thereof in the Federal Register. Amendment No. 1 merely clarifies that the intent of the proposed rule change is to provide objective standards for allowing Floor Officials to grant exemptions from Rule 6.37(b)(1) for at-the-money and out-of-the-money options series, not to change the current rule with respect to the exemption for in-the-money options series. Moreover, the Commission notes that this proposal was published for the full 21-day comment period and no comments were received by the Commission. Therefore, the Commission believes it is consistent with sections 6(b)(5) 9 and 19(b)(2) 10 of the Act to approve Amendment No. 1 to the proposal on an accelerated basis. 9 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). 10 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the PSE. All written submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;93&hyph;03 and should be submitted by March 7, 1994. It is therefore ordered, Pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 11 that the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;93&hyph;03) is approved. 11 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1982). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 12 12 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3322 Filed 2&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
