FR940725-0-00009 FR940725-0-00002 The FAA concurs partially. Since only two comments were received in response to the proposed 6-month compliance time, the FAA assumes that most operators are able to accommodate that proposed compliance time. In light of safety considerations, the FAA finds that a short initial compliance time for the inspections and functional tests is warranted. However, upon reconsideration, the FAA considers that extending the proposed compliance time by 3 additional months will not adversely affect safety, and will allow the required actions to be performed at a base during regularly scheduled maintenance where special equipment and trained maintenance personnel will be available, if necessary. Paragraphs (a)(2), (b)(2), and (c) of the final rule have been revised to specify a compliance time of 9 months for the initial inspections and functional tests of the thrust reverser control and indication systems. The FAA does not agree that the compliance times specified in the final rule should be expressed in terms of maintenance check intervals. Since maintenance schedules vary from operator to operator, there would be no assurance that the actions will be accomplished during those maximum intervals. The FAA has determined that the compliance times, as specified in the final rule, represent the maximum intervals of time allowable for the affected airplanes to continue to operate prior to accomplishing the required actions without compromising safety. Several commenters request that the proposed compliance time for repetitive inspections and functional tests of the thrust reverser control and indication systems [specified in paragraphs (a)(2), (b)(2), and (c) of the proposal] be extended from the proposed 15-month intervals to accommodate current or future scheduled ``C'' check maintenance intervals. Two commenters propose extension of the compliance time to 18-month intervals. One commenter indicates that Boeing Alert Service Bulletin 747&hyph;78A2115, Revision 1, dated March 10, 1994, recommends inspection intervals of 15 months or 5,000 flight hours. The FAA concurs partially. As discussed previously, the FAA does not agree that these compliance times should be expressed in terms of maintenance check intervals. However, the FAA does concur with the commenters' requests to extend the proposed compliance time to 18 months. Extending the compliance time by 3 additional months will not adversely affect safety, and will allow the inspections and tests to be performed at a base during regularly scheduled maintenance where special equipment and trained maintenance personnel will be available, if necessary. Paragraphs (a)(2), (b)(2), and (c) of the final rule have been revised to specify a compliance time of 18 months for repetitive inspections and functional tests of the thrust reverser control and indication systems. Several commenters request that paragraph (d) of the proposed rule be revised to allow dispatch with a thrust reverser inoperative in accordance with the FAA-approved Master Minimum Equipment List (MMEL) if any discrepancy is found during the required inspections and tests. Several commenters point out that allowing dispatch with a thrust reverser inoperative will provide operators time to obtain parts and perform any necessary corrective action. One commenter explains that, without this change, the dispatch capability of the airplane would be downgraded for problems such as proximity sensor adjustments or auto restow chafing, which are not related to the integrity of the stow lock feature. One commenter requests 14-day dispatch relief. The FAA concurs partially. The FAA agrees that an option for dispatch relief may be allowed in accordance with an operator's FAA-approved Minimum Equipment List (MEL). However, the FAA does not concur with the commenter's request for 14-day dispatch relief, since the MMEL specifies 10-day dispatch relief. The FAA has revised paragraph (d) of the final rule to provide an alternative for an airplane to be operated in accordance with existing provisions and limitations specified in the MEL, provided that no more than one thrust reverser on the airplane is inoperative. Three commenters request that the proposed interval of 1,000 hours time-in-service for repetitive inspections of the bullnose seal and tests of the lock mechanism and of the position switch module and cone brake be extended to coincide with operators' scheduled maintenance intervals and to reduce the economic impact of the proposed actions. One commenter suggests a repetitive interval of 1,300 hours time-in-service. The second commenter proposes that the interval be extended to 1,500 hours time-in-service. The third commenter recommends that these actions be required every 15 months or during ``C'' checks. The FAA does not concur. The FAA based the repetitive inspection interval on data obtained from a reliability analysis submitted by Boeing prior to the issuance of the proposed rule. The FAA based the proposed interval of 1,000 hours time-in-service on that analysis and on the fact that affected operators conduct ``A'' checks at intervals of approximately 450 hours time-in-service. The FAA's intent was that the proposed inspections and tests be conducted during every other regularly scheduled ``A'' check, when the airplanes would be located at a base where special equipment and trained personnel would be readily available, if necessary. Further, the FAA has received no supporting technical analysis to supplement or refute the manufacturer's original reliability analysis. The FAA has determined that the compliance time, as proposed, represents the maximum interval of time allowable for the affected airplanes to accomplish the required repetitive actions without compromising safety.
