FR940607-0-00003 FR940607-0-00002 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;ANE&hyph;05; Amendment 39&hyph;8908; AD 94&hyph;10&hyph;01] Airworthiness Directives; Hartzell Propeller Inc. HC&hyph;E4 Series Propellers AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule, request for comments. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to Hartzell Propeller Inc. Model HC&hyph;E4A&hyph;3A/E10950() composite bladed propellers installed on but not limited to Beech Model 1900D aircraft. This action requires installation of new propeller blade pitch change knob twelve point flange head attachment bolts, new preload plates, and new propeller blade pitch change knob brackets. This amendment is prompted by reports of 15 propeller blade pitch change knob screw failures found during routine maintenance. The actions specified in this AD are intended to prevent a severe propeller vibration in flight and possible loss of propeller pitch control. DATES: Effective June 22, 1994. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in the regulations is approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of June 22, 1994. Comments for inclusion in the Rules Docket must be received on or before August 8, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), New England Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;ANE&hyph;05, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, MA 01803&hyph;5299. The service information referenced in this AD may be obtained from Hartzell Propeller Inc., One Propeller Place, Piqua, OH 45356&hyph;2634; telephone (513) 778&hyph;4200, fax (513) 778&hyph;4391. This information may be examined at the FAA, New England Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, MA; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Tim Smyth, Aerospace Engineer, Chicago Aircraft Certification Office, FAA, Small Airplane Directorate, 2300 East Devon Avenue, room 232, Des Plaines, IL 60018; telephone (708) 294&hyph;7130, fax (708) 294&hyph;7834. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) received reports of 15 propeller blade pitch change knob screw failures found during routine maintenance on Hartzell Propeller Inc. Model HC&hyph;E4A&hyph;3A/E10950() composite bladed propellers installed on but not limited to Beech Model 1900D aircraft. The FAA also received pilot reports of vibration and unusual propeller noise, and additional reports of several incidents when the propeller would not go completely into the feather position after engine shutdown on the ground. Investigation into these incidents revealed a failed screw head had lodged in the internal pitch change mechanism. Investigation further reveals that the screws failed due to high cycle fatigue. This condition, if not corrected, could result in a severe propeller vibration in flight and possible loss of propeller pitch control. The FAA has reviewed and approved the technical contents of Hartzell Propeller Inc. Alert Service Bulletin (ASB) No. A190, dated January 17, 1994, that describes procedures for installation of new propeller blade pitch change knob twelve point flange head attachment bolts to replace the countersunk screws currently used, new preload plates, and new propeller blade pitch change knob brackets. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other Hartzell Propeller Inc. Model HC&hyph;E4A&hyph;3A/E10950() composite bladed propellers of the same type design, this airworthiness directive (AD) is being issued to prevent a severe propeller vibration in flight and possible loss of propeller pitch control. This AD requires installation of a design change to the propeller pitch change knob attachment. This installation consists of new propeller blade pitch change knob twelve point flange head attachment bolts to replace the countersunk screws currently used, new preload plates, and new propeller blade pitch change knob brackets. Propellers with serial numbers HJ199 and greater are excluded from this AD, as the propellers were modified during manufacturing. The actions are required to be accomplished in accordance with the service bulletin described previously. Since a situation exists that requires the immediate adoption of this regulation, it is found that notice and opportunity for prior public comment hereon are impracticable, and that good cause exists for making this amendment effective in less than 30 days. Comments Invited Although this action is in the form of a final rule that involves requirements affecting flight safety and, thus, was not preceded by notice and an opportunity for public comment, comments are invited on this rule. Interested persons are invited to comment on this rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications should identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified under the caption ADDRESSES . All communications received on or before the closing date for comments will be considered, and this rule may be amended in light of the comments received. Factual information that supports the commenter's ideas and suggestions is extremely helpful in evaluating the effectiveness of the AD action and determining whether additional rulemaking action would be needed. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the rule that might suggest a need to modify the rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report that summarizes each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this AD will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;ANE&hyph;05.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. The regulations adopted herein will not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this final rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment.
