FR940419-2-00027 FR940419-2-00021 Opportunities for Industrial Partnering With the New Independent States of the Former Soviet Union AGENCY: Department of Energy, Albuquerque Operations Office. ACTION: Workshop for Industrial Partnering with the Multiprogram National Laboratories and the New Independent States of the Former Soviet Union (NIS IPP). SUMMARY: Today's notice is announcing a workshop for the Industrial Partnering Program with the New Independent States (NIS) of the Former Soviet Union. U.S. private sector entities including industry, universities, foundations and other organizations which have a strong interest in promoting, and investing in, commercial relationships between U.S. entities and NIS institutes are invited to attend. The purpose of the workshop is to describe to academia and U.S. private sector entities (1) the scope of the NIS Industrial Partnering Program, (2) the terms of a DOE-U. S. Industry Coalition (USIC) partnership arrangement, (3) the opportunities available to USIC members, and (4) the terms and conditions of USIC membership. Suggestions for improving the program will also be solicited. DATES: DOE will hold a workshop on April 25, 1994, in Albuquerque, New Mexico. A reception will be held on the evening of April 24. Workshop attendees must preregister. A registration fee will be charged at the time of registration. Copies of the presentation materials will be available at the Workshop. Workshop Minutes, along with the attendance list and answers to questions that would be of interest to multiple attendees, will be distributed to the attendees after the Workshop. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Additional information about the Workshop (including the registration fee) for the DOE-NIS Industrial Partnering Program can be obtained by calling (505) 845&hyph;4555. Written requests can be sent to the U.S. Department of Energy, Albuquerque Operations Office, Energy and Technologies Division, P.O. Box 5400, Albuquerque, NM 87185&hyph;5400. FAX requests may be sent to (505) 845&hyph;5960. When requesting information, please provide the name and address of your company, a ``point-of-contact,'' telephone number, and FAX number. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Foreign Operations Appropriations Act of 1994 contains a provision (section 575) designating $35,000,000 for a ``Ukraine/Russia Stabilization Partnerships Program.'' The Secretary of Energy has been charged with the implementation of the program, which allowed for the inclusion of the other New Independent States (NIS), and is now referred to as the ``NIS Industrial Partnering Program.'' The program will have two principal components. Both are intended to assist NIS institutes with converting from defense to commercial applications thereby reducing the potential for the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The first component is designed to engage the scientists and engineers at key technical and scientific institutes of the NIS in non-defense activities. This component is an expansion of unclassified cooperative non-defense research and development activities that have been conducted for some time between individual DOE National Laboratories and individual NIS institutes. The second component is designed to assist in stabilizing the NIS technical and scientific infrastructure, to encourage the commercialization of NIS technologies, and promote the development in the NIS of market-oriented economies. A number of cost-shared international industrial partnerships will be formed, each involving at least one DOE National Laboratory, one NIS institute, and at least one U.S. industrial entity, whose contribution to the success of the partnership will be critical. A significant portion of the U.S. Government contribution to support the program is intended for NIS institutes to spur follow-on trade and investment by U.S. industry. In July 1993, DOE sponsored a meeting, involving representatives from the National Laboratories and representatives of U.S. private sector entities with experience in NIS-to-U.S. technology transfer and commercialization. As a result of that, and subsequent meetings, it was concluded that a program of commercial industry-selected partnerships to invest in NIS technologies would be facilitated if a consortium of U.S. private sector entities could be established. The Secretary of Energy would then enter into a cooperative agreement with such a consortium, using the authority, and under the terms set out in the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, the National Competitiveness Technology Transfer Act of 1989, the Cooperative Research Act of 1984, and other applicable statutes. The consortium would be required to give special attention to the needs of small businesses under the program. Accordingly, U.S. industry representatives have voluntarily formed and incorporated the U.S. Industry Coalition (USIC) with an interim Board of Directors. Membership in USIC will be required for participation in cost-sharing projects that involve the section 575 funds. Membership in USIC will be open to all U.S. entities, including universities, consortia, and corporations incorporated in the United States. Program questions may be raised during the Question and Answer periods of the Workshop. Questions that would be of interest to multiple attendees may be included in the Workshop Minutes which will be distributed to attendees after the Workshop. Issued in Albuquerque, NM, April 7, 1994. Richard A. Marquez, Assistant Manager for Management and Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9406 Filed 4&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
