FR940906-2-00113 FR940906-2-00083 Table II&hyph; 1._ Identification of Lead Federal Agency for Radiological Emergencies 1Type of emergency 1Lead federal agency 1. Nuclear Facility: a. Licensed by NRC or an Agreement State NRC. b. Owned or Operated by DOD or DOE DOD or DOE. c. Not Licensed, Owned, or Operated by a Federal Agency or an Agreement State EPA. 2. Transportation of Radioactive Materials: a. Shipment of Materials Licensed by NRC or an Agreement State NRC. b. Materials Shipped by or for DOD or DOE DOD or DOE. c. Shipment of Materials Not Licensed or Owned by a Federal Agency or an Agreement State EPA. 3. Domestic Satellites Containing Radioactive Materials NASA or DOD. 4. Impact from Foreign or Unknown Source EPA, DOD, or NASA. 5. Other Types of Emergencies LFAs confer. C. Radiological Sabotage and Terrorism Sabotage and terrorism are not treated as separate types of emergencies; rather, they are considered a complicating dimension of the types listed in Table II&hyph;1. For fixed facilities and materials in transit, responses to radiological emergencies generally do not depend on the initiating event. The coordinated response to contain or mitigate a threatened or actual release of radioactive material would be essentially the same whether it resulted from an accidental or deliberate act. For malevolent acts involving improvised nuclear or radiation dispersal devices, the response is further complicated by the magnitude of the threat and the need for specialized technical expertise/actions. The Atomic Energy Act directs the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to investigate all alleged or suspected criminal violations of the Act. Additionally, the FBI is legally responsible for locating any nuclear weapon, device, or material and for restoring nuclear facilities to their rightful custodians. In view of its unique responsibilities under the Atomic Energy Act (amended by the Energy Reorganization Act), the FBI has concluded formal agreements with the LFAs that provide for interface, coordination, and technical assistance in support of the FBI's mission. It would be difficult to outline all the possible scenarios arising from criminal or terrorist activity. As a result, the Federal response will be tailored to the specific circumstances of the event at hand. Generally, for fixed facilities and materials in transit, the designated LFA and supporting agencies will perform the functions delineated in this plan and provide technical support and assistance to the FBI in the performance of its mission. For those emergencies where an LFA is not specifically designated (e.g., improvised nuclear device), the Federal response will be guided by the established interagency agreements and contingency plans. In accordance with these agreements and plans, the signatory agency(ies) supporting the FBI will coordinate and manage the technical portion of the response and activate/request assistance under the FRERP for measures to protect the public health and safety. In all cases, the FBI will manage and direct the law enforcement and intelligence aspects of the response; coordinating activities with appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies within the framework of the FRERP and/or as provided for in established interagency agreements or plans. D. Response Functions and Responsibilities 1. Onscene Coordination The LFA will coordinate all Federal onscene actions and assist State and local governments in determining measures to protect life, property, and the environment. The LFA will ensure that FEMA and other Federal agencies assist the State and local government agencies in implementing protective actions, if requested by the State and local government agencies. The LFA will coordinate Federal response activities from an onscene location, referred to as the Joint Operations Center (JOC). Until the LFA has established its base of operations in a JOC, the LFA will accomplish that coordination from another LFA facility, usually a Headquarters operations center. For radiological emergencies occurring on or with possible consequences to Indian tribal lands, DOI will provide liaison between Federally recognized Indian tribal governments and LFA, State, and local agencies for coordination of response and protective action efforts. Additionally, DOI will advise and assist the LFA on economic, social, and political matters in the Virgin Islands and the Territories of Guam, American Samoa, and the Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands should a radiological emergency occur in these areas.
