FR940407-2-00086 FR940407-2-00047 [Ex Parte No. 290 (Sub No. 4)] Railroad Cost Recovery Procedures-Productivity Adjustment AGENCY: Interstate Commerce Commission. ACTION: Continuance of advance notice of rail productivity growth estimate. SUMMARY: In Productivity Adjustment-Implementation, 9 I.C.C.2d 1072 (1993), the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) prescribed the use of a 5-year moving average for measuring changes in railroad productivity used in calculating the Rail Cost Adjustment Factor (RCAF). Annually this method produces a productivity growth estimate from an output/input index. The annual estimates are used, in turn, to generate a geometric mean over a moving five year time span. The resulting mean productivity factor is then used to adjust the RCAF. Thus, the RCAF (adjusted) (to reflect changes in productivity) is the product of both the productivity factor and the quarterly output/input index. Railroad rates linked to the RCAF cannot exceed the level of the RCAF (adjusted) in a given quarter if they are to retain their statutory immunity to challenge. EFFECTIVE DATE: This decision will be effective on April 5, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jennifer E. Gladieux or (202) 927&hyph;6219 Thomas A. Schmitz (202) 927&hyph;5720; TDD for hearing impaired: (202) 927&hyph;5721. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In disseminating the annual productivity growth estimate and the new 5-year average, the ICC has traditionally published its calculations in a separate Ex Parte No. 290 (Sub-No. 4) decision in advance of the effective date. In a decision served in this docket on December 3, 1993, we proposed to eliminate that notice and requested comments on its elimination would be detrimental to the rail cost adjustment process. Our proposal to streamline the process by eliminating an administrative step has been opposed by the parties. Concern over mathematical errors appears to be the major issue of commentors. The Western Coal Traffic League (WCTL) wishes to continue reviewing and verifying the productivity factor in advance of its effectiveness. Additionally, both the Association of American Railroads (AAR) and WCTL urge the Commission to continue advance publication of the productivity growth estimate and the new 5-year average. In their view, this procedure encourages public dissemination and review of these calculations, thereby affording interested parties an opportunity to verify the data inputs and to detect computational problems before the productivity adjustments is applied to the RCAF. Both contend the burden is minimal, and the current advance notice procedure prevents major expenditures to correct the RCAF if the preliminary calculations require modification. After consideration of the comments, we will continue to give timely advance notice of the yearly productivity estimate in this proceeding which will be published in the Federal Register no later than November 15 in the year preceding its effective date. This will give the public ample time to review the calculations before the effective date. This action will not significantly affect either the quality of the human environment or energy conservation. Decided: March 29, 1994. By the Commission, Chairman McDonald, Vice Chairman Phillips, Commissioners Simmons and Philbin. Sidney L. Strickland, Jr., Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8350 Filed 4&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7035&hyph;01&hyph;P
