FR941222-2-00057 FR941222-2-00049 In an effort to expedite research, development, and commercialization of the novel estradiol esters, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development seeks a CRADA partner(s) for joint exploration and possible commercialization. Any CRADA proposed for these purposes will be considered. The CRADA aims will include the rapid publication of research results consistent with protection of proprietary information and patentable inventions as well as the timely exploitation of commercial opportunities. The CRADA partner will enjoy the benefits of first negotiation for licensing Government rights to any inventions arising under the agreement and will advance funds payable upon signing the CRADA to help defray Government expenses for patenting such inventions and other CRADA-related costs. The role of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development will be as follows: 1. Provide the collaborator with all biological data on compositions of matter covered by the agreement. 2. Provide samples of compositions of matter covered by the agreement. 3. Provide chemical data on compositions of matter covered by the agreement including synthetic routes, analytical methods employed, and purity. 4. Provide conformational analysis of compositions of matter covered by the agreement where possible. 5. Continue studies on the pharmacokinetics and biological activity of compositions of matter covered by the agreement. 6. Conduct studies to optimize formulations for administration of the compositions of matter covered by the agreement by various routes in rodents and primates. 7. Conduct Ames Test and other genetic toxicology on compositions of matter covered by the agreement scheduled for clinical evaluation. 8. Participate in meetings with the Food and Drug Administration for establishment of the drug safety studies required for Phase I, II, and III clinical investigations of any of the compositions of matter covered by the agreement and provide liaison with that Agency. The role of the collaborator will be as follows: 1. Undertake studies to identify any unique properties of the compositions of matter covered by the agreement including pharmacological differences from ethynylestradiol and mestranol (ethynylestradiol-3-methyl ether) which might favor their use as the estrogenic component of combined oral contraceptives. 2. Undertake a broad spectrum of estrogen receptor binding studies. 3. Undertake acute, subacute, chronic, carcinogenicity, and reproductive toxicology studies necessary to proceed with the orderly evaluation of selected compositions of matter covered by the agreement in human subjects. 4. Undertake an orderly sequence of clinical investigations of selected compositions of matter covered by the agreement for their safety and efficacy as estrogens for employment in combined oral contraceptives, postcoital contraceptives and for therapeutic use in gynecic medicine. Selection criteria for choosing the CRADA partner(s) will include but are not limited to the following: 1. The collaborator must present in their proposal a clear statement of their capabilities and experience with respect to the tasks to be undertaken. This would include experience in drug development, regulatory affairs, and marketing. 2. The proposal must contain a clear and concise outline of the work to be undertaken, a schedule of significant events, and outline of objectives to be accomplished in a timely manner, and such experimental details as will provide a basis for evaluation of competing submissions. 3. The proposal must contain the level of financial support the collaborator will supply for CRADA-related Government activities. 4. A willingness to cooperate with the NICHD in publication of research results consistent with the protection of proprietary information and patentable inventions which may arise during the period of the agreement. 5. Agreement to be bound by DHHS rules and regulations regarding the use of human subjects in clinical investigations, patent rights, ethical treatment of animals, and randomized clinical trials. 6. Agreement with provisions for equitable distribution of patent rights to any inventions developed under the CRADA(s). Generally, the rights of ownership are retained by the organization which is the employer of the inventor, with an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license to the Government (when a company employee(s) is the sole inventor) or an option to negotiate an exclusive or non-exclusive license to the company on terms that are appropriate (when the Government employee(s) is the sole inventor). Dated: December 14, 1994. Barbara M. McGarey, Deputy Director, Office of Technology Transfer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31395 Filed 12&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4140&hyph;01&hyph;P
