FR941003-1-00058 FR941003-1-00003 (e) Nothing in this section precludes taking notice of plain errors affecting substantial rights although they were not brought to the attention of an > administrative patent judge < examiner-in-chief or the Board. 71. Section 1.687 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraph (c) to read as follows: §1.687 Additional discovery. * * * * * (c) Upon a motion (§1.635) brought by a party within the time set by an > administrative patent judge < examiner-in-chief under §1.651 or thereafter as authorized by §1.645 and upon a showing that the interest of justice so requires, an > administrative patent judge < examiner-in-chief may order additional discovery, as to matters under the control of a party within the scope of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, specifying the terms and conditions of such additional discovery. > See §1.647 concerning translations of documents in a foreign language. < * * * * * 72. Section 1.688 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraphs (a) and (b) and adding a new paragraph (c) to read as follows: §1.688 Use of discovery. (a) If otherwise admissible a party may introduce into evidence, an answer to a written request for an admission or an answer to a written interrogatory obtained by discovery under §1.687 by filing a copy of the request for admission or the written interrogatory and the answer. If the answer relates to a party's case-in-chief, the answer shall be filed prior to the close of testimony of the party's > served together with any affidavits served by the party under §1.672(b) for its case-in-chief or, if the party does not serve any affidavits under §1.672(b) for its case-in-chief, no later than the date set by an administrative patent judge for the party to serve affidavits under §1.672(b) for its < case-in-chief. If the answer relates to the party's rebuttal, the admission or answer shall be filed prior to the close of testimony of the party's > served together with any affidavits served by the party under §1.672(b) for the its case-in-rebuttal or, if the party does not serve any affidavits under §1.672(b) for its case-in-rebuttal, no later than the date set by an administrative patent judge for the party to serve affidavits under §1.672(b) for its < case-in-rebuttal. > (b) < Unless otherwise ordered by an > administrative patent judge < examiner-in-chief , any written objection to the admissibility of an answer shall be filed within 15 days of service of the answer. > no later than the date set by the administrative patent judge for the opponent to file any objections under §1.672(c) to affidavits submitted by the party under §1.672(b). An opponent who fails to challenge the admissibility of an answer on a ground that could have been raised in a timely objection under this paragraph will not be entitled to move under §1.656(h) to suppress the evidence on that ground. If an opponent timely files an objection, the party may respond with supplemental affidavits, which must be filed together with any supplemental evidence filed by the party under §1.672(c) or, if the party does not file any supplemental evidence under §1.672(c), no later than the date set by an administrative patent judge for the party to file supplemental affidavits under §1.672(c). No objection to the admissibility of the evidence contained in or submitted with a supplemental affidavit shall be made, except as provided by < §1.656(h). > The pages of supplemental affidavits and the exhibits filed under this section shall be sequentially numbered by the party in the manner set forth in §1.672(c). The supplemental affidavits and exhibits shall be accompanied by an index of witnesses and an index of exhibits of the type required by §1.672(b). (c) Any request by an opponent to cross-examine on oral deposition the affiant of a supplemental affidavit submitted under paragraph (b) of this section shall be filed no later than the date set by the administrative patent judge for the opponent to file a request to cross-examine an affiant with respect to an affidavit filed by the party under §1.672(b) or (c). If any opponent requests cross-examination of an affiant, the party shall file a notice of deposition for a reasonable location within the United States under §1.673(e) for the purpose of cross-examination by any opponent. Any redirect and recross shall take place at the deposition. At any deposition for the purpose of cross-examination of a witness, the party shall not be entitled to rely on any document or thing not mentioned in one or more of the affidavits filed under this paragraph, except to the extent necessary to conduct proper redirect. The party who gives notice of a deposition shall be responsible for providing a translator if the witness does not testify in English, for obtaining a court reporter and for filing a certified transcript of the deposition as required by §1.676. Within 45 days of the close of the period for taking cross-examination, the party shall serve (but not file) a copy of each deposition transcript on each opponent together with copies of any additional documentary exhibits identified by the witness during the deposition. The pages of deposition transcripts and exhibits served under this paragraph shall be sequentially numbered by the party in the manner set forth in §1.672(d). The deposition transcripts shall be accompanied by an index of the names of the witnesses, giving the number of the page where cross-examination, redirect and recross of each witness begins, and an index of exhibits of the type specified in §1.672(b). < (b) > (d) < A party may not rely upon any other matter obtained by discovery unless it is introduced into evidence under this subpart. 73. Section 1.690 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) to read as follows: §1.690 Arbitration of interferences. (a) Parties to a patent interference may determine the interference or any aspect thereof by arbitration. Such arbitration shall be governed by the provisions of Title 9, United States Code. The parties must notify the Board in writing of their intention to arbitrate. An agreement to arbitrate must be in writing, specify the issues to be arbitrated, the name of the arbitrator or a date not more than thirty (30) days after the execution of the agreement for the selection of the arbitrator, and provide that the arbitrator's award shall be binding on the parties and that judgment thereon can be entered by the Board. A copy of the agreement must be filed within twenty (20) days after its execution. The parties shall be solely responsible for the selection of the arbitrator and the rules for conducting proceedings before the arbitrator. Issues not disposed of by the arbitration will be resolved in accordance with the procedures established in 37 CFR, Subpart E of Part 1, as determined by the > administrative patent judge < examiner-in-chief .
