FR941205-2-00056 FR941205-2-00039 With regard to potential nonradiological impacts, the proposed exemption involves features located entirely within the restricted area as defined in 10 CFR Part 20. It does not affect non-radiological plant effluents and has no other environmental impact. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that there are no significant non-radiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed action. Alternatives to the Proposed Action Since the Commission has concluded there is no measurable environmental impact associated with the proposed action, any alternatives with equal or greater environmental impact need not be evaluated. The principal alternative to the action would be to deny the request. Such action would not enhance the protection of the environment and would result in unjustified cost to the licensee. Alternative Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of any resource not previously considered in the Final Environmental Statement for the Prairie Island Nuclear Generating Plant dated May 1973. Agencies and Persons Consulted The NRC staff consulted with the Minnesota State official regarding the environmental impact of the proposed action. The State official had no comments. Finding of No Significant Impact Based upon the environmental assessment, the Commission concludes that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. Accordingly, the Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed action. For further details with respect to the proposed action, see the licensee's letter dated May 2, 1994, which is available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, The Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC, and at the local public document room located at the Minneapolis Public Library, Technology and Science Department, 300 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55401. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 25th day of November 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Sheri R. Peterson, Project Manager, Project Directorate III&hyph;1, Division of Reactor Projects_III/IV, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29775 Filed 12&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
