FR940516-1-00063 FR940516-1-00005 H. Operating Permit Program VII. Administrative Requirements A. Public Hearing B. Docket C. Executive Order 12866 D. Paperwork Reduction Act E. Regulatory Flexibility Act F. Miscellaneous I. List of Source Categories Section 112 of the amended Act requires that EPA evaluate and control emissions of HAP. The control of HAP is achieved through promulgation of emission standards under sections 112(d) and 112(f) and work practice and equipment standards under section 112(h) for categories of sources that emit HAP. On July 16, 1992, EPA published an initial list of major and area source categories to be regulated (57 FR 31576). Included on that list were major sources emitting HAP from epoxy resins and non-nylon polyamides production. The categories of major sources that would be affected by this regulation are defined as the manufacture of basic liquid epoxy resins (BLR) and resins made of epichlorohydrin (EPI) cross-linked non-nylon polyamides, also known as wet strength resins (WSR). The BLR source category does not include the manufacture of specialty epoxy resins (epoxy resins that are not BLR) or the modification of epoxy resins (BLR that are blended with solvents, reactive diluents, or other resins). The WSR source category are those that are made with dibasic esters, dicarboxylic acids, amines, and EPI. In developing the background information to support the proposed standard, no reasons for subcategorizing either of the source categories were identified. Production methods used in the two source categories include both batch and continuous operations. The sizes of the facilities range from those that make several thousand pounds of resin per year (lb/yr) to those that produce over 100 million lb/yr. Air emissions of HAP compounds originate from breathing and working losses from storage tanks, venting of process vessels, leaks from piping equipment used to transfer HAP compounds (equipment leaks), and volatilization of HAP from wastewater streams. Pollutants (HAP) emitted from the production processes include EPI, methanol, and hydrochloric acid (HCl). Detailed information describing manufacturing processes and emissions can be found in ``Emissions from Epoxy Resins Production and Non- Nylon Polyamides Production_Background Information for Proposed Standards'' (EPA 453/R&hyph;94&hyph;033a), Chapter 3. As of 1990, only three U.S. companies were producing BLR. All three of these facilities are considered to be major sources according to the Act criterion of having the potential to emit 10 tons per year of any one HAP or 25 tons per year of combined HAP. There are at least 17 facilities in the U.S. that manufacture WSR; of these, 9 are considered major sources because they are co-located within larger chemical manufacturing operations, based on the criteria mentioned above. The proposed standard would apply to all major sources that produce BLR and/or WSR. Area sources would not be subject to this standard. II. Background In 1989, EPA conducted a study that examined the use of epichlorohydrin in industry. This study identified the BLR and WSR industries as the major users of epichlorohydrin in the U.S. Under section 112(c) of the Act, the Administrator is required to publish and from time to time revise a list of source categories and subcategories that emit one or more of the hazardous air pollutants listed in section 112, as amended. Information from the study of epichlorohydrin use in industry was used during the development of the source category list. On July 16, 1992 (57 FR 31576), the EPA published the initial list of source categories, which includes epoxy resins production and non-nylon polyamides production. III. Authority for National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) Decision Process A. Source of Authority for NESHAP Development Section 112 of the Clean Air Act gives the Environmental Protection Agency the authority to establish national standards to reduce air emissions from sources that emit one or more HAP. Section 112(b) contains a list of HAP to be regulated by NESHAP. Section 112(c) directs the Agency to use this pollutant list to develop and publish a list of source categories for which NESHAP will be developed; this list was published in the Federal Register on July 16, 1992 (57 FR 31576). The Agency must list all known categories and subcategories of ``major sources'' (defined below) that emit one or more of the listed HAP. A major source is defined in section 112 (a) as any stationary source or group of stationary sources located within a contiguous area and under common control that emits or has the potential to emit in the aggregate, considering controls, 10 tons per year or more of any one HAP or 25 tons per year or more of any combination of HAP. B. Criteria for Development of NESHAP The NESHAP are to be developed to control HAP emissions from both new and existing sources according to the statutory directives set out in section 112(d) of the Act. The statute requires the standards to reflect the maximum degree of reduction in emissions of HAP that is achievable for new or existing sources. This control level is referred to as the ``maximum achievable control technology'' (MACT). The selection of MACT must reflect consideration of the cost of achieving the emission reduction, any nonair quality health and environmental impacts, and energy requirements for control levels more stringent than the floor (described below).
