FR940804-0-00067 FR940804-0-00022 Moreover, EPA's interpretation does not ignore or ``read out'' of the statute section 110(c)(1)(B) ( NRDC v. USEPA , 822 F.2d at 113). That case addressed a petitioner's attempt to ignore a specific condition of the Clean Water Act's applicability provision, which the court viewed as an unacceptable method of construing statutes (Id). Here, rather than disregarding the requirement that EPA approval is necessary to stop a FIP clock, EPA is interpreting section 179(a) to implicitly require that same element to be satisfied before a sanctions clock started for a disapproval can be stopped. This in no way ignores the section 110(c)(1)(B) language for purposes of the FIP clock, nor represents an attempt to interpret the Act such that the language of section 110(c)(1)(B) does not have full effect. As stated above, the reference to EPA approval in that section still has meaning where the clock was started by a finding of failure to submit or incompleteness. (5) Additional Comments Regarding the Sanctions Clock. (a) Comments. Another commenter believes that the final rule should provide for resetting the sanctions clock whenever a State that had failed to submit a timely SIP submits one, even if the SIP is later found to be incomplete. The commenter notes that section 179 provides for an 18-month period following one of four different types of findings of inadequate State action before sanctions can be imposed. The commenter argues that EPA illegally shortens this period by combining into one, two types of inadequate action under the same 18-month period, and that the final rule should provide for separate clocks for each type of inadequate action. Another commenter is concerned that States may be tempted to view the 18-month sanctions clock as additional time in which to meet a deadline. The commenter believes that Congress did not intend that States that failed to submit a timely SIP and later submitted an inadequate SIP would have more time before facing sanctions than States that submitted a complete but unapprovable SIP on time. While the commenter agrees with EPA's policy that incomplete submittals cannot temporarily stop the sanctions clock, the commenter believes the overall policy rewards delay in completing programs. The commenter believes that the final rule should state that only EPA approval of a final rule stops the clock. (b) Responses. As noted above, section 179 indicates that sanctions apply within certain timeframes, unless EPA determines that the deficiency that prompted the finding starting the sanctions clock has been corrected within those timeframes. Therefore, EPA believes the Act requires that sanction clocks stop for findings of failure to submit and findings of incompleteness when EPA finds a subsequently submitted SIP complete (i.e., finds that the deficiency has been corrected). The EPA disagrees that a clock started by a finding of failure to submit should stop based on a mere submittal that may or may not be complete. The Act provides under section 110(k)(1)(C) that where the Administrator determines that a plan is incomplete the State is treated as not having made the submission. Based on this, EPA believes that an affirmative finding that a SIP is complete is necessary to cure a nonsubmittal or incompleteness deficiency and stop sanction clocks initiated by such findings. 30 This interpretation is further supported by the fact that a finding of failure to submit and incompleteness are provided for under the same provision of sections 179(a)(1) and 179(a)(3)(A). 30 As noted above in this section, this change is reflected in the rule and is discussed in section II.C.4. of this document. On the other hand, EPA does not believe that it is appropriate to allow only EPA approval to permanently stop the sanction clock for all types of findings. 31 It is conceivable that a State could abuse the system under the process established in the final rule by submitting a complete but inadequate SIP at 17 months that stops a sanctions clock that started based on a finding of failure to submit or a finding of incompleteness. Such an area could face sanctions later than the State that submitted a timely, complete but unapprovable SIP. However, as discussed above, EPA believes the reference to ``such deficiency'' immediately following the list of the types of deficiency findings in section 179(a) indicates that sanctions clocks will stop if and when the State corrects the specific deficiency that prompted the finding. Consequently, the running and stopping of the clock is tied to the particular deficiency at issue, and EPA believes that it lacks the statutory authority to apply mandatory sanctions under section 179 upon those States that initially failed to make a submission (through failure to submit or by virtue of an incomplete submission) but which have subsequently submitted a complete plan. The submission of a complete plan is sufficient to stop a clock started for a failure to submit any or a complete plan because at that point the State has corrected the specific earlier deficiency of not having submitted a complete plan. Following this correction, the plain language of section 179 does not allow application of mandatory sanctions due to the original deficiency, but if the complete submission is later disapproved, a new sanction clock will begin to run and will continue to run until that specific deficiency is corrected. 32 The EPA believes that overall its policy is consistent with the language of section 179 and rational in that it recognizes that what the State must do to correct a deficiency relates directly to the nature of the finding, and that overall this policy will encourage compliance with Act requirements. 31 As noted above, the commenter indicates that it agrees with EPA's proposed policy that incomplete submittals cannot temporarily stop the sanctions clock. The EPA's proposed policy did not state that incomplete submittals cannot temporarily stop the sanctions clock. Rather, EPA's proposed policy stated that incomplete submittals cannot permanently stop the sanctions clock initiated by a finding of failure to submit or incompleteness. Thus, in responding to the comment permanently stop has been substituted for temporarily stop. 32 Furthermore, it appears that the approach articulated by this commenter (i.e., that sanctions clocks and FIP clocks are both stopped by EPA approval of a revised SIP) would present the problems recognized in reading out of section 110(c)(1) the clause ``the Administrator approves the plan or plan revision'' ( Boise Cascade, 942 F.2d at 1432, and NRDC v. EPA , 822 F.2d at 113).
