FR940930-2-00185 FR940930-2-00063 3. On May 31, 1994, the Applicant purchased the Notes from the Plans for their full face value, plus interest at the rate provided in the Notes, through the date of purchase. 9 The actual purchase price for each of the Notes was $269,823.91. The Applicant represents that the transaction was designed to protect the Plans' participants and beneficiaries from losses which would have resulted from the foreclosure of senior lienholders on the real property which secured the Plans' loans to Triad. The Applicant represents that it was necessary to purchase the Notes from the Plans prior to receiving an individual exemption for the transaction because foreclosure was imminent and the Notes would have been worthless to the Applicants if foreclosure had occurred prior to the purchase of the Notes. 9 The Notes provided for interest at 21/2 percentage points above the prime lending rate charged by the Bank of America. 4. Howard L. Seligman, an attorney licensed to practice in the State of California and a partner in the firm of Seligman and Willet, Inc., has agreed to serve as an independent fiduciary (the Independent Fiduciary) in connection with the transaction. The Independent Fiduciary has acknowledged his status as an ERISA fiduciary and represents that he understands and accepts his fiduciary duties, responsibilities and potential liabilities. The Independent Fiduciary maintains that he has no pre-existing business relationship with the Applicant or Agri-Bis, Inc. He also represents that, prior to the date the Sale took place, he reviewed the appraisals of the Pavilion and Drew Centre, the documents related to the outstanding security interests on those properties, and documents related to the pending Chapter 11 proceeding by Triad. Based on his review of these documents, the Independent Fiduciary represents that the ability of Triad to repay its obligation to the Plans was questionable. The Independent Fiduciary also represents that the purchase price for the Notes exceeded the fair market value of the Notes as of the date of the Sale. The Independent Fiduciary has determined that the purchase of the Notes by the Employer resulted in fully satisfying each of the obligations owed by Triad to the Plans, that the transaction was protective of the Plans' participants and beneficiaries, and that, therefore the transaction was in the best interests of the Plans' participants and beneficiaries. 5. In summary, the applicant represents that the transaction meets the statutory criteria for an exemption under section 408(a) of the Act because: (a) the Plans' independent fiduciary reviewed the terms and conditions of the exemption and determined that the purchase of the Notes for full face value plus interest was in the best interest of the Plans' participants and beneficiaries; (b) the Plans received a price which was not less than the fair market value of the Notes; (c) the Sale was a one-time sale for cash; and (d) the Plans did not pay any expenses in connection with the Sale. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Virginia Miller of the Department, telephone (202) 219&hyph;8971. (This is not a toll-free number.)
