FR941221-2-00117 FR941221-2-00078 Changes: None. Absolute Priority 2_Longitudinal Study of the Impact of Early Intervention Services on Infants and Toddlers With Disabilities Comment: One commenter suggested the resources that different participants and programs contribute to implementing the components of Part H must be measured in order to evaluate the impact of Part H on participants and stakeholders. The commenter further indicated that the effects of different Part H programs would be very difficult to interpret without cost information. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the priority as written allows applicants to collect cost data as justified or to construct cost estimates from service data. The Secretary does not want to specify a requirement but prefers to ask applicants to propose the research methodology most appropriate to the project. Changes: None. Comment: Two commenters suggested that the study focus on family, as well as child outcomes. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that the family-centered nature of the Act makes family outcomes of critical importance for the longitudinal study. Changes: Language has been added to the priority to incorporate these suggestions. Comment: Two commenters suggested that information be collected on State and local administrative structures, because the implementation of Part H varies across the Nation. This would allow for an evaluation of how State and local variables influence outcomes. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the priority as written allows applicants to gather data on State and local administrative structures as justified. The Secretary does not want to specify such variables, but prefers to ask applicants to propose the particular research variables most appropriate for evaluation. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter suggested that the priority must be more tied to components of the Federal statute that it is undertaking to evaluate. This would allow for an assessment of the impact of particular statutory components on outcomes. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the priority as written allows applicants to organize the study along the lines of the components of the Federal statute as justified. The Secretary does not wish to be overly prescriptive, and prefers to allow applicants to propose the particular organizational structure most appropriate for conducting a longitudinal study. Changes: None. Priorities Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(3), the Secretary gives an absolute preference to applications that meet any one of the following priorities. The Secretary will fund under these competitions only applications that meet any one of these absolute priorities:
