FR940203-0-00029 FR940203-0-00009 (d) Domestic production data. Data on total U.S. production of the domestic article for each full year for which data are provided pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section; (e) Data showing injury. Quantitative data indicating the nature and extent of injury to the domestic industry concerned: (1) With respect to serious injury, data indicating: (i) A significant idling of production facilities in the industry, including data indicating plant closings or the underutilization of production capacity; (ii) The inability of a significant number of firms to carry out domestic production operations at a reasonable level of profit; and (iii) Significant unemployment or underemployment within the industry; and/or (2) With respect to the threat of serious injury, data relating to: (i) A decline in sales or market share, a higher and growing inventory (whether maintained by domestic producers, importers, wholesalers, or retailers), and a downward trend in production, profits, wages, or employment (or increasing underemployment); (ii) The extent to which firms in the industry are unable to generate adequate capital to finance the modernization of their domestic plants and equipment, or are unable to maintain existing levels of expenditures for research and development; (iii) The extent to which the U.S. market is the focal point for the diversion of exports of the article concerned by reason of restraints on exports of such article to, or on imports of such article into, third country markets; and (3) Changes in the level of prices, production, and productivity. (f) Cause of injury. An enumeration and description of the causes believed to be resulting in the injury, or threat thereof, described under paragraph (e) of this section, and a statement regarding the extent to which increased imports, either actual or relative to domestic production, of the imported article are believed to be such a cause, supported by pertinent data; (g) Relief sought and purpose thereof. A statement describing the import relief sought, including the type, amount, and duration, and the specific purposes therefor, which may include facilitating the orderly transfer of resources to more productive pursuits, enhancing competitiveness, or other means of adjustment to new conditions of competition; (h) Efforts to compete. A statement on the efforts being taken, or planned to be taken, or both, by firms and workers in the industry to make a positive adjustment to import competition. (i) Imports from NAFTA countries. Quantitative data indicating the share of imports accounted for by imports from each NAFTA country (Canada and Mexico), and petitioner's view on the extent to which imports from such NAFTA country or countries are contributing importantly to the serious injury, or threat thereof, caused by total imports of such article. (j) Critical circumstances. An allegation that critical circumstances exist must be included in the petition or made on or before the 90th day after the date on which the petition is filed if the Commission is to make a determination with regard to such allegation on or before the 120th day after the day on which the petition is filed; or included in the petition after the 90th day and on or before the 150th day after such filing if the Commission is to make a determination with regard to such allegation on or before the date the Commission's report is submitted to the President. ยง206.15 Industry adjustment plan and commitments. (a) Adjustment plan. A petitioner may submit to the Commission, either with the petition or at any time within 120 days after the date of filing of the petition, a plan to facilitate positive adjustment to import competition. (b) Commitments. If the Commission makes an affirmative injury determination, any firm in the domestic industry, certified or recognized union or group of workers in the domestic industry, local community, trade association representing the domestic industry, or any other person or group of persons may, individually, submit to the Commission commitments regarding actions such persons and entities intend to take to facilitate positive adjustment to import competition. ยง206.16 Time for determinations, reporting. (a) In general. The Commission will make its determination with respect to injury within 120 days after the date on which the petition is filed, the request or resolution is received, or the motion is adopted, as the case may be, except that if the Commission determines before the 100th day that the investigation is extraordinarily complicated, the Commission will make its determination within 150 days. The Commission will make its report to the President at the earliest practicable time, but not later than 180 days after the date on which the petition is filed, the request or resolution is received, or the motion is adopted, as the case may be. (b) Perishable agricultural product. In the case of a request in a petition for provisional relief with respect to a perishable agricultural product that has been the subject of monitoring by the Commission, the Commission will report its determination and any finding to the President not later than 21 days after the date on which the request for provisional relief is received. (c) Critical circumstances. If petitioner alleges the existence of critical circumstances in the petition or on or before the 90th day after the day on which the petition was filed, the Commission will report its determination regarding such allegation and any finding on or before the 120th day after such filing date. In the event petitioner alleges such circumstances after the 90th day and on or before the 150th day after such filing date, the Commission will report its determination regarding such allegation and any finding on or before the date its report is submitted to the President. ยง206.17 Public report. Upon making a report to the President of the results of an investigation to which the subpart B relates, the Commission will make such report public (with the exception of information which the Commission determines to be confidential) and cause a summary thereof to be published in the Federal Register . Subpart C_Investigations Relating to a Surge in Imports From a NAFTA Country ยง206.21 Applicability of subpart. This subpart C applies specifically to investigations under section 312(c) of the NAFTA Implementation Act. For other applicable rules, see subpart A of this part and part 201 of this chapter.
