FR940404-0-00085 FR940404-0-00023 Background/History of Inmate Telephone Privileges The Bureau of Prisons (``Bureau'') provides inmates with several means of communicating with the public. Primary among these is written correspondence, with visiting and telephone privileges serving as two supplemental means of communication. Although there is no Constitutional right for inmates to have unrestricted telephone communication with members of their families and the community, particularly when there are alternative channels of communication available, the Bureau provides inmates with telephone access consistent with the requirements of sound correctional management for the continually expanding inmate population. Prior to the early 1970's, telephone privileges in Bureau institutions were determined by local policy, as set by each Warden. In 1973, the Bureau adopted a national policy to ensure telephone access to all inmates by permitting every inmate who was not restricted from telephone use to make at least one telephone call every quarter. During the mid-1970's, telephone privileges routinely consisted of one or two short telephone calls a month on institution telephones, placed and supervised by staff, and approved in advance. In the late 1970's, the Bureau attempted to increase telephone access and reduce staff assistance by the installation of a collect call system which relied upon inmate use of unattended commercial equipment, tape recording, and operator-assisted services. This was the system in operation when the Bureau published its final rule on Telephone Regulations June 29, 1979 (44 FR 38249), with a subsequent amendment June 1, 1983 (48 FR 24622). Purpose of the Amended Regulations The former regulations, as cited above and as codified in 28 CFR part 540, subpart I, state that the inmate is responsible for the expenses of inmate telephone use. This has been, and remains, a major tenet of Bureau policy. However, at the time the former regulations were published, the Bureau had no practicable means of making inmates directly responsible for the costs of their calls. Hence, those regulations recognized that inmate telephone calls would ordinarily be made collect to the party called. Technological developments in the telephone and computer industries have now made it possible for the Bureau to install a debit-billing telephone system which allows the Bureau to more effectively carry out its rule that an inmate is responsible for the expenses of inmate telephone use. This system, known as the Inmate Telephone System (ITS), is similar to telephone systems used in many hotels where calls are direct-dialed after being processed through a switch and charged to the caller's bill. These amended telephone regulations provide for the operation of the ITS and permit the Bureau to better address correctional management and security problems than with the collect call telephone system in place under the former regulations. These regulations therefore provide an important contribution to the goals of responsible correctional management in the following ways:
