FR941227-2-00128 FR941227-2-00087 3. Bona Fide Mergers and Acquisitions The issuance of lower voting rights stock in connection with a business combination to effect a bona fide merger or acquisition, in which the voting rights of the securities issued would not be greater than the voting rights of any existing class of common stock, will be presumed to be accepted under the Policy. For example, when the lower voting rights stock is structured so that dividends or other substantive rights ( e.g. , election of directors) are based on the assets or performance of the acquired company, such a recapitalization generally should be considered bona fide and consistent with the purposes of the Policy. 16 16 A merger or combination between a company with a disparate voting rights plan and a company with a one-share, one-vote capitalization would be scrutinized to ensure that it is being effected for a bona fide business purpose. 4. Application of the Policy to Control Share Acquisition Statutes and Other Takeover Defenses The Policy will not apply to corporate action taken pursuant to state law requiring a state's domestic corporation to condition the voting rights of a beneficial or record holder of a specified threshold percentage of the corporation's voting stock on the approval of the corporation's independent shareholders. These statutes generally are referred to as state ``control share acquisition statutes.'' They are designed to prevent unwanted acquisitions of the corporations by limiting the voting rights of large shareholders, unless specifically approved by the disinterested shareholders or unless the corporation amends its articles of incorporation or by-laws to opt out of the statute. In addition, the Policy will continue to permit issuers to take corporate action pursuant to other shareholder rights plans such as ``poison pills'' 17 and ``lock-ups.'' 18 Shareholder rights plans usually are adopted by corporations to discourage tender offers, or to encourage the development of an auction for the company resulting in shareholders receiving a higher price for their stock. They are not adopted to disenfranchise an existing class or classes of shareholders. 17 Use of a ``poison pill'' is a strategy, generally employed by a potential takeover-target company, to make acquisition of its stock more costly to an acquirer. For instance, a firm may issue a new series of preferred stock that provides shareholders the right to redeem it at a premium price after a takeover. Such measures raise the cost of an acquisition, and cause dilution, hopefully deterring a takeover bid. 18 A ``lock-up'' is a privilege offered to a friendly acquirer by a target company of buying the target's most valuable assets or additional equity, often at a discount. The aim is to discourage a hostile takeover by granting such an option to a friendly acquirer. Similarly, lock-up options or agreements generally are utilized by a corporation as a defensive tactic and entered into with a friendly potential acquirer often referred to as a ``white knight.'' Nevertheless, lock-up effected by the sale of a new class of super voting preferred stock generally would be prohibited under the Policy because they would involve an issuance of a new class of super voting stock. Accordingly, the SROs will have the flexibility to analyze the facts of each lock-up option or poison pill on a case-by-case basis for consistency with the Policy. 19 19 For example, if the issuer's existing capital structure included the super voting class being issued pursuant to the lock-up agreement, the SRO could find it to be an issuance of an existing class of stock and thus permissible under the Policy. See Supplementary Material .10 of the NYSE's proposal. C. Interpretation of the Policy: Other Issues 1. Prior Interpretations Following the initial adoption of former Rule 19c&hyph;4, the SROs issued a number of policy interpretations regarding corporate actions that they believed were permitted under the rule. These interpretations will continue to apply under the Policy with respect to the specific corporations for which the interpretations were issued. In addition, they will be available as guidance to other corporations seeking authorization, from the SRO that issued the interpretation, to engage in similar corporate activity. With respect to the specific company for which the interpretation was issued, this provision is a reassurance that its action will not be re-evaluated under the Policy. With respect to other corporations seeking to implement similar transactions, this provision grants the interpretation some precedential value to be used when discussing the potential transaction with the SRO. 2. Adoption of New Voting Rights Structures In certain circumstances, the Policy also will provide greater flexibility than Rule 19c&hyph;4 for companies initially adopting a new voting rights structure or altering their existing capital structure in such a fashion that might otherwise be prohibited under the Policy. For example, if a company is in financial distress, the company might issue preferred stock with heightened voting protection necessary to protect the interests of the preferred stock purchasers. The SROs will evaluate the application of the Policy to such transactions on a case-by-case basis. In other situations, issuances of preferred stock that have special voting rights attached would be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine if they are consistent with the Policy. In this regard, traditional varieties of preferred stock would be permitted under the Policy. In contrast, blank-check preferred stock with unlimited voting rights generally would be viewed as creating a new class of super voting rights and impermissible under the Policy.
