FR940428-1-00041 FR940428-1-00008 (c) Free grazing with no written permit. Grazing may be authorized free of charge and without a written permit in the following circumstances: (1) Where livestock are being used by campers and travelers during the period of occupancy. (2) Where horses, mules, or burros are being used in support of research, administration, or other approved work being conducted on National Forest System lands and other lands under Forest Service control. (3) Where horses, mules, or burros are being used occasionally to assist a permittee in managing the permitted livestock during the grazing season. ยง222.7 Requirements applicable to grazing permits. (a) Requirements applicable to all Forest Service livestock grazing permits. (1) Grazing permits may be issued only to private individuals, grazing associations and districts, business concerns, or tribal governments. Federal, State, and local governments, or units thereof, are not eligible to receive or hold grazing permits. (2) Applicants for a grazing permit must file a written application to the District Ranger responsible for the administration of the lands to be grazed. (3) An applicant or permittee(s), and affiliate(s), if any, with a history of prior grazing use on federal lands, must show a satisfactory record of performance under previous or currently held federal grazing permits. Applicants, permittees, or affiliates, who have had Forest Service grazing permits cancelled, in whole, pursuant to ยง222.10(b) (2), (3), (4), or (5), or other federal grazing permits or leases cancelled within 36 months prior to application are presumed to have an unsatisfactory performance record. (b) Additional requirements applicable to term permits: (1) Term permits may be issued to the following: (i) A citizen of the United States; (ii) An alien who has filed a petition for naturalization; (iii) A corporation or other business concern, including but not limited to grazing associations and districts, that is authorized to do business in the State where the grazing activity is to be conducted regardless of the ownership of the company or the company's stock; or (iv) Tribal governments. (2) An applicant or permittee must own the livestock to be grazed under permit and such base property as required by the Forest Service, except that: (i) Livestock owned by children of permittees may be run under their parent's term grazing permit for up to 50 percent of the permitted numbers when the children are establishing a livestock herd with the intent of acquiring the family ranch operation or when children own livestock as part of a youth agricultural program or project. (ii) Members of a grazing association or a grazing district, as opposed to the association or district itself, must meet base property and livestock ownership requirements as specified in the term permit issued to that association or district. (iii) Applicants for or holders of term private land grazing permits are not required to own base property or the livestock authorized by the grazing permit. (iv) Applicants for or holders of term permits for developing ranges on National Forest System lands in the Eastern States are not required to own livestock or base property to obtain the initial grazing permit. However, when applying for permit renewal, the permittee must meet the livestock and base property ownership requirements. (v) If a term grazing permittee disposes or loses control of all or part of the base property but does not waive the permit to the United States in favor of the new owner, the permittee has one year from the date of sale or loss of control to meet base property requirements. If the permittee does not meet base property requirements within that time period, the permittee is no longer qualified to hold a term grazing permit, and the authorized officer shall promptly cancel the permit. (3) An authorized officer may prescribe other requirements for term grazing permits including, but not limited to, the following: (i) Conditions for and length of time that non-use may be allowed; and (ii) Upper limits on the total number of permitted livestock and any exceptions to upper limits.
