FR941006-2-00217 FR941006-2-00113 3. Extension of Close-out Period Upon the written request of the grantee, the Institute may extend the close-out period to assure completion of the Grantee's close-out requirements. Requests for an extension must be submitted at least 14 days before the end of the close-out period and must explain why the extension is necessary and what steps will be taken to assure that all the grantee's responsibilities will be met by the end of the extension period. XII. Grant Adjustments All requests for program or budget adjustments requiring Institute approval must be submitted in a timely manner by the project director. All requests for changes from the approved application will be carefully reviewed for both consistency with this guideline and the enhancement of grant goals and objectives. A. Grant Adjustments Requiring Prior Written Approval There are several types of grant adjustments which require the prior written approval of the Institute. Examples of these adjustments include: 1. Budget revisions among direct cost categories which, individually or in the aggregate, exceed or are expected to exceed five percent of the approved original budget or the most recently approved revised budget. For the purposes of this section, the Institute will view budget revisions cumulatively. a. For package grants, reallocations among budget categories of an individual project within the package that total less than five percent of the approved budget for that project do not require a grant adjustment. However, transfers of funds between projects included in the package require prior, written approval by the Institute. b. For continuation and on-going support grants, funds from the original award may be used during the renewal grant period and funds awarded by a continuation or on-going support grant may be used to cover project-related expenditures incurred during the original award period, with the prior, written approval of the Institute. 2. A change in the scope of work to be performed or the objectives of the project (see section XII.D.). 3. A change in the project site. 4. A change in the project period, such as an extension of the grant period and/or extension of the final financial or progress report deadline (see section XII.E.). 5. Satisfaction of special conditions, if required. 6. A change in or temporary absence of the project director (see sections XII.F. and G.).
