FR940912-0-00067 FR940912-0-00013 (e) Distributing the Federal Register for official use within the Department of the Navy. §701.62 Scope and applicability. This subpart prescribes actions to be executed by, or at the direction of, Navy Department [as defined in §700.104(c) of this chapter] components and specified headquarters activities for apprising members of the public of Department of the Navy regulations, policies, substantive and procedural rules, and decisions which may affect them, and for enabling members of the public to participate in Department of the Navy rulemaking processes in matters of substantial and direct concern to the public. This subpart complements subpart A, which implements Navy-wide requirements for furnishing documents to members of the public upon request. That a document may be published or indexed and made available for public inspection and copying under this instruction does not affect the possible requirement under subpart A for producing it for examination, or furnishing a copy, in response to a request made under that subpart. §701.63 Policy. In accordance with the spirit and intent of 5 U.S.C. 552, the public has the right to the maximum information concerning the organization and functions of the Department of the Navy. This includes information on the policies and the substantive and procedural rules used by the Department of the Navy in its dealings with the public. In accordance with Department of Defense policy described in 32 CFR part 336, 40 FR 4911, moreover, the public is encouraged to participate in Department of the Navy rulemaking when the proposed rule would substantially and directly affect the public. §701.64 Publication of adopted regulatory documents for the guidance of the public. (a) Classes of documents to be published. Subject to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552(b) which exempt specified matters from requirements for release to the public [see subpart B of this part], the classes of Department of the Navy documents required to be published on a current basis in the Federal Register are listed below. (1) Naval organization and points of contact _descriptions of the central and field organization of the Department of the Navy and the locations at which, the members or employees from whom, and the methods whereby, the public may obtain information, make submittals or requests, or obtain decisions; (2) Methods and procedures for business with the public _statements of the general course and methods by which Department of the Navy functions affecting members of the public are channeled and determined, including the nature and requirements of all formal and informal procedures available; (3) Procedural rules and forms _rules of procedure for functions affecting members of the public, descriptions of forms available or the places at which forms may be obtained, and instructions as to the scope and contents of all papers, reports, or examinations required to be submitted under such rules of procedures; and (4) Substantive rules and policies _substantive rules of general applicability adopted as authorized by law, and statements of general policy or interpretations of general applicability formulated and adopted by the Department of the Navy. Such rules are commonly contained in directives, manuals, and memorandums. (i) ``General applicability'' defined. The definition prescribed in 1 CFR 1.1 pertains to the classes of documents contemplated in §701.64(b)(4). (ii) Internal personnel rules and internal practices. In addition to the other exemptions listed in 5 U.S.C. 552(b) and subpart B of this part, particular attention is directed to the exemption pertaining to internal personnel rules and internal practices. (iii) Local regulations. It is unnecessary to publish in the Federal Register a regulation which is essentially local in scope or application, such as a directive issued by a base commander in the implementation of his responsiblity and authority under subpart G of part 700 of this title for guarding the security of the installation or controlling the access and conduct of visitors or tradesmen. However, such publication may be authorized under extraordinary circumstances, as determined by the Chief of Naval Operations or the Commandant of the Marine Corps, as appropriate, with the concurrence of the Judge Advocate General.
