FR940505-1-00492 FR940505-1-00012 (ii) Is not specifically limited by a permit condition; or (iii) Results in an increase, a decrease, or no change in emissions which are not subject to an emissions limitation. (2) For a stationary source: (i) Is a modification of its emissions unit; or (ii) Is an addition of any new emissions unit. The following shall not be considered a modification: a change in ownership; routine maintenance and repair; a reconstructed stationary source or emissions unit which shall be treated as a new stationary source or emissions unit, not as a modification; and the addition of a continuous emission monitoring system. Mountain Counties air basin means (as established pursuant to Section 39606 of the Health and Safety Code of the State of California and as described in Title 17, California Code of Regulations, section 60111 [i]), all of Placer County except that portion included in the Lake Tahoe Air Basin, defined by 17 CCR 60113(b), and that portion included in the Sacramento Valley Air Basin, defined by 17 CCR 60106(k). Non-permitted emissions means those emissions of an regulated pollutant which are not required to obtain a permit pursuant to this section. Non-permitted emissions may include emissions from mobile sources, indirect sources, and exempt equipment. Nonattainment pollutant means any pollutant and its precursors that have been designated ``nonattainment'' by the EPA in the Federal Register . Offset means the use of an emission reduction credit to compensate for an emission increase of an regulated pollutant from a new or modified source subject to the requirements of §52.3001, New Source Review. Permanent means only permanent reductions in emissions can be authorized as emission reduction credit. For stationary sources, permanence shall be assured for sources subject to federal requirements through federally enforceable changes in source permits. PM 10 means particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter smaller than or equal to a nominal 10 microns as measured by an applicable reference test method or methods found acceptable by the EPA. Portable equipment means equipment which is periodically relocated and is not operated more than a total of 180 days at any one location in the district within any continuous 12-month period. Potential to emit means the maximum daily physical and operational design capacity to emit an air pollutant during each calendar quarter. Any limitation on the physical or operational design capacity, including emission control devices and restrictions on hours of operation, or on the type or amount of material combusted, stored, or processed, may be considered as part of the design only if the limitation, or the effect it would have on emissions, is incorporated into the Authority to Construct as an enforceable permit condition as daily emissions limitations. Fugitive emissions associated with the emissions unit or stationary source shall be included in the potential to emit of the emissions unit or stationary source. Precursor means a pollutant that, when emitted into the atmosphere, may undergo either a chemical or physical change which then produces another pollutant for which an ambient air quality standard has been adopted, or whose presence in the atmosphere will contribute to the violation of one or more ambient air quality standards. The following precursor-secondary air contaminant relationships shall be used for the purposes of this section, §52.3001 and §52.3002: ␣ 1Precursor 1Secondary air contaminant Reactive organic compound (1) Photochemical oxidants (ozone). (2) Organic fraction of PM 10 . Nitrogen oxides (1) Nitrogen dioxide. (2) Nitrate fraction of PM 10 . (3) Photochemical oxidants (ozone).
