FR940407-0-00041 FR940407-0-00007 33 CFR Part 100 [CGD07&hyph;94&hyph;033] Special Local Regulations: Key West Super Boat Race AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Temporary final rule. SUMMARY: Special local regulations are being adopted for the Key West Super Boat Race sponsored by Super Boat Racing, Inc. This event will be held on April 9, 1994, between 1 p.m. and 4 p.m. EST (Eastern Standard Time). The regulations are needed to provide for the safety of life on navigable waters during the event. EFFECTIVE DATES: These regulations become effective at 1 p.m. and terminate at 4 p.m. on April 9, 1994. If inclement weather causes postponement of this event, these regulations become effective at 1 p.m. and terminate at 4 p.m. on April 11, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: QMC Coyne, project officer, USCG Group Key West, (305) 292&hyph;8727. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553, a notice of proposed rulemaking has not been published for these regulations and good cause exists for making them effective in less than 30 days from the date of publication. Following normal rulemaking procedures would have been impracticable. Updated information regarding the date and time of the event was not received until February and March 1993, respectively, and there was not sufficient time remaining to publish proposed rules in advance of the event or to provide for a delayed effective date. Drafting Information The drafters of this regulation are QMC K.T. Coyne, project officer, USCG Group Key West, and LT J.M. Losego, project attorney, Seventh Coast District Legal Office. Discussion of Regulations Approximately 30 to 40 power boats are expected to participate in the Key West Super Boat Race, with 100 spectator craft expected. The power boats will be competing at high speeds and operating in close proximity to each other and to spectator craft, creating an extra or unusual hazard in the navigable waters. Federalism This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that the rulemaking does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Environmental Assessment The Coast Guard has considered the environmental impact of this proposal consistent with section 2.B.2.08 of Commandant Instruction M16475.1B, and this proposal has been determined to be categorically excluded. Specifically, the Coast Guard has consulted with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries Service regarding the environmental impact of this event, and it was determined that the event does not jeopardize the continued existence of protected species. As a condition to this permit the applicant is required to educate the operators of spectator craft and parade participants regarding the possible presence of manatees and the appropriate precautions to take if the animals are sighted.
