FR940110-2-00085 FR940110-2-00069 The Part 1 investigation was performed by subcontractor Smit Tak BV, based in Rotterdam. Captain Jan ter Haar, a senior Smit Tak salvage master, conducted interviews and observed normal operations and emergency drills in the Valdez area. Captain ter Haar feels that, with some changes such as improved bow fendering, the existing escort/response vessels (ERVs) are adequate to control a ship's heading in the event of a steering failure and to tow it in the event of loss of propulsive power. He reserves any final opinion on the number of such vessels required to control an incident, in relation to the size of tanker and the weather conditions, to the results of simulations in Part 2. All tankers calling at Valdez are required to carry specific emergency towing gear for rapid deployment and connection to a rescue tug. This ``Prince William Sound Emergency Towing Package'' is stowed and deployed differently on various vessels. Captain ter Haar recommends that all vessels adopt systems that can be readied for deployment in 15 minutes or less by a crew of two without using winch power. Captain ter Haar demonstrated in drills several effective alternative methods of making towing connections with the tugs' own gear, without deploying the ship's Prince William Sound Towing Package. Drills were also used to assess crew skills in towing large tankers in adverse weather with multiple tugs. He concludes that additional drills and training, both in the makeup and towing operations, would be beneficial. With regard to escort vessel operations, Captain ter Haar recommends that, in the Valdez Narrows area, escort position should be in close proximity to tankers for faster response to a steering failure. However, in the more open waters of Prince William Sound, where a power or steering failure will not result in immediate peril of grounding, close escort does not increase the level of safety of the system. Escort vessels strategically positioned at key locations would appear to provide the same level of protection. This deployment issue will be analyzed more thoroughly in Part 2. Captain ter Haar concludes that the vessels presently under contract are suitable for rescue towing in Prince William Sound under a full range of weather conditions. In the open waters of the Gulf of Alaska, at and beyond Hinchinbrook Entrance, he concludes that a larger salvage tug would improve the capability to prevent a major casualty.'' Anticipated Course of Action The second phase of the DTTS (tanker/tug maneuvering trials and computer simulation analyses) is currently underway. The Coast Guard has been informed that the technical data collection should be completed by January, 1994, and that Part 2 of the study will be released by spring, 1994. In the meantime, the Coast Guard is now reviewing all public comments and studying various technical submittals, including Part 1 of the DTTS. Because the Federal regulations that it ultimately proposes as a result of this review will probably differ from those proposed in the NPRM, the Coast Guard plans to issue a Supplementary Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (SNPRM). The Coast Guard anticipates issuing the SNPRM after Part 2 of the study has been reviewed and analyzed. Dated: January 4, 1994. W. J. Ecker, Rear Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, Chief, Office of Navigation Safety and Waterway Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;487 Filed 1&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;14&hyph;M
