FR941021-0-00114 FR941021-0-00020 Project period means the period established in the award document during which DOE sponsorship begins and ends. Property means, unless otherwise stated, real property, equipment, intangible property and debt instruments. Real property means land, including land improvements, structures and appurtenances thereto, but excludes movable machinery and equipment. Recipient means an organization receiving financial assistance directly from DOE to carry out a project or program. The term includes public and private institutions of higher education, public and private hospitals, and other quasi-public and private non-profit organizations such as, but not limited to, community action agencies, research institutes, educational associations, and health centers. The term shall include commercial organizations which are recipients, subrecipients, or contractors or subcontractors of recipients or subrecipients. The term does not include government-owned contractor-operated facilities or research centers providing continued support for mission-oriented, large-scale programs that are government-owned or controlled, or are designated as federally-funded research and development centers. Research and development means all research activities, both basic and applied, and all development activities that are supported at universities, colleges, and other non-profit institutions. ``Research'' is defined as a systematic study directed toward fuller scientific knowledge or understanding of the subject studied. ``Development'' is the systematic use of knowledge and understanding gained from research directed toward the production of useful materials, devices, systems, or methods, including design and development of prototypes and processes. The term research also includes activities involving the training of individuals in research techniques where such activities utilize the same facilities as other research and development activities and where such activities are not included in the instruction function. Small award means a grant or cooperative agreement not exceeding the small purchase threshold fixed at 41 U.S.C. 403(11) (currently $25,000). Subaward means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, made under an award by a recipient to an eligible subrecipient or by a subrecipient to a lower tier subrecipient. The term includes financial assistance when provided by any legal agreement, even if the agreement is called a contract, but does not include procurement of goods and services nor does it include any form of assistance which is excluded from the definition of ``award'' above. Subrecipient means the legal entity to which a subaward is made and which is accountable to the recipient for the use of the funds provided. The term may include foreign or international organizations (such as agencies of the United Nations). Supplies means all personal property excluding equipment, intangible property, and debt instruments as defined in this section, and inventions of a contractor conceived or first actually reduced to practice in the performance of work under a funding agreement (``subject inventions''), as defined in 37 CFR Part 401, ``Rights to Inventions Made by Nonprofit Organizations and Small Business Firms Under Government Grants, Contracts, and Cooperative Agreements.'' Suspension means an action by DOE that temporarily withdraws DOE sponsorship under an award, pending corrective action by the recipient or pending a decision to terminate the award by the DOE. Suspension of an award is a separate action from suspension under DOE regulations implementing E.O.'s 12549 and 12689, ``Debarment and Suspension'' (see 10 CFR Part 1036).
