FR941027-0-00006 FR941027-0-00002 Another recommendation was to assign bonus points to areas ``nominated'' by State and local governments for designation as Rural Empowerment Zones or Rural Enterprise Communities as well as those areas primarily designated by USDA as Rural Empowerment Zones or Rural Enterprise Communities. It was suggested that these communities be rewarded for the development of the plans and partnerships required by the nominating process and receive a portion of the points they would have received if actually designated as Rural Empowerment Zones or Rural Enterprise Communities. REA recognizes that community strategic planning is a key component of the Empowerment initiative, however, this additional planning aspect will directly benefit the communities in other ways such as allowing them to realize and unlock their own potential to partnership with the private sector and other federal and state entities. The strategic planning process also improves the applicant's overall REDLGP application which should be reflected under the normal evaluation criteria. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 1703 Community development, Grant programs_housing and community development, Loan programs_housing and community development, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Rural areas. For the reasons set out in the preamble, chapter XVII of title 7 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 1703_RURAL DEVELOPMENT 1. The authority citation for 7 CFR part 1703 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 901 et seq. and 950aaa et seq . Subpart B_Rural Economic Development Loan and Grant Program 2. In §1703.12 of this subpart B, the following definition is revised to read as follows: §1703.12 Definitions. * * * * * Rural economic development _job creation or preservation or community facilities improvement projects that clearly demonstrate significant benefits to rural areas. * * * * * 3. In §1703.17, paragraph (d) is added to read as follows: §1703.17 Uses of zero-interest loans and grants. * * * * * (d) Zero-interest loans and grants may be used for community antenna television systems or facilities. The borrower will document that such facilities provide a tangible economic benefit to the proposed service area in accordance with §1703.46 of this subpart. Notwithstanding this, the Administrator reserves the right to deny any proposal for community antenna television systems or facilities. Community antenna television systems or facilities will be considered for funding in accordance with §1703.46 of this subpart and this section only when all of the following conditions exist: (1) The proposed community antenna television system or facility is established in cooperation with a local educational and/or medical entity(ies) to provide educational and/or medical programming which addresses specific needs of rural residents; (2) Services to be provided by the proposed community antenna television systems or facilities are not available in the area to be served, or services are not being provided by the existing television programming carrier at an affordable cost to residents; and (3) Such community antenna systems or facilities will not present undue competition for existing television programming carriers in the area. 4. In §1703.20, paragraphs (a)(10) and (a)(11) are redesignated as paragraphs (a)(11) and (a)(12) and a new paragraph (a)(10) is added to read as follows: §1703.20 Ineligible uses of zero-interest loans and grants. (a) * * * (10) For community antenna television systems or facilities except as provided in §1703.17(d) of this subpart;
