FR940610-1-00069 FR940610-1-00008 (i) Any school food authority that was found by its most recent administrative review conducted in accordance with §210.18, to have no meal counting and claiming violations may: (A) Develop internal control procedures that ensure accurate meal counts. The school food authority shall submit any internal controls developed in accordance with this paragraph to the State agency for approval and, in the absence of specific disapproval from the State agency, shall implement such internal controls. The State agency shall establish procedures to promptly notify school food authorities of any modifications needed to their proposed internal controls or of denial of unacceptable submissions. If the State agency disapproves the proposed internal controls of any school food authority, it reserves the right to require the school food authority to comply with the provisions of paragraph (a)(3) of this section; or (B) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section. (ii) Any school food authority that was identified in the most recent administrative review conducted in accordance with §210.18, or in any other oversight activity, as having meal counting and claiming violations shall comply with the requirements in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. (3) Edit checks. (i) The following procedure shall be followed for school food authorities identified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, by other school food authorities at State agency option, or, at their own option, by school food authorities identified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section: The school food authority shall compare each school's daily counts of free, reduced price and paid lunches against the product of the number of children in that school currently eligible for free, reduced price and paid lunches, respectively, times an attendance factor. (ii) School food authorities that are identified in subsequent administrative reviews conducted in accordance with §210.18 as not having meal counting and claiming violations and that are correctly complying with the procedures in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section have the option of developing internal controls in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section. * * * * * §210.9 [Amended] 6. In §210.9: a. Paragraph (b)(5) is amended by adding the words ``or §210.10a, whichever is applicable'' at the end of the paragraph before the semicolon; b. Paragraph (c) introductory text is amended by removing the reference to ``§210.10(j)(1) of this part'' and adding in its place the reference ``§210.10a(j)(1)''; and c. Paragraph (c)(1) is amended by removing the reference to ``§210.10'' and adding in its place the reference ``§210.10a''. §210.10 [Redesignated as §210.10a] 7. Section 210.10 is redesignated as §210.10a. 8. A new section 210.10 is added to read as follows: §210.10 Nutrition standards for lunches and menu planning systems. (a) Nutrition standards for reimbursable lunches. School food authorities shall ensure that participating schools provide nutritious and well-balanced meals to children based on the nutrition standards provided in this section or, if applicable, for very young children and meal supplements, the appropriate provisions of §210.10a. For the purposes of this section, the nutrition standards are: (1) Provision of one-third of the Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDA) of protein, calcium, iron, vitamin A and vitamin C to the applicable age groups in accordance with the Minimum Nutrient Levels for School Lunches in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section; (2) Provision of the lunchtime energy allowances for children based on the four age groups provided for in the Minimum Nutrient Levels for School Lunches in paragraph (e)(4) of this section; (3) The applicable 1990 Dietary Guidelines for Americans which are: (i) Eat a variety of foods; (ii) Limit total fat to 30 percent of calories; (iii) Limit saturated fat to less than 10 percent of calories; (iv) Choose a diet low in cholesterol; (v) Choose a diet with plenty of vegetables, fruits, and grain products; and (vi) Use salt and sodium in moderation; and (4) The following measures of compliance with the 1990 Dietary Guidelines for Americans: (i) A limit on the percent of calories from total fat to 30 percent based on the actual number of calories offered; (ii) A limit on the percent of calories from saturated fat to less than 10 percent based on the actual number of calories offered; (iii) A reduction of the levels of sodium and cholesterol; and (iv) An increase in the level of dietary fiber. (b) General requirements for school lunches. (1) In order to qualify for reimbursement, lunches, as offered by participating schools, shall, at a minimum, meet the nutrition standards provided in paragraph (a) of this section when averaged over each school week. Except as otherwise provided herein, school food authorities shall ensure that sufficient quantities menu items and foods are planned and produced to meet, at a minimum, the nutrition standards in paragraph (a) of this section.
