FR940930-0-00159 FR940930-0-00028 Furthermore, EPA has decided not to pursue the proposed Credit Exchange Programs for Manufacturers of Heavy-Duty Clean-Fuel Fleet Vehicles. The programs appeared to be administratively burdensome with minimal economic and emission benefit, and there was no support expressed in the comments for these programs. v. Labeling. Section 86.095&hyph;35 of Part 86 requires that all heavy-duty vehicles and engines certified by EPA have a permanently affixed label indicating that this vehicle or engine meets all of the applicable requirements of Part 86. All heavy-duty LEVs, ULEVs, and ZEVs will be required to meet additional labeling requirements so the purchaser (e.g. fleet operator) knows the vehicle is a CFV and ``double counting'' of emissions benefits by the purchasers or manufacturers of CFVs is prevented as discussed above in the Averaging, Banking, and Trading section. Those clean-fuel vehicles and engines that are regulated under both Part 86 and Part 88 (e.g., gasoline-fueled vehicles, methanol-fueled vehicles) shall meet the standard labeling requirements of Part 86 with the addition of a statement that this vehicle or engine meets the applicable heavy-duty LEV, ULEV, or ZEV standards. However, certain clean-fuel vehicles (for instance electric vehicles) are regulated under Part 88 but have not yet been regulated under Part 86. For these clean-fuel vehicles not yet regulated under Part 86, the manufacturer shall affix a permanent label that indicates that the vehicle or engine meets the requirements of Part 88 for heavy-duty LEVs, ULEVs, or ZEVs, as applicable, but does not necessarily meet the requirements of Part 86. The reason for this requirement is to inform the consumer that the vehicle may be used by a fleet operator towards meeting the purchase requirements of the Clean Fuel Fleet program, but the vehicle is not eligible to be used in the averaging, trading, and banking program in Part 86. B. Conversions to Clean-Fuel Vehicles CAA section 247 states that fleet owners may meet clean-fuel fleet vehicle purchase requirements through the conversion of existing or new gasoline- or diesel-powered vehicles to clean-fuel vehicles. A converted CFV will thus be considered a new vehicle for the purposes of the Clean Fuel Fleet program, and so it will be eligible to meet CFF purchase requirements and to earn credits and TCM exemptions. For this purpose, a clean-fuel fleet vehicle (or engine) is one which meets the applicable CFV emission standards and other requirements as prescribed in CAA sections 242 through 245. 1. EPA's General Regulatory Approach for Conversions of Vehicles
