FR940722-1-00026 FR940722-1-00011 Friday July 22, 1994 Part II Department of Labor Office of the Secretary 29 CFR Part 15 Regulations Governing Administrative Claims Under the Federal Tort Claims Act and Related Statutes; Revision; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 140␣/␣Friday, July 22, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Office of the Secretary 29 CFR Part 15 RIN 1290&hyph;AA13 Revision of Regulations Governing Administrative Claims Under the Federal Tort Claims Act and Related Statutes agency: Department of Labor (DOL), Office of the Secretary. action: Proposed rule. summary: This document gives notice of the proposed revision of the DOL's regulations governing administrative claims submitted to DOL pursuant to the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA) and the Military Personnel and Civilian Employees' Claims Act (MPCECA), and for payment of claims arising out of the operation of the Job Corps. These regulations are being revised to reflect previous delegations of authority to the Counsel for Claims and to the Regional Solicitors and Associate Regional Solicitors to issue determinations on claims under the statutes covered by these regulations, to clarify the manner in which organizational units of the Department provide administrative assistance to the Office of the Solicitor in regard to claims and litigation under these statutes and to clarify and provide further examples of the manner in which MPCECA claims are submitted and determined. The regulations are also being amended to reflect a change in statutory authority for payment of claims arising out of operation of the Job Corps. dates: Written comments must be received by September 20, 1994. addresses: Written comments should be submitted, in triplicate, to Claims Unit, Division of Employee Benefits, Office of the Solicitor, U.S. Department of Labor, suite S4325, 200 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20210. for further information contact: Jeffrey L. Nesvet, Counsel for Claims, Division of Employee Benefits, Office of the Solicitor, U.S. Department of Labor, suite S4325, 200 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20210, (202) 219&hyph;4405. supplementary information: The Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA) surrenders the sovereign immunity of the United States for the negligent or wrongful act or omission of a Government employee acting within the scope of his or her employment. The Military Personnel and Civilian Employees' Claims Act (MPCECA) authorizes payment of claims of employees of the Government for loss of, or damage to, property incident to Government service. The Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA) authorizes payment of claims arising out of the operation of the Job Corps that are not cognizable under the FTCA. Part 15 of title 29 of the Code of Federal Regulations currently contains regulations implementing these three claims authorities. Subpart A of part 15 sets forth regulations for claims under the FTCA. It is being revised to reflect previous delegations of authority to the Counsel for Claims to issue determinations of claims seeking damages in amounts exceeding $25,000 and to the Regional Solicitors and Associate Regional Solicitors to issue determinations of claims that arose within their jurisdictions seeking damages in amounts up to $25,000. Subpart A is also being amended to provide that all FTCA claims for amounts up to $25,000 should be filed with the official duty station of the employee whose act or omission forms the basis of the claim. Subpart A is also being amended to clarify and provide specific directions concerning the manner in which organizational units of the Department provide assistance to the Office of the Solicitor in regard to FTCA claims and litigation. A number of non-substantive editorial changes are also being made to the language of these provisions. Subpart B of part 15 sets forth regulations for claims under the MPCECA. It is being revised to reflect previous delegations of authority to the Counsel for Claims and to the Regional Solicitors and Associate Regional Solicitors. It is also being revised to reflect an amendment to the MPCECA increasing the maximum amount payable on a claim. Subpart B is being amended to clarify the manner in which claims are submitted and calculated and to provide further illustrations of allowable claims and those not allowable under the MPCECA. Thus, provisions are being added clarifying that both filing of a claim and determination of a claim must be in writing and that a claim is not required to contain a demand for a specific sum of money. Each MPCECA claimant will be required to provide a statement from his or her immediate supervisor that possession of the property in question was reasonable, useful or proper and its loss or damage was incident to service. Additional examples of property for which reimbursement is not available are being added such as intangible property, real property and commercial property. A provision is also being added to recognize that claimants may be reimbursed for any sales tax incurred in connection with the repair of an item.
