FR940812-0-00068 FR940812-0-00019 §2541.250 Program income. (a) General . Grantees are encouraged to earn income to defray program costs. Program income includes income from fees for services performed, from the use or rental of real or personal property acquired with grant funds, from the sale of commodities or items fabricated under a grant agreement, and from payments of principal and interest on loans made with grant funds. Except as otherwise provided in regulations of the Federal agency, program income does not include interest on grant funds, rebates, credits, discounts, refunds, etc. and interest earned on any of them. (b) Definition of program income . Program income means gross income received by the grantee or subgrantee directly generated by a grant supported activity, or earned only as a result of the grant agreement during the grant period. ``During the grant period'' is the time between the effective date of the award and the ending date of the award reflected in the final financial report. (c) Cost of generating program income . If authorized by Federal regulations or the grant agreement, costs incident to the generation of program income may be deducted from gross income to determine program income. (d) Governmental revenues . Taxes, special assessments, levies, fines, and other such revenues raised by a grantee or subgrantee are not program income unless the revenues are specifically identified in the grant agreement or Federal agency regulations as program income. (e) Royalties . Income from royalties and license fees for copyrighted material, patents, and inventions developed by a grantee or subgrantee is program income only if the revenues are specifically identified in the grant agreement or Federal agency regulations as program income. (See §2541.340) (f) Property . Proceeds from the sale of real property or equipment will be handled in accordance with the requirements of §§2541.310 and 2541.320. (g) Use of program income . Program income shall be deducted from outlays which may be both Federal and non-Federal as described in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section, unless the Federal agency regulations or the grant agreement specify another alternative (or a combination of the alternatives). In specifying alternatives, the Federal agency may distinguish between income earned by the grantee and income earned by subgrantees and between the sources, kinds, or amounts of income. When Federal agencies authorize the alternatives in paragraphs (g) (2) and (3) of this section, program income in excess of any limits stipulated shall also be deducted from outlays. (1) Deduction . Ordinarily program income shall be deducted from total allowable costs to determine the net allowable costs. Program income shall be used for current costs unless the Federal agency authorizes otherwise. Program income which the grantee did not anticipate at the time of the award shall be used to reduce the Federal agency and grantee contributions rather than to increase the funds committed to the project. (2) Addition . When authorized, program income may be added to the funds committed to the grant agreement by the Federal agency and the grantee. The program income shall be used for the purposes and under the conditions of the grant agreement. (3) Cost sharing or matching . When authorized, program income may be used to meet the cost sharing or matching requirement of the grant agreement. The amount of the Federal grant award remains the same. (h) Income after the award period . There are no Federal requirements governing the disposition of program income earned after the end of the award period (i.e., until the ending date of the final financial report, see paragraph (a) of this section), unless the terms of the agreement or the Federal agency regulations provide otherwise. §2541.260 Non-Federal audit. (a) Basic rule . Grantees and subgrantees are responsible for obtaining audits in accordance with the Single Audit Act of 1984 (31 U.S.C.7501&hyph;7) and Federal agency implementing regulations. The audits shall be made by an independent auditor in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards covering financial and compliance audits.
