FR940318-2-00243 FR940318-2-00119 CECO's proposed acquisition of the common stock of Edison and the Indiana Company (``Acquisition'') is part of a corporate restructuring in which CECo will become a holding company over Edison. CECo states that the proposed restructuring is intended to permit Edison affiliates to engage in nonutility businesses in competition with other unregulated companies while protecting Edison and its ratepayers. CECo and its wholly owned subsidiary, CECo Merging Corporation (``Merging Corp.''), were incorporated under Illinois law for the purpose of carrying out the proposed restructuring. Neither CECo nor Merging Corp. owns any utility assets or engages in any business. Edison and the Indiana Company are ``electric utilities'' as defined in section 2(a)(3) of the Act and ``public utilities'' as defined in section 2(a)(5) of the Act. Applicant proposes to accomplish the Acquisition through a merger (``Merger'') of Edison and Merging Corp., with Edison as the surviving corporation. As a result of the Merger, the common stock of Merging Corp. owned by CECo would be converted into common stock of Edison; the outstanding common stock of Edison would be converted, on a share-for-share basis, into common stock of CECo; and Edison would become a subsidiary of CECo. CECo proposes that there will be no exchange of, or any change to, the outstanding preferred and preference stock, warrants and debt of Edison in connection with the restructuring. Following the restructuring Edison preferred stock and warrants will continue to be convertible into shares of Edison common stock, creating a possible minority interest in Edison common stock. CECo states that following the consummation of the Merger, it will be a public-utility holding company entitled to an exemption under section 3(a)(1) of the Act from all of the provisions of the Act, except for section 9(a)(2), because it and each of its public utility subsidiaries from which it derives a material part of its income will be predominantly intrastate in character and will carry on their businesses substantially within the State of Illinois. CECo states that Indiana Company will not provide it with a material part of its income. Following the Acquisition, Edison will remain a holding company exempt from registration under section 3(a)(1.). For the year ended December 31, 1992, Indiana Company represented approximately 1.2% of Edison's consolidated operating revenues, 1.0% of consolidated net income, 0.4% of consolidated net utility plant, and 0.6% of consolidated total assets. Edison also has six wholly owned non-utility subsidiaries. All but one, CECo Enterprises, Inc. (``CECo Enterprises''), will remain Edison subsidiaries subsequent to the Acquisition. CECo Enterprises was recently established by Edison to provide, through subsidiaries, unregulated energy-related services to Edison's customers and others. Following the Acquisition, Edison will transfer the stock of CECo Enterprises to CECo.
