FR940426-2-00117 FR940426-2-00075 A Category A pension fund may receive an initial set-aside of not more than $50 million. A Category A fund is any pension fund that identifies and documents in its application the presence of a pipeline of projects for which project-specific proposals sufficient to use the total amount of the set-aside requested by it can be submitted to HUD within 120 days after HUD selects the fund for participation in the demonstration. A Category B fund is any pension fund that does not make such identifications or documentations. A Category B fund may receive an initial set-aside of not more than $10 million. The Department may not initially provide (or make a commitment to provide) more than 50 percent of the funding for housing financed by any single pension fund, except that this limitation shall cease to apply if the Secretary, after the end of the 6-month period beginning on the date of this NOFA determines that: (1) There are no expressions of interest that are likely to result in approvable applications in the reasonably foreseeable future; or (2) any such expressions of interest are not likely to use all funding under this section. If, after the required six month period, it is determined that, given the extent of expressions of interest in this demonstration, it does not appear likely that all of the $100 million in budget authority will be used (and the Department so informs the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate) the Department then may reserve funding for, and consider an application from, a pension fund requesting an award for amounts in excess of $50 million. The Department may not enter into any new funding commitments under this program after September 30, 1998. (C) Eligible Applicants Any applicant for participation in this program must demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Department that: (1) It is a trust, fund, plan or other program established or maintained by an employer or other person for the purpose of providing income or benefits to employees after the termination of employment or deferring income by employees until the termination of employment; (2) it is an entity that engages principally in the investment of the funds of such a trust, fund, plan, or other program; or (3) it is a partnership or organization established to invest pension funds in affordable multifamily housing. The applicant must have adequate staff capacity to perform the functions required under this demonstration or it may contract or enter into a partnership for such services so long as the applicant is responsible for overall program administration and decisions. (D) Pension Fund Applications 1. All applications from pension funds must contain information as to the number of projects and units expected to be financed, the number and percent in each project expected to receive Section 8 assistance, contract terms anticipated, anticipated initial contract rents, total Section 8 budget authority requested, the number of units to be newly constructed and the number to be substantially rehabilitated; types of families (elderly, large, disabled, displaced, homeless or families/individuals with special needs) and number of each expected to assisted. 2. All applications must contain information sufficient for HUD to evaluate the applicant on the basis of the Pension Fund Selection Criteria set forth in Subpart (E) below. (E) Pension Fund Selection Criteria All applications for participation in the demonstration will be evaluated on the basis of the following criteria. Applicants should refer to HUD Notice 94&hyph;19 for details as to the supporting information required for each criterion. Applications must contain sufficient supporting information, in narrative and/or numerical form, as appropriate, to enable HUD to evaluate the applicants: 1. Past involvement in and capacity to finance multifamily housing; 2. Capability to make overall program and mortgage finance decisions;
