FR940613-2-00119 FR940613-2-00076 •$5,000&hyph;10,000_14.8%; •$10,000&hyph;25,000_7.1%; and •Over $25,000_13.8%. Thus, almost 20% of all vacancies in these high-vacancy PHAs could be remedied for a cost of $10,000 or less per unit, plus the cost of any lead-based paint activity, essential management improvements, Section 504 (of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973) rehabilitation, or other essential costs. The Department seeks maximum efficiency in the use of Vacancy Reduction Program funds. To this end, the Department met with public housing interest groups and resident representatives on January 28 and July 9, 1993, to discuss the needs of public housing that might be met by this program. As a result, the Department has decided to focus this NOFA on units that can be rehabilitated for occupancy at a modest cost, and on units with more expensive rehabilitation costs where the PHA has the ability and agrees to provide the remainder of the funding necessary to prepare the property for occupancy. In this way, the Department hopes to house the optimal number of additional families using the available program funds. The survey has enabled the Department to proceed with vacancy assessments (see 24 CFR 968.410 in the final rule published elsewhere in today's Federal Register and the preamble of the proposed rule, published at 58 FR 29728) for those PHAs that responded to the survey and indicated an inventory of unfunded vacant units. Other PHAs that did not receive a survey form or did not respond to the survey, but that believe they are eligible under this NOFA and wish to apply for funding, must notify the Department so that an assessment can be scheduled as indicated under DATES, at the beginning of this NOFA. The Vacancy Reduction Program is not designed to focus solely on the rehabilitation of vacant units; the program also is intended to identify and correct site and management deficiencies as necessary to achieve and sustain occupancy of vacant units. Management problems in some of the high-vacancy PHAs also may be responsible for vacancies. These problems may include high turnover, poor maintenance and security, delays in making units ready for occupancy after they are vacated, delays in placing tenants in units as soon as they are ready, or inability to deal with marketability problems that could be addressed successfully. Therefore, management improvements that are necessary for a PHA to achieve and maintain a high level of occupancy and to manage turnover successfully also will be funded under this NOFA. The vacancy assessments will assist the PHAs and HUD in identifying what actions need to be taken in this regard. Some PHAs may have difficulty preparing an application, including a vacancy reduction plan. The Department will, on request by the PHA, assist the PHA in preparation of the plan. Such assistance may be requested by telephoning Strategic Resources, Inc. (703) 749&hyph;3040. Moreover, if an application submitted in response to this NOFA is technically approvable under the NOFA, but is deemed by HUD to need improvement or supplementation in specific areas of the PHA's plan to increase the potential for success, HUD will require changes in the plan before execution of the amendment of the Annual Contributions Contract (ACC). D. Definitions The following definitions apply to this NOFA, in addition to the definitions that apply generally to the program under §968.405 of the final rule published elsewhere in today's Federal Register : Assistant Secretary means the Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing. Eligible unit means a dwelling unit that satisfies the conditions under either paragraph (1) or paragraph (2) of this definition, as applicable. The unit must be either: (1) A vacant unit that meets the characteristics of both of the following paragraphs (1) (a) and (b): (a) The cost of rehabilitation necessary to make the unit available for occupancy and marketable (including development-wide physical improvements and other necessary costs, but not including costs of lead-based paint activity, costs for accessibility for those with disabilities, and management improvement funding) is either: (i) $8,000 or less, when averaged with other vacant units in the development for which the PHA is applying for this category of funding (i.e., average of not more than $8,000 per unit); or (ii) More than $8,000, when averaged with other vacant units in the development for which the PHA is applying for this category of funding (i.e., average of more than $8,000 per unit), and the PHA has available funding that it agrees to use to pay the costs in excess of $8,000 per unit. ``Available funding'' includes funds legally available to the PHA by September 30, 1994; and (b) The unit will be marketable when it has been made ready for occupancy. Units that cannot be made marketable, for any reason, are not eligible to be funded under this NOFA, and funds should not be requested for them in the application. Such units, however, must be included in the vacancy reduction plan; or (2) An occupied unit, if either: (a) The unit meets the criteria of paragraphs (1)(a)(i) or (ii) and paragraph (1)(b) of this definition, and either: (i) In order to address the overall vacancy situation at a PHA, it is necessary to move a resident family to another unit. The unit vacated by that family may then be considered an eligible unit. For example, if a PHA has vacant one-bedroom units for which there is no demand, but also has overhoused families that could be transferred to the one-bedroom units (thus freeing up larger units for which there is a demand), the PHA could request funding under this NOFA for both units; or (ii) The unit is expected to be vacated under the Moving to Opportunities Program; or
