FR940810-0-00258 FR940810-0-00021 6. Advise the test subject that the smoke can be irritating to the eyes and instruct the subject to keep the eyes closed while the test is performed. 7. The test conductor shall direct the stream of irritant smoke from the tube towards the faceseal area of the test subject. The person conducting the test shall begin with the tube at least 12 inches from the facepiece and gradually move to within one inch, moving around the whole perimeter of the mask. 8. The test subject shall be instructed to do the following exercises while the respirator is being challenged by the smoke. Each exercise shall be performed for one minute. i. Breathe normally. ii. Breathe deeply. Be certain breaths are deep and regular . iii. Turn head all the way from one side to the other. Be certain movement is complete. Inhale on each side. Do not bump the respirator against the shoulders. iv. Nod head up-and-down. Be certain motions are complete and made every second. Inhale when head is in the full up position (looking toward ceiling). Do not bump the respirator against the chest. v. Talking. Talk aloud and slowly for several minutes. The following paragraph is called the Rainbow Passage. Reading it will result in a wide range of facial movements, and thus be useful to satisfy this requirement. Alternative passages which serve the same purpose may also be used. Rainbow Passage When the sunlight strikes raindrops in the air, they act like a prism and form a rainbow. The rainbow is a division of white light into many beautiful colors. These take the shape of a long round arch, with its path high above, and its two end apparently beyond the horizon. There is, according to legend, a boiling pot of gold at one end. People look, but no one ever finds it. When a man looks for something beyond his reach, his friends say he is looking for the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow. vi. Jogging in Place. vii. Breathe normally. 9. The test subject shall indicate to the test conductor if the irritant smoke is detected. If smoke is detected, the test conductor shall stop the test. In this case, the tested respirator is rejected and another respirator shall be selected. 10. Each test subject passing the smoke test (i.e. without detecting the smoke) shall be given a sensitivity check of smoke from the same tube to determine if the test subject reacts to the smoke. Failure to evoke a response shall void the fit test. 11. Steps B4, B9, B10 of this fit test protocol shall be performed in a location with exhaust ventilation sufficient to prevent general contamination of the testing area by the test agents. 12. At least two facepieces shall be selected by the IAA test protocol. The test subject shall be given the opportunity to wear them for one week to choose the one which is more comfortable to wear. 13. Respirators successfully tested by the protocol may be used in contaminated atmospheres up to ten times the PEL of asbestos. 14. The test shall not be conducted if there is any hair growth between the skin and the facepiece sealing surface. 15. If hair growth or apparel interfere with a satisfactory fit, then they shall be altered or removed so as to eliminate interference and allow a satisfactory fit. If a satisfactory fit is still not attained, the test subject must use a positive-pressure respirator such as powered air-purifying respirators, supplied air respirator, or self-contained breathing apparatus. 16. If a test subject exhibits difficulty in breathing during the tests, she or he shall be referred to a physician trained in respirator diseases or pulmonary medicine to determine whether the test subject can wear a respirator while performing her or his duties. 17. Qualitative fit testing shall be repeated at least every six months. 18. In addition, because the sealing of the respirator may be affected, qualitative fit testing shall be repeated immediately when the test subject has a: (1) Weight change of 20 pounds or more, (2) Significant facial scarring in the area of the facepiece seal, (3) Significant dental changes; i.e.; multiple extractions without prothesis, or acquiring dentures, (4) Reconstructive or cosmetic surgery, or (5) Any other condition that may interfere with facepiece sealing. D. Recordkeeping. A summary of all test results shall be maintained in each office for 3 years. The summary shall include: (1) Name of test subject (2) Date of testing. (3) Name of test conductor. (4) Respirators selected (indicate manufacturer, model, size and approval number). (5) Testing agent Quantitative Fit Test Procedures 1. General a. The method applies to the negative-pressure non-powered air-purifying respirators only. b. The employer shall assign one individual who shall assume the full responsibility for implementing the respirator quantitative fit test program. 2. Definition
