FR940105-2-00117 FR940105-2-00055 The creation of the summary annual reports in the U.K. was prompted by two objectives: Potential cost savings to the company and the ability to provide a more easily read document to retail holders. The effort has been deemed successful in the U.K. since a majority of shareholders now receive the summary reports. The Exchange is proposing that the NYSE annual report requirements be modified to allow holders of NYSE-listed non-U.S. securities to receive summary annual reports if (i) this is the practice in the home country and (ii) certain conditions are met. Specifically, issuers proposing to provide summary annual reports to ADR holders would be required to: (a) provide ADR holders with an ongoing option to (1) Receive the full annual report on demand, and (2) Annually change their election (as in the U.K., U.S. ADR holders would initially receive both reports and notice of the available option with respect to future reports); (b) Follow the specific dictates of home country law or business practice with respect to the data presented; (c) Include a U.S. GAAP reconciliation to the extent that such reconciliation would be required in the full annual report. This proposal would be consistent with the Exchange's policies for non-U.S. companies which effectively allow these companies to follow home country practice in such areas as interim reporting and corporate governance. In addition, we believe the modification to policy would be consistent with the SEC's posture toward non-U.S. companies of being accommodating without compromising disclosure. 2. Statutory Basis The basis under the Act for this proposed rule change is the requirement under section 6(b)(5) that an exchange have rules that are designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in securities, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The proposed rule change does not impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others The Exchange has not solicited, and does not intend to solicit, comments on this proposed rule change. The Exchange has not received any unsolicited written comments from members or other interested parties. However, the Exchange adopted this proposed rule change, in part, in response to a petition from eight listed U.K. companies requesting that the exchange allow them to use summary annual reports. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NYSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;93&hyph;47 and should be submitted by January 26, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;144 Filed 1&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
