FR940616-2-00124 FR940616-2-00090 Program Exclusions 1. Projects should be artistic, intellectual, and cultural, not technical. Vocational and technical training projects are ineligible for support. 2. Scholarship programs or proposals for long-term academic study or training are ineligible for support. 3. Speaking tours, conferences or seminars, research projects, research for project development purposes, youth or youth-related activities (participants' age under 25), publications, student and/or faculty exchanges, or projects for the exchange of amateurs or semi-professionals are all ineligible. 4. Arts America does not accept proposals to support performing arts productions or tours, film or video festivals, film/video installations, full-scale film production or distribution, international arts competitions, community-level arts presentations or festivals for general audiences, visual arts exhibits, museum projects except for those under the AAM/IPAM program [see above], or projects in the fields of historical and cultural conservation and preservation. 5. USIA is a major supporter of Sister Cities International and Partners of the Americas. It has agreed to fund administrative expenses of these organizations' national offices, but will not fund projects arising from sister city and partner state relationships once they are established. Budgetary Requirements 1. There must be minimum of 33% cost sharing of the project cost. Cost sharing may be in the form of allowable direct or indirect costs. The recipient must maintain written records to support all allowable costs which are claimed to be its contribution to cost participation, as well as costs to be paid by the Federal Government. Such records are subject to audit. The basis for determining the value of cash and in-kind contributions must be in accordance with OMB Circular A&hyph;110, Attachment E_Cost Sharing and Matching_and should be described in the proposal. In the event the recipient does not provide a minimum of 33% cost sharing following the award, the Agency's contribution will be reduced in proportion to the recipient's contribution. 2. Administrative costs must be no more than 20% of the total amount requested from USIA. 3. Awards are limited to $200,000. We will consider requests for $100,000 or more only for projects that are internationally regional, multi-regional or worldwide in scope. Awards are limited to $60,000 for organizations with less than four years' experience in conducting international exchange programs. 4. Allowable costs are those defined in the application package, which is available upon request. 5. To calculate the costs per participant, divide the project total by the number of participants who will be funded under the terms of the award. Definition of Administrative Costs Administrative costs are defined as salaries, benefits and other direct and indirect costs incurred. Important note for universities: The U.S. Information Agency defines American faculty salaries as an administrative expense, regardless of how the faculty time is to be used. Review Process USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines in the application package. Eligible proposals will be forwarded to panels of USIA officers for advisory review. All eligible proposals will also be reviewed by the appropriate USIA geographic area officers, and budget and contract offices. Proposals may also be reviewed by the Agency's General Counsel. Review criteria are listed in the application package, which is available upon request. Funding decisions are at the discretion of USIA's Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for awards resides with USIA's contracting officer. Review Criteria Proposals are reviewed for adherence to legal and budgetary requirements by USIA offices responsible for these functions and for artistic/organizational rigor, program content and cost-effectiveness. Technically eligible applications will be competitively reviewed according to the following criteria:
