FR940126-2-00103 FR940126-2-00055 Are There Risks With DTP? The DTP vaccine is the best way to protect your child against these 3 serious diseases. But there are risks with any medicine, including vaccines. There is a very small chance that serious problems, even death, could occur after getting vaccines. The risk from the vaccine is much smaller than the risk from the diseases. About half the children who get DTP will not have any problems at all. Some will have minor problems like: soreness, redness, or swelling where the shot is given; fever; fussiness; drowsiness; less appetite. Rarely, after DTP such problems have been noted as: crying non-stop for 3 hours or more; fever of 105 ○F or higher; seizures (usually caused by fever); collapse or fainting. None of these problems is known to cause any lasting harm, but they are scary. Very rarely, DTP causes long seizures, decreased consciousness, or coma that does not last. Also very rarely, DT, Td, and the diphtheria-tetanus part of DTP and DTaP cause severe allergic problems or Guillain-Barré Syndrome (sudden weakness and numbness that may go on to paralysis). Lasting brain damage after DTP has not been proven. If DTP ever causes lasting brain damage, it is very rare. DTaP causes fewer of the minor problems than DTP does. Experts do not know if the rare serious problems reported after DTP happen less often after DTaP. If a serious or unusual problem occurs after getting any vaccine, call a doctor or get the person to a doctor right away. What is the Injury Compensation Program? The National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program is a U.S. government program that gives compensation (payment) for some persons thought to be injured by vaccines. For facts about this program, call this toll-free number: 1&hyph;800&hyph;338&hyph;2382. If you believe that the person getting the vaccine had a serious problem because of the vaccine, tell the doctor/nurse or health department. Ask him or her to report the problem on a Vaccine Adverse Event Report form. If you want to report it yourself, you can get the form by calling this toll-free number: 1&hyph;800&hyph;822&hyph;7967. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention DTP 00/00/94 (Proposed) 42 U.S.C. 300aa&hyph;26
