FR940511-2-00200 FR940511-2-00128 (D) Cultural and recreational activities, such as ethnic heritage classes, and art, dance, drama and music appreciation and instruction programs are eligible Youth Sports Program activities. (E) Youth leadership skills training for program participants is permitted under this program. These activities must provide opportunities designed to involve public and Indian housing youth in peer leadership roles in the implementation of program activities, for example, as team or activity captains, counselors to younger program participants, assistant coaches, and equipment or supplies managers. Grantees may contract with youth trainers to provide services which may include training in peer pressure reversal, resistance or refusal skills, goal planning, parenting skills, and other relevant topics. (F) Transportation costs directly related to Youth Sports activities (for example, leasing a vehicle to transport a Youth Sports team to a game) are eligible program expenses. (G) The purchase of vehicles under this program is prohibited. (H) Liability insurance costs directly related to Youth Sports activities are eligible program expenses. (3) Threshold Requirements for Funding Every activity proposed for funding under the Youth Sports Program must satisfy each of the following requirements or it will not be considered for funding: (i) The activity must be operated as, in conjunction with, or in furtherance of, an organized program or plan designed to eliminate drugs and drug-related problems in the public or Indian housing development or developments for which the activity is proposed. (See, section III.(a)(7), below, of this NOFA.) (ii) The activity for which funding is sought must be conducted with respect to public or Indian housing sites that HUD determines have a substantial problem regarding the use or sale of illegal drugs. (A) The determination required in paragraph (ii) will be made on the basis of information submitted in the applicant's plan as described below in ``Checklist of Application Submission Requirements,'' section III.(a)(7). (iii) The activities or facilities funded by Youth Sports grants must serve primarily youth from the public or Indian housing developments for which the activities or facilities are operated. (See, section III.(a)(10), below.) (iv) Applicants must provide a workplan detailing a timeline for the implementation of activities and a budget for the activity or activities for which funding is sought, as required by sections III.(a) (4) and (5), below. (v) Applicants must be able to supplement the amount provided by a grant under the Youth Sports Program with an amount of funds from non-Federal sources equal to or greater than 50 percent of the amount provided by the grant. (See section III.(a)(2)(ii), below.) Funds from non-Federal sources are funds the applicant receives for the Youth Sports activities identified in its application from the following: (A) States; (B) Units of general local government or agencies of such governments; (C) Indian tribes; (D) Private contributions; (E) Any salary paid to staff to carry out the Youth Sports activities of the applicant, computed as follows: (1) Only that portion of staff salaries representing time that will be spent on new and additional duties directly involved with Youth Sports activities may qualify as funds from non-Federal sources; (2) Staff salaries that are paid with Youth Sports funds do not qualify as funds from non-Federal sources for the purpose of this program; (F) The value of the time and services contributed by volunteers to carry out the program of the grant recipient to be determined as follows:
