FR940106-2-00059 FR940106-2-00033 In determining whether to adjust payment rates for standard home blood glucose monitors, we considered the potential impacts on quality, access, and beneficiary liability of the adjustment, including the likely effects on assignment rates and participation rates of suppliers (as required by section 1842(b)(8)(C) of the Act). These considerations are addressed below in this impact analysis. This notice would affect suppliers of standard home blood glucose monitors. Their Medicare payments could be reduced by the amount of the estimated savings. Suppliers can choose to accept assignment, which means they agree to accept Medicare's approved amount as payment in full. It is possible that, as a consequence of our reducing payments for code E0607, the number of suppliers accepting assignment of a beneficiary's claim for Medicare payment for this code may decrease if suppliers choose instead to charge beneficiaries the full difference between the amount charged and the lower Medicare payment. Also, the number of suppliers who elect to become ``participating suppliers'' may decrease as a result of reduced payments for code E0607. Under the Medicare participation program, a supplier that decides to become a ``participating supplier'' must agree to accept assignment for all covered services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries. Participating suppliers benefit by being listed in the Medicare Participating Physician/Supplier Directories, known as Medpards, which are compiled by the Medicare carriers and furnished to various senior citizen groups. A Medicare beneficiary can obtain the Medpard for his or her State from the Medicare carrier. Suppliers who do not accept assignment and charge more than the Medicare approved amount can collect the balance, that is, the actual charge minus Medicare payment, from the beneficiary. Therefore, beneficiaries who receive services from suppliers who do not accept assignment are exposed to greater financial liability than those who receive services from a supplier taking assignment. As a result, Medicare beneficiaries may choose to deal with participating suppliers or purchase less expensive home blood glucose monitors in order to reduce their financial liability. Manufacturers of more expensive home blood glucose monitors may be affected if, as a result of this notice, suppliers choose to provide less expensive monitors or Medicare beneficiaries decide to use less expensive monitors. We expect that this notice would have minimal affects on the quality of monitors furnished to beneficiaries or on beneficiary access to quality monitors. As we demonstrated above, four out of six home blood glucose monitors listed in the Bruce Medical Supply catalog can be purchased from anywhere in the continental United States for less than $57. Though the estimated decrease in the allowed limit from $178.73 to $57 for monitors purchased in the continental U.S. appears large, the net decrease is not large, given the size and prevalence of the rebates manufacturers have been refunding to beneficiaries. Four of five manufacturers are giving rebates ranging from 37 percent to 70 percent of the purchase price. In addition, the glucose test strips used with the monitors are specifically manufactured to be used with a specific brand of monitor. The test strips frequently cost more than $.50 each and a beneficiary may use 4 or more each day. Therefore, once the beneficiary obtains a home blood glucose monitor, Medicare could pay an additional $60 each month the beneficiary uses the medically necessary monitor. Apparently, the income generated from the ongoing sale of the test strips far exceeds the income generated from the sale of the monitors. A manufacturer has an enormous incentive to promote the sale of its brand of monitors in order to ensure the future sale of its brand of test strips. For these reasons, we believe that manufacturers and suppliers will continue to provide their services to Medicare beneficiaries. If a manufacturer's rebate is not reported on a Medicare claim for code E0607, and the beneficiary subsequently mails in the rebate form, and receives the rebate, then the beneficiary receives a windfall in the amount of the rebate and the Medicare program is not benefiting from the rebate. The beneficiary is essentially paid for purchasing a certain brand of monitor. This notice would effectively eliminate any windfall that beneficiaries receive from manufacturer rebates that are not reported on Medicare claims for code E0607. We are not preparing analyses for either the RFA or section 1102(b) of the Act since we have determined, and the Secretary certifies, that this notice would not result in a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities and would not have a significant impact on the operations of a substantial number of small rural hospitals. IV. Paperwork Reduction Act This notice does not impose any information collection requirements. Consequently, it need not be reviewed by the Executive Office of Management and Budget under the authority of the Paper Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 through 3511). V. Response to Comments Because of the large number of items of correspondence we normally receive on FR documents published for comment, we are not able to acknowledge or respond to them individually. We will consider all comments we receive by the date and time specified in the ``DATES'' section of this preamble, and, if we proceed with a subsequent document, we will respond to the comments in the preamble to that document. (Section 1834(a)(10)(B) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395m(a)(10)(B)); 42 CFR 405.502(g)) (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program No. 93.774, Medicare_Supplementary Medical Insurance Program) Dated: September 3, 1993. Bruce C. Vladeck, Administrator, Health Care Financing Administration. Dated: October 4, 1993. Donna E. Shalala, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;66 Filed 1&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4120&hyph;01&hyph;P
