FR941005-0-00026 FR941005-0-00010 Section 672.20(j)(3) is revised to limit the aggregate adjustments of any standard PRR during a calendar year that the Regional Director may make without providing opportunity for prior public comment to no more than 15 percent of the standard PRR specified for a preceding calendar year. Aggregate adjustments greater than 15 percent may be made after providing notice and opportunity for prior public comment. Comments Received NMFS received six letters of comments on the proposed rule. Some comments addressed standard PRRs for specific products (e.g., surimi and deep-skin fillets made from pollock). Other comments focused on concerns about being accountable for the standard PRRs that would be different from actual recovery rates. Comment 1 . A vessel that achieves an actual recovery rate for a product that varies from the standard PRR could be prosecuted for violating a directed fishing closure or Vessel Incentive Program (VIP) rate, or be subject to higher fees under the North Pacific Fisheries Research Plan (Research Plan), even though irrefutable evidence existed to demonstrate that the vessel's actual recovery rate was real. Response . NMFS concurs that a vessel could be prosecuted as stated in the comment. A vessel may have to adjust the amounts of products retained onboard to comply with the regulations that depend on round-weight equivalents calculated from processed products. A vessel would not be in violation if it has amounts of products onboard that are consistent with standard PRRs. Although NMFS considered means by which a vessel could claim it was achieving a recovery rate that differed from a standard PRR at any particular time, NMFS does not have the ability to determine whether a vessel's claimed recovery rate was representative of its processing operations or whether it had claimed a particular recovery rate as a means of justifying amounts of fish onboard to avoid violations of directed fishing closures or VIP definitions, or being charged higher fees under the Research Plan. Comment 2 . A vessel that achieves a higher recovery rate for a particular product receives no benefit under a program that uses standard PRRs, thereby discouraging the use of more efficient and productive equipment. Response . Standard PRRs are used to determine the amount of fish caught because their use is the best practicable method of doing so available at this time. Economic incentives outside the regulatory management scheme exist for vessels to increase their product recovery efficiency. As overall fleet efficiency in producing any particular product increases, NMFS will revise the standard PRR for that product. Comment 3 . By establishing one standard PRR for each product form, the rule ignores seasonal, area, and vessel-by-vessel variation in actual recovery rates. Response . NMFS has considered variation in determining that standard PRRs are necessary to enforce certain management measures. Where NMFS has been able to determine a variation in a PRR over a wide area or season, as in pollock used for surimi (See response to Comment 4, below.), a separate PRR is specified. NMFS does not have the means to account for vessel-by-vessel, seasonal, and area variations from a standard PRR that may occur at any particular time. Comment 4 . Proposed standard PRRs for certain products are inaccurate. These are listed as follows: 1. The standard PRR for pollock surimi of 0.14 is too low, given that data used by NMFS during the 1992 non-roe season reflected product recovery from small-sized pollock and that actual recovery rates achieved by vessels, by season, shows product recoveries that range from 0.12 to 0.30. Data from the 1993 fishery should be a more reliable source of information; 2. The standard PRR for deep skin pollock is too low, given that data submitted to NMFS suggest that the standard PRR is closer to 0.16 or even 0.18; 3. The standard PRR for headed-and-gutted Pacific cod is too low, given that other sources of published information indicate that the standard PRR should be in the range of 0.56&hyph;0.75 or 0.58&hyph;0.64; and 4. Other standard PRRs may be in error as well. Response . With respect to the standard PRR for pollock surimi, NMFS has reviewed 1993 production information on a seasonal basis and notes that the average recovery rate for the period January through June is 0.16 (see discussion under the section on Changes In the Final Rule From the Proposed Rule). The average recovery rate for the period July through December is 0.17. The final rule establishes these two recovery rates to accommodate seasonal differences. NMFS has reviewed information with respect to PRRs for deep skin pollock and headed-and-gutted Pacific cod. Deep skin pollock is such a new product that few data exist to demonstrate the extent of annual variation. On the basis of information available, NMFS concludes that 0.13 is an appropriate standard PRR. With respect to headed-and-gutted Pacific cod, many independent observers' tests onboard vessels have demonstrated PRRs averaging 0.47 and 0.57, respectively, for eastern and western cut products made from Pacific cod. Other changes made to PRRs are as noted in the section on Changes In the Final Rule From the Proposed Rule for the reasons given. NMFS does not have information that indicates any of the other proposed standard PRRs are in error; therefore, NMFS is establishing them as proposed.
