FR940921-1-00008 FR940921-1-00003 3. Sources Covered Section 182(a)(3)(B) requires that States with areas designated as nonattainment for ozone require emission statement data from all sources of VOC or NO X in the nonattainment areas. This requirement applies to all classified ozone nonattainment areas, regardless of the classification (Marginal, Moderate, etc.). Section 184(b)(2) of the Act extends the requirements for major stationary sources in moderate ozone nonattainment areas to sources in the ozone transport region. Section 182(f) extends the requirements for major stationary sources of VOC in ozone transport regions to major sources of NO X . Therefore, the emission statement requirement encompasses all stationary sources in all classified nonattainment areas, as well as sources in attainment areas and unclassified nonattainment areas within ozone transport regions, which emit or have the potential to emit 100 tpy or more of NO X or 50 tpy or more of VOC. The States may waive, with EPA approval, the requirement for emission statements for classes or categories of sources with less than 25 tons per year of actual plant-wide NO X or VOC emissions in nonattainment areas if the class or category is included in the base year and periodic inventories. Connecticut, Maine, and Rhode Island emission statement regulations have exempted sources with VOC and NO X emissions below 25 tpy from emission statement requirements. Connecticut, Maine, and Rhode Island have provided 1990 baseyear inventories which include emissions from sources that emit below 25 tpy of VOC or NO X emissions and will be updating these inventories every three years until the area is redesignated to attainment. In addition, the methods and emission factors used by Connecticut, Maine, and Rhode Island to calculate emissions for the 1990 baseyear inventory have been reviewed by EPA. As a result, EPA finds the 25 tpy threshold acceptable. The entire state of Connecticut is designated as nonattainment for ozone and is located within the boundaries of the ozone transport region. Connecticut's SIP narrative describes how for the first reporting year (1993), Connecticut will require an emission statement from each company whose actual ’calendar year 1992 emissions from all sources at a plant site total 25 tons per year or more of VOC, NO X , or CO. For the second reporting year (1994), the state will lower the reporting threshold to 5 tons per year or more of VOC, NO X , or CO. For the third (1995) and future reporting years, the state will expand the reporting requirement to 5 tons per year or more of any criteria pollutant (PM10, SO X , NO X , CO, VOC, Pb). If the 25 tpy (first year) or 5 tpy (later years) threshold is exceeded by any one pollutant, the company is required to supply data for all remaining pollutants addressed by the respective threshold criteria. The entire state of Maine is located within the boundaries of the ozone transport region. In addition, the following counties of Maine: Androscoggin, Cumberland, Hancock, Kennebec, Knox, Lincoln, Sagadahoc, Waldo, and York are classified ozone nonattainment areas and are therefore subject to the more stringent source threshold requirement of section 182(a)(3)(B). For these classified ozone nonattainment areas, EPA requires Maine's emission statement regulations to cover all sources which emit VOC or NO X unless the State waives requirements from sources with less than 25 tons per year of actual plant-wide NO X or VOC emissions. Maine's Chapter 137 is applicable to all stationary sources which emit, or have the potential to emit into the ambient air, the following air pollutants at or above the minimum required reporting level: 1.␣Carbon Monoxide, 100 tpy 2.␣Sulfur Dioxide, 40 tpy 3.␣Volatile organic compounds, 25 tpy 4.␣Nitrogen oxides, 25 tpy 5.␣Fine Particulate Matter, 15 tpy 6.␣Lead, 0.1 tpy In addition, this rule requires the reporting of 189 hazardous air pollutants identified by the CAA and other compounds known to be emitted in Maine that are of concern to human health. The list of pollutants can be found in Section 1(C) and Appendix A of Chapter 137. If any one pollutant as specified above is emitted at or above the minimum required reporting level, all the other pollutant data listed must be collected and reported. The entire state of Rhode Island is designated as nonattainment for ozone and is located within the boundaries of the ozone transport region. Section 14.3.1 states that the owner or operator of any facility emitting VOC or NO X which has or has had actual facility-wide emissions of 25 tons per year or more of either pollutant in 1990 or any year thereafter, shall submit annually an emission statement which includes both pollutants in accordance with the requirements of section 14.3.2. A facility may apply to the Division to be allowed to discontinue submitting annual emission statements if actual emissions at that facility decrease to below 10 tons per year as a result of a permanent process change. Although the entire state of Vermont is in attainment it is located within the ozone transport boundaries. EPA requires Vermont to regulate source which emit, or have the potential to emit 100 tpy or more of NO X or 50 tpy or more of VOC. Regulation 5&hyph;802 requires submittal of complete data from all sources of the five criteria pollutants which have actually emitted more than 5 tons of all of the criteria pollutants combined during the previous year. 4. Reporting Requirements for Sources Sources covered by the State emission statement program will submit, at a minimum, the data elements described under section II.B.2. of this document. The emission statement submitted by the source should contain a certification that the information is accurate to the best knowledge of the individual certifying the statement. EPA recommends that the State program require the submission of the data from the sources no later than April 15 of each year. Connecticut has required, in its SIP narrative, that sources submit their emission statement data no later than April 15 of each year. The emission statement forms sent out by DEP require all data elements described under section II.B.2. of this document. Along with the forms, a letter is sent which informs the source that accuracy of the data must be certified.
