FR941019-2-00143 FR941019-2-00081 11. Finally, you propose to extend Defendants' obligation pursuant to subparagraph IV.G.1. to identify the FLOAT TECHNOLOGY found to be public knowledge in the FINAL AWARD entered in the Shenzhen arbitration so that it also requires such identification for material ``otherwise found not to be a trade secret in the FINAL AWARD or in any other proceeding.'' You further propose a similar change for subparagraph IV.G.2(b). Such changes would be counterproductive. Contrary to loose assertions made on Defendants' behalf that the Shenzhen arbitrators determined what Pilkington technology still merits trade secret status, they made no such determination but rather determined only that certain items had not been proven to be in the public domain. There is no basis in law for the assertion implied by the proposed change, i.e., that any subject matter not in the public domain is entitled to trade secret protection. Such a formulation would ignore, inter alia, the requirement that alleged trade secrets must have value to merit legal or equitable protection. PPG, having been a party to this arbitration, already knows what this provision of the Judgment requires Defendants to disclose; it is thus primarily for the benefit of PPG's competitors. For the reasons noted above the Department of Justice does not believe that it would be in the public interest to forego entry of the Judgment for failure to incorporate any of your proposed changes. We nevertheless greatly appreciate your interest in this matter. ␣␣␣Sincerely, K. Craig Wildfang, Special Counsel to the Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division. Kurt Shaffert, Attorney, Antitrust Division. Steven M. Edwards, Thomas J. Sweeney, III, George F. Hritz, Paul B. Sweeney Davis, Scott, Weber & Edwards, P.C., 100 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10017, (212) 685&hyph;8000. Kenneth C. Anderson, Anderson, Aukamp & Gingold, 1201 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Suite 821, Washington, D.C. 20004, (202) 662&hyph;6776. Attorneys for Plaintiff, International Technologies Consultants, Inc. United States District Court, District of Arizona, International Technologies Consultants, Inc., Plaintiff, v. Pilkington plc and Pilkington Holdings, Inc., Defendants. Civil Action No. CIV&hyph;94&hyph;00345&hyph;TUC&hyph;WDB. Comments of International Technologies Consultants, Inc. Regarding Proposed Final Judgment, Stipulation and Competitive Impact Statement International Technologies Consultants, Inc. (``ITC'') comments on the Proposed Final Judgment, Stipulation, and Competitive Impact Statement in United States v. Pilkington plc and Pilkington Holdings, Inc. as follows:
