FR941222-0-00020 FR941222-0-00003 Response. Safety analyses by NRC and the cask vendor show the Standardized NUHOMS can withstand floods and will continue to perform acceptably. With regard to the Davis-Besse site, the licensee changed site topography during plant construction. Specifically, the area was built up and some dikes were added. The plant structure's ground floor elevation is 585 feet International Great Lakes Datum (IGLD), which is also the elevation of the pad. The licensing design basis for maximum probable static water level on the site is 583.7 feet IGLD. As noted, the HSM and DSC were evaluated for flood conditions as required by 10 CFR 72.122(b). The HSM can withstand a maximum water velocity of 15 feet per second and a static head of 50 feet of water. The DSC can withstand a static head of 50 feet of water. Any site that intends to use a Standardized NUHOMS design must evaluate the conditions at their site to verify compatibility with the design specifications of the system. F. A number of commenters raised issues relating to the design, evaluation, and operation of the Standardized NUHOMS. F.1 Comment. Several comments related to the fuel to be stored in the Standardized NUHOMS. One commenter wanted control components contained in assemblies addressed in the SAR and SER citing DOE acceptance criteria. One commenter questioned how 55,000 MWD/MTU burnup fuel now being used in pressurized water reactors will be handled since the Standardized NUHOMS&hyph;24 is rated to handle only 40,000 MWD/MTU burnup fuel. Another commenter, citing provisions of current site-specific licensees for other NUHOMS designs, stated that higher burnup should be allowed if the decay heat and radiological source terms are within limits. Another commenter asserted that increased fission products from higher enriched fuel may potentially increase embrittlement of the fuel cladding and that this needs to be evaluated in the SER. This commenter further alleged that this would increase the probability of more defective fuel being loaded into dry casks. Response. The vendor designed the cask system for storage of pressurized water or boiling water reactor fuel assemblies meeting certain specifications. By limiting the use of the cask system to assemblies meeting these specifications, the vendor made a decision that may partially restrict the use of the cask. However, the NRC does not require that a cask be universal for all types of fuel or be usable at every reactor site. For example, none of the casks previously listed in 10 CFR 72.214 is usable for boiling water reactor spent fuel. Currently, the 55,000 MWD/MTU burnup fuel and fuel with initial enrichments of greater than 4% will have to remain in the spent fuel pool because dry spent fuel cask designs to store fuel with this higher burnup and initial enrichment or related to DOE acceptance criteria have not yet been reviewed and evaluated by the NRC. F.2 Comment. Several comments were related to criticality safety analysis. One commenter questioned the conservatism of using 7.5-year cooled spent fuel when 5-year-cooled fuel is the minimum specified and when older fuel may also be stored in the cask. Another inquired about criticality safety if the original basket geometry were compromised, as might be the case for brittle failure of a spacer disk. In the compromised basket geometry case, the commenter also asked about the difference in criticality safety for a helium atmosphere rather than a borated water medium. The commenter, referring to July 24, 1992, meeting minutes, inquired why all parties agreed not to spend any resources to make these criticality safety calculations. Response. The Standardized NUHOMS nuclear criticality safety analysis is based on the following: (1) Babcock and Wilcox 15 × 15/208 pin fuel assemblies with initial enrichments up to 4.0 wt% of U-235 and (2) General Electric 7 × 7 fuel assemblies with initial enrichments up to 4.0 wt% of U-235, for the Standardized NUHOMS&hyph;24P and NUHOMS&hyph;52B designs respectively. The age of the fuel that will actually be stored is not relevant in criticality safety analysis because the analysis assumes storage of unirradiated fresh fuel that is more reactive than cooled spent fuel. The Standardized NUHOMS&hyph;24P system has administrative controls that limit the irradiated fuel reactivity to less than or equal to 1.45 wt% of U-235 equivalent unirradiated fuel (Certificate of Compliance Section 1.2.1). The possibility of a criticality accident caused by the brittle failure of the basket should not be a significant concern. No lifting or handling of the DSC outside the spent fuel pool building is permitted if the basket temperature is lower than 0 ○F. If the user does not determine the actual basket temperature, the ambient temperature must be used conservatively. Under these temperature restrictions, the basket materials will not behave in a brittle fashion. Consequently, the basket geometry would not be compromised by brittle failure. As for the criticality safety consideration related to a helium atmosphere versus a borated water medium, the k eff of the fuel in a helium atmosphere is much less than the k eff in borated water. Therefore, criticality calculations for the borated water are sufficient because they are more conservative and therefore would bound calculations using a helium atmosphere. F.3 Comment. Two commenters were concerned with shielding and dose assessments for the Standardized NUHOMS. One commenter believed that using 10-year-cooled fuel for the dose assessment was nonconservative when 5-year- cooled fuel is needed to load the DSC to produce 24 kW of heat. Another, referring to an NRC meeting with Pacific Nuclear Fuel Services, Inc. (PNFSI), wanted clarification of an NRC request to delete a clause allowing the utility to perform site-specific shielding calculations.
