FR940817-1-00032 FR940817-1-00012 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Notice of 90-day Finding on a Petition To List the Scaled Dune Buprestid Beetle AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of petition finding. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces a 90-day finding on a petition to list the scaled dune buprestid beetle ( Lepismadora algodones ) under the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act). The Service determines that substantial information has not been presented indicating that the requested action may be warranted. DATES: Comments from all interested parties will be accepted until further notice. ADDRESSES: Comments and materials concerning this proposal should be sent to the Field Supervisor, Carlsbad Field Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 2730 Loker Avenue West, Carlsbad, California 92008. The complete file for this action is available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the address listed above. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gail Kobetich at the above address (telephone 619/431&hyph;9440). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 4(b)(3)(A) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1533) (Act), requires that the Service make a finding on whether a petition to list, delist or reclassify a species presents substantial scientific or commercial information indicating that the petitioned action may be warranted. To the maximum extent practicable, this finding is to be published promptly in the Federal Register . The Service determines that the subject petition did not present substantial information indicating that the requested action may be warranted. On August 10, 1992, the Service received a petition to list the scaled dune Buprestid beetle ( Lepismadora algodones ) as an endangered species. The petition was submitted by Dr. Charles Bellamy of Escondido, California and was dated August 5, 1992. The petition stated that L. algodones is imperiled because its current distribution is small, its population size is low, and its habitat is being depleted and degraded by off-highway vehicles (OHVs). The scaled dune buprestid beetle was first collected in 1985 along the western edge of the Algodones Sand Hills, near Glamis, Imperial County, California (Bellamy 1992). The beetle was first described in 1987 by R.K. Velten (Velten and Bellamy 1987). It is quite distinct from other buprestids in North America (Bellamy 1992). The species has been collected from its type locality every year since 1985. The scaled dune buprestid beetle occupies ecotonal vegetation between Sonoran creosote bush scrub and southern dune scrub along the perimeter of the Algodones Sand Hills, an area of extensive sand dunes approximately 45 miles (70 kilometers) in length. Dominant shrubs in this habitat include Larrea divaricata (creosote), Ephedra sp., and Eriogonum deserticola (Imperial buckwheat). A variety of perennial herbs as also present in this habitat. Adult beetles have been observed feeding on Tiquila plicata (plicate coldenia), but no information is available on larval hosts or the species' population biology. The Bureau of Land Management owns the lands supporting the beetle. Portions of the Algodones Sand Hills are heavily used by OHVs and are completely denuded of vegetation. A large portion of the sand hills are closed to OHV use, and much of the open section of the dunes are unaffected by OHVs, because the area is not easily accessible. Dr. Bellamy (pers. comm. 1992) suggested that the scaled dune buprestid is restricted to a single large colony, located in the closed portion of the dunes. He acknowledge that seemingly suitable habitat exists along the perimeter of the Algodones Sand Hills. Tiquila plicata , an adult food plant, is common along the perimeter of the dunes. Dr. Bellamy indicated that much of the area has not been surveyed because it is inaccessible without using OHVs, which would potentially damage the species habitat. The Service has carefully reviewed the petition and interviewed Dr. Bellamy. Based upon this information, the Service has determined that substantial information has not been presented indicating that the listing of the scaled dune buprestid may be warranted. This finding is based upon a lack of data for the vast majority of apparently suitable habitat, coupled with a lack of documentation of threats facing this species. References Cited Bellamy, C.L. 1991. Petition for listing the scaled dune buprestid Lepismadora algodones Velten (Coleoptera: Buprestidae) unpublished document. Velten, R.K., and C.L. Bellamy. 1987. A new genus and species of North American Coiroebini Bedel with a discussion of its relationship within the tribe (Coleoptera: Buprestidae). The Coleopterists Bulletin (41(2):185&hyph;192. Author
