FR940805-1-00149 FR940805-1-00014 §91.405 Consolidated program year. (a) Same program year for consortia members. All units of general local government that are members of a consortium must be on the same program year. (b)(1) Notwithstanding the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section, consortia in existence on [ the effective date of this rule ] will be allowed a transition period during the balance of their current consortium agreement or, if their agreement ends in Fiscal Year 1994, during their 3-year agreement renewed in Fiscal Year 1995, to align their program years. (2) During any such transition period, the lead agency (if it is a CDBG entitlement community) must submit, as its consolidated plan, a plan that complies with this subpart for the consortium, plus the Community Development Plan component (in accordance with §91.215) and Action Plan for funds other than HOME funds (in accordance with §91.220) for its own jurisdiction. All other communities in the consortium may submit their respective Community Development Plan and Action Plans for funds other than HOME funds separately, in accordance with their individual program years. §91.410 Housing market analysis. Housing market analysis must be described in the plan in accordance with the provisions of §91.210; however, it must be described for the entire consortium. §91.415 Housing and homeless needs assessment. Housing and homeless needs must be described in the plan in accordance with the provisions of §91.205; however, they must be described for the entire consortium. §91.420 Strategies and priority needs. Strategies and priority needs must be described in the plan in accordance with the provisions of §91.215; however, they must be described for the entire consortium. The consortium must set forth its priorities for allocating resources geographically within the jurisdiction for the HOME program, describing how the plan will address the needs identified (in accordance with §91.405), describing the reasons for the consortium's allocation priorities, and identifying any obstacles there are to addressing underserved needs. §91.425 Action plan. The action plan must describe the projects and activities to be undertaken with formula grant funds and program income expected to be received during the program year and the actions the consortium expects to take during the program year to pursue its strategy. §91.430 Certifications. (a) General._(1) Citizen participation. Each jurisdiction must certify that it is in full compliance and following a detailed citizen participation plan that satisfies the requirements of §91.105. (2) Affirmatively furthering fair housing. Each jurisdiction is required to submit a certification that it will affirmatively further fair housing and is required to maintain evidence to support the certification, including its analysis of impediments to fair housing choice and a description of any steps taken to carry out the certification. (See 24 CFR 570.601(c) for a description of the responsibilities that a CDBG entitlement community must undertake to fulfill this certification.) (3) Anti-displacement and relocation plan. Each jurisdiction is required to submit a certification that it has in effect and is following a residential antidisplacement and relocation assistance plan in connection with any activity assisted with funding under the CDBG or HOME programs. (4) Drug-free workplace. The jurisdiction must submit a certification with regard to drug-free workplace required by 24 CFR part 24, subpart F. (5) Anti-lobbying. The jurisdiction must submit a certification with regard to compliance with restrictions on lobbying required by 24 CFR part 87, together with disclosure forms, if required by that part. (6) Authority of jurisdiction. The jurisdiction must submit a certification that the consolidated plan is authorized under State and local law (as applicable) and that the jurisdiction possesses the legal authority to carry out the programs for which it is seeking funding, in accordance with applicable HUD regulations. (7) Consistency with plan. The housing activities to be undertaken with CDBG, HOME, ESG, and HOPWA funds are consistent with the plan. (8) Acquisition and relocation. It will comply with the acquisition and relocation requirements of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended, and implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24. (9) Section 3. It will comply with section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968.
