FR941019-0-00028 FR941019-0-00004 (1) State housing finance agencies. The RTC may ask the Governor of each State to confirm the designation of the State housing finance agency to serve as a clearinghouse. At the Governor's discretion, the clearinghouse function may be supported, in part, by a State agency, which is not a State housing finance agency, serving as a technical assistance advisor. (2) Office of Community Investment. The RTC may ask the Federal Housing Finance Board (FHFB) to designate the Office of Housing Finance Programs or other comparable division to serve as a clearinghouse. At the FHFB's discretion, the clearinghouse function may be delegated to, or supplemented in whole or in part by, its District Banks. (3) National nonprofit organizations. The RTC may ask national nonprofit organizations to submit a written request for designation as a clearinghouse. The request should take the form of a written expression of interest in serving as a clearinghouse; evidence of Internal Revenue Service determination of nonprofit status pursuant to section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) or other appropriate sections, where applicable; a list of cities and States in which the organization is operating; a description of experience in promoting low- and moderate-income housing; the latest annual report; and a description of means by which the organization will disseminate property information. The RTC may, in its discretion, accept or reject such a request in writing. (c) Functions. (1) Under the terms of the MOU's to be entered into between the RTC and the clearinghouses, the clearinghouses shall perform the following functions: (i) Serve as repository of property listings and Notices of Marketing Period from the RTC for public inspection; (ii) Make information available upon request during the marketing period to qualifying purchasers concerning eligible residential properties for which the clearinghouse has received a Notice of Marketing Period; and (iii) Following receipt of a notice required under ยง1609.12 of this part concerning ineligible residential properties or non-AHDP properties, make the information contained in such notice available, upon request, to public agencies, nonprofit organizations, qualifying households, qualifying multifamily purchasers and other purchasers, as applicable. (2) Clearinghouses are encouraged to perform the following functions: (i) Disseminate RTC property inventories as well as listings of properties for which they have received Notices of Marketing Period for sale on a regular basis to State and local government agencies, nonprofit housing organizations, for-profit entities, organizations representing special population groups such as the homeless, and disabled, handicapped, and elderly persons, and members of minority groups; (ii) Publicize the availability of eligible residential properties through various media, including newspapers and other media serving minority groups; and (iii) Periodically provide to a wide range of minority-owned businesses and women-owned businesses engaged in providing affordable housing, and to nonprofit organizations more than 50 percent of the control of which is held by 1 or more minority individuals, that are engaged in providing affordable housing, information that is sufficient to inform such businesses and organizations of the availability and terms of financing under section 21A(c)(6)(A)(ii) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(c)(6)(A)(ii)) concerning purchase loans, such information to be provided directly, by notices published in periodicals and other publications that regularly provide information to such businesses or organizations, or through persons and organizations that regularly provide information or services to such businesses or organizations. (3) A clearinghouse shall not be subject to suit for its failure to comply with the requirements of this section.
