FR940525-0-00039 FR940525-0-00021 A. Requirements for Electronic Submission Comment: A few commenters requested clarification concerning the format for electronic reporting. Response: HCFA provided approved vendors of cost reporting software with a uniform standardized format for the creation of the required ASCII file. This format shows how each unique record must be displayed in the electronic file in terms of worksheet, line, and column position. The specifications required to complete a computerized Medicare Cost Report have been in effect since the inception of the Automated Desk Review (ADR) program in 1983. There are presently three vendors approved by HCFA for the ADR system. Eight other commercial vendors are approved by HCFA for electronic compilation of the Medicare cost report. A hospital may use any of the 11 vendors for purposes of filing an electronically prepared cost report. Each of the 11 vendors must undergo periodic testing in which it develops and submits to HCFA a completed cost report to demonstrate its system's ability to conform to HCFA's display standards. No hospital may file its cost report electronically unless the commercial software system it uses has completed the testing process and been approved by HCFA. In addition, when the provider files the cost report with the intermediary, the cost report must pass edits specified in the Provider Reimbursement Manual, Part II, before the intermediary can accept it. If the cost report fails to pass these edits the intermediary will immediately reject the cost report and return it to the provider for correction. The cost report will be considered late if the provider fails to correct it before the due date. The provider will be subject to withholding of interim payments until the intermediary receives the corrected cost report. Comment: Several commenters questioned the need to file a hard copy cost report in addition to submitting the electronic cost report. Additionally, commenters were concerned with the lack of a written statement certifying the accuracy of the electronic cost report. One commenter suggested that HCFA require providers to submit a written certification with the electronic cost report. Response: We agree with the commenters concerns regarding the need to file a hard copy cost report and the lack of a statement certifying the accuracy of the electronic file. Therefore, effective for cost reporting periods ending on or after October 1, 1994, we are eliminating the requirement that providers file a hard copy of the cost report in addition to the electronic file. In new ยง413.24(f)(4)(iii), we specify that instead of a hard copy cost report, providers must submit a hard copy of the certification statement, settlement summary, and a statement of certain worksheet totals found within the cost report file. We note that the certification statement provides that in signing the statement, the provider's administrator or chief financial officer is certifying the accuracy of the data contained in the electronic cost report or, if the provider has filed a manually prepared report, in the hard copy cost report. We believe that these changes will reduce the burden on providers and ensure the accuracy of the data contained in the electronic file. However, we also need to ensure that the electronic cost report is not altered once it leaves the provider. Thus, in conjunction with the changes made based on public comment, we are implementing a series of changes designed to preserve the integrity of the electronic cost report once the provider files it with the intermediary. First, we are specifying in new ยง413.24(f)(4)(ii) that the provider's software must be capable of disclosing that changes have been made to the cost report file after the provider has submitted it to the intermediary. Specifically, electronic cost reporting software will be modified so that the cost report will calculate a ``hash total'', that is, a number representing the sum of the worksheet totals (mentioned above) contained in the provider's as filed cost report. If any data in the electronic file is changed after the hash total is calculated, the electronic file will disclose that a change has been made. We will instruct all automated data reporting vendors to develop the capability to calculate hash totals and disclose changes for all their provider clients. Second, we are specifying in regulations that an intermediary may not alter a cost report once it has been filed by a hospital and must reject any cost report that does not pass all specified edits and return it to the provider for correction. Third, HCFA will make periodic checks to ensure that the totals in the electronic file agree with those totals certified by the provider's administrator or chief financial officer. Because providers may not have anticipated such substantial changes as a result of this rule, we are soliciting comments concerning the requirement in new ยง413.24(f)(4)(ii) that cost report software be able to disclose changes to the electronic file made after the provider has submitted it to the intermediary. Comment: One commenter requested that the intermediary be required to report back to the provider in electronic cost reporting format the audit adjustments made to the provider's cost report. This would allow providers to readily add the audit adjustments to the electronic cost report for future reference. Response: We recognize the merit of this suggestion and will consider implementing this process in the future. The intermediaries would need additional computer programming to be able to provide hospitals with an electronic file of audit adjustments. We will discuss the commenter's suggestion with the 11 approved vendors of cost report software to determine the extent of additional programming needed and the financial implications.
