FR940112-0-00072 FR940112-0-00020 This regulation will result in program savings from discontinuing separate payment under Part B for services performed up to 3 days before the date of admission instead of 1 day, without an immediate, corresponding increase in the DRG payments under Part A. The estimated savings will be reduced if physicians elect to have preadmission services performed at a non-hospital site or more than 3 days before admission. There will be some savings to beneficiaries as a result of shifting payment for services from Part B outpatient to Part A inpatient rates. Beneficiaries are responsible for 20 percent copayment for non-diagnostic outpatient services. Beneficiaries will not be responsible for copayment if the same services are performed up to 3 days before the date of a hospital admission and are folded into the hospital's inpatient payment. However, because we do not have a breakdown of the cost or type of services that will be included in the inpatient payment, we are not able to estimate the annual savings that will be realized by beneficiaries. The following table reflects estimated program savings solely as a result of discontinuing separate Part B payment for services performed up to 3 days before the date of admission instead of 1 day, without a corresponding DRG relative weight adjustment for the inpatient stay. Estimated Medicare Part B Savings [In millions]1 1FY 1993 1FY 1994 1FY 1995 1FY 1996 1FY 1997 $40 $70 $80 $90 $100 1Rounded to the nearest $10 million. As indicated above, we do not anticipate that this new provision will cause a significant change in the timing of services that, until now, have been furnished during the preadmission period. We are limiting the inclusion of non-diagnostic services, even when furnished on the day before admission, to those that are related to the admission. We believe this interpretation more accurately implements the provisions of the statute. This means that services furnished on the day before admission which are neither diagnostic nor admission-related will no longer be rebundled into the inpatient payment. Further, since the law permits the Secretary to define the types of admission-related services to be included in the payment window, we have determined that it should not include ambulance services, to which special conditions apply. As a Part B benefit, ambulance services (unlike patient transportation services furnished to inpatients) are not bundled with inpatient services, and thus, have not been subject to the attempts to maximize PPS payment through unbundling which prompted Congress to enact the payment window legislation. The unbundling provision may generate a small amount of additional Part B costs; however, as indicated above, we anticipate that the overall degree of change that this provision will produce in existing patterns of service delivery will be minimal. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act We generally prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis that is consistent with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) (5 U.S.C. 601 through 612) unless the Secretary certifies that an interim final rule with comment period will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. For purposes of the RFA, we consider all hospitals to be small entities. This interim final rule with comment period will affect all hospitals that are paid under the prospective payment system, dependent upon the number of additional services that will have to be included in the DRG payment rate. Since the estimated savings represent less than one-half of one percent of total Medicare funding to hospitals, we have determined, and the Secretary certifies, that this interim final rule with comment period will not have a substantial impact on a substantial number of small entities, and we have, therefore, not prepared a regulatory flexibility analysis. C. Small Rural Hospitals Section 1102(b) of the Act requires the Secretary to prepare a regulatory impact analysis if an interim final rule with comment period may have a significant impact on the operations of a substantial number of small rural hospitals. This analysis must conform to the provisions of section 604 of the RFA. For purposes of section 1102(b) of the Act, we define a small rural hospital as a hospital that is located outside of a Metropolitan Statistical Area and has fewer than 50 beds. We believe the 3-Day Payment Window provision will affect small rural hospitals to a lesser degree than larger facilities where complex procedures are performed and specialized medical conditions are treated, requiring additional preadmission testing. Therefore, we have determined, and the Secretary certifies, that this interim final rule with comment period will not have a significant economic impact on the operations of a substantial number of small rural hospitals. Consequently, we are not preparing an analysis for section 1102(b) of the Act.
