FR941025-2-00133 FR941025-2-00071 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34850; International Series No. 730 File No. S7&hyph;8&hyph;90] Options Price Reporting Authority; Notice of Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of Amendment to OPRA Fee Schedule Establishing a One Year Pilot Program Providing an Alternative Means of Charging for Dial-Up Market Data. October 18, 1994. Pursuant to Rule 11Aa3&hyph;2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), notice is hereby given that on September 6, 1994, the Options Price Reporting Authority (``OPRA'') 1 submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') an amendment to the Plan for Reporting of Consolidated Options Last Sale Reports and Quotation Information (``Plan''), establishing a pilot program providing an alternative means of charging for dial-up market data. OPRA has designated this proposal as concerned solely with the administration of the plan permitting it to become effective upon filing pursuant to Rule 11Aa3&hyph;2(c)(3)(ii) under the Act. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments from interested persons on the amendment. 1 OPRA is a National Market System Plan approved by the Commission pursuant to Section 11A of the Act and Rule 11Aa3&hyph;2. Securities Exchange Act Release No. 17638 (Mar. 18, 1981). The plan provides for the collection and dissemination of last sale and quotation information on options that are traded on the five member exchanges. The five exchanges which agreed to the OPRA Plan are the Philadelphia Stock Exchange (``PHLX''), the Chicago Board Options Exchange (``CBOE''), the American Stock Exchange (``AMEX''), the Pacific Stock Exchange (``PSE''), and the New York Stock Exchange (``NYSE''). I. Description and Purpose of the Amendment The purpose of the amendment is to respond to requests from OPRA vendors, who make options information available to their customers via a PC dial-up service, to establish a usage-based fee as an alternative to the existing port charge. Currently, vendors interested in offering this service must pay a Dial-Up Data Service Utilization Fee based on the peak number of ports of a vendor's computer that are simultaneously used to provide the service during the month for which the charge is assessed. Under the proposed pilot program, a vendor would have the alternative of paying a fee determined by the total number of inquiries for options quotations and last sale reports received by the service during the month. The usage-based fee is proposed to be established at the rate of $0.02 for each ``quote packet'' which would consist of any one or more of the following values: last sale, bid/ask, and related market data for a single series of options or a related index. All inquiries, except those for historical information ( i.e., prior to the current trading day), would be counted for purposes of calculating the fee. During the pilot period, vendors who have entered into a Dial-Up Market Data Service Rider and Vendor Agreement with OPRA may elect to pay the usage-based fee by submitting a written election to that effect to OPRA. The form for electing this option will require vendors to provide OPRA with a description of its systems and procedures used to count the number of inquiries for options quotations and last sale reports received by the service, and will permit OPRA to inspect its records and systems pertaining to such count. OPRA is proposing to introduce the fee initially for a one year pilot period in order to evaluate the usefulness of a usage-based fee and to measure its impact on OPRA's revenue. The pilot program will continue for one year from the time that the first dial-up vendor elects to be subject to the usage-based fee proposed herein, unless the pilot program is extended or made permanent at the end of this period. II. Solicitation of Comments Pursuant to Rule 11Aa3&hyph;2(c)(3), the amendment is effective upon filing with the Commission. The Commission may summarily abrogate the amendment within 60 days of its filing and require refiling and approval of the amendment by Commission order pursuant to Rule 11Aa3&hyph;2(c)(2), if it appears to the Commission that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors and maintenance of fair and orderly markets, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanisms of a National Market System, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, and all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of the filing also will be available at the principal offices of OPRA. All submissions should refer to File No. S7&hyph;8&hyph;90 and should be submitted by November 5, 1994. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority, 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(29). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26340 Filed 10&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
