FR941110-0-00151 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: One commenter indicated that States should be able to develop and implement additional or alternative remedies unless HCFA can demonstrate that the States' remedies are not as effective as the HCFA remedies. Response: We cannot adopt this comment. The Act provides, at section 1919(h)(2)(B)(ii), that the State must demonstrate to the Secretary's satisfaction that the alternative or additional remedies it proposes are as effective in deterring noncompliance and correcting the noncompliance as those included in the Act. To shift the burden of proof to HCFA would be contrary to the Act's clear instruction. Comment: One commenter indicated that any State remedies approved as alternative or additional remedies should apply to SNF/NFs as well as NFs, unless HCFA takes a different action based on a validation survey. Response: The determination of whose remedies prevail in a dually participating facility is made in accordance with section 1919(h)(7) of the Act and codified at ยง488.452 of this final rule. Comment: One commenter indicated that the final rule should clarify and refer to the relationship of these rules to the sanctions available under section 1128 of the Act and to how the Office of Inspector General's (OIG) actions will have an impact on enforcement actions taken under this regulation. Response: The provisions of sections 1819(h) and 1919(h) of the Act, for which HCFA takes action, and the provision of section 1128 of the Act, for which the OIG takes action, are two independent sources of enforcement authority that are triggered by separate considerations. Section 1128 of the Act contains mandatory and permissive exclusions which are, for the most part, applied in cases of individuals and entities who have been charged with or convicted of certain types of behavior (such as fraud and abuse, and obstruction of investigation) under Federal or State law. Section 1128 does not generally apply to cases of facility noncompliance, which are covered under sections 1819 and 1919 of the Act that specify survey and enforcement provisions. Section 1128A is cited in sections 1819 and 1919 to give guidance on the imposition of civil money penalties which will be imposed in accordance with common statutory provisions by HCFA and OIG for their respective purposes. If a case happens to involve both noncompliance and fraud, abuse or obstruction of investigation, each agency has the authority to take separate action, independently of the other. Comment: Commenters from several States indicated that their States had effective remedies that should be adopted without change. One commenter stated that HCFA approval of alternative or additional remedies should not be required. Response: The Act gives the States the option of requesting that HCFA authorize the adoption of existing State remedies. The regulation follows the Act, which leaves the decision to request the adoption of these remedies up to each State. However, the Act provides that HCFA approval is necessary and that the State must bear the burden of proof that any alternative or additional remedies are as effective as the remedies specified in the Act. Comment: Several commenters were concerned that the State's ability to impose alternative remedies instead of termination was impaired by the proposed provision that would require the repayment of the Federal share of the Medicaid payment (FFP) if the correction of the deficiencies was not made in accordance with the approved plan and timetable. These commenters said that the regulations should allow States to enter into agreements under which the facilities would agree to repay States, which would then repay the Federal government FFP if compliance was not achieved according to the approved plan. Response: Neither the Act nor the proposed or final regulations prevent the States from entering into agreements with facilities to repay States if the facility fails to adhere to its plan of correction. The Act is silent on this issue. Therefore, it follows that the States have the option to consider such agreements with facilities. Many facilities may find such agreements preferable to termination.
