FR940105-2-00014 FR940105-2-00006 Fair Value Comparisons To determine whether sales of sebacic from the PRC to the United States were made at less than fair value, we compared the United States price (USP) to the foreign market value (FMV), as specified in the ``United States Price'' and ``Foreign Market Value'' sections of this notice. United States Price We based USP on purchase price, in accordance with section 772(b) of the Act, because the subject merchandise was sold to unrelated purchasers in the United States prior to importation and because exporter's sales price methodology was not otherwise indicated. For those exporters that responded to the Department's questionnaire, we calculated purchase price based on packed, CIF prices to unrelated purchasers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for foreign inland freight, ocean freight, marine insurance, and foreign brokerage. We based the deduction for foreign inland freight on freight rates in India, as the respondents reported the use of PRC transportation services in incurring this charge. The respondents also reported the use of PRC-based providers for ocean freight and marine insurance. We based ocean freight on the current tariff rate in the Asia North America Eastbound Rate Agreement. For foreign brokerage and handling and marine insurance, we used publicly summarized versions of these two expenses reported in the antidumping duty investigation of sulfur dyes, including sulfur vat dyes, from India (see memorandum to the file dated December 27, 1993). Foreign Market Value We calculated FMV based on factors of production reported by the factories which produced the subject merchandise for these respondents. The factors used to produce sebacic acid include materials, labor, and energy. To calculate FMV, the reported factors of production were multiplied by the appropriate surrogate values for the different inputs. (For a complete analysis of the surrogate values used, see our preliminary concurrence memorandum, dated December 27, 1993.) In determining which surrogate value to use for valuing each factor of production, we selected, where possible, the publicly available published value which was: (1) An average non-export value; (2) within the POI; (3) product-specific; and (4) tax-exclusive. We used surrogate transportation rates to value inland freight from the factories to ports. In the case of material inputs, we also used surrogate transportation rates to value the transportation of inputs to the factories. In those cases where a respondent failed to provide transportation distances, we applied the longest truck rate from our surrogate data as best information available (BIA). To value castor oil, we used publicly available published information from The Times of India. This source provided a non-export price during the POI. To value caustic soda, sodium chloride, zinc oxide, phenal, and glycerine, we used publicly available published information from Chemical Business. This source provided a non-export price during the POI which did not appear to include Indian excise or provincial sales taxes. To value sulfuric acid, cresol, and caproyl alcohol, we used publicly available published information from Chemical Weekly. This source provided a non-export price during the POI which was inclusive of taxes. However, because we did not have the necessary information to deduct taxes, we did not remove the taxes from these prices. To value activated carbon and fatty acid, we used publicly available published information from the Monthly Statistics of the Foreign Trade of India. In addition, to value macropore resin we used a comparable product's price from Monthly Statistics of the Foreign Trade of India. This source was the only one we found which provided publicly available published price information for these material inputs. Because these prices were prior to the POI, we adjusted the factor values to account for inflation between the time period in question and the POI using wholesale price indices (WPIs) published in International Financial Statistics (IFS) by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). To value steam coal, we used publicly available published information from the 1993 OECD IEA Statistics. This was the most current publicly available published information we found that provided a price for steam coal. Because the price quoted was prior to the POI, we adjusted the factor values to account for inflation between the time period in question and the POI using WPIs published in IFS by the IMF. To value electricity, we used publicly available published information from the Monthly Statistical Bulletin published by the Pakistani Federal Bureau of Statistics. This source provided an electricity rate for industrial use in the POI. We found that the published information for Indian electricity rates was either outdated or appeared to be non-specific.
