FR940318-0-00182 FR940318-0-00023 In addition, while most agents submitted under SNAP are relatively effective, the analysis of efficacy assists in the assessment of the availability of substitutes in various niche markets. EPA intends to accept as many viable substitutes as possible. If, due to technical concerns such as weight or storage volume equivalency, there are few or no substitutes available in a given application, EPA must ensure that it does not restrict the few available choices based on other issues, such as environmental concerns. EPA's primary task in SNAP is to facilitate the move away from ozone-depleting compounds, and this goal cannot be served in the fire extinguishing sector without a full understanding of the characteristics of the available substitutes. However, the Agency agrees with the commenters that data sources should be clearly identified. EPA does not intend to imply that cup burner data for heptane dictates the proper design concentration for all applications and for all fire hazards, nor does EPA intend to imply that a listing of `acceptable' means that an agent may be used in any application without professional consultation. In this final rule, EPA reaffirms the need for all potential users to consult NFPA technical standards, OSHA regulations, and fire protection professionals for actual design considerations. c. Use conditions. In response to EPA's request for comment on whether section 612 authorizes the agency to set use conditions, several commenters argued that setting use conditions is not within the purview of section 612. Some commenters stated that EPA has exceeded its scope of authority under the Clean Air Act, and that EPA should defer regulation of workplace safety to OSHA, which is the appropriate entity. Other commenters stated that EPA failed to consult with OSHA and thus overstepped its authority by setting workplace conditions. Other commenters feel it is proper for EPA to establish exposure limits on new agents as it will ensure public safety until OSHA regulations are complete, especially where there is little historical exposure information to rely on. EPA believes that section 612 clearly authorizes imposition of use conditions to ensure safe use of replacement agents. EPA's mandate is to list agents that ``reduce the overall risk to human health and the environment'' for ``specific uses.'' Where use of a substitute without conditions would increase overall risk, EPA is authorized to find the use of such substitutes totally unacceptable. Included in this is the authority to find acceptable the use of the substitute only if used in a manner that reduces overall risk, and to find unacceptable its use in all other cases. Further, EPA's use conditions on workplace safety for halon substitutes will exist only in the interim, until OSHA incorporates specific language addressing gaseous agents in the OSHA law. Under OSHA Public Law 91&hyph;596, section 4(b)(1), OSHA is precluded from regulating an area currently being regulated by other federal agencies. EPA is specifically deferring to OSHA, and has no intention to assume responsibility for regulating workplace safety in regard to fire protection. Consequently, EPA's use conditions are effective only until OSHA acts and will terminate by their own terms once OSHA establishes standards. OSHA §1910.162 governs the use of all gaseous agents in fixed extinguishing systems, however EPA finds that the guidance is not sufficiently explicit on the allowable concentrations of the different agents. While paragraph 1910.162(b)(3) stipulates that ``[t]he employer shall assure that employees are not exposed to toxic levels of gaseous agent or its decomposition products,'' it does not define what a `toxic level' is. In examining paragraph 1910.162 (b)(6)(i) through (b)(6)(iii), EPA concludes that it is OSHA's intent to limit exposure to gaseous agents based upon cardiotoxicity levels. EPA's conclusion was confirmed in discussions with OSHA. EPA therefore concludes that it is appropriate under the SNAP program to stipulate what the cardiotoxic levels for each agent are, and, until OSHA incorporates clarifying language, to impose use conditions that apply OSHA standard 1910.162 in its entirety to these agents. References in §1910.162 to a Halon 1301 concentration of 7% imply a cardiotoxic NOAEL, and references to a Halon 1301 concentration of 10% imply a cardiotoxic LOAEL. In this regulation, EPA is clarifying the intent of §1910.162(b)(3) to allow the use of the substitute gaseous agents only according to paragraph (b)(6)(i) through (b)(6)(iii), using the cardiotoxic NOAEL and LOAEL of each agent as the concentration referenced in each subparagraph. Thus, until OSHA establishes applicable work-place requirements, the use conditions in this final rule on halocarbon substitutes, using the OSHA regulation as a standard, will be as follows: •Where egress from an area cannot be accomplished within one minute, the employer shall not use this agent in concentrations exceeding its NOAEL. •Where egress takes longer than 30 seconds but less than one minute, the employer shall not use the agent in a concentration greater than its LOAEL. •Agent concentrations greater than the LOAEL are only permitted in areas not normally occupied by employees provided that any employee in the area can escape within 30 seconds. The employer shall assure that no unprotected employees enter the area during agent discharge. These conditions will no longer apply once OSHA establishes applicable workplace requirements. EPA will adopt the commenters' suggestion that the use conditions be stated once in the beginning of each section and will not repeat them for each agent. d. Narrowed use restrictions. Many commenters requested that EPA remove the narrowed use restrictions placed upon HFC-23, C 4 F 10 , and C 6 F 14 . These commenters argue that narrowed use restrictions are unnecessary, because the fire protection community (including entities such as NFPA, UL, FMRC and others) has successfully regulated fire protection historically and remains better able to determine which agents should be selected based on design and use criteria, including environmental and toxicological acceptability, efficacy, cost, engineering practice and specific risk. It is not the intent of EPA to interfere with the ability of the fire protection community to use its expertise in selecting agents and designing appropriate and cost-effective systems based upon technical criteria. EPA congratulates the industry on its excellent record of self-regulation, and seeks to work cooperatively with the regulated community in our efforts to address the phaseout of halon. However, use of fire protection agents is, in fact, already regulated under federal law, i.e. OSHA, to ensure their safe use. Under the Clean Air Act, EPA is mandated to evaluate substitutes to reduce ``overall risk to human health and the environment'' and to publish lists of acceptable and unacceptable substitutes ``for specific uses.'' EPA interprets section 612 as giving the Agency authority to limit use where there are concerns due to health or environmental factors. Because a primary goal of the SNAP program as a whole is to speed the market's transition away from ozone-depleting substances, conditional acceptances were accorded to many substitutes which might be unacceptable in the absence of any use conditions. EPA believes that, through the setting of narrowed use restrictions in the limited cases where they are warranted, it has actually expanded the list of available options for fire protection experts to choose from.
