FR941205-0-00117 FR941205-0-00026 Competition with one or more alien plant taxa threatens one of the endangered Melicope species and constitutes a potential threat to the other two species. Lantana, brought to Hawaii as an ornamental plant, is an aggressive, thicket-forming shrub that can now be found on all of the main islands in mesic forests, dry shrublands, and other dry, disturbed habitats (Wagner et al. 1990). Lantana threatens Melicope adscendens (A. Medeiros, pers. comm., 1992). Kikuyu grass, an aggressive, perennial grass introduced to Hawaii as a pasture grass, withstands trampling and grazing and produces thick mats that choke out other plants and prevent their seedlings from establishing. The species has been declared a noxious weed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (7 CFR 360) and threatens M. adscendens (O'Connor 1990; Smith 1985; A. Medeiros, pers. comm., 1992). The perennial Hilo grass, naturalized in moist to wet, disturbed areas on most Hawaiian Islands, produces a dense ground cover, even on poor soil, and is a potential threat to M. balloui and M. ovalis (O'Connor 1990; L. Cuddihy, pers. comm., 1992). Strawberry guava, widely naturalized in mesic and wet Hawaiian forests, develops into stands in which few other plants grow and physically displaces natural vegetation. Pigs depend on strawberry guava for food and in turn disperse the plant's seeds through the forests (Smith 1985, Wagner et al. 1990). Strawberry guava, considered to be the greatest weed problem in Hawaiian wet forests, is invading Kipahulu Valley and is a potential threat to M. balloui and M. ovalis (L. Cuddihy, pers. comm., 1992). Stochastic events such as human-set fires and wildfires destroy native Hawaiian vegetation and usually favor fire-resistant alien plants (Cuddihy and Stone 1990). Fire is a potential threat to Melicope adscendens (A. Medeiros, pers. comm., 1992). The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by these species in issuing this rule. Based on this evaluation, the preferred action is to list these three species as endangered. The species consist of only 1 or 2 populations each and 1 to approximately 10 known individual plants. They are threatened by habitat degradation and damage to plants by feral or domestic animals and by competition from alien plants. Small population size and limited distribution make these species particularly vulnerable to reduced reproductive vigor and/or extinction from stochastic events. Because these three species are in danger of extinction throughout all or a significant portion of their ranges, they fit the definition of endangered as defined in the Act. Critical habitat is not being designated for the three species included in this rule for reasons discussed in the ``Critical Habitat'' section of this final rule. Critical Habitat Section 4(a)(3) of the Act, as amended, requires that, to the maximum extent prudent and determinable, the Secretary propose critical habitat at the time the species is proposed to be endangered. The Service finds that designation of critical habitat is not presently prudent for these species. All three species have extremely low total populations and face anthropogenic threats. The listing of these species as endangered publicizes the rarity of the plants and, thus, can make the species attractive to researchers, curiosity seekers, or collectors of rare plants. The publication of precise maps and descriptions of critical habitat in the Federal Register and local newspapers as required in a designation of critical habitat would increase the species' vulnerability to take or vandalism and, therefore, could contribute to their decline and increase enforcement problems. Protection of the species' habitat will be addressed through the recovery process and through the section 7 consultation process. All involved parties and the landowners have been notified of the importance of protecting the habitat of these species. Two of the three species are found in Haleakala National Park where Federal law protects all plants from damage or removal. It is highly unlikely that Federal activities in the National Park would directly affect the continued existence of these two species. Therefore, the Service finds that designation of critical habitat for these species is not prudent at this time because such designation would increase the species' vulnerability to vandalism, collecting, or other human activities and because it is unlikely to aid in the conservation of the species.
