FR940407-0-00094 FR940407-0-00014 RFP baseline means the total of actual volatile organic compounds or nitrogen oxides emissions from all anthropogenic sources in an O 3 nonattainment area during the calendar year 1990 (net of growth and adjusted pursuant to section 182(b)(1)(B) of the Act), expressed as typical O 3 season, weekday emissions. Replicable refers to methods which are sufficiently unambiguous such that the same or equivalent results would be obtained by the application of the methods by different users. Rule compliance factor means a factor applied to discount the amount of emissions reductions credited in an implementation plan demonstration to account for less-than-complete compliance by the affected sources in an EIP. Shortfall means the difference between the amount of emissions reductions credited in an implementation plan for a particular EIP and those that are actually achieved by that EIP, as determined through an approved reconciliation process. State means State, local government, or Indian-governing body. State implementation plan (SIP) means a plan developed by an authorized governing body, including States, local governments, and Indian-governing bodies, in a nonattainment area, as required under titles I & II of the Clean Air Act, and approved by the EPA as meeting these same requirements. Stationary source means any building, structure, facility or installation, other than an area or mobile source, which emits or may emit any criteria air pollutant or precursor subject to regulation under the Act. Statutory economic incentive program means any EIP submitted to the EPA as an implementation plan revision to comply with sections 182(g)(3), 182(g)(5), 187(d)(3), or 187(g) of the Act. Surplus means, at a minimum, emissions reductions in excess of an established program baseline which are not required by SIP requirements or State regulations, relied upon in any applicable attainment plan or demonstration, or credited in any RFP or milestone demonstration, so as to prevent the double-counting of emissions reductions. Transportation control measure (TCM) is any measure of the types listed in section 108(F) of the Act, or any measure in an applicable implementation plan directed toward reducing emissions of air pollutants from transportation sources by a reduction in vehicle use or changes in traffic conditions. ยง51.492 State program election and submittal. (a) Extreme O 3 nonattainment areas. (1) A State or authorized governing body for any extreme O 3 nonattainment area shall submit a plan revision to implement an EIP, in accordance with the requirements of this part, pursuant to section 182(g)(5) of the Act, if:
