FR940926-2-00069 FR940926-2-00062 [INS No. 1665&hyph;94] Notice on Circuit Ride Location Changes for Asylum Offices AGENCY: Immigration and Naturalization Service, Justice. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice informs asylum applicants of changes in certain interview locations. The purpose of this notice is to advise certain asylum applicants that they will be scheduled for an interview at the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) Asylum Office having jurisdiction over their place of residence, rather than having an interview conducted on a circuit ride. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Christine Davidson, Senior Policy Analyst, or Mark A. Curley, Asylum Officer, Office of International Affairs, Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), 425 I Street, NW., Washington, DC 20536, Attn: ULLICO, Third Floor; Telephone (202) 633&hyph;4622. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 26, 1994. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In 1991, the INS established seven Asylum Offices, in: Arlington, VA; Chicago, IL; Houston, TX; Los Angeles, CA; Miami, FL; Newark, NJ; and San Francisco, CA. These offices are situated close to where the majority of asylum applicants reside. The vest majority of asylum interviews are conducted at the Asylum Office sites. Asylum Officers periodically visit Ports-of-Entry and District and file control offices that are more than 300 miles from the Asylum Office site in order to interview asylum applicants. Since 1991, and depending upon the number of asylum applications received [receipts], Asylum Officers have also conducted interviews on their circuit rides at locations within the 300-mile radius mentioned above. Effective with this publication, the Asylum Office Directors intend only to schedule circuit rides to INS District or file control offices and Ports-of-Entry more than 300 miles from the Asylum Office site. If an interview site at the INS District or file control office or Port-of-Entry is within 300 miles of the Asylum Office site having jurisdiction over the applicant's place of residence, the applicant's interview will be scheduled at the local INS Asylum Office. Interviews that have already been scheduled to take place on a circuit ride and that are within the 300 mile radius of the Asylum Office will not be affected by this notice and will be conducted as scheduled. The effect of having an interview scheduled at the INS Asylum Office rather than on a circuit ride is threefold: (1) Asylum Office Directors will be able to increase the number of available interview slots within a given month; (2) asylum applicants will be able to have an interview scheduled more expeditiously; and (3) asylum applicants will be able to receive a more timely adjudication of their claim. Arlington Asylum Office Effective upon publication of this notice, applicants who reside in North Carolina or within the jurisdiction of the INS suboffice in Pittsburgh, PA, will have their interviews conducted at the Arlington Asylum Office. Applicants who reside in South Carolina, Georgia, and Alabama will have their interviews conducted on a circuit ride to Atlanta, GA. The Arlington Asylum Office is located at 1500 Wilson Blvd., Lobby Level, Arlington, VA 22209. Chicago Asylum Office Effective upon publication of this notice, applicants who reside in Michigan, including the upper peninsula, will have their interviews conducted at the Chicago Asylum Office. The Chicago Asylum Office is located at 209 South LaSalle Street, Suite 625, Chicago, IL 60604.
