FR941227-0-00023 FR941227-0-00005 (1) The principal purpose of the award is to accomplish a public purpose authorized by statute, rather than acquisition, by purchase, lease, or barter, of property or services for the direct benefit or use of the Federal Government; and (2) At the time an award is made, no substantial involvement is anticipated between CFSA, acting for the Federal Government, and the recipient. Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). For purposes of this regulation, a documented plan between CFSA and the recipient or recipients for carrying out their separate activities in a project of mutual interest. When an understanding is reached as to the area of operations and duties to be performed by the parties concerned, each party directs its own activities and utilizes its own resources. An MOU is not a fund obligation document since it does not directly involve a financial assistance transaction. Project. The total activities within the scope of the program as identified in the MOU, grant, cooperative or other agreement. Project Director. The individual who is responsible for the project, as designated by the recipient in the project proposal and approved by the awarding official. The project director will devote full time to the administration of the project. Project period. The total time approved by the awarding official for conducting the proposed project as outlined in an approved project proposal or the approved portions thereof and as specified in the cooperative or other agreement. Recipient. For purposes of this subpart, an entity as defined in §1943.105 of this subpart that has entered into an MOU, grant, or cooperative or other agreement with CFSA. Socially disadvantaged farmer or rancher. A farmer or rancher who is a member of a socially disadvantaged group. (For entity applicants, the majority interest has to be held by socially disadvantaged individuals.) Socially disadvantaged group. A group whose members have been subject to racial, ethnic, or gender prejudice because of their identity as members of a group without regard to their individual qualities. Socially disadvantaged groups consist of Women, African-Americans, Native Americans, Alaskan Natives, Hispanics, Asians, and Pacific Islanders. §1943.105 Eligible Entities. (a) CFSA will consider proposals only from: (1) 1890 Land-Grant Colleges, including Tuskegee University. (2) Indian tribal community colleges. (3) Alaska native cooperative colleges. (4) Hispanic-serving post-secondary educational institutions. (5) Other post-secondary educational institutions with demonstrated experience in providing agricultural education or other agriculturally-related services to socially disadvantaged farmers or ranchers in their region. (6) Any community-based organization that: (i) Has demonstrated experience in providing agricultural education or other agriculturally-related services to socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers; (ii) Provides documentary evidence of its past experience in working with socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers during the 2 years preceding its application for assistance; and (iii) Does not engage in activities prohibited under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. (b) In addition to those entities referenced in paragraph (a) of this section, an applicant must: (1) Have adequate financial resources for performance and the necessary experience, organizational and technical qualifications, and facilities or a firm commitment, arrangement, or ability to obtain same (including any to be obtained through subagreement(s)); (2) Have the ability to comply with the proposed or required completion schedule for the project; (3) Have an adequate financial management system and audit procedures that provide efficient and effective accountability and control of all funds, property, and other assets; (4) Have a satisfactory record of performance, including, in particular, any prior performance under grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements from the Federal Government; and (5) Otherwise be qualified and eligible to receive funding for a grant agreement, cooperative agreement, or other agreement under the applicable laws and regulations. §§1943.106&hyph;1943.110 [Reserved] §1943.111 Process for consideration. (a) A program solicitation will be published in the Federal Register and such other publication(s) as deemed appropriate, as early as practicable every 5 years that funds will be available for new project use and at other appropriate times. (b) The project proposal must contain the following information:
