FR940524-2-00125 FR940524-2-00067 (3) The shortage of housing is resulting in rent increases exceeding those increases commensurate with rental housing operating costs; and (4) A significant number or proportion of section 8 certificate/voucher holders are unable to find adequate housing because of the shortage of rental housing, as evidenced by PHA data showing a lower-than-average percentage of units under lease and a longer-than-average time required to find units (typically, less than 85 percent lease up within 60 days). 4. Documentation to Demonstrate Need The PHA must submit documentation, such as waiting list description or PHA vacancy rate data, to demonstrate need for the proposed public housing, to assist the HUD Field Office in its determination of need and market in accordance with section IV.C.8.b of this NOFA. 5. Additional Rating Points Category 4 (other) applications may obtain additional rating points (see section IV.E.8 of this NOFA) if the PHA furnishes additional data regarding any of the following: a. `` Partnerships.'' PHAs are encouraged to form ``partnerships'' consisting of cooperative or contractual arrangements with community-based entities for the purpose of developing housing so that the housing fits into the community and is seen as an integral part of it. ``Community-based entities'' include private non-profit or for-profit entities with experience in the development of low and moderate income housing, or that are skilled in the delivery of services to families who are residents of public housing. ``Cooperative or contractual arrangements'' include those that will facilitate development (including management of the units) that will enhance the long-term viability of the development; and those arrangements that the PHA has for the delivery of services (such as child care, education, and economic opportunities) made available to residents of public housing. The PHA should indicate who the entity (or entities) are, the qualifications of the entity and its principals, and the role they play or will play in the development, management, or service delivery process which will lead to better acceptance of public housing in the community. Such cooperative arrangements require substantive involvement by the non-PHA partner in at least one of the following areas: Design, management, site selection, representation to the community, or service delivery. If the PHA proposes to use public housing development funds to pay an entity for its role in the arrangement, a justification for sole-source contracting in accordance with 24 CFR 85.36(d)(4) must be provided for consideration by HUD. With respect to the delivery of services, costs for such services are not eligible to be paid from public housing development funds. The PHA must also certify that its selection of the cooperative entity (or entities) was in compliance with State and local law. [Note: If State/local procurement requirements cannot be complied with before the application deadline date, the PHA may submit a statement with its application indicating that it is in the process of arranging such a cooperative relationship and certifying that such a relationship will comply with State and local law. In such case, within 60 days of the date of publication of this NOFA, the PHA must: (1) Identify the entity(ies) proposed to be part of the cooperative relationship; (2) describe the qualifications of the entity(ies) and of its principals, and the role they will play in the development, management, or service delivery process that will lead to better acceptance of public housing in the community; (3) submit a justification for sole source contracting in accordance with 24 CFR 85.36(d)(4) (if the PHA proposes to use public housing development funds to pay the entity for its role in the cooperative arrangement), and a certification that the selection of the entity(ies) was in compliance with State and local law.] b. Mixed income development. In order to encourage the development of public housing in metropolitan areas that will be less identifiable as public housing, PHAs are encouraged to develop units whereby public housing would be mixed with market-rate dwellings so that they are indistinguishable. Specifically, in order to receive points for this factor, a PHA must propose to acquire units in developments where the units require incomes that, on average, are at or above 80 percent of median, or to acquire sites in developments where the units require incomes that, on average, are at or above 80 percent of median. c. Past compliance with section 3. The PHA may submit evidence that over the past five years it has met any commitments made under the provisions of section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C., 1701u), as amended from time to time, and the implementing regulations for section 3 at 24 CFR part 135. If the PHA does not have development experience, it may instead submit evidence related to such experience with the modernization program. d. Proposed compliance with section 3. The PHA may submit its goals for complying with section 3 employment and training with regards to the public housing development application. e. Support for local initiatives. If the application proposes a project which, as evidenced by a letter from local officials, actively supports an area of local initiative such as a Community Development Block Grant, urban revitalization, Empowerment Zone/Enterprise Community, or other similar local activity, or includes a commitment for a donation to the project in the event it is selected for funding, the PHA should describe the activity. f. Resident initiatives. If the PHA is working with residents to establish and/or foster resident empowerment activities (such as establishing Resident Corporations or Resident Management Corporations), the activities should be described. F. Ineligible Applications Applications for intermediate care facilities and nursing homes may not be approved under this NOFA. Applications for housing designated for the disabled and for MROP activities will be the subject of separate NOFAs and may not be applied for under this NOFA. IV. Field Office Processing of Applications A. Submission of Applications The cover letter of all applications must be marked with the date and time of receipt, along with the initials of the Field Office employee accepting the application. Applications received after the date and time specified at the beginning of this NOFA will be returned to the applicant. The PHA should obtain a ``Return receipt'' or similar evidence of delivery when applications are delivered via other means (U.S. Mail, private mailing firms, etc.). B. Initial Screening 1. Immediately after the deadline for receipt of applications, the Field Office will screen each application to determine whether all information and exhibits have been submitted. a. If any application lacks any technical information or exhibit, or contains a technical mistake, the PHA will be advised in writing and will have 14 calendar days from the date of the issuance of HUD's notification to deliver the missing or corrected information or documentation to the Field Office. b. Curable technical deficiencies relate only to items that would not improve the substantive quality of a category 4 application, relative to the ranking factors.
