FR940706-0-00055 FR940706-0-00013 On May 19, 1988 (53 FR 18042), the FHWA published a final rule implementing the requirements of the Motor Carrier Act of 1984. The May 19, 1988, final rule included a definition of commercial motor vehicle which with certain exceptions, excluded lightweight vehicles (vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating of 10,000 pounds or less) from the applicability of the FMCSRs. Therefore, the vehicles for which paragraph (b)(2)(vii) was intended are generally not subject to the FMCSRs and paragraph (b)(2)(vii) is obsolete. With regard to performance standards for fusees and liquid-burning flares, the FHWA is amending ยง393.95(j) to require that both fusees and liquid-burning flares meet the standards of the Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., Highway Emergency Signals (UL 912). The final rule incorporates by reference UL 912 in ยง393.95. The FHWA has created a new section, ยง393.7, Matter incorporated by reference, to provide the language of incorporation required by 1 CFR 51 and to provide information on the availability of the incorporated document. After a review of the comments to the July 14, 1993, NPRM and a determination that the incorporation by reference was necessary for the final rule, the FHWA submitted UL 912 to the Director of the Federal Register for approval in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 522(a) and 1 CFR 51. The FHWA recognizes that some motor carriers may wish to supplement the required warning devices (reflective triangles or fusees and flares) with other warning devices such as electric lanterns. The final rule allows the use of other warning devices in addition to, but not in lieu of, the required devices provided they do not decrease the effectiveness of the required devices. The FHWA has added ยง393.95(f)(3) to clearly indicate this intent. Rulemaking Analysis and Notices Executive Order 12866 (Regulatory Planning and Review) and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures This final rule amends the requirements for warning devices for stopped vehicles. The FHWA has determined that this is not a significant regulatory action within the meaning of Executive Order 12866 or significant within the meaning of the Department of Transportation policies and procedures. It is anticipated that the economic impact of this rulemaking will be minimal. This final rule allows motor carriers the option to use fusees and liquid-burning flares in lieu of bidirectional reflective triangles. The rule does not increase the cost of complying with the requirements for emergency warning devices on commercial motor vehicles. Therefore, a full regulatory evaluation is not required. Regulatory Flexibility Act In their comments to the docket, both Sate-Lite and the TSEI expressed concern that the proposed regulation would have adverse impacts on small manufacturers of bidirectional reflective triangles and small motor carriers electing to deploy fusees or liquid-burning flares in accordance with this final rule. In light of these concerns, and in compliance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;612), the FHWA has evaluated the effects of this rulemaking on small entities. As for small manufacturers of bidirectional reflective triangles, the final rule does not prohibit or restrict the manufacture, sale, or use of such devices. Furthermore, this final rule does not require motor carriers to increase the number and types of warning devices carried on their CMVs. Nor does the rule mandate that CMVs be equipped with only one type of warning device. Rather the rule fulfills the requirements of section 1041(b) of the ISTEA by simply allowing, with few exceptions, the use of fusees and liquid-burning flares as an alternative to bidirectional reflective triangles. Based on its evaluation of this rulemaking, the FHWA certifies that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12612 (Federalism Assessment) This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that the final rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Executive Order 12372 (Intergovernmental Review) Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.217, Motor Carrier Safety. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation on Federal programs and activities apply to this program. Paperwork Reduction Act The proposal in this document does not contain information collection requirements [44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ]. National Environmental Policy Act The agency has analyzed this action for the purpose of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq. ) and has determined that this action would not have any effect on the quality of the environment. Regulation Identification Number A regulation identification number (RIN) is assigned to each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations. The Regulatory Information Service Center publishes the Unified Agenda in April and October of each year. The RIN contained in the heading of this document can be used to cross reference this action with the Unified Agenda.
