FR940628-0-00023 FR940628-0-00017 Section 682.204␣Maximum Loan Amounts •The Secretary has revised the regulations to reflect the changes to the proration of loan amounts made by the 1993 Technical Amendments (Pub. L. 103&hyph;208). Section 682.207␣Due Diligence in Disbursing a Loan •The Secretary has revised the regulations to permit lenders to disburse loans proceeds by use of a ``master check'' for a number of borrowers in addition to an individual check or Electronic Funds Transfer for each borrower. Subpart D_Administration of the Federal Family Education Loan Programs by a Guaranty Agency Section 682.401␣Basic Program Agreement •The Secretary has revised the regulations to delete the proposed regulations reflecting limitation of lender-of-last-resort (LLR) services in light of the deletion of these requirements by OBRA (Pub. L. 103&hyph;66). Section 682.405␣Loan Rehabilitation Agreement •The Secretary has revised the regulations to allow the guaranty agency to determine if the sale of a loan to a lender is practicable. •The Secretary has revised the regulations to require guaranty agencies to inform borrowers of the consequences of loan rehabilitation. Section 682.409␣Mandatory Assignment by Guaranty Agencies of Defaulted Loans to the Secretary •The Secretary has revised the regulations to require the immediate assignment to the Department of loans held by a guaranty agency if the Secretary deems it necessary to protect the Federal fiscal interest, which includes ensuring an orderly transition from the FFEL program to the Federal Direct Student Loan (FDSL) Program and requiring the collection of unpaid loans owed by Federal employees by Federal salary offset. Section 682.414␣Records, Reports, and Inspection Requirements for Guaranty Agency Programs •The Secretary has revised the regulations to require a lender to maintain a copy of the report of the required annual independent audit for not less than five years after the report is issued. Analysis of Comments and Changes In response to the Secretary's invitation in the NPRM, 71 parties submitted comments on the proposed regulations. An analysis of the comments and the changes in the regulations since publication of the NPRM follows. Substantive issues and significant technical changes are discussed under the section of the regulations to which they pertain. Numerous comments were received to the effect that the proposed regulations did not reflect OBRA or the 1993 Technical Amendments changes and suggested that the Secretary publish a revised notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) indicating which sections were superseded by subsequent changes in law. Other than those provisions that are self-implementing and are reflected in this package, the Secretary will issue regulations to implement most substantive provisions from OBRA and the 1993 Technical Amendments in a separate rulemaking package. The Secretary also notes that technical corrections to the regulations governing the FFEL Program were published in the Federal Register on May 17, 1994 (59 FR 25750). Some comments made on the NPRM are addressed by those corrections. Section 682.100␣The Federal Family Education Loan Programs Section 682.100(a)(2) Comments: Several commenters suggested that the regulations be revised to reflect the elimination of the SLS program by OBRA. Discussion: As the commenters noted, OBRA amended the HEA to end the SLS program effective July 1, 1994. However, the Secretary does not agree with the commenters that references to that program should be removed from these regulations. SLS loans will remain outstanding for many years after the program ends and the regulations need to reflect the requirements relating to those loans. However, the Secretary revises the regulations to make reference to the SLS program as in effect prior to July 1, 1994. Changes: The regulations have been revised to refer to the SLS Program as in effect prior to July 1, 1994. Section 682.100(a)(4) Comments: Commenters suggested that the Secretary delete the reference to parent PLUS loans made on or after October 17, 1986 because the statutory use of this term was ended by the 1993 Technical Amendments. The commenters also suggested that the reference to a requirement that a borrower must consolidate at least $7500 in eligible student loans in the Consolidation Loan Program be deleted to reflect the elimination of this requirement by OBRA. The commenters noted that this change needs to be reflected in other sections of the regulations. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that it is appropriate to reflect these statutory changes. The reference to parent PLUS loans made on or after October 17, 1986 was deleted in the technical corrections package. Changes: The regulations have been revised to reflect the commenters' recommendations. Section 682.102␣Obtaining and Repaying a Loan Section 682.102(e)(1) Comments: A commenter suggested that the regulations imply that all FFEL debt is forgiven for borrowers in certain areas of teaching or nursing professions or community service. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that the regulations could be interpreted to indicate that the borrower's entire obligation to repay a debt may be forgiven for borrowers performing certain public service. However, section 428J of the HEA only authorizes the Secretary to repay limited portions of certain Federal Stafford loan obligations for individuals who enter certain specified teaching and nursing professions or perform certain other national and community service. Moreover, the loan forgiveness program is a demonstration program which is not currently funded.
