FR940830-2-00005 FR940830-2-00001 In April 1994, the Disability Process Reengineering Team of the U.S. Social Security Administration issued a proposal on Disability Process Redesign (Redesign Proposal or Proposal). The SSA has asked for comments on this Proposal. This Statement constitutes the official comments of the Administrative Conference. In general, the Conference supports most of the procedural changes that the Reengineering Team has proposed. Many of these changes have been recommended by the Conference as part of its past recommendations. In this Statement, the Conference presents its views concerning the Disability Process Redesign Proposal in light of these recommendations. This Statement does not address those aspects of the Proposal that relate to disability decision methodology. 9 9 The sections of the proposal that address disability decision methodology relate to the structure for making the substantive decision whether a particular claimant meets the criteria for disability benefits. See Disability Process Redesign. ``The Proposal from the SSA Disability Process Reengineering Team (April 1994) at 15&hyph;18. I. Background A. The Redesign Proposal The Reengineering Team has made a series of significant proposals to change the way that disability claims are decided. The Proposal eliminates two of the current four administrative stages of the process, and assigns responsibility for developing the record to a claim manager at the initial stage and to an ``adjudication officer'' at the appeal stage. It retains the use of an administrative law judge for the appeal stage. B. Past Administrative Conference Recommendations The Administrative Conference has undertaken a series of studies over the last 15 years that address aspects of the procedures relating to the processing of claims for disability benefits under the Social Security Act. This series of recommendations has centered at least once on each of the many steps in the process as it currently exists. The focus of many of these recommendations has been to improve the quality of decisionmaking by making sure that as much of the necessary information is in the record as early in the process as possible. In 1978, the Conference issued Recommendation 78&hyph;2, Procedures for Determining Social Security Disability Claims , 10 which primarily addressed the administrative appeal stage of Social Security disability benefit adjudications. It recommended the continued use of ALJs, and made suggestions concerning the development of the evidentiary hearing record, including recommendations that ALJs take more care in questioning claimants, seek to collect as much evidence prior to the hearing as possible, make greater use of prehearing interviews, and make better use of treating physicians as sources of information. 10 1 CFR 305.78&hyph;2 (1993). In 1986, the Conference issued a recommendation on the use of nonattorney representatives in agency proceedings. Recommendation 86&hyph;1, Nonlawyer Assistance and Representation , 11 urged all agencies with ``mass justice'' programs, like the Social Security disability program, to encourage the use of nonlawyer representatives. 11 1 CFR 305.86&hyph;1 (1993). In 1987, the Conference issued two recommendations relating to the disability program. Recommendation 87&hyph;6, State-Level Determinations in Social Security Disability Cases , 12 addressed the first level of disability benefit determination and review. Recommendation 87&hyph;7, A New Role for the Social Security Appeals Council , 13 addressed the organization and function of the Appeals Council. Recommendation 87&hyph;6 was based on early results from demonstration projects involving the state-level disability determination process. It recommended additional experimentation with face-to-face procedures. Recommendation 87&hyph;7 suggested wide-ranging and substantial changes in the working of the Appeals Council, including that it move away from its historical function as a case review panel. The recommendation suggested that the caseload be significantly limited, and that the Appeals Council focus on important issues on which it could issue precedential opinions. 12 1 CFR 305.87&hyph;6 (1993). 13 1 CFR 305.87&hyph;7 (1993). In 1989, the Conference issued two further recommendations affecting the disability program. Recommendation 89&hyph;10, Improved Use of Medical Personnel in Social Security Disability Determinations , 14 addressed a variety of issues involving medical decisionmaking in disability claim determinations. It proposed enhancement of the role of medical decisionmakers, increased effort to develop medical evidence in the record, and improved training of the medical staff on legal and program issues. It recommended use of optional face-to-face interviews and elimination of the reconsideration step. It also recommended that claimants be informed of deficiencies in the medical evidence prior to the issuance of an initial determination, and that the opinion of a claimant's treating physician be given the weight required by court decisions and SSA rules. Recommendation 89&hyph;8, Agency Practices and Procedures for the Indexing and Public Availability of Adjudicatory Decisions , 15 recommended that agencies index and make publicly available adjudicatory decisions of their highest level tribunals, and further urged agencies that do not treat decisions as precedential to reexamine that policy. This general recommendation would apply to the SSA. 14 1 CFR 305.89&hyph;10 (1993). 15 1 CFR 305.89&hyph;8 (1993). Recommendation 90&hyph;4, Social Security Disability Program Appeals Process: Supplementary Recommendations , 16 issued in 1990, made suggestions about several different aspects of the appeals process, aimed at improving the record for decision. It recommended enhancement of information provided in decision documents, increased use of prehearing conferences in cases where claimants are represented, greater use of subpoenas by ALJs, and a closing of the record after the ALJ hearing, subject to limited opportunity to reopen based on new information. 16 1 CFR 305.90&hyph;4 (1993). In 1991, the Conference addressed the representative payee program for disability benefits. Recommendation 91&hyph;3, The Social Security Representative Payee Program , 17 addressed a number of procedural issues raised by that program. Among the recommendations was that the opportunity for face-to-face meetings be provided. 17 1 CFR 305.93&hyph;1 (1993). II. Discussion As discussed more fully below, the Conference supports most of the Redesign Proposal's changes in the process for adjudicating disability claims. This Statement will address issues categorized by the step in the process to which they apply.
