FR940318-0-00119 FR940318-0-00023 PFCs are fully fluorinated compounds, unlike CFCs, HCFCs, or hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). These chemicals are nonflammable, have low toxicity, are exempt from federal VOC regulations, and do not contribute to stratospheric ozone depletion. The environmental characteristics of concern for these compounds are high global warming potential (5,000&hyph;10,000 times greater than CO 2 ) and long atmospheric lifetimes (3,000&hyph;5,000 years). Although the actual contributions to global warming depend upon the quantities emitted, because of their long atmospheric lifetimes, the warming effects of PFCs are essentially irreversible. In the proposed rule, EPA identified specific solvent cleaning applications for which PFCs were acceptable. In response to public comment seeking clarification of these limitations, EPA is finding PFC use acceptable in electronics and precision cleaning for only high-performance, precision-engineered applications where no other substitute for CFC&hyph;113 or MCF would meet performance or safety requirements. Additional detail on PFC use in the solvent cleaning sector can be found in section IX.F. In this final rule, EPA has also clarified the limitations placed in its proposed rule on the use of PFCs to replace halons. PFC&hyph;410 (C 4 F 10 ) and PFC&hyph;614 (C 6 F 14 ) will be limited to fire suppression and explosion protection applications where other alternatives are not technically feasible to meet safety or performance requirements due to the physical or chemical properties of the agent, or where human exposure to the extinguishing agent may approach cardiosensitization levels or result in other unacceptable health effects under normal operating conditions. Additional detail on PFC use in the fire suppression and explosion protection sector can be found in section IX.G. Before replacing ozone-depleting compounds with PFCs, users must first investigate whether other alternatives would meet performance or safety standards. This may include contacting vendors or testing using other substitutes and equipment. Although special forms or reporting to EPA is not required, companies must maintain documentation of the review of alternatives on file. Where users must rely on PFCs for lack of other options, they should make every effort to adopt closed systems and recover, recycle and destroy the chemicals where possible. EPA also encourages PFC users to reduce emissions to a minimum through conservation practices that address idling losses and operator variables. Above all, PFC users should continue the search for long-term alternatives. IV. Scope of Coverage A. Definition of Substitute 1. Statutory Language Based on the language of section 612(a) of the CAA, the Agency defines within the SNAP program a ``substitute'' as any chemical, product substitute, or alternative manufacturing process, existing or new, that could replace a class I or II substance. While subsequent subsections of section 612 refer only to ``substitute substances'' or ``substitute chemicals,'' EPA interprets these provisions for purposes of the SNAP program as incorporating the general definition of substitute presented in section 612(a). The Agency believes that this definition is consistent with the overall intent of section 612 and is necessary to enable EPA to identify and analyze the universe of substitutes for class I and II substances. Section 612(c) prohibits users from replacing class I or II substances with any substitute substance which the Administrator determines may present adverse effects to human health and the environment, where the Administrator has identified an alternative to such replacement that: (1) Reduces overall risk to human health and the environment, and (2) is currently or potentially available. EPA believes that in addition to authorizing the Agency to ban the use of a given substitute substance where other alternatives exist, section 612 confers the legal authority to allow the use of a substance only with certain restrictions_conditions of use or narrowed use limits_while banning its use otherwise. This authority is inherent in the Administrator's authority to totally ban use of the substitute where other acceptable alternatives exist that reduce overall risk. EPA only intends to use this authority where a viable substitute exists that would otherwise have to be disallowed because of risk associated with its uncontrolled use. a. Use conditions. In imposing conditions on use, EPA does not intend to preempt other regulatory authorities, such as those exercised by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) or other government or industrial standard-setting bodies. Rather, EPA hopes to fill existing regulatory gaps during the interim period of substitution away from ozone-depleting compounds and provide the needed margin of protection to human health and the environment until other regulatory controls or standards are developed under appropriate authorities. EPA anticipates applying use conditions only in the rare instances where clear regulatory gaps exist, and where an unreasonable risk would exist in the absence of any condition. These restrictions will remain in place only until the appropriate standard-setting agency acts. Where appropriate, EPA's use conditions will terminate by their own terms once the appropriate standard-setting Agency takes action. The mechanism for informing the public of this change will be the quarterly Federal Register notices updating the status of the SNAP lists. These are discussed further in Section VII.A below. b. Narrowed use limits. In imposing narrowed use limits, the Agency has sought to expand the list of alternatives available to all applications within a sector end-use category. EPA recognizes that certain sector end-uses encompass a broad range of applications, manufacturing processes, and products. Where EPA narrows uses, a substitute will be acceptable for use only in certain applications, as where other alternatives are not technically feasible due to performance or safety requirements. Conditions on use discussed in section IV.A.1.a. above refer to how (under what operating conditions) an otherwise unacceptable substitute may be used; narrowed use limits define where (in which end-uses and applications) an otherwise unacceptable substitute may be used. c. Potentially available. Section 612(e) makes clear that a chemical can be a substitute whether it is existing or new. Also, the language in section 612(c) clearly states that a new substitute may be currently or potentially available. In this final rule, the Agency is defining as potentially available any alternative for which adequate information exists to make a determination of acceptability, and which the Agency reasonably believes to be technically feasible, even if not all testing has yet been completed and the substitute is not yet produced and sold. 2. Additional Clarification
