FR940617-1-00105 FR940617-1-00012 ( 5 ) Wash and rinse procedure. The wash and rinse procedure described as follows is for all washes with the test formulation. A specified volume of the test formulation is dispensed onto the hands and rubbed over all surfaces, taking caution not to lose or dilute the substance. After the material is spread, a small amount of water is added from the tap and the hands are completely lathered for a specified time period. The lower third of the forearm is also washed. After completion of the wash, hands and forearms are rinsed under tap water at 40 2 ○C for 30 seconds. A total of 10 washes with the test formulation is involved. Bacterial samples are taken following the 1st, 3rd, 7th, and 10th washes. ( 6 ) Bacterial sampling. After the 1st, 3rd, 7th, and 10th washes, place rubber gloves or polyethylene bags used for sampling on the right and left hand. Sampling should occur within 5 minutes after each of these washes. Add 50 to 100 milliliters of sampling solution to each glove and secure gloves above the wrist. After adding sampling solution, uniformly massage all surfaces of the hand for 1 minute, paying particular attention to the area under the nails. After massaging aseptically, sample the fluid of the glove. Transfer immediately a measured volume of the sampling fluid to a test tube containing a suitable antimicrobial inactivator. ( i ) Because contamination, product use, and enumeration are conducted sequentially within a time period of less than a day, an inactivator included in the sampling solution prior to the final wash may affect the test results. Therefore, no inactivator for the antimicrobial in the handwash formulation is to be included in the sampling solution prior to the final wash. The 50 to 100 milliliters of sampling fluid may be sufficient to dilute out the activity of the antimicrobial; however, this should be demonstrated using a procedure such as the one described in E 1054, ``Test Methods for Evaluation Inactivators of Antimicrobial Agents Used in Disinfectants, Sanitizer, and Antiseptic Products,'' in ``Annual Book of ASTM Standards,'' vol. 11.04, which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from The American Society of Testing and Materials, 1916 Race St., Philadelphia, PA 19103&hyph;1187, or may be examined at the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, 7520 Standish Pl., suite 201, Rockville, MD, or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol St. NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. ( ii ) If neutralization is not accomplished by dilution, include in the sampling solution used to collect the bacterial samples from the hand following the final wash with the test formulation an antimicrobial inactivator specific for the test formulation being evaluated. (I) Enumeration of bacteria in sampling solution. ( 1 ) Enumerate the Serratia marcescens in the sampling solution using standard microbiological techniques, such as membrane filter technique or surface inoculation technique. Prepare sample dilutions in dilution fluid. Use Soybean-casein digest agar with suitable inactivator as recovery medium. The suitability of the inactivator for the antimicrobial should be demonstrated using a procedure such as described in E 1054, ``Test Methods for Evaluating Inactivators of Antimicrobial Agents Used in Disinfectant, Sanitizer, and Antiseptic Products,'' in ``Annual Book of ASTM Standards,'' vol. 11.04, which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from The American Society of Testing and Materials, 1916 Race St., Philadelphia, PA 19103&hyph;1187, or may be examined at the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, 7520 Standish Pl., suite 201, Rockville, MD, or at the Office of the Federal Register , 800 North Capitol St. NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. Incubate prepared plates 48 hours at 25 2 ○C. Standard plate counting procedures are used to count only the red pigmented Serratia marcescens. (2 ) [Reserved] (J) Determination of reduction. Determine at each sampling interval changes from baseline counts obtained with test material. (K) Comparison with a positive control material. ( 1 ) In order to validate the testing procedure, equipment, and facilities, it is required that the test formulation be compared with an active control formulation. This will require an equivalent number of panelists to be assigned to the control formulation on a random basis. All test parameters will be equivalent for both formulations, although the handwash procedure for the established formulation may be different from that of the test formulation. Both test and control formulations are to be run concurrently. The identity of the formulations used by panelists is to be blinded from those individuals counting plates and analyzing data. ( 2 ) To validate the assay, compare, at each sampling interval, changes from baseline counts obtained with test material to changes obtained with control material. (L) Statistical analysis. Because the hands are inoculated prior to sampling it is possible to generate counts of 1.5x105 to 106 organisms. Therefore, reductions are less variable and evaluation of the log counts using the Student's t- test or similar procedure is recommended. (3) Effectiveness testing of a patient preoperative skin preparation. A patient preoperative skin preparation drug product in finished form suitable for topical applications will be recognized as effective provided that the formulated drug product at its recommended use concentration: (i) Contains an ingredient in §333.412 (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e). (ii) Demonstrates in vitro activity against organisms as described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. (iii) When tested, in vivo, by the standard testing procedure for the evaluation of patient preoperative skin preparation drug products described in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section and labeled according to §333.460(b)(1) of this section, reduces the number of bacteria 2 log 10 per square centimeter on an abdomen test site and 3 log 10 per square centimeter on a groin test site within 10 minutes after product use and the bacterial cell count for each test site does not subsequently exceed baseline 6 hours after product use. When labeled according to §333.460(b)(2) and tested, in vivo, by the standard testing procedure described in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, reduces the number of bacteria 1 log 10 per centimeter squared on a dry skin test site within 30 seconds of product use. (A) Apparatus._ ( 1 ) Colony Counter. Any of several types may be used. ( 2 ) Incubator. Any incubator capable of maintaining a temperature of 30 2 ○C may be used. ( 3 ) Sterilizer. Any suitable steam sterilizer capable of producing conditions of sterility is acceptable. ( 4 ) Timer (stop clock). A timer that can be read in hours and minutes. ( 5 ) Examining table. Any elevated surface such as a 3-by- 6-foot table with mattress or similar padding to allow subject to recline. (B) Materials and reagents._ ( 1 ) Bacteriological pipets. Pipets of 10.0 and 2.2 or 1.1 milliliter capacity are recommended. ( 2 ) Water-dilution bottles. Any sterilizable glass container having a 150 to 200 milliliter capacity and tight closures may be used. ( 3 ) Scrubbing cups. Sterile glass cylinders, height approximately 2.5 centimeter, inside diameter of convenient size to place on anatomical area to be sampled. Useful sizes range from approximately 2.5 to 4.0 centimeters. Sampling should be conducted as described in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(J) of this section.
