FR940919-1-00002 FR940919-1-00001 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Part 50 RIN 3150&hyph;AF04 Steam Generator Tube Integrity for Operating Nuclear Power Plants AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Advance notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission is considering amending its regulations regarding steam generator tube surveillance and maintenance at operating nuclear power plants. The advanced notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPRM) considers regulatory approaches that would maintain adequate assurance of steam generator tube integrity while allowing a more appropriate approach to steam generator surveillance and maintenance activities at nuclear power plants. The NRC is issuing this ANPRM to invite comments, advice, and recommendations from interested parties on the proposed steam generator rule. DATES: The comment period expires December 5, 1994. Comments received after this date will be considered if it is practical to do so, but the Commission is able to assure consideration only for comments received on or before this date. ADDRESSES: Mail comments to: The Secretary of the Commission, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, Attention: Docketing and Services Branch. Deliver comments to: 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland, between 7:45 am and 4:15 pm on Federal workdays. Examine copies of comments received at: The NRC Public Document Room, 2120 L Street NW. (Lower Level), Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: T.A. Reed, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone (301) 504&hyph;2795. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Steam generator tube degradation at nuclear power plants continues to be a problem for the nuclear industry. Industry actions have been effective in controlling many of the forms of degradation experienced in late 1970s and early 1980s; however, new degradation mechanisms continue to occur. State-of-the-art nondestructive inspection and tube repair methods have improved significantly in recent years. Changes in types of degradation being experienced and improvements in inspection and tube repair technology have made the NRC's existing regulatory requirements and guidance out-of-date and in some cases overly conservative or impractical. In addition, the NRC staff has determined that factors other than the material tube degradation should be considered when assessing tube integrity. The objective of the proposed rule would be to maintain steam generator tube integrity such that there is an extremely low probability of steam generator tube leakage that could result in core damage or otherwise exceed allowable off-site doses while allowing a reasonable approach to steam generator surveillance and maintenance activities (i.e., degradation-specific management). A performance-based rule with quantitative criteria would achieve the desired goals without being prescriptive in nature. A flexible rule would accommodate changes in operating experience and technology while giving incentives for the industry to continue to improve the state-of-the art tube inspection and repair methods. Incorporation of an integrated approach considers the overall factors of safety and risk, including systems and radiological assessments. The NRC staff's rulemaking effort would establish a flexible framework that allows steam generator tube integrity to be addressed using a degradation-specific management approach. This approach involves establishing and implementing preventive measures such as inspection, evaluation, and repair criteria that are applicable to distinct steam generator degradation mechanisms, and default criteria for the remaining forms of steam generator tube degradation where experience does not enable a degradation-specific approach. The NRC staff's rulemaking effort would also address issues relevant to containment bypass probability and severe accidents associated with bypass of containment. The NRC staff would consider application of more realistic analytical assumptions, as well as defense-in-depth measures that could be implemented to further ensure safety. The proposed rule would acknowledge new degradation mechanisms and technological advances in inspection techniques to improve characterization of these mechanisms. Recognizing that the steam generator rule would contain broad criteria while an associated regulatory guide would contain more detailed guidance, a proposed outline of the NRC staff's perception of the necessary elements of a steam generator rule follows: (a) Applicability (b) Definitions (c) Requirements (1) Licensee Surveillance and Maintenance Program (i) Preservice and Inservice Inspection Program (ii) Water Chemistry Program (iii) Tube Integrity (iv) Repair Criteria (v) Repair Methods (vi) Nondestructive Examination Considerations (vii) Normal Operating Primary-to-Secondary Leakage Monitoring/Limits (2) Accident Mitigation (i) Accident Condition Primary-to-Secondary Leakage Monitoring (ii) Procedures (iii) Operator Training
