FR940323-0-00033 FR940323-0-00020 The statute and regulations give the Corporation the authority to establish priorities governing the competitive distribution of funds_both directly and through the States. The Corporation received a number of comments suggesting changes to and clarifications of both the applicability and content of the national priorities. (Programs included in the State formula application are not governed by these priorities but rather by priorities established by the State consistent with part 2513 of this rule.) The national priorities, which have been slightly revised, are as follows: Education. School Readiness: Furthering early childhood development; and School Success: Improving the educational achievement of school-age youth and adults who lack basic academic skills. Public safety. Crime Prevention: Reducing the incidence of violence; and Crime Control: Improving criminal justice services, law enforcement, and victim services. Human needs. Health: Providing independent living assistance and home- and community-based health care; and Home: Rebuilding neighborhoods and helping people who are homeless or hungry. Environment. Neighborhood Environment: Reducing community environmental hazards; and Natural Environment: Conserving, restoring, and sustaining natural habitats. Two changes were made to the priorities. Within the education priority, the former priority, ``School success: improving the educational achievement of school-age children,'' was changed to ``School success: improving the educational achievement of school-age youth and adults who lack basic academic skills.'' Within the human needs priority, ``Home: Rebuilding neighborhoods and helping people who are homeless,'' was changed to ``Home: Rebuilding neighborhoods and helping people who are homeless or hungry.'' This amendment was made to clarify that, as commenters suggested, programs designed to provide basic academic skills to adults and hunger programs are included. There were many suggestions for further changes to the priorities, including the following: within Education, add priorities for English as a Second Language, school-to-work transition, and programs targeting out-of-school youth; within Public Safety, add programs that include as participants former gang members and other troubled youth, as well as fire-safety programs; within Environment, there were suggestions for specific language changes. Similarly, there were suggestions for additional priority categories: One commenter suggested adding programs that target individuals with disabilities, and another suggested making economic development a national priority. After careful consideration, the Corporation did not make additional changes to the national priorities. Most suggested changes would have narrowed the priorities by delineating subcategories of programs that already fit under the priorities as drafted. For example, programs that include gang members as participants might apply under the education priority as programs that prepare youth for school success, under the public safety priority as programs that reduce violence, or, depending on the activities of the participants, under the human needs or environmental priorities. Indeed, quality programs often involve an holistic approach to meeting local needs and thus often address more than one national priority. The priorities are designed to allow programs maximum flexibility to respond to unique local needs but, concomitantly, to focus the investment of limited Corporation funds to achieve demonstrable impact. To further narrow the priorities would undermine these objectives. Programs should be aware that the priorities are intended to provide parameters within which to focus their efforts; more specific activities within these parameters are allowable. Several commenters expressed concern about whether every participant or every project in a given program had to address one or more of the priority areas in order for the program as a whole to qualify. Every project and every participant in a program do not have to be working in a priority area in order for the program to be considered to meet a national priority; rather, the program as a whole must substantially address one or more priority areas. The Corporation intentionally has not attempted to quantify the definition of ``substantially address.'' Instead, the Corporation will make this judgment on a case-by-case basis to allow for flexibility. AmeriCorps State Applications The Corporation has changed the State AmeriCorps application process. The Corporation's previous plan considered the formula and competitive components of a State's application to be discrete. Programs had to be placed in one component or the other, and States did not have the flexibility to rearrange the components of their applications once submitted. There were a number of reasons behind this policy. First, it is the Corporation's policy to distribute competitive funds only to States that receive their formula allocations; this suggests evaluating the formula component of the applications prior to the competitive component. Second, programs should know up front which component of the State application they are in to be able to estimate accurately their chances of receiving funding. Third, because State priorities may differ from national priorities, some programs may not be eligible for both formula and competitive funding. Fourth, it gives autonomy to the States, allowing them to decide where to place programs. Finally, from a logistical standpoint, the review process is kept relatively simple by keeping the two components of the State application separate; therefore, the Corporation would be able to finish the reviews quickly and meet its goal of distributing funds to programs in the field on a timely basis. The major drawback of this policy is that it unnecessarily would require States to make difficult decisions that, ultimately, may not lead to the best programs being funded. Specifically, a State would have to decide_for every program for which it wants to seek funding_whether that program should go into the formula or competitive component of its application. A State would have to decide whether to take a risk and put its best programs into the competitive pool, or to play it safe and place those programs in the formula portion of its application. If the State gambled, put its best programs in the competition, and those programs did not receive funding, then the best programs in that State would go unfunded. That is not a desirable outcome either for the States or for the Corporation.
