FR940603-1-00065 FR940603-1-00009 Whereas, the Purchaser desires to purchase and the Seller desires to sell the equipment described herein for the project financed in part or whole by a loan to the Purchaser from the United States of America, acting through the Administrator of the Rural Electrification Administration (hereinafter called the ``Administrator'') which project is designated XXXX . Now Therefore, in consideration of the mutual undertakings herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows: Section 1_Acceptance of Proposal (a) The Purchaser accepts the Proposal which is attached hereto and by this reference made a part hereof, and the parties hereto agree that the Seller shall sell and deliver to the Purchaser and the Purchaser shall purchase and receive from the Seller the equipment (hereinafter called the ``Equipment'') described in the Proposal upon the terms and conditions herein stated. (b) The prices set forth in the Proposal include the cost of delivery to XXXX . (c) The prices set forth in the Proposal do not include any sums which are or may be payable by the Seller on account of taxes imposed by any taxing authority upon the sale, purchase or use of the Equipment. If any such tax is applicable to the sale, purchase or use of the Equipment hereunder, the amount thereof shall be added to the purchase price and paid by the Purchaser. Section 2_Delivery The Seller shall deliver the Equipment within XXXX days after receipt of the written order or orders of the Purchaser. The time for delivery shall be extended for the period of any reasonable delay due exclusively to causes beyond the control and without the fault of the Seller, including, but not limited to, acts of God, fires, strikes, and floods. Section 3_Payment Upon the shipment of any Equipment hereunder, the Seller shall submit to the Purchaser a detailed statement of the Equipment shipped. The Purchaser shall, upon receipt of the Equipment, pay the Seller ninety percent (90%) of the contract price of the Equipment. When the Equipment has been installed, placed in satisfactory operation, tested and accepted by the Purchaser, the Purchaser shall make final payments therefor to the Seller; provided, however, such final payment shall be made not later than one-hundred eighty (180) days after delivery of the Equipment, unless such acceptance by the Purchaser shall be withheld because of the fault of the Seller. Section 4_Defective Material and Workmanship (a) All Equipment furnished hereunder shall be subject to the inspection, tests, and approval of the Purchaser and the Administrator and the Seller shall furnish all information required concerning the nature or source of any Equipment and provide adequate facilities for testing and inspecting the Equipment at the plant of the Seller. (b) The Equipment furnished hereunder shall become the property of the Purchaser upon delivery, provided, however, that the Purchaser or the Administrator, within one year after delivery or within the period for which the Equipment is guaranteed, whichever is longer, may reject any Equipment which does not comply with the Specifications attached hereto and made a part hereof or with the guarantees, if any, of the Seller and the manufacturer. Upon any such rejection, the Seller shall repair or replace such defective Equipment within a reasonable time after notice in writing from the Purchaser and in the event of failure by the Seller so to do, the Purchaser may make such replacement and the cost and expense thereof shall be paid by and recoverable from the Seller. Section 5_Miscellaneous (a) All manufacturers' guarantees of Equipment, if any, shall be transferred and assigned to the Purchaser upon delivery of any Equipment and before final payment is made for such Equipment. Such guarantees shall be in addition to those required of the Seller by other provisions of this Contract. (b) The Seller shall hold harmless and indemnify the Purchaser from any and all claims, suits, and proceedings for infringement of any patent or patents covering Equipment purchased hereunder. (c) In the performance of this contract there shall be furnished only such unmanufactured articles, materials, and supplies as have been mined or produced in the United States, Mexico, or Canada, and only such manufactured articles, materials, and supplies as have been manufactured in the United States substantially all from articles, materials, or supplies mined, produced or manufactured, as the case may be, in the United States, Mexico, or Canada; provided that other articles, materials, or supplies may be used in the event and to the extent that the Administrator shall expressly in writing authorize such use pursuant to the provisions of the Rural Electrification Act of 1938, being Title IV of Public Resolution No. 122, 75th Congress, approved June 21, 1938. The Seller agrees to submit to the Purchaser such certificates with respect to compliance with the foregoing provision as the Administrator from time to time may require. (d) During the performance of this contract, the Seller agrees as follows: (1) The Seller will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. The Seller will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment without regard to their race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. Such action shall include, but not be limited to, the following: Employment, upgrading, demotion or transfer; recruitment or recruitment advertising; layoff or termination; rates of pay or other forms of compensation; and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The Seller agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and applicants for employment, notices to be provided setting forth the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause.
