FR941216-1-00133 FR941216-1-00012 (c) Electric power lines. To prevent broken wires from hitting the building, the distance separating overhead transmission and service lines from magazines and buildings containing explosives shall be greater than that between the poles or towers supporting the lines, unless an effective means is provided to ensure that energized lines on breaking cannot come into contact with the facility or its appurtenances; for example, cable trays and messenger lines. In no case shall overhead transmission lines pass within 50 feet of magazines or other explosives buildings. Service lines of all types shall, except for local telephone connections and similar low-voltage intercom or alarm systems, be run underground from a point at least 50 feet away from the building. With regard to siting, electric transmission lines (those carrying 69 KV or more) and the tower or poles supporting them shall be located no closer to PES's than: (1) Inhabited building distance if the line in question is part of a grid system serving a large area off the establishment. (2) Public traffic route distance if loss of the line shall not create serious social or economic hardships. (Public traffic route an inhabited building distances shall be based on airblast overpressure only; fragment distances shall not be used.) (3) Electric transmission lines which can be interrupted without loss of power, i.e., power is rerouted through existing lines and/or networks, shall be separated from explosives sites in accordance with ยง184.160(c). (d) Motors. Electric motors should not be installed in class I or class II hazardous locations. They should be outside any such room or building. They should be connected to the process building only through mechanical glands or apertures adequately sealed against entrance of hazardous materials into both the location where motors are positioned and the motor enclosure itself. (e) Motor controls, circuit breakers, and safety switches. (1) Circuit breakers, safety switches, service entrance switches, and speed controllers for hazardous locations should be installed on steel racks: (i) In separate buildings connected only by electrical conduits between the small building housing the control equipment and the buildings containing the electrical equipment for hazardous locations. Such conduits shall be provided with sealing fittings to prevent communication of flame or arcs from the starters to the hazardous area. (2) Limit switches, pressure switches, float switches and any other control devices which for practical operating reasons cannot be located outdoors shall bear the approval of the Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., or other nationally recognized testing agencies. Electrical conduit connections to such equipment shall comply with the requirements of the latest edition of the NEC (NFPA Standard No. 70) for the specific hazard. (3) The primary electric supply to an entire explosive area should be so arranged that it can be cut off by switches located at one or more central points away from the area.
