FR941028-2-00207 FR941028-2-00109 Supplement 5: Decontamination_Cleaning, Disinfecting, and Sterilizing of Patient-Care Equipment Equipment used on patients who have TB is usually not involved in the transmission of M. tuberculosis, although transmission by contaminated bronchoscopes has been demonstrated ( 159,160 ). Guidelines for cleaning, disinfecting, and sterilizing equipment have been published ( 161,162 ). The rationale for cleaning, disinfecting, or sterilizing patient-care equipment can be understood more readily if medical devices, equipment, and surgical materials are divided into three general categories. These categories_critical, semicritical, and noncritical items_are defined by the potential risk for infection associated with their use ( 163,164 ). Critical items are instruments that are introduced directly into the bloodstream or into other normally sterile areas of the body (e.g., needles, surgical instruments, cardiac catheters, and implants). These items should be sterile at the time of use. Semicritical items are those that may come in contact with mucous membranes but do not ordinarily penetrate body surfaces (e.g., noninvasive flexible and rigid fiberoptic endoscopes or bronchoscopes, endotracheal tubes, and anesthesia breathing circuits). Although sterilization is preferred for these instruments, high-level disinfection that destroys vegetative microorganisms, most fungal spores, tubercle bacilli, and small nonlipid viruses may be used. Meticulous physical cleaning of such items before sterilization or high-level disinfection is essential. Noncritical items are those that either do not ordinarily touch the patient or touch only the patient's intact skin (e.g., crutches, bedboards, blood pressure cuffs, and various other medical accessories). These items are not associated with direct transmission of M. tuberculosis, and washing them with detergent is usually sufficient. Health-care facility policies should specify whether cleaning, disinfecting, or sterilizing an item is necessary to decrease the risk for infection. Decisions about decontamination processes should be based on the intended use of the item, not on the diagnosis of the patient for whom the item was used. Selection of chemical disinfectants depends on the intended use, the level of disinfection required, and the structure and material of the item to be disinfected. Although microorganisms are ordinarily found on walls, floors, and other environmental surfaces, these surfaces are rarely associated with transmission of infections to patients or HCWs. This is particularly true with organisms such as M. tuberculosis, which generally require inhalation by the host for infection to occur. Therefore, extraordinary attempts to disinfect or sterilize environmental surfaces are not indicated. If a detergent germicide is used for routine cleaning, a hospital-grade, EPA-approved germicide/disinfectant that is not tuberculocidal can be used. The same routine daily cleaning procedures used in other rooms in the facility should be used to clean TB isolation rooms, and personnel should follow isolation practices while cleaning these rooms. For final cleaning of the isolation room after a patient has been discharged, personal protective equipment is not necessary if the room has been ventilated for the appropriate amount of time (Table S3&hyph;1).
