FR941117-0-00066 FR941117-0-00011 Subpart A_Scope and Authority §22.1 Basis and purpose. This section contains a concise general statement of the basis and purpose of the rules in this part, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553(c). (a) Basis. These rules are issued pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. 151 et. seq. (b) Purpose. The purpose of these rules is to establish the requirements and conditions under which domestic common carrier radio stations may be licensed and used in the Public Mobile Services. §22.3 Authorization required. Stations in the Public Mobile Services must be used and operated only in accordance with the rules in this part and with a valid authorization granted by the FCC under the provisions of this part. (a) The holding of an authorization does not create any rights beyond the terms, conditions and period specified in the authorization. Authorizations may be granted upon proper application, provided that the FCC finds that the applicant is qualified in regard to citizenship, character, financial, technical and other criteria, and that the public interest, convenience and necessity will be served. See 47 U.S.C. 301, 308, and 309. (b) Authority for subscribers to operate mobile or fixed stations in the Public Mobile Services, except for certain stations in the Rural Radiotelephone Service and the Air-Ground Radiotelephone Service, is included in the authorization held by the common carrier providing service to them. Subscribers are not required to apply for, and the FCC does not accept applications from subscribers for, individual mobile or fixed station authorizations in the Public Mobile Services, except as follows: (1) Individual authorizations are required to operate general aviation airborne mobile stations in the Air-Ground Radiotelephone Service. See §22.821. (2) Individual authorizations are required to operate rural subscriber stations in the Rural Radiotelephone Service, except as provided in §22.703. §22.5 Citizenship. The rules in this section implement section 310 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (47 U.S.C. §310), in regard to the citizenship of licensees in the Public Mobile Services. (a) Foreign governments. The FCC will not grant an authorization in the Public Mobile Services to any foreign government or any representative thereof. (b) Alien ownership or control. The FCC will not grant an authorization in the Public Mobile Services to: (1) Any alien or the representative of any alien; (2) Any corporation organized under the laws of any foreign government; (3) Any corporation of which any officer or director is an alien or of which more than one-fifth of the capital stock is owned of record or voted by aliens or their representatives or by a foreign government or representative thereof, or by any corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country; (4) Any corporation directly or indirectly controlled by any other corporation of which any officer or more than one-fourth of the directors are aliens, or of which more than one-fourth of the capital stock is owned of record or voted by aliens, their representatives, or by a foreign government or representative thereof, or by any corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country, if the FCC finds that the public interest will be served by the refusal or revocation of such license.
