FR940217-1-00064 FR940217-1-00013 Section 4(a)(3) of the Act, as amended, requires that, to the maximum extent prudent and determinable, the Secretary propose critical habitat at the time the species is proposed to be endangered or threatened. The Service's listing regulations at 50 CFR 424.12(a)(1) specify that designation of critical habitat is not prudent when such designation would not be beneficial to the species. The Service finds that designation of the springs occupied by the Barton Springs salamander as critical habitat would not be prudent because it would not provide a conservation benefit to the species, and would actually be detrimental to the species by suggesting a misleadingly restricted view of its true conservation needs. Designation of Barton Springs as critical habitat would not provide a conservation benefit to the Barton Springs salamander beyond benefits provided by listing and the subsequent evaluation of activities under section 7 of the Act for possible jeopardy to the species. In the Service's section 7 regulations at 50 CFR 402, the definition of ``jeopardize the continuing existence'' includes ``to reduce appreciably the likelihood of both the survival and recovery of the listed species,'' and ``adverse modification'' is defined as ``a direct or indirect alteration that appreciably diminishes the value of critical habitat for both the survival and recovery of a listed species.'' Because the species is endemic to such a highly localized area, actions that appreciably diminish water quality and quantity at Barton Springs would be fully evaluated for their effects on the salamander through analysis of whether the actions would be likely to jeopardize the continuing existence of the species. Any action that would appreciably diminish the value, in quality or quantity, of flows from Barton Springs would also reduce appreciably the likelihood of survival and recovery of the Barton Springs salamander. The analysis for possible jeopardy applied to the Barton Springs salamander would therefore be identical to the section 7 analysis for determining adverse modification or destruction of critical habitat; no distinction between jeopardy and adverse modification for activities impacting the waters of Barton Springs can be made at this time. Application of section 7 relative to critical habitat would therefore not add measurable protection to the species beyond what is achievable through review for jeopardy. Designation of the springs and their immediate environment as critical habitat would actually be detrimental to conservation efforts for the Barton Springs salamander, because it would promote the misconception that the Barton Springs are the only areas important to the conservation of the species. Conservation efforts for the species must address a wide variety of federally funded or authorized activities (summarized in the ``Available Conservation Measures'' section of this proposed rule) that affect the quality and quantity of water available to the species through their effects on the recharge sources and aquifer that supply water to the habitat of the salamander. Nearly all of these activities will occur beyond the immediate vicinity of Barton Springs, and some will occur several miles away. Designation of Barton Springs as critical habitat would be misleading in implying to federal agencies whose activities may affect the Barton Springs salamander that the Service's concern for the species is limited only to activities taking place at the springs occupied by the species. Designation of Barton Springs as critical habitat would therefore not be prudent. Available Conservation Measures Conservation measures provided to species listed as endangered or threatened under the Act include recognition, recovery actions, requirements for Federal protection, and prohibitions against certain practices. Recognition through listing encourages and results in conservation actions by Federal, State, and private agencies, groups, and individuals. The Act provides for possible land acquisition and cooperation with the States and requires that recovery actions be carried out for all listed species. The protection required of Federal agencies and the prohibitions against taking and harm are discussed, in part, below. Conservation and management of the Barton Springs salamander is likely to involve removing threats to the survival of the salamander, including (1) protecting the quality of springflow from Barton Springs by implementing comprehensive programs to control and reduce point sources and non-point sources of pollution throughout the Barton Springs segment of the Edwards Aquifer, (2) minimizing the likelihood of pollution events that would affect groundwater quality, (3) continuing to protect groundwater and springflow quantity by implementing water conservation and drought contingency plans throughout the Barton Springs segment, and (4) continuing to examine and implement pool cleaning practices and other park operations that protect and perpetuate the salamander's surface habitat and population. It is also anticipated that listing will encourage research on the Barton Springs salamander's distribution within the aquifer and critical aspects of its biology (e.g., longevity, natality, sources of mortality, feeding ecology, and sensitivity to contaminants and other water quality constituents). Section 7(a) of the Act, as amended, requires Federal agencies to evaluate their actions with respect to any species that is proposed or listed as endangered or threatened and with respect to its critical habitat, if any is being designated. Regulations implementing this interagency cooperation provision of the Act are codified at 50 CFR part 402. Section 7(a)(4) requires Federal agencies to confer with the Service on any action that is likely to jeopardize the continued existence of a species proposed for listing or result in destruction or adverse modification of proposed critical habitat. If a species is listed subsequently, section 7(a)(2) requires Federal agencies to ensure that activities they authorize, fund, or carry out are not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of such a species or to destroy or adversely modify its critical habitat. If a Federal action may affect a listed species or its critical habitat, the responsible Federal agency must enter into formal consultation with the Service.
