FR940831-0-00015 FR940831-0-00007 The FAA has reviewed and approved McDonnell Douglas DC&hyph;10 Alert Service Bulletin A32&hyph;238 and MD&hyph;11 Alert Service Bulletin A32&hyph;47, both dated July 15, 1994, that describe procedures for visual inspections to determine the serial numbers of the upper and lower lock links on the NLG. The alert service bulletins also describe three phases of inspections: 1. Phase I inspections involve an on-aircraft eddy current inspection to detect defects in the upper and lower lock links on the NLG. These inspections are designed to detect particular defects in areas of the highest probability of forging flaws. 2. Phase II inspections entail expanded off-aircraft eddy current inspections to detect defects of the upper and lower lock links on the NLG. These inspections are more extensive than Phase I inspections and are designed to detect defects in an expanded area where flaws could exist. 3. Phase III inspections include an off-aircraft fluorescent penetrant inspection to detect defects in the upper and lower lock links on the NLG. These inspections include etching of the link material prior to accomplishing a fluorescent penetrant inspection. Accomplishment of Phase III inspections will ensure that all forging defects are detected. For NLG's on which a defective lock link is found, the alert service bulletins describe procedures for rework of the defective lock link, or replacement of the defective lock link with a serviceable lock link. Accomplishment of the fluorescent penetrant inspection and rework of any defective lock link found during that inspection, or replacement of any defective lock link found during that inspection, eliminates the need for the eddy current inspections specified in the alert service bulletins. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other airplanes of this same type design, this AD supersedes AD 94&hyph;09&hyph;01 and AD 94&hyph;09&hyph;17 to require inspections to determine the serial numbers and to detect defects in the upper and lower lock links on the NLG, and rework of any defective lock link, or replacement of any defective lock link with a serviceable lock link. This AD also provides an optional terminating action for the required inspections. The actions are required to be accomplished in accordance with the alert service bulletins described previously. This AD also requires that operators report inspection findings to the FAA in the event any defect is found during any inspection. The FAA is considering further rulemaking to require accomplishment of the optional terminating action specified in this AD. However, the proposed compliance time is sufficiently long so that notice and time for public comment would not be impracticable. Since a situation exists that requires the immediate adoption of this regulation, it is found that notice and opportunity for prior public comment hereon are impracticable, and that good cause exists for making this amendment effective in less than 30 days. Comments Invited Although this action is in the form of a final rule that involves requirements affecting flight safety and, thus, was not preceded by notice and an opportunity for public comment, comments are invited on this rule. Interested persons are invited to comment on this rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified under the caption ADDRESSES. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments will be considered, and this rule may be amended in light of the comments received. Factual information that supports the commenter's ideas and suggestions is extremely helpful in evaluating the effectiveness of the AD action and determining whether additional rulemaking action would be needed. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the rule that might suggest a need to modify the rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report that summarizes each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this AD will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this rule must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;NM&hyph;130&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. The regulations adopted herein will not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this final rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. The FAA has determined that this regulation is an emergency regulation that must be issued immediately to correct an unsafe condition in aircraft, and that it is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866. It has been determined further that this action involves an emergency regulation under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979). If it is determined that this emergency regulation otherwise would be significant under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures, a final regulatory evaluation will be prepared and placed in the Rules Docket. A copy of it, if filed, may be obtained from the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES. List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Incorporation by reference, Safety.
