FR940525-2-00118 FR940525-2-00064 Since the existing TS limits for fuel handling interlocks, heavy loads restrictions, water coverage over irradiated fuel, in-core decay time, and fuel sub-criticality will be maintained, the margin of safety will not be reduced. Therefore, the proposed TS change does not involve a reduction in a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Pottstown Public Library, 500 High Street, Pottstown, Pennsylvania 19464. Attorney for licensee: J. W. Durham, Sr., Esquire, Sr. V.P. and General Counsel, Philadelphia Electric Company, 2301 Market Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19101. NRC Project Director: Charles L. Miller. Philadelphia Electric Company, Public Service Electric and Gas Company, Delmarva Power and Light Company, and Atlantic City Electric Company, Dockets Nos. 50&hyph;277 and 50&hyph;278, Peach Bottom Atomic Power Station, Units Nos. 2 and 3, York County, Pennsylvania Date of application for amendments: April 15, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment would: (1) revise Unit 3 Technical Specification (TS) 3.3.A.2.f to correct a typographical error, (2) revise the license and TSs to change the licensee's name from Philadelphia Electric Company to PECO Energy Company, (3) revise the frequency listed in TS 4.3.A.2.a for exercising each partially or fully withdrawn operable control rod from every 24 hours to within 24 hours when operating above the rod worth minimizer low power setpoint if there are three or more inoperable control rods or if there is one fully or partially withdrawn rod which cannot be moved and for which control rod drive mechanism damage has not been ruled out, (4) revise TS 4.4.A.2 to allow for the replacement charge on the explosive valve for the standby liquid control system to be from either the same manufactured batch as the one fired or another batch which has been certified by having one of the batches successfully fired, (5) revise the frequency in TS 4.4.B.3 to functionally test each standby liquid control system pump loop from monthly to at least once per 92 days. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. The proposed changes do not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated because the proposed changes do not alter the operation of equipment assumed to be an initiator of any analyzed event or assumed to be available for the mitigation of accidents or transients. Proposed changes 1 and 2 are administrative in nature. Proposed change 3 to reduce the requirement to verify insertion capability from every 24 hours to a single verification when one or more control rods are stuck is sufficient to verify that the problem is not generic while providing the benefit of removing a very resource intensive requirement and permits licensed operators to focus on other, more safety significant actions. Proposed change 4 will continue to provide the necessary assurance that replacement charges on the explosive valve of the standby liquid control system will be from a batch from which a sample charge has been tested satisfactorily. Proposed change 5 modifies the allowable interval between surveillance tests for the standby liquid control system without reducing the reliability of the system while providing the benefit of reduced wear and tear on the system. Therefore, these proposed changes do not increase the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. The proposed changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated because implementation of the proposed changes do not involve any physical changes to plant systems, structures, or components. The proposed changes do not allow plant operation in any mode that is not already evaluated. Therefore, the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated is not created. 3. The proposed changes do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety because the proposed changes do not affect the manner in which the facility is operated or change equipment or features which affect the operational characteristics of the facility. Proposed changes 1 and 2 are administrative in nature. Proposed change 3 maintains the assurance that when a scram is required that, at a minimum, the assumptions used in the accident analysis will be met. Additionally, if the initial check of control rod insertion is satisfactory, the subsequent checks are not likely to identify similar problems because operating experience shows that a [stuck] rod is rare. Once it has been determined that the same problem is not occurring in other control rods the normal surveillance frequency is sufficient to verify that scram capability is maintained. Proposed change 4 provides added flexibility for providing replacement [charges] from any batch that has had a charge successfully fired. Proposed change 4 adds flexibility while maintaining the firing reliability in excess of 99.99% for the explosive valves on the standby liquid control system. Proposed change 5 does not impact any safety analysis assumptions because the frequency of testing is not assumed in any safety analysis and standby liquid control system operability is maintained. In addition, the test frequency reduction provides reduced wear and tear on the system and increased system reliability. Therefore, the proposed changes do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Government Publications Section, State Library of Pennsylvania, (REGIONAL DEPOSITORY) Education Building, Walnut Street and Commonwealth Avenue, Box 1601, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17105. Attorney for Licensee: J. W. Durham, Sr., Esquire, Sr. V.P. and General Counsel, Philadelphia Electric Company, 2301 Market Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19101.
