FR941028-1-00012 FR941028-1-00004 III. Comments Received The Commission received 36 comment letters on the proposal: seven from futures exchanges; 8 two from securities exchanges; one from the National Futures Association; six from trade associations; 9 three from foreign regulatory bodies; two from university professors; four from federal regulatory agencies; one from a member of Congress; one from a publisher of a futures publication; five from futures traders; one from a bar association; two from investment companies; and one from a futures lawyer. 10 8 The seven comment letters consist of an interim letter signed by the presidents of eight exchanges, a 134-page letter signed by the presidents of seven exchanges, a letter from the New York Mercantile Exchange (``NYMEX''), a letter from the CME responding to a comment letter, and three joint letters from the CME and CBOT supplementing the record and responding to other comment letters. In addition, by letter dated September 20, 1994, the NYMEX sought to join in the CBOT's petition. 9 The six include an extension of time request. 10 In addition, on November 23, 1993, the Commission held a roundtable discussion, during which industry experts, including representatives of end users and dealers in over-the-counter (``OTC'') and exchange-traded derivatives, presented their views on the exchange petitions. A number of concerns were expressed regarding the way in which the exchanges' ``professional trading market'' would operate. There were three general sets of commenters: those who expressed unqualified support in favor of the petitions; those who were generally in favor of the petitions but who thought they should be modified somewhat, either by limiting the scope of the exemptions and/or by granting the exemptions on a trial basis; and those who were generally against the petitions. The CME and the CBOT were joined by six other exchanges in expressing their support for the proposals. The group in favor of the exemptions also included certain futures professionals and academics. The industry's views, however, were not uniform. Futures trade associations as well as other futures professionals comprised the group giving their qualified support to the CME and CBOT petitions. Those opposing the petitions largely consisted of regulatory agencies, both foreign and domestic. In addition, portions of the petitions were criticized by some investment professionals. Those supporting the petitions generally believed that the exchanges are operating at a handicap in competing with the OTC markets because of what they characterized as burdensome, costly, and unnecessary federal regulation. Removing such regulation would, according to supporters, enhance the competitive posture of the U.S. exchanges in the world marketplace. Supporters further asserted that professional and institutional traders do not require the same level of regulatory protection as the small retail speculator. They argued that the Commission should treat transactions occurring in centralized ``professional trading markets'' the same way that it did swaps, hybrids, and certain energy transactions, all previously exempted from most or all of the provisions of the Act and Commission regulations. Some supporters commented that the exemptions would allow flexible product development, the hallmark of the OTC market, but in a far more structured regulatory environment. According to these commenters, exchange self-regulation over derivatives is preferable to no market regulation, the present situation in connection with OTC transactions. Those giving the petitions qualified support generally also endorsed permitting more flexible approaches than the current designation process as well as enhancing the exchanges' ability to respond to the needs of sophisticated and institutional market participants and competitive demands of the international marketplace. Nonetheless, commenters in this category expressed concerns with the petitions, and highlighted the need to ensure the integrity of both the non-exempt as well as the exempt markets, particularly with regard to financial requirements, customer funds protections, trade practice rules, market surveillance, exchange governance, and the integrity of the clearing system. In addition, some of these commenters were not thoroughly convinced that the rules for preventing fraud and manipulation proposed by the CME and CBOT would be as effective as the current procedures. 11 The commenters further noted the importance of maintaining public confidence in the integrity of the futures markets. Some emphasized that public markets like the CME and CBOT imply a comprehensive regulatory environment, including the imposition of fitness standards for commodity professionals. 11 In addition, two commenters suggested that the CBOT's proposed antifraud rule might exceed the Commission's jurisdictional scope. Finally, some commenters giving the petitions qualified support believed that the absence of defining criteria for the proposed transactions made their evaluation of the potential consequences of the exchanges' petitions difficult. Accordingly, commenters in this group generally recommended caution_either by limiting the commodities which could be traded on a ``professional trading market'' or by granting the exemptions on a trial basis, or both. Commenters opposing the petitions, in particular other financial regulatory agencies, essentially contended that the exemption proposals were too broad and lack sufficient justification. Specifically, according to some commenters, the exchanges failed to make their case that approval of their proposals would be in the public interest. They further argued that the exchanges have not presented evidence showing that the existing regulatory structure is so harmful to competition that such broad relief is necessary in order for exchanges to compete effectively. Commenters against the petitions contended that granting such broad exemptions may have unintended effects on market integrity, in particular, unexpected consequences for the non-exempt markets and the safety of the clearing system. 12 12 Some commenters stated that although the exchanges have indicated that they do not intend to trade identical exempt and non-exempt contracts, the theoretical possibility of allowing such two-tier trading would raise a number of concerns, including the drain of liquidity from the non-exempt market and the resulting implications for price discovery, the potential for manipulation, trading ahead, and other issues relating to the integrity of both the exempt and non-exempt markets.
