FR941103-2-00052 FR941103-2-00031 Order Confirming, Approving, and Placing the Salt Lake City Area/Integrated Projects Firm Power Service Rates Into Effect on an Interim Basis In the Matter of Western Area Power Administration Rate Adjustment for Salt Lake City Area/Integrated Projects October 24, 1994. [Rate Order No. WAPA&hyph;63] These power rates are established pursuant to section 302(a) of the Department of Energy (DOE) Organization Act, 42 U.S.C. 7152(a), through which the power marketing functions of the Secretary of the Interior and the Bureau of Reclamation (Reclamation) under the Reclamation Act of 1902, 43 U.S.C. 371 et seq., as amended and supplemented by subsequent enactments, particularly section 9(c) of the Reclamation Project Act of 1939, 43 U.S.C. 485h(c), and other acts specifically applicable to the project system involved, were transferred to and vested in the Secretary of Energy (Secretary). By Amendment No. 3 to Delegation Order No. 0204&hyph;108, published November 10, 1993 (58 FR 59716), the Secretary delegated (1) the authority to develop long-term power and transmission rates on a nonexclusive basis to the Administrator of Western Area Power Administration (Western); (2) the authority to confirm, approve, and place such rates into effect on an interim basis to the Deputy Secretary; and (3) the authority to confirm, approve, and place into effect on a final basis, to remand, or to disapprove such rates to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Existing DOE procedures for public participation in power rate adjustments (10 CFR Part 903) became effective on September 18, 1985 (50 FR 37835). Acronyms and Definitions As used in this rate order, the following acronyms and definitions apply: $/kW/month: Monthly charge for capacity (i.e., $ per kilowatt (kW) per month). AF: Acre-foot. The amount of water necessary to cover 1 acre of land to a depth of 1 foot. Basin Fund: That account in the U.S. Department of the Treasury, established by the Colorado River Storage Project (CRSP) Act. Billing Demand: The greater of (1) the highest 30-minute demand measured during the month up to, but not in excess of, the delivery obligation under the power sales contract or (2) the contract rate of delivery. Capacity Component: Part of a firm power rate; shown in the power repayment study (PRS) as a dollar per kW per year charge. Billed on a dollar per kW per month basis. Applied each billing period to each kW which each contractor is entitled by contract. Categorical Exclusion: Characterizes an action which does not individually or cumulatively have a significant effect on the human environment and which has been found to have no such effect in procedures adopted by a Federal agency and for which, therefore, neither an environmental assessment nor an environmental impact statement is required. CME: Capitalized movable equipment. Collbran: Collbran Project. CREDA: Colorado River Energy Distributors Association. CROD: Contract rate of delivery. Capacity the supplier of electric service agrees to have available for delivery. It may or may not be accompanied by energy. CRSM: Colorado River Simulation Model. CRSP: Colorado River Storage Project. CRSP Act: Act of April 11, 1956, ch. 203, 70 Stat. 105, as amended, 43 U.S.C. 620&hyph;620o. CWIP: Construction work in progress. Customer Brochure: A document prepared for public distribution explaining the background of the rate proposal. Demand: The rate at which electric capacity is delivered to or by a system over any designated period of time. DOE: U.S. Department of Energy. DOE Order RA 6120.2: An order dealing with power marketing administration financial reporting. EA: Environmental assessment. EIS: Environmental impact statement. Energy Component: Part of a firm power rate; expressed in mills per kilowatthour (kWh). Applied to each kWh made available to each customer. Exception Criteria: An agreement between Reclamation and Western setting forth conditions for operating the Glen Canyon Dam outside of test flows and subsequent interim operating criteria, including system regulation, emergency situations, and for the specific purpose of avoiding high-cost replacement power purchases. FERC: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. FPOD: Federal point of delivery. FY: Fiscal year. Glen Canyon Dam: The dam on the Colorado River which forms Lake Powell. Glen Canyon Dam EIS: Glen Canyon Dam Environmental Impact Statement. GCPA: Grand Canyon Protection Act of 1992. IDC: Interest during construction. Integrated Projects: The Salt Lake City Area/Integrated Projects, which encompass the combined sales and resources of the CRSP, Collbran, and Rio Grande Projects. Interior: U.S. Department of the Interior. kW: Kilowatt; 1,000 watts.
