FR941216-1-00153 FR941216-1-00012 (b) Operating buildings of standard construction may be used for storage of completed assemblies with or without installed ignition system. There shall be no other operation in progress and quantity/distance shall be in compliance with requirements. (c) Production igniters may be stored in designated areas within an assembly/disassembly facility. (d) Indoor storage is preferable for all types of explosives and is mandatory for bulk high explosives, solid propellants, and pyrotechnics. Priority of existing indoor storage should be given to items requiring the most protection from the weather (based on the method of packing). Solid propellant and propellant materials shall be protected from overheating by exposure to direct sunlight when in transit or on temporary hold. (e) The propulsive characteristics and the ignition probability of explosive items such as propellant loaded devices, rocket motors, assist take-off units, and missiles shall be taken into consideration during all logistical phases in order to obtain as much safety as possible under the circumstances. Because of the great number of types and sizes of propellant loaded devices and conditions of assembly encountered, it is not feasible to present anything other than general safety guidance in this part. Thus, every effort should be made to prevent ignition of any units being manufactured, assembled, disassembled, handled, stored, transported or deployed. Approved flight restraining devices (tie-downs) shall be used to the maximum extent possible and are required if probability of ignition is reasonably high. When doubt exists as to whether a given item or configuration (state of assembly) is propulsive or nonpropulsive, the item shall be treated as propulsive until pertinent technical information can be obtained. ยง184.204 Ingredients processing. (a) Weighing, measuring, and handling raw materials. (1) Scales for weighing raw materials shall be electrically grounded, where needed, to properly protect the operation. This grounding is especially important where flammable or combustible materials are involved. (2) Separate weight or measurement rooms, cubicles, or areas (dependent upon the quantity and sensitivity of the materials handled) shall be provided. Oxidizers and metallic powders weighing shall be separated from each other and from other materials by physical barriers rather than distance. (3) It is important that containers, equipment, hand tools, scale pans, etc., used for weighing processes are not mixed with those weighing or measuring oxidizers and fuels, particularly where distance rather than physical barriers separates these areas. Positive measures shall be adopted to ensure the complete separation of such equipment and tools. (4) The designated use of space and equipment shall not be changed without a thorough cleaning and inspection to make sure that all traces of the previous material have been removed if any possibility exists that materials are incompatible. (b) Oxidizer processing. (1) Solid propellant oxidizing agents are perchlorates, nitrates, nitroesters, and nitramines used in solid rocket motor propellants. (2) Avoid contaminating an oxidizer agent with any metal or chemical (fuel) which may result in a more sensitive composition. (3) Use closed systems as much as possible for dust, humidity, and tramp material control. (4) Flexible connections (socks) in pipes or duct systems which convey oxidizer materials and dust socks in collectors or hoopers should be fabricated of fire-retardant materials. These materials shall be chemically compatible with the oxidizers to which they shall be exposed. (5) The pipes and duct systems shall be made electrically continuous. Threaded joints and fittings in contact with oxidizer should be avoided. Quick clamp neuter end pipe joints are preferred. (6) Static control measures shall be used to dissipate static charges to an acceptable level if oxidizer is transported by fluidization. (c) Oxidizer drying. (1) The safe temperature for drying each material shall be established and shall not be exceeded at any point in the drying apparatus or drying room. (2) Use thermostatic controls to prevent the maximum safe temperature from being exceeded in the drying process. Redundant controls are required. (3) Electrical heating elements that may contact the oxidizer or oxidizer dust shall not be used. (4) Dust should be held to a minimum in the drying process. A dust collection system shall be used if dusting can create a potential hazard. (5) Care should be exercised to ensure incompatible materials are not being dried simultaneously in the same drying process. An oven, drying room, etc., used for processing flammable or other incompatible materials should not be used for drying oxidizers until it has been cleaned, inspected, and found to be free of any contaminating residual materials. (d) Screening oxidizers. (1) When screening for process purposes, the screening equipment shall be constructed so oxidizer material is not subjected to pinching, friction, or impact as a result of metal-to-metal contact. Rooms in which screening units are operated shall be kept thoroughly clean to eliminate hazardous accumulations of dust. (2) Oxidizer screens shall be electrically grounded and bonded to the receiving vessel. (e) Blending oxidizers. (1) If gases are generated during blending of oxidizer, a suitable means of gas pressure relief shall be designed into the blender.
