FR940207-2-00154 FR940207-2-00073 In the nominated correspondent settlement arrangement, OCC will collect margin throughout the settlement period from the nominating clearing member. In the event that a nominated correspondent were to default on its obligations to the DCC, OCC will use the margin deposits and other assets of the nominating clearing member to satisfy any resulting obligation to the DCC incurred by OCC in accordance with the applicable Second Restated Agreement. (4) OCC By-Laws and Rule Amendments In connection with implementing the Second Restated Agreements, OCC is making various changes, many of which are technical in nature, to its By-Laws and Rules. 21 NSCC, MCC, and SCCP have determined that no changes to their By-Laws and Rules are required to implement the Second Restated Agreements. 21 For a detailed description of the proposed rule changes to OCC's By-Laws and Rules, refer to Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33011, supra note 4. II. Discussion Settlement of equity option assignments and exercises through the facilities of the CCCs expose the CCCs to additional elements of risk. If a participating member that was assigned an option exercise defaults and the CCC's guarantee has attached, the CCC likely will have to liquidate the failed participating member's position at a price that is less favorable than the current market price for the underlying security. 22 In addition, the earlier guarantee of settlement of exercises and assignments of equity options by the CCCs ( i.e., from T+4 to T+1) may pose increased risk to the CCCs. 22 Assignments and exercises of equity options are valued at the option strike price and not at the market price of the underlying security. For example, if a participating member was assigned an equity call option with a strike price of fifty dollars and subsequent to the attachment of the CCC's guarantee the participating member failed, the CCC would be obligated to deliver securities whose current market price probably would be more than fifty dollars per share. Conversely, if the failed participating member was assigned on an equity put option, the CCC would be obligated, after its guarantee attached, to purchase the shares at the strike price, which must likely would be above the current market price. To limit the CCC's exposure to such risk, the Second Restated Agreements provide that OCC will compensate the CCCs for losses incurred by them in closing out the exercises and assignments of a defaulting participating member. 23 OCC has taken steps to ensure that it is protected from loss and to ensure that it will have adequate resources in the event it must compensate a CCC for losses. Among other measures, OCC will continue to collect margin throughout the settlement period. OCC is making amendments to its By-Laws and Rules so that it has the authority to use the margin of a defaulting participating member to compensate a CCC and the authority to hold a clearing member's margin deposits for an extra day if OCC receives notice from the clearing member's DCC that the clearing member or its appointed clearing member, its nominated correspondent, or CDS, in the case of a Canadian clearing member, had not performed an obligation to the DCC. 24 OCC's Rules regarding margin requirements also are being amended to ensure that OCC does not give any margin credit which arises from positions which will be controlled by a CCC and which OCC might not be able to recover in the event that it suspends a clearing member. 25 23 Because OCC has agreed to compensate the CCCs for losses incurred in closing out the exercises and assignments of a defaulting participating member, NSCC will no longer factor the exercise and assignment positions into the market risk component of its clearing fund calculation. Telephone conversation between Karen Saperstein, Associate General Counsel, NSCC, and Jerry W. Carpenter, Branch Chief, and Peter R. Geraghty, Attorney, Division, Commission (December 20, 1993). 24 OCC Rules, Chapter VI, Rule 601(e)(2). 25 OCC Rule 601(c)(2). OCC's By-Laws and Rules also are being amended to provide that OCC may apply the clearing fund deposit of a failed clearing member to satisfy any obligation incurred by OCC to a CCC as a result of OCC's guarantee. 26 In addition, OCC rules make it clear that a clearing member has a continuing obligation to reimburse OCC for any guarantee payments made to a CCC and that OCC may satisfy this obligation out of the clearing member's assets that are subject to OCC's lien. 27 OCC also has the authority to use the funds of a suspended clearing member that are subject to OCC's control to satisfy the suspended clearing member's obligation to OCC as a result of a guarantee payment to a CCC. 28 26 OCC By-Laws, Art. VIII, §§1(a) and 5(a). 27 OCC Rule 913(j). 28 OCC Rule 1107.
