FR940516-1-00078 FR940516-1-00005 ii. Gas Absorbers. Gas absorbers (water scrubbers), however, differ in that there is no parameter that can be measured and used to establish a limit of HAP concentration. Often, the streams routed to scrubbers are more dilute, and the control device functions in not only changing the conditions of the gas temperature like a condenser would do, but in employing concentration gradients to remove materials from gas streams. In order to predict the performance of a gas absorber, information must be known about the appropriate mass transfer coefficients for the specific system. Most often, the mass transfer coefficients are experimentally derived for specific applications and are usually functions of the mass velocities and contacting path variables. While it is possible to calculate the scrubber outlet compositions without mass transfer information by assuming that the amount of material transferred to the liquid is limited by the equilibrium-defined composition, this information is not indicative of the physical scrubber because it does not provide for the evaluation of the contacting path. Therefore, a direct measurement of composition is required during the initial performance test. Evaluation of continuous compliance need not be done by continuous direct measurement of HAP concentration from the scrubber effluent, however. Another parameter, the liquid to gas molar ratio through the scrubber, could be monitored to ensure required removal. The L/G ratio, which often reduces to the measurement of L, the liquid molar flow rate, because G, the gas molar flow rate is often constant, could be measured during the initial performance test to evaluate the sensitivity of the ratio with removal efficiency. Thereafter, the L/G ratio could be used to verify appropriate removal if the ratio remained within the limits established during the initial compliance test. iii. Carbon Adsorbers. Streams controlled by carbon adsorption will usually be diluted, compared to those controlled by condensers and scrubbers. No surrogate parameters have been identified as measures of HAP concentration or removal efficiencies. Therefore, a direct measurement of concentration will be required during the initial performance test as well as in continuous compliance monitoring. iv. Flares. Compliance testing for flares can be complicated by the formation of undesired products of combustion (including HAP) and the inability to further capture and control these byproducts. Nevertheless, if a facility chooses to use a flare as a control device, EPA has established flare combustion efficiency criteria that specify that 98 percent or greater combustion efficiency can be achieved provided that certain operating conditions are met. If a HAP is formed from combustion, the quantity formed must be considered when calculating control efficiency. These conditions prescribe that the flare must be operated with no visible emissions and with a flame present and that the heating value and exit velocity of the gas routed to the flare must be within certain ranges, depending upon whether the flares are steam-assisted. Additionally, the NESHAP general provisions provide for an initial performance test to determine whether the net heating value will fall within the applicable ranges for control at 98 percent. The performance test involves measuring the incoming gas flowrate and the concentration of combustible compounds (40 CFR 63.11) to determine net heating value. However, it appears that as the number of compounds in the stream increases, the determination of the net heating value becomes increasingly difficult. Also, in light of the fact that flares are often used to control discontinuous or upset conditions, the net heating value at any one time is subject to change. Continuously measuring the concentration of combustible compounds to determine heating value on a continuous basis is probably not feasible. Therefore, the enhanced monitoring method chosen for these standards is to require that the presence of a pilot flame be monitored continuously. Also, an initial measurement and characterization of the inlet mass emissions to the flare is required for two reasons:
