FR941121-2-00139 FR941121-2-00099 For Further Information Contact: David Malouf, U.S. Department of Education, 600 Independence Avenue, S.W., Switzer Building, Room 3521, Washington, D.C. 20202&hyph;2641. Telephone: (202) 205&hyph;8111. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. Absolute Priority 2_Studying Models That Bridge the Gap Between Research and Practice Background Educational research most often includes the following phases: (1) planning and preparation; (2) information gathering; (3) analysis and interpretation; (4) reporting and dissemination; and (5) use of findings. In traditional research models, the researcher is solely or primarily responsible for all phases but the last. Using research findings is seen as a job for the practitioner. However, it has been observed that research knowledge rarely translates directly into practice. In recent years, a variety of models have been developed to bridge the gap between research and practice by altering the roles of researchers and practitioners in the school district for one or more phases of the research. In some models (e.g., interactive research and development, teacher-researcher partnership research) researchers and practitioners collaborate in all phases of the research process. Some of these models include parents on their school-based teams. In other models, practitioners, working individually (e.g., teacher research linkers) or in groups (e.g., teacher study groups), or in pairs (e.g., peer coaching) interpret extant research to understand how to integrate research into practice. In some models, teachers conduct research (e.g., action research, collegial experimentation). To date there have been few systematic examinations of the effectiveness of these models to improve practice in special education. Priority The Assistant Secretary establishes an absolute priority for research projects to implement and examine a model(s) for using research knowledge to improve education practice and outcomes for children with disabilities. In studying a model(s), projects must apply methodologies with the capacity to judge the effectiveness of the model(s) as implemented in practice settings. The projects must identify the knowledge utilization model(s) to be studied, specify the components of the knowledge utilization model(s) selected or created, the supports and policies necessary to support the model(s), both alterable and unalterable factors affecting practice improvement, and the effect of the model(s) to improve the school culture, teacher attitudes and practices, and student outcomes. In judging effectiveness, the projects must address improvements for researchers, practitioners, and children and youth with disabilities. The projects must report their findings in a manner which can serve as a ``blueprint'' for practitioners and researchers in other school districts to implement the model using research knowledge to improve practice in special education. A project must budget for two trips annually to Washington, D.C., for (1) a two-day Research Project Directors' meeting; and (2) another meeting, to meet and collaborate with the project officer of the Office of Special Education Programs and the other projects funded under this priority, to share information and to discuss findings and methods of dissemination. For Further Information Contact: Jane Hauser, U.S. Department of Education, 600 Independence Avenue, S.W., Switzer Building, Room 3521, Washington, D.C. 20202&hyph;2641. Telephone: (202) 205&hyph;8126. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. Absolute Priority 3_Student-Initiated Research Projects This priority provides support for short-term (up to 12 months) postsecondary student-initiated research projects focusing on special education and related services for children and youth with disabilities and early intervention services for infants and toddlers, consistent with the purposes of the program, as described in 34 CFR 324.1. Projects must_ (1) Develop research skills in postsecondary students; and
