FR940628-2-00071 FR940628-2-00058 DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Employment and Training Administration [TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,546] Apache International Division of Apache Corporation Houston, TX; Negative Determination Regarding Application for Reconsideration By an application dated May 26, 1994, one of the petitioners requested administrative reconsideration of the subject petition for trade adjustment assistance. The denial notice was signed on May 18, 1994 and published in the Federal Register on June 1, 1994 (59 FR 28428). Pursuant to 29 CFR 90.18(c) reconsideration may be granted under the following circumstances: (1) If it appears on the basis of facts not previously considered that the determination complained of was erroneous; (2) If it appears that the determination complained of was based on a mistake in the determination of facts not previously considered; or (3) If in the opinion of the Certifying Officer, a misinterpretation of facts or of the law justified reconsideration of the decision. The Department's denial was based on the fact that Apache Corporation, the parent company, acquired another company resulting in some of Apache International's responsibilities being transferred to the parent company's new subsidiary. Also, the decreased sales or production requirement of the Group Eligibility Requirements of the Trade Act was not met. Corporate-wide sales of crude oil and natural gas at Apache International increased in 1993 compared to 1992. The petitioner states that Apache purchased another company (Hadson Energy in Perth, Australia) in 1993 and had it not been for the addition of Hadson's sales, the workers would have met the decreased sales criterion. The petitioner also states that jobs were shifted offshore. The findings show that Apache International has no domestic operations but is responsible for a portion of Apache Corporation's exploration and production outside of the United States. The remaining portion of the company's international operations are performed by the newly acquired firm_Hadson Energy Limited, headquartered in Perth, Australia. Following the Hadson acquisition, some of Apache International's responsibilities were transferred to Hadson Energy causing some worker separations in the United States. Other findings show that Apache International's operation is for the export market and as such would not form a basis for a worker group certification. U.S. imports of crude oil would not affect Apache's sales in a foreign market. Also, the elimination of domestic jobs because of corporate changes in the export market would not provide a basis for a worker group certification. Conclusion After review of the application and investigative findings, I conclude that there has been no error or misinterpretation of the law or of the facts which would justify reconsideration of the Department of Labor's prior decision. According, the application is denied. Signed at Washington, DC, this June 15, 1994. James D. Van Erden, Administrator, Office of Work-Based Learning. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15661 Filed 6&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;30&hyph;M
