FR940616-0-00103 FR940616-0-00011 ยง9.160 Communications. (a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public. (1) The agency shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford an individual with disabilities an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the agency. (i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the agency shall give primary consideration to the requests of the individual with disabilities. (ii) The agency need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature. (2) Where the agency communicates with applicants and beneficiaries or members of the public by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used to communicate with persons with impaired hearing. (b) The agency shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities. (c) The agency shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility. (d) This section does not require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with this section would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the Secretary or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with ยง9.160 would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, individuals with disabilities receive the benefits and services of the program or activity. ยง9.170 Compliance procedures. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of disability in programs or activities conducted by the agency. (b) The agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 under section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791). (c) The Responsible Official shall coordinate implementation of this section. (d) Persons may submit complete complaints to the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, 451 Seventh St., SW., Washington, DC 20410, or to any HUD Area Office. The agency shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which the agency has jurisdiction. All complete complaints shall be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The agency may extend this time period for good cause. For purposes of determining when a complaint is filed, a complaint mailed to the agency shall be deemed filed on the date it is postmarked. Any other complaint shall be deemed filed on the date it is received by the agency. The agency shall acknowledge all complaints, in writing, within ten (10) working days of receipt of the complaint. (e) If the agency receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate Government entity. (f) The agency shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151 through 4157), is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. The agency shall delete the identity of the complainant from the copy of the complaint. (g)(1) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint for which it has jurisdiction, the Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity shall complete the investigation of the complaint, attempt informal resolution, and if no informal resolution is achieved, issue a letter of findings. If a complaint is filed against the Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, the Secretary or a designee of the Secretary shall investigate and resolve the complaint through informal agreement or letter of findings. (2) If a complaint is resolved informally, the terms of the agreement shall be reduced to writing and made part of the complaint file, with a copy of the agreement provided to the complainant and the agency. The written agreement may include a finding on the issue of discrimination and shall describe any corrective action to which the complainant and the respondent have agreed. (3) If a complaint is not resolved informally, the Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity or a person designated under this paragraph shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing_ (i) Findings of fact and conclusions of law; (ii) A description of a remedy for each violation found; (iii) A notice of the right to appeal to the Secretary; (h)(1) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 90 days of receipt from the agency of the letter required by ยง9.170(g). The Assistant Secretary or the person designated by the Secretary to decide an appeal of a complaint filed against the Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity may extend this time for good cause. (2) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the Assistant Secretary. Decisions on an appeal shall not be issued by the person who made the initial determination. (i) The Assistant Secretary or the person designated by the Secretary to decide an appeal of a complaint filed against the Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the request. If the agency determines that it needs additional information from the complainant, it shall have 60 days from the date it receives the additional information to make its determination on the appeal. (j) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (i) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General. (k) The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency. Dated: June 9, 1994. Henry G. Cisneros, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14499 Filed 6&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;32&hyph;P
