FR940826-0-00038 FR940826-0-00014 §12.912 Forms for applying for Federal assistance. (a) Federal awarding agencies shall comply with the applicable report clearance requirements of 5 CFR part 1320, ``Controlling Paperwork Burdens on the Public,'' with regard to all forms used by the Federal awarding agency in place of or as a supplement to the Standard Form 424 (SF&hyph;424) series. (b) Applicants shall use the SF&hyph;424 series or those forms and instructions prescribed by the Federal awarding agency. (c) For Federal programs covered by E.O. 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs,'' the applicant shall complete the appropriate sections of the SF&hyph;424 (Application for Federal Assistance) indicating whether the application was subject to review by the State Single Point of Contact (SPOC). The name and address of the SPOC for a particular State can be obtained from the Federal awarding agency or the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance . The SPOC shall advise the applicant whether the program for which application is made has been selected by that State for review. (d) Federal awarding agencies that do not use the SF&hyph;424 form will indicate whether the application is subject to review by the State under E.O. 12372. §12.913 Debarment and suspension. Federal awarding agencies and recipients shall comply with the nonprocurement debarment and suspension common rule implementing E.O.s 12549 and 12689, ``Debarment and Suspension,'' Subpart D of 43 CFR part 12. This common rule restricts subawards and contracts with certain parties that are debarred, suspended or otherwise excluded from or ineligible for participation in Federal assistance program or activities. §12.914 Special award conditions. (a) Federal awarding agencies may impose additional requirements as needed, if an applicant or recipient: (1) Has a history of poor performance, (2) Is not financially stable, (3) Has a management system that does not meet the standards prescribed in this part, (4) Has not conformed to the terms and conditions of a previous award, or (5) Is not otherwise responsible. (b) Additional requirements may only be imposed provided that the applicant or recipient is notified in writing as to: (1) The nature of the additional requirements; (2) The reason why the additional requirements are being imposed; (3) The nature of the corrective action needed; (4) The time allowed for completing the corrective actions; and (5) The method for requesting reconsideration of the additional requirements imposed. (c) Any special conditions shall be promptly removed once the conditions that prompted them have been corrected. §12.915 Metric system of measurement. The Metric Conversion Act, as amended by the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act (15 U.S.C. 205) declares that the metric system is the preferred measurement system for U.S. trade and commerce. The Act requires each Federal agency to establish a date or dates in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, when the metric system of measurement will be used in the agency's procurements, grants, and other business-related activities. Metric implementation may take longer where the use of the system is initially impractical or likely to cause significant inefficiencies in the accomplishment of federally-funded activities. Federal awarding agencies will follow the provisions of E.O. 12770, ``Metric Usage in Federal Government Programs.'' When applicable, the awarding agency shall request that measurement-sensitive information to be included as part of the application be expressed in metric units. When required by the awarding agency for grants to recipients, the following term and condition will be incorporated into the grant: Provision All progress and final reports, other reports, or publications produced under this award shall employ the metric system of measurement. However, the recipient may use non-metric measurements to the extent that the recipient has supporting documentation that the use of metric measurements is impracticable or is likely to cause significant inefficiencies or loss of markets to the recipient, such as when foreign competitors are producing competing products in non-metric units. End of Provision §12.916 Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. Under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6962), any State agency or agency of a political subdivision of a State that is using appropriated Federal funds must comply with Section 6002. Section 6002 requires that preference be given in procurement programs to the purchase of specific products containing recycled materials identified in guidelines developed by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) (40 CFR parts 247&hyph;254). Accordingly, State and local institutions of higher education and hospitals that receive direct Federal awards or other Federal funds shall give preference in their procurement programs funded with Federal funds to the purchase of recycled products pursuant to the EPA guidelines. §12.917 Certifications and representations. Unless prohibited by statute or codified regulation, each Federal awarding agency is authorized and encouraged to allow recipients to submit certifications and representations required by statute, executive order, or regulation on an annual basis, if the recipients have ongoing and continuing relationships with the agency. Annual certifications and representations shall be signed by responsible officials with the authority to ensure recipients' compliance with the pertinent requirements. Post-Award Requirements Financial and Program Management §12.920 Purpose of financial and program management. Sections 12.921 through 12.928 prescribe standards for financial management systems, methods for making payments, and rules for: satisfying cost sharing and matching requirements, accounting for program income, budget revision approvals, making audits, determining allowability of cost, and establishing fund availability.
