FR940526-2-00103 FR940526-2-00063 An example of refining outlet selection for this year's survey is the attention paid to defining the distinguishing differences between restaurants categorized as appropriate for family dining and those appropriate for fine dining. OPM developed a matrix which defined such characteristics as menu selections, atmosphere, table setting, seating, reservations, and AAA ratings. This allowed Runzheimer researchers to compare apples to apples between the allowance areas and the Washington, D.C., area. Also, OPM established guidelines directing Runzheimer to survey 100% family restaurants for breakfast, roughly 75% for lunch, and roughly 66% for dinner. 3.4.3␣Special Considerations in Guam and Kauai The effects of Typhoon Omar and Hurricane Iniki in 1992 on the economies of Guam and Kauai, respectively, has been minimal over the long term. At the time, Runzheimer officials worked with local research associates to determine the impact of the storm on local prices. This is not to say that the storms had no effect on the local economies. Indeed, prices in these two areas for the 1993&hyph;1994 survey have been re-examined carefully. Of equal concern this year was the earthquake that rocked Guam during August, causing considerable damage and seriously disrupting the flow of fresh produce into the island. For a period of about two weeks, all such produce had to be flown in at considerably higher cost. Fortunately, when normal shipping channels reopened, ``normal'' pricing was quickly restored, causing negligible affect on the Goods & Services pricing. Also, a senior Runzheimer researcher from the headquarters office traveled to Guam immediately following the earthquake to determine the full extent of the impact on goods and services pricing. 3.5␣Inclusion of Sales and Excise Taxes For all items subject to sales tax, the appropriate amount of tax was added prior to analysis. Runzheimer also included all applicable sales, property and excise taxes to items that were part of other living-cost components. For example, automobile purchase costs in Puerto Rico include an excise tax based upon vehicle type and dealer's acquisition cost. Runzheimer included this tax in computing the total purchase price of a vehicle in Puerto Rico. (See sections 5.2.1 and 5.2.7.) Runzheimer gathered applicable information on taxes by contacting appropriate sources of information in the allowance areas, such as the Excise Tax Officer of the St. Thomas Bureau of Internal Revenue. Runzheimer also drew upon appropriate tax publications, such as the State of Maryland's Sales and Use Tax Laws and Regulations and the ``General Excise Tax Law'' (Chapter 237) of the Hawaii Tax Reports. 3.6␣Goods & Services Survey Results In section 2.2 of this report, Runzheimer presented a detailed explanation of the economic model used to analyze the price data. As it applies to Goods & Services, the approach involved comparing the average prices of marketbasket items in each allowance area with those in the Washington, D.C., area. The resulting price ratios were aggregated into subcategory and then category indexes using the expenditure weightings derived from the 1988 CES. In the area of professional services (accounting and legal fees), Runzheimer and OPM noted the existence of a relatively few extreme values that were either exceptionally low or high cost. In situations such as this, statisticians frequently use the median or trim the data in some manner to enhance reliability. Consequently, Runzheimer recommended that the observations be ranked from low to high and that the top and bottom 20% of the observations be ``trimmed'' (i.e., eliminated) from the data before averages or trends were calculated. (Data were not trimmed if there were four or fewer observations.) OPM agreed. These procedures reduce the influence of anomalies and make survey results more stable from one year to the next. Appendix 4 contains tables showing the ten category indexes, the three weighting patterns, and the three total consumption Goods & Services indexes for each allowance area. The Washington, D.C., area does not require a table because it is, by definition, ``the reference location'' where all category and component indexes equal 100.
