FR940405-1-00028 FR940405-1-00010 Notice No. 581 On the basis of the recommendations contained in the Committee's final report, ATF issued Notice No. 581 on February 4, 1986 (51 FR 4392). This notice proposed the addition of Subpart J, American Grape Variety Names to Part 4. ATF received 156 written comments in response to this notice. In respect to use of Gamay Beaujolais, Notice No. 581 proposed that it should be permitted as an alternate grape variety name for future use only for a period of five years. During the period of its continued use, Notice No. 581 proposed that the actual name of the grape, either Pinot noir or Napa Gamay, should appear on the label in direct conjunction with the designation ``Gamay Beaujolais.'' After the passage of five years, Gamay Beaujolais could no longer be used as a label designation. Comments to Notice No. 581 The proposal to phase out use of Gamay Beaujolais proved controversial. Only three respondents concurred with ATF's proposal to phase out use of Gamay Beaujolais noting that it is not the name of any grape variety. Twenty-seven other respondents objected to the proposal. The consensus among these respondents was that Gamay Beaujolais is well known to consumers as a light red, young, fruity wine and that consumers do not view it as a varietal wine. Several consumers commented that consumer recognition of Gamay Beaujolais is good; that the wine is popular; that consumers know what they are buying; and that elimination of the designation would serve no consumer purpose. Winery proprietors cited the large market for this wine and argued that elimination of the designation would have a severe economic impact on their business and also on grape growers. Notice No. 749 Because the comments on Notice No. 581 varied widely in their approach to the proposals, and because a lengthy period of time had passed since the issuance of Notice No. 581, ATF decided to open the issue of grape varietal names to additional public comment. Thus, on September 3, 1992, ATF issued Notice No. 749 (57 FR 40380), seeking comment on new and revised proposals relating to grape variety names. In Notice No. 749, ATF proposed that Napa Gamay be considered a synonym for the prime name Valdiguie and requested comments on whether Napa Gamay should be phased out in the future. A resolution of the Napa Gamay-Valdiguie issue will be in a forthcoming Treasury decision on grape variety names. Proposal The evidence considered by ATF established that ``Gamay Beaujolais'' is not a true varietal name, and that the two grape varieties which have been called ``Gamay Beaujolais'' in this country are not Gamay grapes. Therefore, ATF has concluded that Gamay Beaujolais should not be listed in Subpart J of 27 CFR Part 4 as a grape variety name. On the basis of the comments to Notice Nos. 581 and 749 and current trade and consumer recognition of the name, ATF instead believes that Gamay Beaujolais is generally known as a type of red wine which may be described as light and fruity. However, ATF believes that many consumers associate the designation ``Gamay Beaujolais'' with a wine produced from the Pinot noir or Napa Gamay grape varieties. Therefore, instead of phasing out the use of the designation ``Gamay Beaujolais'' as proposed by Notice No. 581, ATF is proposing to specifically allow the continued use of Gamay Beaujolais under section 4.34. Since only wines produced from the Pinot noir or Napa Gamay grape varieties have been labeled as ``Gamay Beaujolais,'' ATF believes that consumers now associate those two varieties with the designation ``Gamay Beaujolais.'' However, ATF believes that as part of its effort to standardize the use of American varietal names, it should no longer allow the unqualified use of the designation ``Gamay Beaujolais'' to refer to two separate grape varieties, neither of which is a true Gamay grape. As previously discussed, existing regulations provide that a wine is not entitled to a varietal type designation unless 75 percent of its volume is derived from grapes of that variety. Accordingly, ATF is proposing to allow the use of the designation ``Gamay Beaujolais'' only where the wine derives not less than 75 percent of its volume from Pinot noir grapes or Napa Gamay grapes. Wine which is labeled with the designation ``Gamay Beaujolais'' must also state on the label a varietal type designation (Pinot noir or Napa Gamay) and an appellation of origin. Furthermore, the proposed amendment to section 4.34 specifies that the optional designation ``Gamay Beaujolais'' must appear in direct conjunction with the varietal type designation and the appellation of origin, and shall appear in lettering of substantially the same size and kind. ATF believes that the proposed amendment strikes a balance between the views of the opposing commenters on this issue. On the one hand, various consumers and winery proprietors have commented that consumer recognition of the designation ``Gamay Beaujolais'' is good, and that winery proprietors should not be forced to abandon its use. On the other hand, it has been pointed out that ``Gamay Beaujolais'' is not an accurate varietal designation, and the purpose of the varietal grape regulations is to ensure that the consumer is not misled as to the actual grape varieties used in the production of wine. ATF believes that allowing the use of the optional designation ``Gamay Beaujolais'' in direct conjunction with the actual varietal type designation (Pinot noir or Napa Gamay), as well as an appellation of origin reflecting the true origin of the grapes, will not be confusing or misleading to consumers. The proposed amendment will authorize labels which clearly inform the consumer about the actual grape variety used to make the wine, and the origin of the grapes, while still allowing winery proprietors to use a label designation which has gained widespread consumer recognition in this country. Public Participation ATF requests comments from all interested persons concerning the proposed wine designation. Comments received on or before the closing date will be carefully considered. Comments received after that date will be given the same consideration if it is practical to do so, but assurance of consideration cannot be given except as to comments received on or before the closing date. ATF will not recognize any material in comments as confidential. Comments may be disclosed to the public. Any material which a respondent considers to be confidential or inappropriate for disclosure to the public should not be included in the comments. The name of any person submitting a comment is not exempt from disclosure. Any interested person who desires an opportunity to comment orally at a public hearing on the proposed regulation should submit his or her request, in writing, to the Director within the 90-day comment period. The Director, however, reserves the right to determine, in light of all circumstances, whether a public hearing will be held.
