FR940119-0-00061 FR940119-0-00014 ( 2 ) The towing wires, including the ``leg'' wires, are detached from the net; ( 3 ) It is fan-folded (flaked) and bound around its circumference. (B) A net stowed and lashed down on deck, provided: ( 1 ) It is fan-folded (flaked) and bound around its circumference; ( 2 ) It is securely fastened to the deck or rail of the vessel; and ( 3 ) The towing wires, including the leg wires, are detached from the net. (C) A net that is on a reel and is covered and secured, provided: ( 1 ) The entire surface of the net is covered with canvas or other similar material that is securely bound; ( 2 ) The towing wires, including the leg wires, are detached from the net; and ( 3 ) The codend is removed from the net and stored below deck. (D) Nets that are secured in a manner authorized in writing by the Regional Director. (iv) Measurement of mesh size. Mesh size is measured by using a wedge-shaped gauge having a taper of two centimeters in eight centimeters and a thickness of 2.3 millimeters, inserted into the meshes under a pressure or pull of five kilograms. The mesh size will be the average of the measurements of any series of 20 consecutive meshes for nets having 75 or more meshes, and 10 consecutive meshes for nets having fewer than 75 meshes. The mesh in the regulated portion of the net will be measured at least five meshes away from the lacings, running parallel to the long axis of the net. (3) Chafing gear and other gear obstructions_ (i) Net obstruction or constriction. A fishing vessel may not use any device or material, including, but not limited to, nets, net strengtheners, ropes, lines, or chafing gear, on the top of a trawl net, except that one splitting strap and one bull rope (if present), consisting of line and rope no more than 3 inches (7.62 cm) in diameter, may be used if such splitting strap and/or bull rope does not constrict in any manner the top of the trawl net. ``The top of the trawl net'' means the 50 percent of the net that (in a hypothetical situation) would not be in contact with the ocean bottom during a tow if the net were laid flat on the ocean floor. For the purpose of this paragraph, head ropes shall not be considered part of the top of the trawl net. (ii) Mesh obstruction or constriction. A fishing vessel may not use any mesh configuration, mesh construction, or other means on, or in, the top of the net, as defined in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, if it obstructs the meshes of the net in any manner. (iii) No vessel may use or possess a net capable of catching sea scallops in which the bars entering or exiting the knots twist around each other. (b) Dredge vessel gear restrictions. All dredge vessels fishing for or in possession of more than 40 pounds (18.14 kg) of shucked scallops or 5 U.S. bushels (176.2 l) of in-shell scallops, and all dredge vessels issued a limited access scallop permit and fishing under the DAS Program, with the exception of hydraulic clam dredges and mahogany quahog dredges in possession of 400 pounds or less (181.44 kg) of sea scallops, must comply with the following restrictions: (1) Maximum dredge width. The combined dredge width in use by or in possession of such vessels shall not exceed 31 feet (9.4 m) measured at the widest point in the bail of the dredge, except as provided under paragraph (e) of this section. (2) Minimum mesh size. (i) The mesh size of net material on the top of a scallop dredge in use by or in possession of such vessels shall not be smaller than 51/2 inches (13.97 cm). (ii) Mesh size is measured as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section. (3) Minimum ring size. (i) For 1994 and 1995, the inside ring size of a scallop dredge in use by or in possession of such vessels shall not be smaller than 31/4 inches (83 mm). (ii) For 1996 and thereafter, the inside ring size of a scallop dredge in use by or in possession of such vessels shall not be smaller than 31/2 inches (89 mm). (iii) Ring sizes are determined by measuring the shortest straight line passing through the center of the ring from one inside edge to the opposite inside edge of the ring. The measurement shall not include normal welds from ring manufacturing or links. The rings to be measured will be at least five rings away from the mouth, and at least two rings away from other rigid portions of the dredge. (4) Chafing gear and other gear obstructions_ (i) Chafing gear restrictions. No chafing gear or cookies shall be used on the top of a scallop dredge; (ii) Link restrictions. No more than double links between rings shall be used in or on scallop dredges; (iii) Dredge and net obstructions. No material, device, net, or dredge configuration or design shall be used if it results in obstructing the release of scallops that would have passed through a legal size net and dredge that did not have in use any such material, device, or net or dredge configuration or design. (c) Crew restrictions. Limited access vessels fishing under or subject to the scallop DAS allocation program may have no more than nine people, including the operator, on board unless fishing under the small dredge program specified in ยง650.21(e), or otherwise authorized by the Regional Director. (d) Sorting and shucking machines. (1) Shucking machines are prohibited on all limited access vessels fishing under the scallop DAS program or any vessel in possession of more than 400 pounds (181.44 kg) of scallops, unless the vessel has not been issued a Federal limited access scallop permit and fishes exclusively in state waters. (2) Sorting machines are prohibited on limited access vessels fishing under the scallop DAS program that shuck scallops at sea.
