FR941013-2-00121 FR941013-2-00087 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Office of the Secretary [Order 94&hyph;10&hyph;5 and Docket 49814] Order Tentatively Establishing Exemption Criteria for Regional and Commuter Airlines From Certain Notice Requirements SUMMARY: We are publishing the order in its entirety as an appendix to this document. DATES: Issued in Washington, DC, October 6, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dennis DeVany, Chief, EAS & Domestic Analysis Division, U.S. Department of Transportation, Office of Aviation Analysis, room 6401, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590, (202) 366&hyph;1061. On August 23, 1994, Congress enacted the Federal Aviation Administration Authorization Act of 1994 (P.L. 103&hyph;305), which, among other things, establishes notice requirements on airlines intending to suspend service at certain communities, effective February 1, 1995. Specifically, the law states, ``An air carrier may not terminate interstate air transportation from a nonhub airport included on the Secretary's latest published list of such airports, unless such air carrier has given the Secretary at least 45 days' notice before such termination.'' 1 There are several exemptions to the notice requirement. Carriers are exempt from filing a suspension notice if they are experiencing a sudden or unforeseen financial emergency including natural weather-related emergencies, equipment-related emergencies, or strikes. Other exemptions include seasonal suspensions, cases in which the airline has served the community for 180 days or less, cases in which the airline provides jet service from another airport serving the same community, and cases in which the departing airline arranges with another airline to provide replacement service so that the service continues uninterrupted. 2 1 The final version of the law contains a technical drafting error. The ``Definitions'' section of the law (section 41715(d)(1)), includes a definition of ``nonhub airport'' by reference, but the reference is incorrect_i.e., it refers to section 41731(a)(3), which in fact defines a ``hub airport'', but should have referred to section 41731(a)(4). The Senate version, which was adopted in conference, referred to section 419(k)(4) of the Federal Aviation Act, which correctly defined a ``nonhub airport''. During the time that the bill was under consideration, the Federal Aviation Act and other related statutes were codified. The incorrect citation above occurred in the translation to the codified statute. We are implementing the provision as intended and will seek corrective legislation. 2 The Department will issue a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking addressing those issues shortly. Finally, the law allows for waivers from the notice requirements for regional and commuter airlines. Specifically, the law requires that, ``Before January 1, 1995, the Secretary shall establish terms and conditions under which regional/commuter carriers can be excluded from the termination notice requirement.'' First, we wish to make clear that nothing in the legislation or in this order has any effect on the notice requirements already in place in connection with the Department's essential air service (EAS) program. All carriers will continue to be subject to all applicable laws and regulations pertaining to the EAS program. In case of conflict, the more stringent and longer notice requirements shall prevail. By this order we tentatively propose to establish criteria for waivers for regional and commuter airlines. The legislative history of this bill indicates that the primary focus is on jet service, i.e. , on ensuring that communities receive at least 45 days' notice before jet service to them is terminated. Consistent with that intent, the legislation requires the Secretary to carve out exemptions for regional and commuter carriers. (The legislation defines a regional/commuter carrier as an airline operating under 14 CFR Part 135, or one operating under 14 CFR Part 121 that operates exclusively with 70-seat or smaller aircraft.) Because the primary focus is on jet service, we propose to exempt regional and commuter carriers from the requirement to file a 45-day notice if jet service would remain at the community. Absent the availability of jet service, the focus of the new law would also appear not to dictate a notice obligation if a community retained two or more non-jet carriers following the suspension of service by another. We would propose, therefore, to grant exemptions from the 45-day filing requirement if two or more regional/commuter carriers would remain at the community, i.e. , the third to last commuter/regional carrier would not have to file a notice. We would not exempt the second to last carrier from a notice obligation. Requiring such notice in that situation would obviate the prospect that one of two carriers serving a community could suspend service abruptly even if it was providing the lion's share of the service, as long as the remaining carrier was technically meeting the community's EAS definition. We will establish a 30-day period from the issue date of this order for interested parties to show cause why we should not adopt our tentative conclusions as final. Any objection should demonstrate how our tentative decision is not consistent with the applicable law and must include the conditions under which regional/commuter airlines should be exempted from the notice requirements. After reviewing all the objections, if any, we will issue an order taking final action on the waivers for commuter and regional carriers. This order is issued under authority delegated in 49 CFR 1.56(i). Accordingly, 1. The Department tentatively establishes waivers for regional and commuter airlines from the notice requirements contained in the Federal Aviation Administration Authorization Act of 1994 (P.L. 103&hyph;305). The waivers would apply under either of the following two conditions: (1) if the affected community would continue to receive scheduled jet service, or (2) if the affected community would continue to receive scheduled air service from two or more regional/commuter carriers; 2. The Department directs all interested parties to show cause within 30 days of the issue date of this order why we should not finalize the tentative conclusions in paragraph 1 above; and 3. We will publish a copy of this order in the Federal Register . By: Patrick V. Murphy, Acting Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25319 Filed 10&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;62&hyph;P&hyph;M
