FR941206-1-00078 FR941206-1-00007 _cleaning solvent from gun/line cleaning has been collected into a normally closed container; and _the washoff tank is covered when not in use; 2. An I&M plan as discussed in section VI.E.1.a.ii; 3. A formulation assessment plan as discussed in section VI.E.1.a.iv; 4. An accounting system for washoff and cleaning solvents as discussed in section VI.E.1.b.iv; and 5. The operator training program discussed in section VI.E.1.c. The Work Practice Implementation Plan would be followed and maintained onsite to demonstrate on-going compliance, and made available at the request of the Administrator or permitting authority at any time. 2. Other Work Practices Considered In developing the work practices for the proposed rule, the Work Practices Work Group as well as other Committee members identified additional measures that were considered for inclusion in the proposed rule. This section identifies those other measures and discusses why the Committee did not include these measures in the proposed rule. Individual sources and regulators are encouraged to consider this list to determine if some measures may be appropriate, or at least applicable to some sources within the source category. The following measures were identified as possible work practices but were not included in the proposed rule: 1. Facilities should develop a multimedia pollution prevention plan that addresses hazardous waste generation, solid waste generation, water pollution releases, air emissions, and worker exposure; 2. Position workpiece to minimize overspray, and position the piece to facilitate good spraying techniques by operators; 3. Whenever practical, use heat instead of solvent to reduce coating viscosity; 4. Optimize spray pattern and technique to the work piece size, shape, and orientation; 5. Use self-contained recycling gun washers; 6. Whenever practical, schedule colors light to dark to minimize extent of cleaning needed, and try to schedule long runs to minimize material changeover and associated cleaning; 7. Reduce the need for cleaning by using dedicated equipment for high-volume coatings; 8. Use the shortest possible lines to reduce solvent needed for line cleaning; 9. Drain lines prior to solvent cleaning and use air pressure, pigs/squeegees, or solvent pulse cleaning; 10. Reuse dirty cleaning and washoff solvents for noncritical uses wherever possible, and recycle the solvents once they are too contaminated for reuse; 11. Review the EPA's Alternative Control Techniques Document_Industrial Cleaning Solvents (EPA No. 453/R&hyph;94&hyph;015) and incorporate reduction techniques identified therein. Several of the above practices were not proposed by the Committee because the Committee believed that by requiring them, the proposed rule would be dictating specific manufacturing techniques that may not be appropriate for all situations. Specifically, the Committee believed that this eliminated options 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10. Also, options such as 2, 4, 8, 9, and 10 are cost savings techniques that would likely be implemented by a facility if they were technically feasible. The Committee decided that, for the most part, options 6 and 7 were not feasible for this industry because the manufacturing schedule is highly dependent on the furniture order that is received in a given week, month, etc. Manufacturers that consistently produce the same item are most likely using these more efficient techniques. Options 1 and 11 would require sources to develop more broad-based plans and accounting systems to track not only cleaning solvent usage but, specifically in the case of option 1, a plan to address wastes from other media. The Committee considered that the proposed rule required tracking finishing material usage (to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits), cleaning solvent usage, and washoff solvent usage; the Committee believed that these requirements were good foundations to any multimedia, pollution prevention plan. Therefore, the Committee did not recommend that additional plans be required. Option 3 was not considered necessary by the Committee because the emission limits address the addition of thinner to coatings. Finally, option 5, the use of recycling gun washers, was not proposed because the Work Practice Work Group did not have data on these systems that indicated they were more efficient than other methods of spray gun cleaning. Because there are no data on the effectiveness of these units, the Committee concluded that industry should not be required to purchase them, especially because the proposed work practices already require flushing solvent used for gun cleaning into normally closed containers. The Committee recognized that many work practices are proposed for this rule and implementation and compliance could become complicated. However, looking at other control techniques feasible for this industry, the Committee concluded that work practices would be the most technically feasible and least costly. The EPA specifically requests comments on the work practice standards: (1) do the work practices (in conjunction with the emission limits) adequately reduce HAP emissions; and (2) are the work practices overly burdensome to implement or should additional work practices be considered? The EPA requests data to support or refute a proposed work practice or, for additional work practices that are suggested, evidence of its effectiveness in reducing emissions.
