FR940513-0-00169 FR940513-0-00034 (9) Direct heating equipment. (10) Pool heaters. (11) Kitchen ranges and ovens. (12) Television sets. (13) Fluorescent lamp ballasts. (14) General service fluorescent lamps. (15) Medium base compact fluorescent lamps. (16) General service incandescent lamps, including incandescent reflector lamps. (17) Showerheads. (18) Faucets. (19) Water closets. (20) Urinals. (21) Any other type of consumer product which the Department of Energy classifies as a covered product under section 322(b) of the Act (42 U.S.C. 6292). (p) Covered product means any consumer product or consumer appliance product described in ยง305.3 of the Rule. (q) Luminaire means a complete lighting unit consisting of a fluorescent lamp or lamps, together with parts designed to distribute the light, to position and protect such lamps, and to connect such lamps to the power supply through the ballast. (r) Ballast efficacy factor means the relative light output divided by the power input of a fluorescent lamp ballast, as measured under test conditions specified in American National Standards Institute standard C82.2&hyph;1984, or as may be prescribed by the Secretary of Energy. (s) Bulb shape means the shape of the lamp, especially the glass portion. (t) Base for lamps means the portion of the lamp which screws into the socket. (u) Color rendering index or CRI for lamps means the measure of the degree of color shift objects undergo when illuminated by a light source as compared with the color of those same objects when illuminated by a reference source of comparable color temperature. (v) Correlated color temperature for lamps means the absolute temperature of a blackbody whose chromaticity most nearly resembles that of the light source. (w) Lamp type means all lamps designated as having the same electrical and lighting characteristics and made by one manufacturer. (x) Wattage for lamps means the total electrical power consumed by a lamp in watts, after an initial seasoning period and including, for fluorescent lamps, arc watts plus cathode watts. (y) Light output for lamps means the total luminous flux (power) of a lamp in lumens. (z) Life and lifetime for lamps mean length of operating time of a statistically large group of lamps between first use and failure of 50 percent of the group. (aa) Lamp efficacy means the light output of a lamp divided by its wattage, expressed in lumens per watt (LPW). (bb) Average lamp efficacy means the lamp efficacy readings taken over a statistically significant period of manufacture with the readings averaged over that period. (cc) IES means the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America and, as used herein, is the prefix for test procedures adopted by IES. (dd) ASME means the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and, as used herein, is the prefix for national standards and codes adopted by ASME. (ee) ANSI means the American National Standards Institute and, as used herein, is the prefix for national standards and codes adopted by ANSI. (ff) Water use means the quantity of water flowing through a showerhead, faucet, water closet, or urinal at point of use, determined in accordance with test procedures under section 323 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 6293. (gg) Flushometer valve means a valve attached to a pressured water supply pipe and so designed that, when actuated, it opens the line for direct flow into the fixture at a rate and quantity to operate properly the fixture, and then gradually closes to provide trap reseal in the fixture in order to avoid water hammer. The pipe to which this device is connected is in itself of sufficient size that, when opened, will allow the device to deliver water at a sufficient rate of flow for flushing purposes.
