FR941221-2-00065 FR941221-2-00052 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 10(a)(1)(B) of the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) allows the Services, under certain circumstances, to issue permits to non-Federal entities for the ``take'' of federally listed fish and wildlife species. ``Take'' is defined by the Act as to ``harass, harm, pursue, hunt, shoot, wound, kill, trap, capture, or collect, or to attempt to engage in any such conduct.'' The Act defines ``incidental take'' as take that is ``incidental to, and not the purpose of, the carrying out of an otherwise lawful activity.'' Under the Act, an ``incidental take permit'' must be obtained prior to any action by a non-Federal entity that will result in take of federally listed species (Federal agencies may obtain similar authority for take under section 7 of the Act). Any applicant for an incidental take permit must submit to the Services a ``conservation plan'' that species, among other things, the impacts to affected species likely to result from such taking and the steps the applicant will take to minimize and mitigate such impacts. This draft handbook provides consistent procedures for Service compliance with the incidental take permit provisions of Section 10(a)(1)(B) of the Act. Consistency in the section 10(a)(1)(B) program will be achieved by: (1) providing national procedural and policy guidance; (2) providing standardized guidance to Service offices and personnel who participate in conservation planning programs under section 10(a)(1)(B) and review and process incidental take permit applications; (3) ensuring Service compliance with section 10(a)(1)(B) of the Act; (4) providing assistance to applicants in the non-Federal sector who wish to apply for incidental take permits, and (5) providing for conservation of federally listed, proposed and candidate species. Because of organizational differences between the Services and the character of many of the marine species, not all circumstances in the handbook will apply to the National Marine Fisheries Service. All substantive procedures and definitions are supported by both Services. Further guidance clarifying National Marine Fisheries Service specific organizational requirements will be included in the final handbook. Public Comments Solicited The Services intend that a final decision on the Draft Handbook for Habitat Conservation Planning and Incidental Take Permit Processing will take advantage of information and recommendations from all interested parties. Therefore, comments or suggestions from the public, other concerned government agencies, the scientific community, industry, or any other interested party concerning this draft document are hereby solicited. All comments and materials received will be considered prior to the approval of a final document. Author/Editor: The editor of this document is William E. Lehman, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Division of Endangered Species (See ADDRESSES section). Authority The authority for this action is the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ). Dated: October 21, 1994. Richard N. Smith, Acting Director, Fish and Wildlife Service. Dated: November 9, 1994. Charles Karnella, Acting Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31342 Filed 12&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
