FR940921-0-00111 FR940921-0-00016 (iv) Written approval from the Administrator of the fuel specifications must be provided prior to the start of testing. (c) Mixtures of petroleum and methanol fuels for flexible fuel motorcycles. (1) Mixtures of petroleum and methanol fuels used for exhaust and evaporative emission testing and service accumulation for flexible fuel motorcycles shall be within the range of fuel mixtures for which the motorcycle was designed. (2) Manufacturer testing and service accumulation may be performed using only those mixtures (mixtures may be different for exhaust testing, evaporative testing and service accumulation) expected to result in the highest emissions, provided: (i) The fuels which constitute the mixture will be used in customer service; (ii) Information, acceptable to the Administrator, is provided by the manufacturer to show that the designated fuel mixtures would result in the highest emissions; and (iii) Written approval from the Administrator of the fuel specifications must be provided prior to the start of testing. (d) Natural gas-fuel. (1) Natural gas-fuel having the following specifications will be used by the Administrator for exhaust and evaporative emission testing of natural gas-fueled motorcycles. Natural gas-fuel having the following specifications or substantially similar specifications approved by the Administrator, shall be used by the manufacturer for emission testing. Natural Gas Certification Fuel Specifications 1Item 1␣ 1ASTM test method No. 1Value Methane min. mole pct. D1945 89.0 Ethane max. mole pct. D1945 4.5 C 3 and higher max. mole pct. D1945 2.3 C 6 and higher max. mole pct. D1945 0.2 Oxygen max. mole pct. D1945 0.6 Inert gases: Sum of CO 2 and N 2 max. mole pct. D1945 4.0 Odorant1 1The natural gas at ambient conditions must have a distinctive odor potent enough for its presence to be detected down to a concentration in air of not over 1/5 (one-fifth) of the lower limit of flammability. (2) Natural gas-fuel and engine lubricants representative of commercial fuels and engine lubricants which will be generally available through retail outlets shall be used in service accumulation. (3) Other natural gas-fuels may be used for testing and service accumulation provided: (i) They are commercially available; (ii) Information, acceptable to the Administrator, is provided to show that only the designated fuel would be used in customer service; (iii) Written approval from the Administrator of the fuel specifications must be provided prior to the start of testing. (e) Liquefied petroleum gas-fuel. (1) Liquefied petroleum gas-fuel used for exhaust and evaporative emission testing and in service accumulation of liquefied petroleum gas-fueled motorcycles shall be commercially available liquefied petroleum gas-fuel. (2) Manufacturers shall recommend the liquefied petroleum gas-fuel to be used for testing and service accumulation in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section. (3) The Administrator shall determine the liquefied petroleum gas-fuel to be used for testing and service accumulation. (4) Other liquefied petroleum gas-fuels may be used for testing and service accumulation provided:
