FR941222-0-00011 FR941222-0-00003 A number of comments were related to the disposal of high-level waste and the use of dry cask storage technology in general, rather than to the acceptability of this particular cask. Examples of these comments include: _The Federal Government's failure to resolve questions about the permanent storage of nuclear waste leaves both the plant and public with limited options: additional storage in pools, additional storage in dry casks, or plant shutdown. The Federal Government has an obligation to resolve the issue of permanent or interim storage. It would be difficult to overstate the need for dispatch in doing so, as hundreds of American communities will eventually face this problem. _It is not fair to the public of Ohio to link Toledo Edison Company's attempts to continue the safe storage of its nuclear fuel with insistence by others that the NRC shut down Davis-Besse and every other nuclear plant in the country. _Only dry storage casks that are compatible with future DOE interim or permanent storage operation, including transportation, should be approved for use under the general license and listed in 10 CFR 72.214. These comments deal with broad policy and program issues relating to the storage and disposal of high-level radioactive waste, including the DOE's repository program and as such are beyond the scope of this rule. However, there is a summary of relevant information on many of these broad issues in Group G. Many comments were directed at the Standardized NUHOMS&hyph;24P with only a few comments being specific to the Standardized NUHOMS&hyph;52B. Many commenters discussed topics that were not the subject of this rulemaking and thus were not specifically addressed by the NRC staff as a part of this final rule action. These comments express opposition to the use of dry cask storage and included the following suggestions and topics: (1) Nuclear plants generating radioactive waste should be shut down. (2) The production of radioactive waste should be stopped when the existing spent fuel pool (and off-load-reactor capacity) is full. (3) A formal hearing should be required at each site using dry storage casks. (4) The Davis-Besse plant should be shut down. (5) The use of nuclear power should be stopped and existing sites cleaned up. (6) Palisades experienced problems in using the VSC&hyph;24 cask. (7) Alternative forms of power should be used. Finally, many commenters expressed concern over the ability of dry cask storage designs, presumably including the Standardized NUHOMS, to store spent fuel safely. The following responses to these comments reflect a small but important portion of the NRC's review of health, safety, and environmental aspects of the Standardized NUHOMS to ensure that the cask is designed to provide protection of the public health and safety and environment under both normal conditions and severe, unlikely but credible, accident conditions. Dry cask storage systems are massive devices, designed and analyzed to provide shielding from direct exposure to radiation, to confine the spent fuel in a safe storage condition, and to prevent releases of radiation to the environment. They are designed to perform these tasks by relying on passive heat removal and confinement systems without moving parts and with minimal reliance on human intervention to safely fulfill their function for the term of storage. The NRC staff has concluded that the methods of analysis are conservative and assure that the design has appropriate margins of safety under both normal and accident conditions.
