FR940727-1-00051 FR940727-1-00014 (2) Prohibited from treating them, except by responding to releases as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section; and (3) Prohibited from sending or taking the hazardous waste lamps to a place other than a consolidation point, destination facility, or foreign destination. (f) Lamp management . (1) A generator must at all times manage hazardous waste lamps in a way that minimizes lamp breakage. (2)(i) A generator must immediately contain all releases of residues from hazardous waste lamps. (ii) A generator must determine whether any materials resulting from the release are hazardous wastes, and if so, the generator must manage them in accordance with all applicable requirements of 40 CFR parts 260 through 272. (3) A generator must ensure that all employees are thoroughly familiar with proper waste handling and emergency procedures, relative to their responsibilities during normal facility operations and emergencies. ยง273.32 Transporter requirements. (a) Shipments from a generator to a consolidation point, from a generator to a destination facility, or from one consolidation point to another consolidation point. (1)(i) A transporter must at all times contain unbroken lamps in packaging that will minimize breakage during normal handling and transport conditions; and (ii) A transporter must at all times contain broken lamps in packaging that will minimize releases of lamp fragments and residues. (2) A transporter of hazardous waste lamps may only store them at a transfer facility for ten days or less. (3) A transporter of hazardous waste lamps is prohibited from: (i) Diluting or disposing of them; (ii) Treating them, except by responding to releases as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section; and (iii) Transporting them to a place other than a consolidation point, destination facility, or foreign destination. (4)(i) A transporter must at all times manage hazardous waste lamps in a way that minimizes lamp breakage. (ii) A transporter must immediately contain all releases of residues from hazardous waste lamps. (iii) A transporter must determine whether any materials resulting from the release are hazardous wastes, and if so, the transporter must manage them in accordance with all applicable requirements of 40 CFR parts 260 through 272. (b) Shipments from a consolidation point to a destination facility . A transporter who transports shipments from a consolidation point to a destination facility must comply with 40 CFR part 263. ยง273.33 Consolidation point requirements. (a) Condition of lamps . The owner or operator of a consolidation point managing hazardous waste lamps must at all times: (1) Contain unbroken lamps in packaging that will minimize breakage during normal handling conditions; and (2) Contain broken lamps in packaging that will minimize releases of lamp fragments and residues. (b) Storage . (1) The owner or operator of a consolidation point may store a hazardous waste lamp for no longer than one year from the date that the owner or operator receives it. (2) The owner or operator of a consolidation point who stores hazardous waste lamps must be able to demonstrate that lamps are not stored for more than one year from the date they were received. The owner or operator may make this demonstration by:
