FR940712-1-00058 FR940712-1-00012 The third major category is miscellaneous communication uses. These uses include amateur radio, personal/private receive-only, passive reflectors, and natural resource and environmental monitoring equipment. These uses may be permanent or temporary and the rent is either a flat rent of $75 for a full year or a prorated rent if the term is less than a year. Additional Users The fair market rent depends on the type of communication use and the demand for it in a local market. Therefore, the market value may change if there is a significant change from a single use to a multiple use facility. Authorized holders may allow other users in their building under terms of their right-of-way authorization. Additional users will not be required to have a separate right-of-way authorization. It is proposed that all categories of use be subject to a provision regarding the payment of a percentage of gross rent received from the sublease rent of space in the facility. The facility owner will be responsible for paying the base rent for the authorized primary use of the facility, plus a percent of gross sublease rent for tenants within the facility. Gross sublease rent is defined as the rent received by the holder of the communication use right-of-way grant from tenants for space in the building or on the tower. Gross sublease rent does not include road or building maintenance or service fees for power and backup generators. The BLM proposes to assess all users holding a right-of-way authorization a base rent plus 15 percent, for the first 5 years, of the annual gross receipts received from renting space in the facility. In the sixth year after the effective date of this rule, the percentage would be increased to 25 percent. This provision would apply to any use co-located in the facility for which the owner is receiving a sublease rental payment. The following procedures will be used to calculate the rent: 1. BLM will initiate a billing for the annual base rent calculated from the proposed schedule; and 2. When making the assessed annual base rent payment, the holder will submit a certified statement to the BLM regarding rent collected from tenants during the previous year, and include the required precentage of gross rental with the total payment. The proposed rental payment required for the category of facility manager is also based on a base rent plus 15 percent of gross receipts from rental of space in the facility. In the sixth year after the effective date of this rule, the percentage would be increased to 25 percent. The percentage applies to all population strata for that category. Annual Fee Updating Under current procedures rental payments are updated every 5 years. During the 1980's, the increases were often fairly substantial and resulted in complaints and increased appeals. In many cases rental payments had not been updated for 10 to 15 years. Limitations on the agency's authority to increase rent over the last 4 years have exacerbated the problem. The base rent proposed in the schedule will be updated annually based on the U.S. Department of Labor Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI&hyph;U), U.S. City Average, published in July of each year. Calculating the amount of the annual adjustment involves changing the previous year's rental by the change in the level of the CPI&hyph;U for the current year. The following example illustrates the computation of percent change: CPI&hyph;U, U.S. City Average 136.0 Less CPI for previous period 129.9 Equals index point change 6.1 Divide by previous period CPI 129.9 Equals 0.047 Result multiplied by 100 0.047×100 Equals percent change 4.7 Market information regarding use of an index was mixed. However, more recent transactions indicate that increases in annual rent are linked to changes in the Consumer Price Index instead of increases in land value. This reflects the desire of property owners to maintain the relative value of the annual payments in terms of annual inflation. Comments received by the FS expressed concern that the Consumer Price Index may dramatically increase rents beyond the ability of right-of-way holders to pass on the increases to their customers. These correspondents also were concerned that the increases over time would be higher than normal increases in land rents in the private market. The BLM agrees with the comments and proposes to limit annual increases based on the CPI&hyph;U to no more than 5 percent.
