FR941213-0-00012 FR941213-0-00003 Speed Control Determination The agencies conclude that speeding does represent a significant traffic safety problem throughout the country, and that numerous countermeasures have been developed that have proven to be most effective in addressing this problem. Accordingly, NHTSA and FHWA have decided to designate Speed Control as a separate National Priority program area. Speed Control will be administered jointly by both agencies. School Bus Safety Is School Bus Safety a Problem of National Concern? NHTSA and FHWA explained in the NPRM that the safety of children in school buses has been a primary concern of parents and school systems ever since buses began to be used to transport children and that this concern has helped develop school buses into the safest form of transportation in the country. The NPRM reported that, according to the National Safety Council's ``Accident Facts'' (1991), during the 1989&hyph;90 school year, an estimated 380,000 buses were used to transport 22 million pupils approximately 3.8 billion miles (21 million miles per school day) and that occupant fatality rates per hundred million passenger miles in 1989 were 1.12 for passenger cars and 0.04 for school buses. The agencies recognized in the NPRM that school bus crashes, as compared with automobile crashes, have a much different effect on the population as a whole. When a child is fatally injured in a school bus crash, there is a greater sense of loss and a greater sense of tragedy. For this reason, school bus fatalities and crashes often receive a high degree of public attention and draw an immediate and passionate response from the community. However, the number of fatalities in school bus crashes is small, particularly when considering exposure and when compared to the number of fatalities related to other priority programs. In 1991, passenger cars were involved in 86.4 percent of all traffic crashes and 67.9 percent of all fatal crashes; whereas school buses were involved in only 0.4 percent of all traffic crashes and in 0.3 percent of all fatal crashes. These data demonstrate that the safety problem related to school buses is not great when compared to that of other types of vehicles.
