FR940720-0-00012 FR940720-0-00001 4. Fees for Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installations Comment. One commenter, while noting that the willingness and ability of the NRC to hold the line on, and indeed reduce, the recoverable budget for FY 1994 is commendable, questioned the increase in fees from $136,200 to $363,500 for Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installations. As a minimum, the commenter believes NRC should identify the additional resources to be expended in this area. Response. The reasons for the increased fees for independent spent fuel storage licensees are two-fold. First, the budgeted amount necessary to regulate spent fuel activities which is recovered through 10 CFR Part 170 and 171 fees increased to provide regulatory oversight for the increased number of facilities and to accomplish necessary rulemaking activities for spent fuel facilities. Additionally, as the licensing of these facilities are completed, the amount of fees from 10 CFR Part 170 decreased resulting in an increased amount of the budget that must be recovered from 10 CFR Part 171. 5. Proration of Annual Fees Comment. Several commenters concurred with the proposed proration provisions and permitting a waiver of annual fees for those who either filed for termination of their license prior to October 1, 1993, or permanently ceased licensed activities by September 30, 1993 but had not yet received necessary NRC approvals before the end of the fiscal year. Response. The NRC has amended 10 CFR 171.17 to revise the proration provision for reactors and add a proration provision for materials licenses. The proration provisions are effective for FY 1994. The NRC proposed to prorate the annual fees for materials licenses upgraded or downgraded during the fiscal year. However, based on lack of sufficient data at this time on upgrades and downgrades of licenses and the administrative burden to implement this part of the proposed proration provision for FY 1994, the NRC will prorate the annual fees only for those licenses for which a termination request or a request for a POL has been filed during the fiscal year and for new licenses issued during the fiscal year. This issue will be revisited in a future rulemaking. E. Other Issues 1. Impact of Fees on Licensees Comment. Several commenters expressed concern about the impact of fees, particularly on the practice of nuclear medicine. Some commenters indicated that the increase in annual fees may indirectly limit access to critical radiological care, particularly for small, rural, medical practices. They suggest that the fees be reduced or that NRC freeze the annual license fee for a five-year period in order for them to stay in business. Response. The NRC is concerned about the impact of its fees but has concluded that significant changes can only come about through the enactment of legislation. The Commission is satisfied that the fee schedule being promulgated for FY 1994 satisfies all statutory obligations. The Commission recently considered the effect of fees on the medical community and decided that it would not provide the significant fee relief requested by the medical commenters (59 FR 12555; March 17, 1994). 2. Deferral of Fees for Standardized Plants and Early Site Reviews Comment. One commenter urged NRC to reestablish the NRC's previous fee deferral policy for review of standardized plant designs and early site reviews indicating that fee deferral for review of the standardized designs is essential to encourage the development of such designs. Response. The Commission decided in the FY 1991 final fee rule that the costs for standardized reactor design reviews, whether for domestic or foreign applicants, should be assessed under 10 CFR Part 170 to those filing an application with the NRC for approval or certification of a standardized design (56 FR 31478; July 10, 1991). Recently, the Commission revisited this issue as part of its review of fee policy required by the EPA&hyph;92 and reconfirmed its FY 1991 decision. The NRC continues to believe the costs of these reviews should be assessed to advanced reactor applicants. The NRC finds no compelling justification for singling out these classes of applications for special treatment and shifting additional costs to operating power reactors or other NRC licensees. 3. Revise 10 CFR 171.13 Notice Comment. One commenter pointed out that 10 CFR 171.13 states that the NRC will publish a notice concerning the annual fee in the Federal Register during the first quarter of each fiscal year and that for the past four years the NRC has not met the requirement stated in the regulation. The commenter suggests that the NRC publish the proposed annual fee and professional hourly rate as early as possible within NRC's fiscal year to facilitate licensees' budget and planning processes. Response. The NRC agrees with the commenter and acknowledges the realities of the situation that the proposed rule has been published during the third quarter of each of the past four fiscal years. The intent of the NRC is to publish the proposed rule as quickly as is practicable but realizes and agrees that it is unlikely that publication will occur during the first quarter of the fiscal year. To permit appropriate notice and comments, however, 10 CFR 171.13 will not be revised in this final rule but will be revised in a future rulemaking.
