FR941220-0-00051 FR941220-0-00010 The Etowah darter inhabits warm and cool, medium and large creeks or small rivers that are moderate or high gradient with rocky bottoms. It is found in relatively shallow riffles, with large gravel, cobble, and small boulder substrates. The Etowah darter is typically associated with the swiftest portions of shallow riffles, but occasionally adults are taken at the tails of riffles. The sites having the greatest abundance of Etowah darters had clear water and relatively little silt in the riffles. The Etowah darter, like other members of the subgenus Nothonotus, shuns pool habitats and is intolerant of impoundment. The Etowah darter is endemic to the upper Etowah River system in north Georgia, where it is restricted to the upper Etowah River mainstem and two tributaries, Long Swamp and Amicalola Creeks. These streams drain both the Blue Ridge and Piedmont physiographic provinces. This distribution suggests habitat specialization; all streams inhabited by this species are geographically adjacent in the most upland portion of the river system. For a fish of moderate to large creeks or small rivers, the Etowah darter has one of the most restricted distributions in the southeast (Lee et al . 1980). The Etowah darter has been formally described by Wood and Mayden (1993). The Cherokee darter appeared as a category 2 species in the Service's notice of review for animal candidates published in the Federal Register of January 6, 1989 (54 FR 554) and November 21, 1991 (56 FR 58804). Category 2 species are taxa under review for listing, but for which conclusive data on biological vulnerability and threat(s) are not currently available to support proposed rules. The Service commenced funding a status survey in 1989 to better determine the status of the recently discovered Cherokee darter. After field work had commenced, another undescribed fish was discovered in the Etowah River system, the Etowah darter. The survey was modified to address the population status of both these undescribed darters. A final report was received on March 30, 1993 (Burkhead 1993), providing sufficient information on biological vulnerability and threats to support a proposed rule to classify the Cherokee darter as threatened and the Etowah darter as endangered. On April 6, 1993, the Service notified potentially affected Federal and State agencies by mail that a status review was being conducted for the Cherokee darter and Etowah darter. Two comments were received concerning this notification. The U.S. Forest Service stated that it was unlikely Forest Service lands harbored suitable habitat for the two darter species. They also noted that future Forest Service activities in the Etowah River watershed were expected to decrease, and that it was unlikely these activities would produce any noticeable siltation effects on downstream populations of the Cherokee darter and Etowah darter. The Environmental Protection Agency commented on locating specific watersheds having high cumulative non-point source stream impacts for potential restoration work. This information would be useful in the recovery of the Cherokee darter and Etowah darter. Neither agency had objections to the potential listing of these species. Summary of Comments and Recommendations In the October 18, 1993, proposed rule (58 FR 53696), and through associated notifications, all interested parties were requested to submit factual reports and information that might contribute to the development of a final rule for the Cherokee darter and Etowah darter. Appropriate Federal and State agencies, county governments, scientific organizations, and interested parties were contacted by letter dated November 1, 1993, and were requested to comment. Legal notices were published in The Atlanta Journal/The Atlanta Constitution, Atlanta, Georgia, on October 31, 1993, and in The Marietta Daily Journal, Marietta, Georgia, on November 5, 1993. In response to a formal request by the Cherokee County Board of Commissioners, a public hearing on the Service's proposal to list the Cherokee darter and the Etowah darter as threatened and endangered, respectively, was held on January 12, 1994, at the Cherokee County Administrative Building, Canton, Georgia. The comment period was extended until January 24, 1994. A notice of the hearing and comment period extension was published in the Federal Register on December 16, 1993 (58 FR 65696) and in the Cherokee Citizen, Canton, Georgia, on December 29, 1993. Seven written and 17 oral comments (fourteen at the public hearing) were received regarding the proposed listing. Federal agencies providing written comments included two agencies in the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Animal Damage Control and Soil Conservation Service, and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps). The Animal Damage Control, Coosa River Basin Initiative, and Georgia Environmental Organization supported the listing; most of the other commenters did not. Following is a summary of the comments, concerns, and questions (referred to as ``Issues'' for the purpose of this summary) expressed in writing and orally. Issues of similar content have been grouped together. These issues and the Service's response to each are presented below.
