FR940314-2-00110 FR940314-2-00058 (3) Section 303(a)(5) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 503(a)(5)) is amended by striking ''; and'' and inserting '': Provided further, That amounts may be withdrawn for the payment of allowances under a self-employment assistance program (as defined in section 3306(t) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986); and''. (c) State Reports._Any State operating a self-employment program authorized by the Secretary of Labor under this section shall report annually to the Secretary on the number of individuals who participate in the self-employment assistance program, the number of individuals who are able to develop and sustain businesses, the operating costs of the program, compliance with program requirements, and any other relevant aspects of program operations requested by the Secretary. (d) Report to Congress._Not later than 4 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Labor shall submit a report to the Congress with respect to the operation of the program authorized under this section. Such report shall be based on the reports received from the States pursuant to subsection (c) and include such other information as the Secretary of Labor determines is appropriate. (e) Effective Date; Sunset._ (1) Effective Date._The provisions of this section and the amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act. (2) Sunset._The authority provided by this section, and the amendments made by this section, shall terminate 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act. Attachment II to UIPL 94_ Draft Language to Implement a Self-Employment Assistance Program States wishing to amend their UC law to add the optional SEA program provisions may use the following draft language. A Commentary is provided in Attachment III. Section XXXX . Self-Employment Assistance Program (a) Definitions. As used in this section_ (1) ``Self-employment assistance activities'' means activities (including entrepreneurial training, business counseling, and technical assistance) approved by the commissioner in which an individual identified through a worker profiling system as likely to exhaust regular benefits participates for the purpose of establishing a business and becoming self-employed. (2) ``Self-employment assistance allowance'' means an allowance, payable in lieu of regular benefits and from the unemployment fund established under section XXXX [enter relevant section], to an individual participating in self-employment assistance activities who meets the requirements of this section. (3) ``Regular benefits'' means benefits payable to an individual under this Act (including benefits payable to Federal civilian employees and to ex-servicemembers pursuant to 5 U.S.C. chapter 85) other than additional and extended benefits. (4) ``Full-time basis'' shall have the meaning contained in regulations prescribed by the commissioner. (b) Amount of self-employment assistance allowance. The weekly allowance payable under this section to an individual will be equal to the weekly benefit amount for regular benefits otherwise payable under section XXXX of this Act. The sum of (1) the allowances paid under this section and (2) regular benefits paid under this Act with respect to any benefit year shall not exceed the maximum benefit amount as established by section XXXX with respect to such benefit year. (c) Eligibility for self-employment assistance allowance. The allowance described in subsection (a) shall be payable to an individual at the same interval, on the same terms, and subject to the same conditions as regular benefits under this Act, except that_ (1) The requirements of sections XXXX [enter relevant sections] relating to availability for work, active search for work, and refusal to accept work are not applicable to such individual; (2) The requirements of section XXXX [enter relevant section] relating to self-employment income are not applicable to income earned from self-employment by such individual; (3) An individual who meets the requirements of this section shall be considered to be unemployed under section XXXX [enter relevant section]; and (4) An individual who fails to participate in self-employment assistance activities or who fails to actively engage on a full-time basis in activities (which may include training) relating to the establishment of a business and becoming self-employed shall be disqualified for the week such failure occurs. (d) Limitation on receipt of self-employment assistance allowances. The aggregate number of individuals receiving the allowance under this section at any time shall not exceed 5 percent of the number of individuals receiving regular benefits. The commissioner shall, through regulations, prescribe such actions as are necessary to assure the requirements of this subsection are met. (e) Financing costs of self-employment assistance allowances. Allowances paid under this section shall be charged to employers as provided under provisions of this Act relating to the charging of regular benefits. (f) Effective date and termination date. The provisions of this section will apply to weeks beginning after the date of enactment or weeks beginning after any plan required by the United States Department of Labor is approved by such Department, whichever date is later. The authority provided by this section shall terminate as of the end of the week preceding the date when Federal law no longer authorizes the provisions of this section, unless such date is a Saturday in which case the authority shall terminate as of such date.
