FR940527-1-00038 FR940527-1-00014 Questions and comments concerning the procedure codes should be addressed to: Patricia E. Brooks, Co-Chairperson; ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM Coordination and Maintenance Committee; HCFA, Office of Coverage and Eligibility Policy; Rm. 401 East High Rise Building; 6325 Security Boulevard; Baltimore, Maryland 21207. The ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM code changes that have been approved will become effective October 1, 1994. The new ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM codes are listed, along with their proposed DRG classifications, in Tables 6a and 6b (New Diagnosis Codes and New Procedure Codes, respectively) in section IV of the addendum to this proposed rule. As we stated above, the code numbers and their titles were presented for public comment in the ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM Coordination and Maintenance Committee meetings. Both oral and written comments were considered before the codes were approved. Therefore, we are soliciting comments only on the proposed DRG classification. Further, the Committee has approved the expansion of certain ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM codes to require an additional digit for valid code assignment. Diagnosis codes that have been replaced by expanded codes, other codes, or have been deleted are in Table 6c (Invalid Diagnosis Codes). The invalid diagnosis codes will not be recognized by the GROUPER beginning with discharges occurring on or after October 1, 1994. The corresponding new or expanded codes are included in Tables 6a and 6b. The committee did not delete any procedure codes effective for October 1, 1994. Revisions to diagnosis and procedure code titles are in Tables 6d (Revised Diagnosis Code Titles) and 6e (Revised Procedure Code Titles), which also include the proposed DRG assignments for these revised codes. 8. DRG Refinements For several years, we have been analyzing major refinements to the DRG classification system to compensate hospitals more equitably for treating severely ill Medicare patients. These refinements, generally referred to as severity of illness adjustments, would create DRGs specifically for hospital discharges involving very ill patients who consume far more resources than do other patients classified to the same DRGs in the current system. This approach has been taken by various other groups in refining the DRG system, most notably the research done for Yale, the changes incorporated by the State of New York into its all patient (AP) DRG system, and the all-patient refined (APR) DRGs, which are a joint effort of 3M/HIS and the National Association of Children's Hospitals and Related Institutions. Our preliminary work on these refinements is finished, and we have prepared a paper available to the public for comment that describes our proposed severity DRG classification system as well as the analysis upon which our proposal was formulated. Briefly, our approach was to develop a list of secondary diagnoses that have a major effect on the resources used by hospitals in treating patients across DRGs and to evaluate the need to create DRGs for major CCs on a DRG-by-DRG basis. The following is a description of our methodology: •Our first step, similar to the process used by Yale, was to collapse the current paired DRG groupings (DRGs with and without CCs). We also evaluated the current DRGs to determine if any of them could be combined. Based on this analysis, we eliminated 24 DRGs. •Our next step was to evaluate individual diagnosis codes to determine if the presence of the diagnosis as a secondary condition resulted in increased resource use for hospitals across all DRGs. We analyzed how the presence of the secondary diagnosis affected resource use compared to other secondary diagnoses that have been classified as non-CC, CC, or major CC. •Although our final decisions of the CC designation of a secondary diagnosis were primarily data driven, we did make some designations based on other factors. Specifically, regardless of the data, we did not designate a diagnosis as major if it is indicative of poor quality of care or is prone to hospital upcoding.
