FR940719-0-00015 FR940719-0-00004 Further, the design of the thrust reverser control system is such that there is a constant supply of pneumatic signal air to the DCV. When the thrust levers are in the ``idle'' or ``forward thrust'' position, air flows through the DCV to the stow port of the gear switching actuator. Signal air leakage from the stow chamber to the deploy chamber occurs even with an actuator that is within overhaul limits. The signal air that leaks into the deploy chamber is designed to be vented through the actuator deploy port and the deploy signal line to the DCV, where it exits through the DCV vent. If this vent path becomes plugged, the pressure in the deploy chamber will rise. Pressurization of the deploy chamber of the gear switching actuator can cause the gear switching actuator to move to the ``deploy'' position. Additionally, drive air is supplied to the thrust reverser Pneumatic Drive Unit (PDU) through a Pressure Regulator Shut-off Valve (PRSOV). The PRSOV opens when it receives pneumatic signal air from the DCV. This signal is received whenever the thrust levers are moved to the idle position, either in flight or on the ground. If the DCV vent, deploy signal line, or gear switcher actuator deploy chamber port becomes plugged and causes the gear switcher actuator to move to the ``deploy'' position, the thrust reverser will deploy when the thrust lever is moved to the ``idle'' position. Plugging of this vent path has caused approximately 30 (of 31) known events of in-flight deployment of the thrust reversers on Model 747 airplanes. Such plugging has been caused by improper deactivation procedures, pieces of air filter media, and ice formed during flight. The installation of the solenoid-operated shut-off valve required by this AD will prevent the flow of pneumatic drive air to the PDU, unless the airplane is on the ground and the reverse thrust levers are in the ``reverse thrust'' position. The shut-off valve is installed between the PRSOV and the thrust reverser PDU. The shut-off valve opens only when the airplane air/ground logic is in the ground mode and ``reverse thrust'' is selected. Therefore, the shut-off valve is designed to prevent in-flight deployment of the thrust reverser by preventing the flow of drive air to the PDU (unless the airplane is on the ground and ``reverse thrust'' is selected). There has been only one reported in-flight deployment of a thrust reverser on a Model 747 involving an engine that was equipped with the solenoid-operated shut-off valve. However, this incident was determined to have been caused by a maintenance crew that disconnected the PDU drive shafts to the thrust reverser in order to deactivate the thrust reverser, and inadvertently did not lock the reverser sleeve. By disconnecting the two drive shafts, the two reverser locking devices were disconnected. Thus, the improper deactivation of the reverser contributed to the in-flight deployment incident. By disconnecting the PDU drive shafts, the pneumatic drive was taken out of the system; therefore, the shut-off valve had no effect on the deployment. None of the other 30 incidents of in-flight deployments of the thrust reversers on Model 747's have occurred on engines equipped with the subject solenoid-operated shut-off valve. The FAA considers that all of those events could have been prevented if the shut-off valve had been installed. For these reasons, the FAA has determined that installation of the solenoid-operated shut-off valve is appropriate and warranted. Several commenters do not support the need for the issuance of the proposed rule. These commenters state that the Model 747 has been shown to be controllable following all incidents of in-flight deployment of the thrust reversers. They contend that these incidents of deployment occurred at idle thrust, and that the proposed modification would only help in preventing uncommanded deployments at idle thrust or where improper lockout of the reverser sleeve had been performed. The FAA does not concur with these commenters' inference that issuance of the rule is not necessary. The FAA acknowledges that, in all of the known events of in-flight thrust reverser deployments, the flight crews were able to control the airplanes and land safely. At the time this rule was proposed, there was insufficient data to demonstrate that the airplane would be controllable in all phases of flight following deployment of a thrust reverser. Recently, however, Boeing has presented the results of a study it conducted on the controllability of the airplane following an in-flight deployment event in several phases of flight. The results of this study revealed that these airplanes could experience certain control problems in the event of a thrust reverser deployment occurring during high speed climb or possibly during cruise. This additional information on the controllability of the airplane following deployment of an outboard thrust reverser further demonstrates the need to install the solenoid-operated shut-off valve. For example, if the thrust lever is moved rapidly to the ``idle'' position from a high power setting, and the DCV vent is plugged (e.g., by ice), the thrust reverser could deploy at a high thrust level as the engine decelerates. The installation of the shut-off valve is designed to prevent pneumatic drive air from powering the PDU, unless the airplane is on the ground and ``reverser thrust'' is selected, thereby preventing in-flight deployments. Several commenters request that the proposed rule be revised to allow the accomplishment of certain revised maintenance practices, in lieu of installation of the shut-off valve. These commenters point out that the majority of the incidents of in-flight deployments of thrust reversers have involved improper or outdated maintenance practices relative to deactivating the reverser. The Model 747 Maintenance Manual has been revised to delete all deactivating procedures except one, which involves disconnecting the PDU drive shafts and then ensuring that the reverser sleeve is locked in the stowed position. The commenters contend that, with such procedures now deleted from normal maintenance practices, circumstances that previously would have led to a deployment incident will now be eliminated. The FAA does not concur. Although this new maintenance procedure may serve to preclude in-flight deployments caused by improper deactivating procedures, the FAA finds that no maintenance procedure can prevent in-flight deployments caused by blocking of the DCV vent (by ice, foreign objects, etc.). Additionally, the FAA points out that several revisions had been made previously to the Model 747 Maintenance Manual in an attempt to prevent in-flight deployments of the thrust reverser, yet deployments have continued to occur. As stated elsewhere in this preamble, the FAA considers that the installation of the subject shut-off valves would have prevented 30 of the 31 known incidents of in-flight deployments on Model 747's, since those incidents involved blocking of the DCV vent. Numerous commenters request that the proposed compliance time of 24 months for modification be extended to between 36 months and 5 years. Several of these commenters point out that there is a 300- to 400-day lead time necessary for purchasing and obtaining necessary parts. This lengthy lead time for parts delivery would seriously hamper affected operators' ability to comply with the proposed rule within a 24-month deadline, and would cause major scheduling problems, delays, and flight cancellations. Other commenters request an extension to in order to allow the modification to be accomplished during a regularly scheduled ``heavy'' maintenance visit (``D'' check) at a main base, where required equipment and trained personnel would be available. The FAA agrees that the compliance time can be extended somewhat. Based on information provided by the commenters concerning parts availability, the FAA has determined that a compliance time of 36 months is appropriate in order to accommodate the time necessary for affected operators to order, obtain, and install the modification; and will not compromise safety. The final rule has been revised accordingly. Certain commenters request that the proposed rule be revised to permit the installation of unmodified engines after the effective date of the AD and until the compliance time for modification. These commenters point out that proposed paragraph (b) would require that, as of the effective date of the rule, no operator install an unmodified engine on any airplane. However, to comply with this paragraph, operators would have to modify all spare engines prior to the effective date of the AD; this would be impossible, due to the lead time necessary to obtain parts, and would impose an economic burden on operators. The FAA concurs. The final rule has been revised to permit installation of an unmodified engine up to 18 months after the effective date of the rule. This compliance time of 18 months is based on a 1-year period that would be necessary to obtain parts, plus a 6-month period to modify all spare engines. One commenter requests that the proposed rule be revised to require the installation of a new PDU to prevent the back driving of the thrust reverser. This commenter has installed such a unit in accordance with Boeing Service Bulletins 747&hyph;78&hyph;2084 and 747&hyph;78&hyph;2090, and Garrett Service Bulletins 126712&hyph;78&hyph;1432 and 126236&hyph;78&hyph;1332. Since installation, this commenter has not experienced any in-flight deployments of the thrust reverser. The commenter recommends this installation in lieu of the shut-off valve that would be required the proposed AD. The FAA does not concur. The modification referred to by the commenter entails the installation of a reversible PDU in place of the gear-driven PDU that was installed on earlier Model 747 airplanes equipped with Pratt & Whitney JT9D engines. The pneumatic control system used with the reversible PDU is similar to the control system used with the gear-driven PDU. One difference is that a ``directional switcher actuator'' is used with the reversible PDU, in place of the ``gear switcher actuator'' used with the gear-driven PDU; however, both actuators are similar in design, and their deploy chamber vent paths are the same. Therefore, if the DCV vent, deploy signal line, or the directional switcher actuator deploy chamber port becomes plugged, the directional switcher actuator could move to the ``deploy'' position. If this occurs, the thrust reverser will deploy when the thrust lever is moved to the ``idle'' position, just as is the case for the gear-driven PDU configuration. Installation of the subject shut-off valve will prevent this from occurring. In light of this, the FAA has determined that installation of the shut-off valve is necessary, regardless of the type of PDU that is installed.
