FR941117-0-00089 FR941117-0-00011 Technical Requirements §22.351 Channel assignment policy. The channels allocated for use in the Public Mobile Services are listed in the applicable subparts of this part. Channels and channel blocks are assigned in such a manner as to facilitate the rendition of service on an interference-free basis in each service area. Except as otherwise provided in this part, each channel or channel block is assigned exclusively to one common carrier in each service area. All applicants for, and licensees of, stations in the Public Mobile Services shall cooperate in the selection and use of channels in order to minimize interference and obtain the most efficient use of the allocated spectrum. §22.352 Protection from interference. Public Mobile Services stations operating in full accordance with applicable FCC rules and the terms and conditions of their authorizations are normally considered to be non-interfering. If the FCC determines, however, that interference which significantly interrupts or degrades a radio service is being caused, it may, after notice and an opportunity for a hearing, require modifications to any Public Mobile station as necessary to eliminate such interference. (a) Failure to operate as authorized. Any licensee causing interference to the service of other stations by failing to operate its station in full accordance with its authorization and applicable FCC rules shall discontinue all transmissions, except those necessary for the immediate safety of life or property, until it can bring its station into full compliance with the authorization and rules. (b) Intermodulation interference. Licensees should attempt to resolve such interference by technical means. (c) Situations in which no protection is afforded. Except as provided elsewhere in this part, no protection from interference is afforded in the following situations: (1) Interference to base receivers from base or fixed transmitters. Licensees should attempt to resolve such interference by technical means or operating arrangements. (2) Inteference to mobile receivers from mobile transmitters. No protection is provided against mobile-to-mobile interference. (3) Interference to base receivers from mobile transmitters. No protection is provided against mobile-to-base interference. (4) Interference to fixed stations. Licensees should attempt to resolve such interference by technical means or operating arrangements. (5) Anomalous or infrequent propagation modes. No protection is provided against interference caused by tropospheric and ionospheric propagation of signals. (6) Facilities for which the FCC not notified. No protection is provided against interference to the service of any additional or modified transmitter operating pursuant to §22.163 or §22.165, unless and until the licensee notifies the FCC (FCC Form 489) of the additional or modified transmitter. (7) In-building radiation systems. No protection is provided against interference to the service of in-building radiation systems (see §22.383). §22.353 Blanketing interference. Licensees of Public Mobile Services stations are responsible for resolving cases of blanketing interference in accordance with the provisions of this section. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, licensees must resolve any cases of blanketing interference in their area of responsibility caused by operation of their transmitter(s) during a one-year period following commencement of service from new or modified transmitter(s). Interference must be resolved promptly at no cost to the complainant. (b) The area of responsibility is that area in the immediate vicinity of the transmitting antenna of stations where the field strength of the electromagnetic radiation from such stations equals or exceeds 115 dBμV/m. To determine the radial distance to the boundary of this area, the following formula must be used: E:GRAPHICSER17NO94.007 where d is the radial distance to the boundary, in kilometers p is the radial effective radiated power, in kilowatts The maximum effective radiated power in the pertinent direction, without consideration of the antenna's vertical radiation pattern or height, must be used in the formula. (c) Licensees are not required to resolve blanketing interference to mobile receivers or non-RF devices or blanketing interference occurring as a result of malfunctioning or mistuned receivers, improperly installed consumer antenna systems, or the use of high gain antennas or antenna booster amplifiers by consumers. (d) Licensees that install transmitting antennas at a location where there are already one or more transmitting antennas are responsible for resolving any new cases of blanketing interference in accordance with this section. (e) Two or more licensees that concurrently install transmitting antennas at the same location are jointly responsible for resolving blanketing interference cases, unless the FCC can readily determine which station is causing the interference, in which case the licensee of that station is held fully responsible.
