FR941013-2-00140 FR941013-2-00100 Central and Eastern European Training Program (CEETP&hyph;5) action: Notice_Request for Proposals. summary: The Office of Citizen Exchanges of the United States Information Agency's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs announces an open competition for an assistance award. Public or private non-profit organizations meeting the provisions described in IRS regulation 501(c)(3) may apply to develop training programs in the areas of (1) local government/public administration, (2) independent media development, and (3) business administration. These projects should link the U.S. organization's international exchange interests with counterpart institutions and groups in Albania, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Poland, Romania, Slovak Republic and Slovenia. Overall grant making authority for this program is contained in the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, Public Law 87&hyph;256, as amended, also known as the Fulbright-Hays Act. The purpose of the Act is ``to enable the Government of the United States to increase mutual understanding between the people of the United States and the people of other countries *␣*␣*; to strengthen the ties which unite us with other nations by demonstrating the educational and cultural interests, developments, and achievements of the people of the United States and other nations *␣*␣* and thus to assist in the development of friendly, sympathetic and peaceful relations between the United States and the other countries of the world.'' The funding authority for the program cited above is provided through the Support for Eastern European Democracies (SEED) program. Programs and projects must conform with Agency requirements and guidelines outlined in the Application Package. USIA projects and programs are subject to the availability of funds. Interested applicants should read the complete Federal Register . Announcement Name and Number: All communications with USIA concerning this announcement should refer to the above title and reference number E/P&hyph;95&hyph;19. dates: Deadline for proposals: All copies must be received at the U.S. Information Agency by 5 p.m. Washington, DC time on 5 p.m., December 9, 1994. Faxed documents will not be accepted, nor will documents postmarked on December 9, 1994 but received at a later date. It is the responsibility of each applicant to ensure that proposals are received by the above deadline. CEETP&hyph;5 grant project activity should begin after July 1, 1995. for further information contact: European Division, Office of Citizen Exchange (E/P), Room 216, U.S. Information Agency, 301 4th Street SW., Washington, DC 20547, telephone 202/619&hyph;5319, fax 202/619&hyph;4350, internet (CMINER@USIA.GOV) to request an Application Package, which includes more detailed award criteria; all application forms; and guidelines for preparing proposals, including specific criteria for preparation of the proposal budget. Please specify the USIA Program Officer Chris Miner on all inquiries and correspondence. Interested applicants should read the complete Federal Register announcement before addressing inquiries to the Office of Citizen Exchanges or submitting their proposals. Once the RFP deadline has passed, the Office of Citizen Exchanges may not discuss this competition in any way with applicants until after the Bureau proposal review process has been completed. addresses: Applicants must follow all instructions given in the Application Package and send only complete applications to: U.S. Information Agency, Ref.: E/P&hyph;95&hyph;19, Office of Grants Management, E/XE, Room 336, 301 4th Street SW., Washington, DC 20547.
