FR941026-0-00067 FR941026-0-00020 (ii) Pursuant to §3500.17(h)(2), the servicer may incorporate the initial escrow account statement into the HUD&hyph;1 or HUD&hyph;1A settlement statement. If the servicer does not incorporate the initial escrow account statement into the HUD&hyph;1 or HUD&hyph;1A settlement statement, then the servicer shall submit the initial escrow account statement to the borrower as a separate document. (2) Time of submission of initial escrow account statement for an escrow account established after settlement. For escrow accounts established after settlement (and which are not a condition of the loan), a servicer shall submit an initial escrow account statement to a borrower within 45 calendar days of the date of establishment of the escrow account. (h) Format for initial escrow account statement. (1) The format and a completed example for an initial escrow account statement is set out in Appendix G of this part. (2) Incorporation of Initial Escrow Account Statement Into HUD&hyph;1 or HUD&hyph;1A Settlement Statement. Pursuant to §3500.9(a)(11), a servicer may add the initial escrow account statement to the HUD&hyph;1 or HUD&hyph;1A settlement statement. The servicer may include the initial escrow account statement in the basic text or may attach the initial escrow account statement as an additional page to the HUD&hyph;1 or HUD&hyph;1A settlement statement. (3) Identification of Payees. The initial escrow account statement need not identify a specific payee by name if it provides sufficient information to identify the use of the funds. For example, appropriate entries include: county taxes, hazard insurance, condominium dues, etc. If a particular payee, such as a taxing body, receives more than one payment during the escrow account computation year, the statement shall indicate each payment and disbursement date. If there are several taxing authorities or insurers, the statement shall identify each taxing body or insurer (e.g., ``City Taxes'', ``School Taxes'', ``Hazard Insurance'', or ``Flood Insurance,'' etc.). (i) Annual Escrow Account Statements. For each escrow account, a servicer shall submit an annual escrow account statement to the borrower within 30 days of the completion of the escrow account computation year. The servicer shall conduct an escrow account analysis before submitting an annual escrow account statement to the borrower. (1) Contents of Annual Escrow Account Statement. The annual escrow account statement shall provide an account history, reflecting the activity in the escrow account during the escrow account computation year, and a projection of the activity in the account for the next year. The annual escrow account statement shall include, at a minimum, the following: (i) The amount of the borrower's current monthly mortgage payment and the portion of the monthly payment going into the escrow account; (ii) The amount of the past year's monthly mortgage payment and the portion of the monthly payment that went into the escrow account; (iii) The total amount paid into the escrow account during the past computation year; (iv) The total amount paid out of the escrow account during the same period for taxes, insurance premiums, and other charges; (v) The balance in the escrow account at the end of the period; (vi) An explanation of how any surplus is being handled by the servicer; (vii) An explanation of how any shortage or deficiency is to be paid by the borrower; and (viii) If applicable, the reason(s) why the estimated low monthly balance was not reached. (2) No annual statements necessary in cases of default or foreclosure. This paragraph contains an exemption to the provision of §3500.17(i)(1). If at the time the servicer conducts the escrow account analysis the borrower is more than 30 days overdue, then the servicer is exempt from the requirements of submitting an annual escrow account statement to the borrower under §3500.17(i). This exemption also applies in situations where the servicer has brought an action for foreclosure under the underlying mortgage loan. (3) Delivery with other material. The servicer may deliver the annual escrow account statement to the borrower with other statements or materials, including the Substitute 1098, which is provided for federal income tax purposes. (4) Short year statements. A servicer may issue a short year annual escrow account statement (``short year statement'') to change one escrow account computation year to another. By using a short year statement a servicer may adjust its production schedule or alter the escrow account computation year for the escrow account. (i) Effect of short year statement. The short year statement shall end the ``escrow account computation year'' for the escrow account and establish the beginning date of the new escrow account computation year. The servicer shall deliver the short year statement to the borrower within 60 days from the end of the short year. (ii) Short year statement upon servicing transfer. Upon the transfer of servicing, the transferor (old) servicer shall submit a short year statement to the borrower within 60 days of the effective date of transfer. (iii) Short year statement upon loan payoff. If a borrower pays off a mortgage loan during the escrow account computation year, the servicer shall submit a short year statement to the borrower within 60 days after receiving the pay-off funds. (j) Formats for annual escrow account statement. The formats and completed examples for annual escrow account statements using single-item analysis (pre-rule accounts) and aggregate analysis are set out in Appendix I of this part. (k) Timely payments. (1) If the terms of any federally related mortgage loan require the borrower to make payments to an escrow account, the servicer shall pay the disbursements in a timely manner, that is, by the disbursement date, so long as the borrower's payment is not more than 30 days overdue. In calculating the disbursement date, the servicer shall use a date on or before the earlier of the deadline to take advantage of discounts, if available, or the deadline to avoid a penalty. (2) The servicer shall advance funds to make disbursements in a timely manner so long as the borrower's payment is not more than 30 days overdue. Upon advancing funds to pay a disbursement, the servicer may seek repayment from the borrower for the deficiency pursuant to §3500.17(f). (l) System of recordkeeping. (1) Each servicer shall keep records, which may involve electronic storage, microfiche storage, or any method of computerized storage, so long as the information is easily retrievable, reflecting the servicer's handling of each borrower's escrow account. The servicer's records shall include, but not be limited to, the payment of amounts into and from the escrow account and the submission of initial and annual escrow account statements to the borrower. (2) The servicer responsible for servicing the borrower's escrow account shall maintain the records for that account for a period of at least five years after the servicer last serviced the escrow account. (3) A servicer shall provide the Secretary with information contained in the servicer's records for a specific escrow account, or for a number or class of escrow accounts, within 30 days of the Secretary's written request for the information. The servicer shall convert any information contained in electronic storage, microfiche or computerized storage to paper copies for review by the Secretary. (i) To aid in investigations, the Secretary may also issue an administrative subpoena for the production of documents, and for the testimony of such witnesses as the Secretary deems advisable. (ii) If the subpoenaed party refuses to obey the Secretary's administrative subpoena, the Secretary is authorized to seek a court order requiring compliance with the subpoena from any United States district court. Failure to obey such an order of the court may be punished as contempt of court. (4) Borrowers may seek information contained in the servicer's records by complying with the provisions set forth in 12 U.S.C. 2605(e) and §3500.21(f). (5) After receiving a request (by letter or subpoena) from the Department for information relating to whether a servicer submitted an escrow account statement to the borrower, the servicer shall respond within 30 days. If the servicer is unable to provide the Department with such information, the Secretary shall deem that lack of information to be evidence of the servicer's failure to submit the statement to the borrower. (m) Penalties. (1) A servicer's failure to submit to a borrower an initial or annual escrow account statement meeting the requirements of this part shall constitute a violation of the RESPA and this section. For each such violation, the Secretary shall assess a civil penalty of 50 dollars ($50), except that the total of the assessed penalties shall not exceed $100,000 for any one servicer for violations that occur during any consecutive 12-month period. (2) Violations described in paragraph (m)(1) of this section do not require any proof of intent. However, if a lender or servicer is shown to have intentionally disregarded the requirements that it submit the escrow account statement to the borrower, then the Secretary shall assess a civil penalty of $100 for each violation, with no limit on the total amount of the penalty. (n) Civil penalties procedures. The following procedures shall apply whenever the Department seeks to impose a civil money penalty for violation of section 10(c) of RESPA (12 U.S.C. 2609(c)): (1) Purpose and scope. This paragraph explains the procedures by which the Secretary may impose penalties under 12 U.S.C. 2609(d). These procedures include administrative hearings, judicial review, and collection of penalties. This paragraph governs penalties imposed under 12 U.S.C. 2609(d) and, when noted, adopts those portions of 24 CFR part 30, subpart E, that apply to all other civil penalty proceedings initiated by the Secretary.
