FR940224-2-00146 FR940224-2-00093 UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY AR Human Resource Management Project AGENCY: United States Information Agency. ACTION: Notice; request for proposals. TITLE: Labor, Conflict Resolution, and Economic Development: Strategies To Address Human Resource Management Problems in Brazil. SUMMARY: The Office of Citizen Exchanges (E/P) announces a competitive grants program for non-profit organizations to develop programs in the area of labor/management relations and human resource management. The project should link the U.S. organization's international exchange interests with counterparts in the American Republics. Interested applicants are urged to read the complete Federal Register announcement before addressing inquiries to the Office or submitting their proposals. After the deadline for submitting proposals, USIA officers may not discuss this competition in any way with applicants until final decisions are made. ANNOUNCEMENT NAME AND NUMBER: All communications concerning this announcement should refer to the AR Local Government Project. This announcement number is E/P&hyph;94&hyph;25 . Please refer to this title and number in all correspondence or telephone calls to USIA. DATES: Deadline for Proposals: All copies must be received at the U.S. Information Agency by 5 p.m., Washington, DC time on March 24, 1994. Faxed documents will not be accepted, nor will documents postmarked March 24, 1994, but received at a later date. It is the responsibility of each grant applicant to ensure that proposals are received by the above deadline. The grant project activity should begin after July 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: The original and 14 copies of the completed application and required forms should be submitted by the deadline to: U.S. Information Agency, Ref: AR Human Resource Management Project (E/P&hyph;94&hyph;25), Grants Management Division (E/XE), 301 4th Street, SW., room 336, Washington, DC 20547. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Interested organizations, institutions should contact: Benjamin Cromer, American Republics and East Asia and Pacific Division, Office of Citizen Exchanges (E/P), room 220, United States Information Agency, 301 Fourth Street, SW., Washington, DC 20547. Please telephone 202&hyph;619&hyph;5326 or fax 202&hyph;619&hyph;4350 to request detailed application packets, which include award criteria, all necessary forms, and guidelines for preparing proposals, including specific budget preparation. Objectives of the AR Human Resource Management Project The Office of Citizen Exchanges (E/P) of the United States Information Agency proposes a two-way exchange program for Brazilian decision-makers to develop strategies to address human resource management problems in Brazil. This exchange will involve two components: a two-week U.S. study tour by a delegation of 12&hyph;16 Brazilian leaders selected from the national government, the national employers organizations, and labor unions; and a follow-on visit to Brazil by U.S. human resource management experts. These study tours will explore methods of human resource development based on private sector initiative that involve the cooperation of labor, management, and government. Moreover, the U.S. Departments of Labor and Education support such models as solutions to resolve labor-management conflict. In Brazil, coordination will be with the Ministry of Labor's Secretary For Training and Professional Development, the national employer's organizations, and the Labor Central. Other goals of this program are to aid in modernizing Brazil's economy, ensure the growth of its democratic institutions, and increase public awareness of the vital policy-making role that labor can play in the general well-being of a dynamic society. Program Guidelines Structural unemployment, technological change, and the pressure of global competition, combined with a poorly educated work force, have magnified Brazil's lack of a coherent approach to human resource development. Currently, the formation of human capital is financed by payroll taxes and run by the business community, ostensibly with government approval. However, there is no manpower development strategy in Brazil that involves all parties: labor, management, and the government. With Brazil's ever-increasing levels of unemployment and social unrest the optimum use of labor is essential in modernizing the country's economy.
