FR940811-0-00050 FR940811-0-00018 Six commenters recommended that petroleum should continue to be allowed for pressure testing piping in pump stations, tank farms, and other low pressure facilities where the location of the piping, often aboveground on property controlled by the operator, allows for close monitoring during the test. The commenters also stated that the typical manifold configurations at these facilities do not facilitate drainage of test water and residual water in piping after completion of the testing can contaminate the petroleum products. Four commenters stated that disallowing testing with petroleum creates the need for large volumes of test water and equal volumes of polluted water. The commenters stated that, for those pipelines without ready access to a refinery, operators would be forced to use truck transportation to a facility for treatment of the polluted water, and that this increases the cost and time required for pressure testing. One of these commenters also stated that RSPA had not considered the unavailability of test water in arid, remote locations. Another commenter stated that the inability to retain flexibility to utilize petroleum as a test medium in appropriate situations would create an unreasonable and unnecessary expense that ultimately would be shouldered by the general public. Six commenters stated that operators are not issued the necessary permits from regional and state agencies for the acquisition and disposal of test water in a timely manner and may not be able to schedule the pressure testing to meet the compliance deadlines. Two commenters argued that they had insufficient opportunity for comment because the NPRM did not propose to limit the use of petroleum as a test medium. Two other commenters urged the withdrawal of the blanket prohibition and establishment of a reasonable set of criteria that might include: location of pipeline, size of pipe, valve spacing, limit on stress level, operating history or results of an inspection tool survey. Another commenter, also opposed to the blanket prohibition, recommended the establishment of a risk assessment process to determine which pipelines could be tested with petroleum, and suggested the process consider such factors as: age of pipeline, leak history, nearness to environmentally sensitive areas and populated areas, corrosion history, and results of runs with instrumented internal inspection devices (smart pigs). The commenters pointed out these and other problems to illustrate their opposition to the prohibition of the use of liquid petroleum, in appropriate situations, as a test medium. Action The commenters have raised concerns that should be addressed in an NPRM. Because of these concerns, RSPA finds it is not in the public interest to keep the prohibition on petroleum as a test medium in place at this time. Therefore, the revision to §195.306(b), published on June 7, 1994, as Amendment 195&hyph;51, is hereby withdrawn. In the near future, RSPA intends to issue an NPRM addressing the use of liquid petroleum as a pressure test medium. List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 195 Anhydrous ammonia, Carbon dioxide, Petroleum, Pipeline safety, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. In consideration of the foregoing, RSPA amends part 195 of title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations as follows: PART 195_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 195 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 49 U.S.C. 60102, 60104, 60108, 60109; 49 CFR 1.53. 2. The introductory text of §195.306(b) is revised to read as follows: §195.306 Test medium. * * * * * (b) Except for offshore pipelines, liquid petroleum that does not vaporize rapidly may be used as the test medium if_ * * * * * Issued in Washington, DC, on August 4, 1994. Ana Sol Gutiérrez, Acting Administrator, RSPA. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19560 Filed 8&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;60&hyph;P
