FR940323-0-00103 FR940323-0-00024 One commenter from Hawaii stated that leasehold to fee-simple ownership conversions contributed to higher housing costs in Hawaii. Runzheimer surveys only fee-simple home sales in Hawaii. Leasehold properties are excluded. OPM believes that the fair market value of fee-simple property adequately reflects the market as a whole_both the leasehold market (in which the homeowner may have to purchase the land or renegotiate a land lease) and the fee-simple market. Another commenter expressed concern whether the survey of fee-simple home sales only resulted in the survey of typical housing. The commenter suggested that Runzheimer also survey leasehold properties and include the annual cost of the land lease. When OPM published previous Runzheimer reports in the Federal Register , numerous commenters expressed the view that leasehold sales in Hawaii should not be included in OPM's living cost surveys. For the reasons discussed above, OPM agrees with this position and has directed Runzheimer to continue its practice of surveying only fee-simple sales. Comments on the Transportation Component A number of commenters stated that private transportation costs were greater in the allowance areas because of the high cost of automobiles and increased auto maintenance due to poor roads, rough terrain, salt air, and harsh weather. Many also felt that their automobile insurance premiums were quite high. One commenter suggested that OPM price the cost of tinting car windows. The COLA model takes into consideration automobile purchase price, maintenance, insurance, and depreciation. Purchase costs and insurance are based on price data obtained in each area. Maintenance is also based on local price data, and the model assumes that certain types of maintenance occur more frequently in the allowance areas than in the DC area. For example, the model assumes that tires wear out faster in the allowance areas than in the Washington, DC, area, and that tires have to be purchased more frequently in the allowance areas. Depreciation is based on used car values, and Runzheimer found that used cars generally depreciate at the same rate in nearly all areas. The exceptions are Nome and Fairbanks where cars depreciate at a faster rate, perhaps because of the severe climate. Runzheimer used special factors for these two areas to reflect greater depreciation. In the employee survey, OPM asked employees about their car purchases, accessories, maintenance, road conditions, terrain, and several other issues. OPM plans to review transportation costs in light of the results of the employee survey. OPM plans to address items, such as window tinting, at that time. Some commenters were confused about the composition of the Public Transportation Category. Some commenters from the Virgin Islands stated that the lack of an effective mass transportation system compelled them to purchase cars or to use taxis.
