FR941004-1-00010 FR941004-1-00001 2. Section 50.61 is revised to read as follows: §50.61 Fracture toughness requirements for protection against pressurized thermal shock events. (a) Definitions. For the purposes of this section: (1) ASME Code means the American Society of Mechanical Engineers Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section III, Division I, ``Rules for the Construction of Nuclear Power Plant Components,'' edition and addenda and any limitations and modifications thereof as specified in §50.55a of this part. (2) Pressurized Thermal Shock Event means an event or transient in pressurized water reactors (PWRs) causing severe overcooling (thermal shock) concurrent with or followed by significant pressure in the reactor vessel. (3) Reactor Vessel Beltline means the region of the reactor vessel (shell material including welds, heat affected zones and plates or forgings) that directly surrounds the effective height of the active core and adjacent regions of the reactor vessel that are predicted to experience sufficient neutron radiation damage to be considered in the selection of the most limiting material with regard to radiation damage. (4) RT NDT means the reference temperature for a reactor vessel material, under any conditions. For the reactor vessel beltline materials, RT NDT must account for the effects of neutron radiation. (5) RT NDT(U) means the reference temperature for a reactor vessel material in the pre-service or unirradiated condition, evaluated according to the procedures in the ASME Code, Paragraph NB&hyph;2331. (6) EOL Fluence means the best-estimate neutron fluence projected for a specific vessel beltline material at the clad-base-metal interface on the inside surface of the vessel at the location where the material receives the highest fluence on the expiration date of the operating license, the proposed expiration date if a change in the term of the operating license has been requested, or the end of a renewal term if an application for a renewed license under 10 CFR Part 54 has been submitted. (7) RT PTS means the reference temperature, RT NDT , evaluated for the EOL Fluence for each of the vessel beltline materials, using the procedures of paragraph (c) of this section. (8) PTS Screening Criterion means the value of RT PTS for the vessel beltline material above which the plant cannot continue to operate without justification. (b) Requirements. (1) For each pressurized water nuclear power reactor for which an operating license has been issued, the licensee shall have projected values of RT PTS , accepted by the NRC, for each reactor vessel beltline material for the EOL fluence of the material. The assessment of RT PTS must use the calculative procedures given in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section. The assessment must specify the bases for the projected value of RT PTS for each vessel beltline material, including the assumptions regarding core loading patterns, and must specify the copper and nickel contents and the fluence value used in the calculation for each beltline material. This assessment must be updated whenever there is a significant 1 change in projected values of RT PTS , or upon a request for a change in the expiration date for operation of the facility. 1 Changes to RT PTS values are considered significant if either the previous value or the current value, or both values, exceed the screening criterion prior to the expiration of the operating license, including any renewed term, if applicable, for the plant. (2) The pressurized thermal shock (PTS) screening criterion is 270 ○F for plates, forgings, and axial weld materials, and 300 ○F for circumferential weld materials. For the purpose of comparison with this criterion, the value of RT PTS for the reactor vessel must be evaluated according to the procedures of paragraph (c) of this section, for each weld and plate, or forging, in the reactor vessel beltline. RT PTS must be determined for each vessel beltline material using the EOL fluence for that material. (3) For each pressurized water nuclear power reactor for which the value of RT PTS for any material in the beltline is projected to exceed the PTS screening criterion using the EOL fluence, the licensee shall implement those flux reduction programs that are reasonably practicable to avoid exceeding the PTS screening criterion set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The schedule for implementation of flux reduction measures may take into account the schedule for submittal and anticipated approval by the Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, of detailed plant-specific analyses, submitted to demonstrate acceptable risk with RT PTS above the screening limit due to plant modifications, new information or new analysis techniques. (4) For each pressurized water nuclear power reactor for which the analysis required by paragraph (b)(3) of this section indicates that no reasonably practicable flux reduction program will prevent RT PTS from exceeding the PTS screening criterion using the EOL fluence, the licensee shall submit a safety analysis to determine what, if any, modifications to equipment, systems, and operation are necessary to prevent potential failure of the reactor vessel as a result of postulated PTS events if continued operation beyond the screening criterion is allowed. In the analysis, the licensee may determine the properties of the reactor vessel materials based on available information, research results, and plant surveillance data, and may use probabilistic fracture mechanics techniques. This analysis must be submitted at least three years before RT PTS is projected to exceed the PTS screening criterion. (5) After consideration of the licensee's analyses, including effects of proposed corrective actions, if any, submitted in accordance with paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section, the Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, may, on a case-by-case basis, approve operation of the facility with RT PTS in excess of the PTS screening criterion. The Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, will consider factors significantly affecting the potential for failure of the reactor vessel in reaching a decision. (6) If the Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, concludes, pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section, that operation of the facility with RT PTS in excess of the PTS screening criterion cannot be approved on the basis of the licensee's analyses submitted in accordance with paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section, the licensee shall request and receive approval by the Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, prior to any operation beyond the criterion. The request must be based upon modifications to equipment, systems, and operation of the facility in addition to those previously proposed in the submitted analyses that would reduce the potential for failure of the reactor vessel due to PTS events, or upon further analyses based upon new information or improved methodology. (7) If the limiting RT PTS value of the plant is projected to exceed the screening criteria in paragraph (b)(2), or the criteria in paragraphs (b)(3) through (b)(6) of this section cannot be satisfied, the reactor vessel beltline may be given a thermal annealing treatment to recover the fracture toughness of the material, subject to the requirements of §50.66. The reactor vessel may continue to be operated only for that service period within which the predicted fracture toughness of the vessel beltline materials satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2) through (b)(6) of this section, with RT PTS accounting for the effects of annealing and subsequent irradiation.
