FR940916-2-00097 FR940916-2-00079 3. The RSO shall: a. ensure and document that he/she has provided training to Dr. Kusmik on the License, its conditions, and all applicable NRC requirements including the Licensee's radiation safety procedures; b. perform documented audits of all NRC-licensed activities performed by Dr. Kusmik on quarterly basis; and c. review and institute corrective actions for any violations noted. 4. Records of NRC_licensed activities conducted by Dr. Kusmik must be retained until the next NRC inspection. B. For a period of three years from the date of the Order, Dr. Kusmik shall, within 20 days of his acceptance of each employment offer involving NRC-licensed activities, as defined in Paragraph IV.A above, provided notice to the Director, Office of Enforcement, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, D.C. 20555, of the name, address, and telephone number of the employer or the entity where he is, or will be, involved in the NRC-licensed activities. C. Dr. Kusmik shall, within 30 days of the date of this order, provide a statement to the Director, Office of Enforcement, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, D.C. 20555, of this commitment to comply with regulatory requirements and the basis why the Commission should have confidence that he will now comply with applicable NRC requirements. D. For purposes of this Order, an authorized user is a person who is listed on an NRC license as a user of, or is an individual who supervises other persons using, NRC-licensed material. The Director, Office of Enforcement, may, in writing, relay or rescind any of the above conditions upon demonstration by Dr. Kusmik of good cause. V In accordance with 10 CFR 2.202, Dr. Kusmik must, and any other person adversely affected by this Order may, submit an answer to this Order, and may request a hearing on this Order, within 20 days of the date of this Order. The answer may consent to this Order. Unless the answer consents to this Order, and answer shall, in writing and under oath or affirmation, specifically admit or deny each allegation or charge made in this Order and shall set forth the matters of fact and law or which Dr. Kusmik or other person adversely affected relies and the reasons as to why the Order should not have been issued. Any answer or request for a hearing shall be submitted to the Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Attn: Chief, Docketing and Service Section, Washington, DC 20555. Copies also shall be sent to the Director, Office of Enforcement, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, to the Assistant General Counsel for Hearings and Enforcement at the same address, to the Regional Administrator, NRC Region I, 475 Allendale Road, King of Prussia, Pennsylvania 19406, and to Dr. Kusmik if the answer or hearing request is by a person other than Dr. Kusmik. If a person other than Dr. Kusmik requests a hearing, that person shall set forth with particularly the manner in which his or her interest is adversely affected by this Order and shall address the criteria set forth in 10 CFR 2.714(d). If a hearing is requested by Dr. Kusmik or a person whose interest is adversely affected, the Commission will issue an Order designating the time and place of any hearing. If a hearing is held, the issue to be considered at such hearing shall be whether this Order should be sustained. Pursuant to 10 CFR 2.202(c)(2)(i), Dr. Kusmik, or any other person adversely affected by this Order, may, in addition to demanding a hearing, at the time the answer is filed or sooner, move the presiding officer to set aside the immediate effectiveness of the Order on the ground that the Order, including the need for immediate effectiveness, is not based on adequate evidence but on mere suspension, unfounded allegations, or error. In the absence of any request for hearing, the provisions specified in Section IV above shall be final 20 days from the date of this Order without further order or proceedings. An Answer Or a Request For Hearing Shall Not Stay The Immediate Effectiveness of This Order. Dated at Rockville, Maryland this 7th day of September 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Hugh L. Thompson, Jr., Deputy Executive Director for Nuclear Materials Safety, Safeguards, and Operations Support. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22988 Filed 9&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
