FR940325-2-00186 FR940325-2-00089 Second, the NASD proposes to amend Section 3 of the Rules to expand the hedge exemption pilot program to provide that in addition to stock, the underlying hedged security position may be comprised of securities readily convertible into or economically equivalent to the security underlying the corresponding hedging options position. The NASD believes that expanding the hedge exemption pilot program in this manner is appropriate and consistent with the Act because it would allow investors to hedge instruments that are economically equivalent to stocks more efficiently and effectively. Specifically, because the NASD believes that the value of such a security likely will fluctuate in tandem with the value of the security into which it is convertible or economically equivalent, the NASD believes investors with positions in these securities should be able to hedge their positions with equity options to the same extent that investors with long or short positions in the underlying security can. 4 In addition, because the hedge exemption pilot program requires the positions in the convertible or economically equivalent securities and the corresponding options to be fully hedged, the NASD believes that the expansion of the pilot program will not significantly increase concerns regarding intermarket manipulations or disruptions of either the options markets or the underlying stock market. 4 In this connection, the NASD will determine on a case-by-case basis whether an instrument that is being used as the basis for the underlying hedged position is readily convertible into or economically equivalent to the security underlying the corresponding options position. Further, the NASD will find that an instrument that is not presently convertible into a security, but which will be at a future date, is not a ``convertible'' security for purposes of the hedge exemption pilot program. In addition, the NASD notes that if a convertible security used to hedge an options position is called for redemption by the issuer, the security would have to be converted into the underlying security immediately or the corresponding option position reduced accordingly. Third, the NASD proposes to add a new example to the list of examples contained at the end of Section 3 of the Rules to illustrate the operation of the position limit hedge exemption. The NASD believes that this example will serve to avoid investor confusion concerning the hedge exemption pilot program. The NASD believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with section 15A(b)(6) of the Act 5 in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. Specifically, the NASD believes that the proposed extension and expansion of the hedge exemption pilot program may increase the depth and liquidity of the options markets by permitting investors to hedge greater amounts of stock than would otherwise be the case without the hedge exemption. At the same time, the NASD represents that the higher position limits available by virtue of the hedge exemption pilot program have not resulted in disruptions of the underlying stock markets due to restrictions in those markets and the NASD's surveillance program. In this connection, the NASD will continue to monitor the use of the position limit hedge exemption to ensure that NASD members are complying with the requirements of the exemption. The NASD also will continue to monitor the market effects, if any, from the position limit hedge exemptions. 5 15 U.S.C. 78 o&hyph; 3(b)(6) (1988). (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The NASD does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received by the NASD with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The NASD has requested that the proposed rule change be given accelerated effectiveness pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act.
