FR940516-2-00158 FR940516-2-00097 (e) Use action verbs that are accomplishment oriented. (3) Need for Government Financial Assistance: Demonstrate the need for assistance. Any appropriate database to substantiate or reinforce the need for the Project should be included. Explain why other funding sources cannot fund all the proposed work. List all other sources of funding that are or have been sought for the project. (4) Benefits or Results Expected: Identify and document the results or benefits to be derived from the proposed activities. (5) Project Statement of Work: The Statement of Work is the scientific or technical action plan of activities that are to be accomplished during each budget period of the project. This description must include the specific methodologies, by project job activity, proposed for accomplishing the proposal's objective(s). If the work described in this section does not contain sufficient detail to allow for proper technical evaluation, NMFS will not consider the application for funding and will return it to the applicant. Each Statement of Work must include the following information: (a) The applicant's name. (b) The inclusive dates of the budget period covered under the Statement of Work. (c) The title of the proposal. (d) The scientific or technical objectives and procedures that are to be accomplished during the budget period. Devise a detailed set of objectives and procedures to answer who, what, how, when, and where. The procedures must be of sufficient detail to enable competent workers to be able to follow them and to complete scheduled activities. (e) Location of the work. (f) A list of all project personnel and their responsibilities. (g) A milestone table that summarizes the procedures (from item III.D.(c)(5)(d)) that are to be attained in each month covered by the Statement of Work. (6) Participation by Persons or Groups Other Than the Applicant: Describe the level of participation required in the project(s) by NOAA or other government and non-government entities. Specific NOAA employees should not be named in the initial proposal. (7) Federal, State and Local Government Activities: List any programs (Federal, state, or local government or activities, including Sea Grant, state Coastal Zone Management programs, NOAA Chesapeake Bay Stock Assessment Committee, the state/Federal Chesapeake Bay Program, etc.) this project would affect and describe the relationship between the project and those plans or activities. (8) Project Management: Describe how the project will be organized and managed. Include resumes of principal investigators. List all persons directly employed by the applicant who will be involved with the project, their qualifications, and their level of involvement in the project. (9) Monitoring of Project Performance: Identify who will participate in monitoring the project. (10) Project Impacts: Describe the impact of the project in terms of anticipated increased production, sales, product quality and safety, improved management, or any other values that will be produced by this project. Describe how these products or services will be made available to the fisheries and management communities. (11) Evaluation of Project: The applicant is required to provide an evaluation of project accomplishments at the end of each budget period and in the final report. The application must describe the methodology or procedures to be followed to determine technical feasibility, or to quantify the results of the project in promoting increased production, product quality and safety, management effectiveness, or other measurable factors. (12) Total Project Costs: Total project costs is the amount of funds required to accomplish what is proposed in the Statement of Work, and includes contributions and donations. All costs must be shown in a detailed budget. Cost-sharing must not come from another Federal source. Costs must be allocated to the Federal share and non-Federal share provided by the applicant or other sources. Non-Federal costs are to be divided into cash and in-kind contributions. A standard budget form (SF&hyph;424A) is available from the offices listed (see ADDRESSES ). NMFS will not consider fees or profits as allowable costs for grantees. To support the budget, the applicant must describe briefly the basis for estimating the value of the non-Federal funds derived from in-kind contributions. Additional cost detail may be required prior to a final analysis of overall cost allowability, allocability, and reasonableness. The date, period covered, and findings for the most recent financial audit performed; as well as the name of the audit firm, the contact person, and phone number and address; must be also provided.
