FR940822-2-00048 FR940822-2-00036 Office of the Federal Environmental Executive [FRL&hyph;5054&hyph;1] Availability of the Presidential Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies on Environmentally and Economically Beneficial Practices on Federal Landscaped Grounds AGENCY: Office of the Federal Environmental Executive, EPA. ACTION: Notice, Review & Comment. SUMMARY: On April 26, 1994, President Clinton signed a Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies encouraging Environmentally and Economically Beneficial Practices on Federal Landscaped Grounds. The Memorandum calls for the establishment of an interagency work group by the Federal Environmental Executive to recommend guidance to all Federal agencies in the implementation of the Memorandum. This notice and request for comment is provided at the request of the Federal Environmental Executive in order to provide for the maximum amount of public input into the guidance. DATES: Written comments on the suggested guidelines for the implementation of the Presidential Memorandum should be received on or before September 16, 1994. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to comment on the guidelines to implement this Presidential Memorandum should submit their comments to The Office of the Federal Environmental Executive; Mail Code: 1600; Washington, DC 20460. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: Contact Debra Yap (202) 260&hyph;9291. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: ``Reinventing Environmental Management'' an Accompanying Report of the National Performance Review (NPR), clearly makes the case that the Federal government's daily operation_how it manages the lands, buildings, and other facilities that it owns or operates, has a significant impact on the environment. The National Performance Review recommended that the President issue a directive to require the use of environmentally and economically beneficial landscaping for Federal lands and facilities and federally funded projects. The NPR called upon the directive to increase the use of native plant species and to reduce the amount of chemicals applied to Federal landscapes. The NPR also called for the use of water efficient technologies in Federal landscaping projects; to provide educational and conservation opportunities to the public and to establish a government wide environmentally sound landscape program. In response to the NPR, on April 26, 1994, President Clinton signed a Presidential Memorandum. The Memorandum called for the establishment of guidelines for Federal facility managers on how to increase the use of native species, reduce the use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides, and implement water conservation techniques. Those guidelines will be proposed by a Federal Inter-Agency workgroup established by the Federal Environmental Executive. The purpose of this notice is to request input from interested parties on factors that should be included in the guidance. This notice provides a brief discussion of the particular sections of the Memorandum and issues which will be considered when the guidance is proposed. The guidelines should allow for climatic and geographic differences, and should provide a framework for agencies to consider as they plan their landscape requirements. The Landscape Memorandum identifies five (5) priorities. Each of these have raised questions. (a) Use Regionally Native Plants Intent: to incorporate native plants wherever practicable into landscape projects. Discussion: The use of native plants is encouraged because regionally native plants are believed to be regionally adapted to environmental conditions, i.e. soils, precipitation, light, extreme cold or heat, etc. By planting native plants we are using plants that are therefore more hardy and more likely to be self-reliant than non-native alternatives. Concerns: (1) What is a native plant? Executive Order 11987 on Exotic Organisms, signed by President Carter on May 24, 1977, used the following definition: ``all species of plants (and animals) naturally occurring, either presently or historically, in any ecosystem in the United States.'' It has been suggested that the word ``presently'' be eliminated from the definition, so as to avoid naturalized plants from being considered native. An alternative definition could be: ``all species, indigenous to, or known to exist in a region at the time of European settlement.'' (2) Do commercial sources of native plants and seed exist to meet this new demand? It is believed that a substantial group of native plant and seed sources exists in the Midwest, Southwest and Southeast regions. However, other regions cannot meet the new demand. How can we develop more sources for native plants and seeds? (3) Does the public understand the use of native plants enough to support this project? Can the public understand that all cemeteries operated by the United States Government should not be covered with lush Kentucky Blue Grass? Can the public understand that the government cannot afford to maintain roadsides as if they were the nation's front yards? Can the public accept a new ecological aesthetic? (4) How will agencies be provided training in the use and maintenance of planted native landscapes? Do the Agencies currently have resources that could be diverted to this new training, or is the new program going to require additional resources? (5) Under what conditions is the planting of native species practicable and appropriate? Should native species be used primarily outside urban areas? (6) How do we avoid weed free seeds, to avoid accidental introduction of non-natives, or aggressive exotic species to a project? Are state agricultural seed standards strong enough? (b) Design, Use, or Promote Construction Practices that Minimize Adverse Effects on the Natural Habitat Intent: The language here seeks to: (1) Maintain and promote the existing natural habitat; (2) Minimize disturbance to the natural habitat; and (3) Integrate design and construction of Federal projects with the surrounding natural habitat. Discussion: These principals are to be applied to federally funded projects where cost effective and to the extent practicable. We do not envision major restoration of natural habitats to be accomplished under this executive memorandum, nor do we envision that cost and time considerations will be sublimated in that effort. Instead, we envision that through thoughtful design work, proper planning and quality construction, these goals will be achieved. Although first-cost construction may be higher, overall costs may prove lower as costs for irrigation, maintenance, fertilization and pest control may decline. Concerns: (1) What is the definition of `natural habitat'? This definition could embrace both ``native'' and ``existing'' habitat with the determination being site specific and made on a case-by-case basis. Is a ``Natural Habitat'' the local association of plants adapted to the soil, topography and climate of an area that provide food and cover for indigenous species of the area? (2) To what extent should we expend additional revenue in support of minimizing adverse impacts to the natural habitat? Clearly, if the implementation of these principles produces lower costs and minimal or no impact to time delivery, it will be readily accepted, but, measuring costs and cost-effectiveness can be subjective. Record keeping will be imperative.
