FR940620-0-00108 FR940620-0-00029 Comment. Several commenters stated that many people do not know what an assistive listening system is or how to use it. The commenters suggested that in addition to indicating the availability of such equipment, signage should also be required to indicate an office where persons can receive additional information and instructions on the use of the equipment. Response. The provision requires an informational sign to be posted in a prominent place indicating the availability of assistive listening systems, computer-aided transcription systems, or other communication equipment for persons with vision or hearing impairments. This sign must include the international symbol of access for hearing loss. It is recommended that signage also indicate the location of such systems and that instructions be provided on how to use the equipment. No changes were made to this provision. Comment. The National Center for Law and Deafness recommended that the chart in Table A2 of the appendix (Summary of Assistive Listening Devices) be changed to reflect recent technological developments. Response. The Board agrees with the commenter and has included a more recent comparison chart. Comment. The NPRM sought comment on how issues of confidentiality and privacy can be addressed while providing accessibility for persons with vision and hearing impairments. The majority of the commenters did not consider confidentiality a problem. The Design Guide Subcommittee expressed concern that assistive listening systems in jury deliberation and grand jury suites pose potential problems of improper and illegal remote monitoring, but did not recommend that such areas be exempt from providing assistive listening systems. Commenters offered several solutions such as requiring transcriptions to be destroyed by proper authorities (similar to the current practice of requiring jurors to return writing tablets); confiscating disks or utilizing security programs in computers. For example, one commenter stated that State telecommunications relay services use software which deletes the message typed by the communication assistant at the end of each page or wherever designated. Similar software can be utilized for a judicial setting. Response. Solutions to concerns regarding confidentiality and privacy are available and can be addressed by the facility. No changes were made to this provision. 12. Detention and Correctional Facilities This section addresses detention facilities where persons apprehended or arrested for alleged violations of law are temporarily detained and correctional facilities where persons convicted and sentenced for such violations are housed. Facilities covered by this section include holding areas in police stations and sheriff's offices and facilities housing persons for security reasons, including jails, prisons, reformatories, and juvenile detention centers. This section specifies minimum requirements for accessible cells or rooms and non-contact visiting areas. State and local government agencies, particularly those that oversee or operate detention and correctional systems, comprised a significant proportion of the commenters on this section. Extensive comments were received from a number of State correctional agencies, including those from the Illinois Department of Corrections, which were supported by correctional agencies of 22 other States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. In addition, the Association of State Correctional Administrators (ASCA) submitted the results of a survey it conducted based on questions and issues raised in the NPRM. A total of 30 State correctional officials responded to the ASCA survey. All together, the views of 44 different States were expressed either in comments submitted directly to the Board, through the ASCA survey, or through the Illinois Department of Corrections. These comments focused primarily on State prison systems and facilities. Comments addressing local and county facilities were also received. Responses from the operators of local detention or correctional systems represented a more modest portion of the comments and ranged from the cities of New York and Las Vegas to the villages of Arlington Heights and Schaumburg in Illinois. In addition, several State agencies that oversee or regulate local and county detention and correctional facilities provided information. Although this section applies to facilities owned or operated by State and local governments, information and comment was submitted by Federal government agencies, including the Bureau of Prisons, which operates the Federal prison system, and the National Institute of Correction, which provides leadership and assistance in the field of corrections. Besides agencies involved in the detention or corrections field, comments were also received from individuals, State and local government agencies (including those concerned with accessibility), code administrators, local and national disability groups, such as the Paralyzed Veterans of America, design professionals, and various trade or professional associations.
