FR941003-0-00121 FR941003-0-00018 (c) Mortgagees, staff and fee appraisers: conflicts of interests. (1) A mortgagee must avoid conflicts of interest and other relationships which affect, either in reality or in appearance, the credibility of the appraisal. Accordingly, a mortgagee may not contract with an appraiser or appraisal organization to perform an appraisal of a property if the builder or seller of the property owns, is owned by, is affiliated with, or has a financial interest in the appraiser or appraisal organization. (2) An appraiser must avoid conflicts of interest and other relationships which affect, either in reality or in appearance, the credibility of the appraisal. Accordingly, a fee appraiser may not have any interest, direct or indirect, in the property being appraised. A staff appraiser of a Direct Endorsement mortgagee may not have any direct interest, financial or otherwise, in the property being appraised, and is permitted an indirect interest only by reason of his or her employment by a mortgagee that has its appraisal operations isolated from its other activities in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. (d) Eligible fee appraisers. (1) General rule for Direct Endorsement cases. If a mortgage is to be processed by Direct Endorsement, the mortgagee may: (i) Contract with a fee appraiser to perform appraisal services. The contract may be with an individual, a corporation, a partnership, a sole proprietorship, a joint venture, a limited liability company, or any other legal entity recognized for the purpose by the state, which the mortgagee has chosen at its sole discretion, provided that the individual appraiser selected to perform the appraisal is listed on the current HUD Appraiser Roster set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. The mortgagee, concurrently and equally with the appraiser whom it has chosen, accepts full responsibility for the accuracy, integrity and thoroughness of the appraisal. (ii) Use an appraiser employed on its staff, provided that the appraiser is listed on the current HUD Appraiser Roster. (iii) Request HUD to assign an appraiser from one of its fee panels. Fee panelists must be listed on the HUD Appraiser Roster. (2) HUD Appraiser Roster. (i) HUD will maintain a nationwide listing on an Appraiser Roster of appraisers who are permitted to perform appraisals in connection with HUD's single family programs. Being listed on the Roster does not indicate a warranty or endorsement by HUD of any appraiser or appraisal, and ยง200.145(c) of this chapter applies to each appraisal performed in accordance with this part. Each applicant for listing or periodic relisting must certify that he or she: (A) Holds a current certification or license from a state whose qualification standards are in compliance with FIRREA, as determined by the Appraisal Subcommittee (and must include his or her current certificate or license number); (B) Has read HUD Handbook 4150.1 and related Mortgagee Letters; (C) Is not listed on HUD's Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System; and (D) Is not debarred, suspended or in any way disqualified from participating in HUD programs. (ii) In addition, the applicant must submit such additional information as HUD may require. Application to be listed on the Roster must be made at any HUD Office in each state where the applicant will perform appraisals. (3) Removal from the Roster. HUD may at any time remove the appraiser from the Roster for cause. Cause includes, but is not limited to, significant deficiencies in appraisals, failure to maintain standing as a state certified or state licensed appraiser and prosecution for committing or attempting to commit fraud, misrepresentation or other offence that may reflect on the appraiser's character and integrity. Such removal shall not be governed by the procedures of part 24 of this Title. The appraiser shall, however, be subject to other sanctions in accordance with part 24 of this title. (4) Fee panels. If a mortgage is not processed by the Direct Endorsement procedure, the appraiser will be assigned from a fee panel or otherwise designated by HUD. A mortgagee using the Direct Endorsement procedure may also request HUD to assign an appraiser from a fee panel. (e) Appraisal fees and charges. The appraisal fee charged to the borrower or other party shall be reasonable. The fee may be prescribed by rule or other HUD issuance. (f) Transfer of appraisals between mortgagees. A Direct Endorsement lender may accept an appraisal that was prepared by an appraiser engaged directly by another mortgagee, provided that the appraisal was performed in accordance with this part and that the mortgagee accepting the appraisal has: (1) Reviewed the appraisal report under its review procedures; and (2) Found the appraisal to be acceptable. Subpart C_Multifamily Programs ยง267.9 Definitions applicable to multifamily programs. In addition to the definitions in ยง267.2, the following definitions apply to multifamily programs: Acceptable risk refers to a program in which the project's net operating income covers the mortgage debt service requirement and provides an appropriate return to the owner's equity. The term assumes that the mortgage does not exceed the appropriate percentage of estimated replacement cost and any other supplemental standards concerning particular programs contained in handbooks and other directives.
