FR941017-2-00113 FR941017-2-00064 2. Sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act prohibit a registered unit investment trust, its depositor or principal underwriter, from selling periodic payment plan certificates unless the proceeds of all payments, other than sales loads, are deposited with a qualified bank and held under arrangements which prohibit any payment to the depositor or principal underwriter except a reasonable fee, as the Commission may prescribe, for performing bookkeeping and other administrative duties normally performed by the bank itself. 3. Applicants request, under Section 6(c) of the 1940 Act, exemptions from Sections 26(a)(2) and 27(c)(2) to the extent necessary to permit the deduction from the assets of the Separate Account of the charge for mortality and expense risks. Applicants believe that the requested exemptions are necessary and appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the 1940 Act. 4. Applicants submit that the relief requested with respect to any Other Contracts funded by the Separate Account or by any other separate account that is established by Jefferson-Pilot in the future to support materially similar contracts to those offered by the Separate Account, is appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes of the 1940 Act, and, thus, is consistent with the standards of Section 6(c) of the 1940 Act. Without the requested relief for the Other Contracts, Applicants would have to repeatedly request and obtain exemptive relief which would present no issues under the 1940 Act that have not already been addressed in this Application. Eliminating redundant exemptive applications would reduce administrative expenses and maximize the efficient use of resources, thus, promoting competitiveness in the variable annuity market. Applicants represents that the delay and expense of repetitive exemptive applications would impair Jefferson-Pilot's ability to effectively take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, would deny investors any benefit or additional protection, and would disadvantage investors as a result of increased overhead costs. Applicants thus believe that the requested exemption is appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the 1940 Act. 5. Applicants contend that Jefferson-Pilot is entitled to reasonable compensation for its assumption of mortality and expense risks. Applicants represent that the mortality and expense risk charge is consistent with the protection of investors because it is a reasonable and proper insurance charge. The charge is a reasonable charge to compensate Jefferson-Pilot for the risks that: (a) Annuitants under the Contract will live longer individually or as a group than has been anticipated in setting the annuity rates guaranteed in the Contracts; (b) the Account Value will be less than the death benefit; and (c) administrative expenses will be greater than amounts derived from the administrative charges. 6. Applicants represent that the 1.25% mortality and expense risk charge under the Contracts is within the range of industry practice for comparable annuity products. This determination is based upon Applicants' analysis of publicly available information about similar industry products, taking into consideration such factors as current charge levels and benefits provided, the existence if expense charge guarantees and guaranteed annuity rates. Applicants represent that Jefferson-Pilot undertakes to maintain at its home office, available to the Commission upon request, a memorandum setting forth in detail the products analyzed, and the results of the analysis, in making the foregoing determination. 3 3 Applicants represent that they will amend the application during the notice period to make this representation. 7. Applicants acknowledge that, if a profit is realized from the mortality and expense risk charge, all or a portion of such profit may be available to pay distribution expenses. Jefferson-Pilot has concluded that there is a reasonable likelihood that the proposed distribution financing arrangements will benefit the Separate Account and the Contract owners. The basis for that conclusion is set forth in a memorandum which will be maintained by Jefferson-Pilot at its administrative offices and will be available to the Commission. 8. Applicants also represents that the Separate Account will invest only in open-end management investment companies that undertake, in the event that such company should adopt a plan under Rule 12b&hyph;1 of the 1940 Act to finance distribution expenses, to have a board of directors (or trustees), a majority of whom are not ``interested persons'' of the company, formulate and approve any such plan. Conclusion For the reasons set forth above, Applicants represents that the exemptions requested are necessary and appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the 1940 Act. Accordingly, Applicants request relief from Sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) to the extent necessary to permit the assessment and deduction of the mortality and expense risk charge under the Contracts. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25605 Filed 10&hyph;14&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
