FR941117-0-00143 FR941117-0-00011 §22.809 Transmitting power limits. The transmitting power of ground and airborne mobile transmitters operating on the channels listed in §22.805 must not exceed the limits in this section. (a) Ground station transmitters. The effective radiated power of ground stations must not exceed 100 Watts and must not be less than 50 Watts, except as provided in §22.811. (b) Airborne mobile transmitters. The transmitter power output of airborne mobile transmitters must not exceed 25 Watts and must not be less than 4 Watts. §22.811 Idle tone. Whenever a ground station transmitter authorized to transmit on any of the communications channels listed in §22.805 is available for service but is not providing service, a modulated signal must be continuously transmitted on the communication channel assigned to that transmitter. While this modulated signal is transmitted, the transmitter power must be between 10 and 20 dB lower than the normal transmitting power. §22.813 Technical channel pair assignment criteria. The rules in this section establish technical assignment criteria for the channel pairs listed in §22.805. These criteria are intended to provide substantial service volumes over areas that have significant local and regional general aviation activity, while maintaining the continuous nationwide in-route coverage of the original geographical layout. (a) Distance separation for co-channel ground stations. The FCC may grant an application requesting assignment of a communication channel pair to a proposed ground transmitter only if the proposed antenna location is at least 800 kilometers (497 miles) from the antenna location of the nearest co-channel ground transmitter in the United States, its territories and possessions; and 1000 kilometers (621 miles) from the antenna location of the nearest co-channel ground transmitter in Canada. (b) Dispersion. The FCC may grant an application requesting assignment of a communication channel pair to a proposed ground transmitter only if there are no more than five different communication channel pairs already assigned to ground transmitters with antenna locations within a 320 kilometer (199 mile) radius of the proposed antenna location. §22.815 Construction period for general aviation ground stations. The construction period (see §22.142) for general aviation ground stations is 12 months. §22.817 Additional channel policies. The rules in this section govern the processing of applications for authority to operate a ground station transmitter on any ground station communication channel listed in §22.805 when the applicant has applied or been granted an authorization for other ground station communication channels in the same area. The general policy of the FCC is to assign one ground station communication channel in an area to a carrier per application cycle, up to a maximum of six ground station communication channels per area. That is, a carrier must apply for one ground station communication channel, receive the authorization, construct the station, and notify the FCC of commencement of service before applying for an additional ground station communication channel in that area. (a) Air-ground transmitters in same area. Any transmitter on any of the ground station channels listed in §22.805 is considered to be in the same area as another transmitter on any ground station channel listed in §22.805 if it is located less than 350 kilometers (217 miles) from that transmitter. (b) Initial channel. The FCC will not assign more than one ground station communication channel for new ground stations. Ground stations are considered to be new if there are no authorized ground station transmitters on any channel listed in §22.805 controlled by the applicant in the same area. (c) Additional channel. Applications for ground transmitters to be located in the same area as an authorized ground station controlled by the applicant, but to operate on a different ground station communication channel, are considered as requesting an additional channel for the authorized station. (d) Amendment of pending application. If the FCC receives and accepts for filing an application for a ground station transmitter to be located in the same area as a ground station transmitter proposed in a pending application previously filed by the applicant, but on a different ground station communication channel, the subsequent application is treated as a major amendment to change the technical proposal of the prior application. The filing date of any application so amended is the date the FCC received the subsequent application. (e) Dismissal of premature applications for additional channel. If the FCC receives an application requesting an additional ground station communication channel for an authorized ground station prior to receiving notification that the station is providing service to subscribers on the authorized channel(s), the FCC may dismiss that application without prejudice. (f) Dismissal of applications for seventh channel. If the FCC receives an application requesting an additional ground station communication channel for an authorized ground station which would, if granted, result in that station being assigned more than six ground station communication channels in the same area, the FCC may dismiss that application without prejudice. §22.819 AGRAS compatibility requirement. Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, stations transmitting on the channels listed in §22.805 must operate in compliance with the technical and operational requirements contained in the document, ``Technical Reference, Air-ground Radiotelephone Automated Service (AGRAS), System Operation and Equipment Characteristics'', dated April 12, 1985. (a) Until January 1, 1996, stations may continue to operate in compliance with the previous standard adopted in Docket 16073. (b) Copies of the document referenced in this section may be obtained from the FCC's copying contractor. §22.821 Authorization for airborne mobile stations. An authorization separate from any ground station authorization is required for each airborne mobile station that operates on the channels listed in §22.805. The operator of the airborne mobile station must apply for the authorization (FCC Form 409). The application must contain an affirmative representation that the applicant has made definite arrangements with a wireline common carrier for service and billing.
