FR940124-1-00090 FR940124-1-00009 Several negotiators suggested that the Secretary specify the manner in which States were to consult with institutions in their State while developing State standards and complaint procedures. The Secretary believes that each State is in a better position than the Secretary to determine the most appropriate consultation method for that State. Moreover, the Secretary believes that States should be able to select from a variety of consultation formats when developing its standards and complaint procedures with the institutions in its State. Therefore, the Secretary has not specified the type of required consultation under this section. However, the Secretary expects a State's consultation process to be thorough and inclusive of the range and types of institutions in the State. With its plan, the State must submit a budget for carrying out the allowable activities. In §667.12(b)(2), the Secretary proposes that a State carry out the allowable activities in a priority order if the State anticipates that the cost of carrying out all those activities will exceed its allotment. Specifically, the Secretary proposes that a State first use its allotment to develop review standards. If a portion of the allotment remains after the State has developed its review standards, the State may develop procedures for receiving and responding to complaints from students, faculty, and others regarding institutions in the State. Finally, the State may use any remaining portion of its allotment to provide costs estimates for the SPRE's information system after it has completed its review standards and complaint procedures. The Congress made $5.3 million of fiscal year 1993 funds available to initiate the State Postsecondary Review Program. Under a notice published in the Federal Register on July 14, 1993, 58 FR 38022&hyph;38025, the Secretary has allotted those funds to States for the purposes set forth in §667.12(b). Therefore, except for the following provision, the Secretary acknowledges that most States will have complied with the provisions contained in §667.12(b) when these provisions are published as final regulations. If a State does not establish review standards with its fiscal year 1993 allotment, the Secretary proposes that the funds it may receive in any future fiscal year for those activities may not exceed the amount it received or was scheduled to receive in fiscal year 1993. The Secretary proposes this provision because the Secretary believes that the primary purpose of the State Postsecondary Review Program is SPRE reviews of institutions and that the funds allotted to States in fiscal year 1993 were adequate to develop review standards. Application after standards are established. For the second phase of the application process, the Secretary proposes in §667.12(c) that a State submit_ (1) A plan to review referred institutions; (2) A plan to carry out the activities described in §667.14; and (3) A budget for those reviews and activities that does not exceed the State's allotment. The Secretary acknowledges that a State's allotment of funds may be inadequate to review all the institutions that must be reviewed under §§667.5 and 667.6. Therefore, in §667.12(c)(2), the Secretary proposes that a SPRE submit, as part of its plan, a priority system for selecting institutions for review from among the referred institutions if the SPRE anticipates that the cost of reviewing all the referred institutions will exceed the State's allotment. The Secretary proposes to provide maximum flexibility to States in selecting institutions to review, except as limited by section 494A(b)(2) of the HEA. That section requires States to review referred institutions on a schedule that coincides with the dates set by the Secretary to recertify those institutions to participate in the Title IV, HEA programs. However, the Secretary expects States to establish review priorities that reflect the objectives of protecting students, saving tax dollars, and promoting educational quality. The Secretary requests public comment on the potential benefits of developing specific criteria for States to consider in determining their review priorities and the nature of those criteria. Section 667.13␣Approval of Funding Application Approval of funding application before a State establishes review standards. In §667.13(a), the Secretary proposes to approve a State's plan and budget for the first phase of the SPRP, the development of standards and complaint procedures in consultation with institutions in the State, if_ (1) The State's plan provides a reasonable basis, and adequate budget justification, for conducting those activities; (2) The State's plan provides for conducting those activities in the priority order proposed in §667.12(b)(2); and (3) The State's budget includes only reasonable allowable costs within the State's fiscal year 1993 allotment. The Secretary proposes allowable costs in §667.14. Approval of funding application after a State establishes review standards. In §667.13(b), the Secretary proposes to approve a State's plan and budget for the second phase of the SPRP, primarily the review of referred institutions, if_ (1) The State's plan provides adequate budget justification for carrying out the activities proposed and described in §667.14 within its allotment, (2) The State's plan provides a reasonable scheme for reviewing referred institutions; (3) The State's plan includes a priority system for reviewing referred institutions; and (4) Any contract the State proposes to enter into with another agency to carry out SPRE functions, as provided in section 494C(f) of the HEA, is reasonable and appropriate. If a State that does not submit an application for funds under §667.12 or does not submit an approvable application, the Secretary proposes in §667.13(c) to impose on that State the sanctions described in section 494(c) of the HEA.
