FR941222-0-00057 FR941222-0-00006 Interventions and Comments Notice of the EEI filing was published in the Federal Register , 19 with comments due on or before November 14, 1994. Tellus Institute for Resource and Environmental Strategies (Tellus), Wisconsin Electric Power Company (Wisconsin Electric), the Office of the Consumers' Counsel, State of Ohio (Consumers' Counsel), Potomac Electric Power Company (PEPCO), Cincinnati Gas and Electric Company (CG&E) and PSI Energy, Inc. (PSI), Entergy Services, Inc. (Entergy Services), EPA, the Independent Petroleum Association of America (IPAA), the City of Cleveland, Ohio (Cleveland), Florida Power & Light Company (Florida Power), and the American Public Power Association (APPA) 20 filed timely motions to intervene and/or comments. Washington Utilities and Transportation Commission (Washington Commission), the Public Utilities Commission of the State of California (California Commission) and the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (Indiana Commission) filed notices of intervention and/or timely comments. On November 21, 23, 25 and 30, 1994, Clean Air Capital Markets (Clean Air), Emissions Exchange Corporation (Emissions Exchange), Cantor Fitzgerald Brokerage, L.P. (Cantor Fitzgerald), and Southern Company Services, Inc. (Southern) filed untimely motions to intervene and comments. On November 28, 1994, EEI filed reply comments. EEI does not oppose any of the motions to intervene and welcomes comments on the issues raised in this proceeding. 19 59 FR 53156 (October 21, 1994). 20 APPA is a national service organization representing approximately 1,750 publicly-owned electric utilities throughout the United States. Under Rule 214 of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, 18 CFR 385.214, the timely, unopposed motions to intervene of Tellus, Wisconsin Electric, the Consumers' Counsel, PEPCO, CG&E, PSI, Entergy Services, IPAA, Cleveland, Florida Power, EPA and APPA and the notices of intervention of the Washington Commission, the California Commission and the Indiana Commission serve to make them parties to this proceeding. Furthermore, we find that good cause exists to grant the untimely interventions of Clean Air, Emissions Exchange, Cantor Fitzgerald and Southern, given the interests they represent, the early stage of this proceeding, and the apparent absence of undue prejudice or delay. Finally, we will accept EEI's reply comments. While responses to protests or answers normally are not permitted under the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, 18 CFR 385.213(a)(2), responses to intervention requests are permitted. 21 Moreover, these reply comments are necessary in order to clarify issues in this proceeding, 22 provide a more complete record on which the Commission can base its decision, 23 and assist in the understanding of the parties' positions with respect to certain factual and legal matters. 24 21 We will not attempt to separate intervenors' filings into those portions which pertain solely to the request for intervention and those portions which contain objections to the original application. See, e.g., Robbins Resource Recovery Partners, L.P., 69 FERC ¶61,178 (1994). 22 See Buckeye Pipeline Company, L.P., 45 FERC ¶61,046 at 61,160 (1988). 23 See BES Hydro Company, 45 FERC ¶61,478 at 62,490 & n.2 (1988); and New York Irrigation District, 46 FERC ¶61,379 at 62,180 & n.2 (1989). 24 See Kansas City Power & Light Company, 53 FERC ¶61,097 at 61,282 (1990). IV. Rate Issues Positions of Intervenors and Commenters CG&E, PSI, Entergy Services, IPAA and Cleveland take no position on the merits of EEI's proposal. The Washington Commission, the Indiana Commission, PEPCO, and Southern generally express support for the proposal. The remainder of the intervenors and commenters indicate concerns with various aspects of the proposal, as discussed below. The California Commission supports EEI's request that alternative proposals for emissions allowance ratemaking treatment not be precluded and that such proposals be considered on a case-by-case basis. EPA supports EEI's request for incremental pricing for allowances and use of an index to establish the incremental price. However, EPA requests the Commission to address ratemaking for all wholesale transactions at this time. EPA also seeks a uniform approach for costing and rate treatment of allowances. Thus, EPA requests that the Commission adopt one index option for use by all public utilities. EPA suggests that its auction presently provides the most reliable price index. EPA also raises concerns about EEI's proposal to allow alternate ratemaking proposals on a case-by-case basis. EPA states that utilities should bear the burden of showing that any different approach is justified and will not result in an unfair competitive advantage in electric power markets. Emissions Exchange, Clean Air and Cantor Fitzgerald state that EPA auction prices have consistently been artificially low and that the EPA auction price is not representative of the open market because the auction is held just once a year and does not track the current price and availability of allowances. Emissions Exchange asks that the Commission refrain from dictating use of any particular price index. Instead, Emissions Exchange proposes that this Commission permit each utility to choose its market price index from a list which includes, but is not limited to, the allowance price indicators published by Cantor Fitzgerald. 25 25 Utility Environment Report, Cantor Fitzgerald, Compliance Strategies Review and Emission Exchange.
