FR940616-0-00059 FR940616-0-00009 ยง1.1108 Payment of charges. (a) Electronic fee payments do not require the use of a FCC Form 159, Remittance Advice. An electronic fee payment must be made on or before the day the application and appropriate processing form are filed. (b) The schedule of fees for applications and other filings lists those applications and other filings that must be accompanied by a FCC Form 159, Remittance Advice. A separate FCC Form 159 will not be required once the information requirements of that form (payor information) is incorporated into the underlying application form. (c) Applications and other filings that are not submitted in accordance with these instructions will be returned as unprocessable. Note: This requirement for the simultaneous submission of fee forms with applications or other filings does not apply to the payment of fees for which the Commission has established a billing process. See ยง1.1118 of this subpart. (d) Applications returned to applicants for additional information or corrections will not require an additional fee when resubmitted, unless the additional information results in an increase of the original fee amount. Those applications not requiring an additional fee should be resubmitted directly to the Bureau/Office requesting the additional information. The original fee will be forfeited if the additional information or corrections are not resubmitted to the appropriate Bureau/Office by the prescribed deadline. If an additional fee is required, the original fee will be returned and the application must be resubmitted with a new remittance in the amount of the required fee to the Commission's lockbox bank. Applicants should attach a copy of the Commission request for additional or corrected information to their resubmission. (1) If the Bureau/Office staff discovers within 30 days after the resubmission that the required fee was not submitted, the application will be dismissed. (2) If after 30 days the Bureau/Office staff discovers the required fee has not been paid, the application will be retained and a 25 percent late fee will be assessed on the deficient amount even if the Commission has completed its action on the application. Any Commission actions taken prior to timely payment of these charges are contingent and subject to recession. * * * * * 7. Newly designated ยง1.1109 is amended by revising paragraphs (a), (d) and (f) to read as follows:
