FR940516-1-00089 FR940516-1-00006 (4) Engines used in aircraft as that term is defined in 40 CFR 87.1(a). (5) Engines used in recreational vehicles which are defined as follows: (1) The engine has no installed speed governor; (2) the engine's rated speed is greater than or equal to 5,000 RPM; (3) the engine is not used for the propulsion of a marine vessel; and (4) the engine does not meet the criteria to be categorized as a Class III, IV, or V engine under this regulation. Recreational vehicles include: All- terrain vehicles, off-road motorcycles, snowmobiles, and go- karts. These engines are being excluded for several reasons: First, the duty cycle is completely different from most small SI engine applications. These engines experience highly transient operation and likely will require completely different test procedures for purposes of emission control testing. Second, they are designed to emphasize power output; thus, they are typically designed to run at much higher RPMs than other small SI engines. EPA invites comments on other criteria which may be utilized in defining the class of nonroad engines which propel recreational vehicles. 2. Exclusions and Exemptions to Today's Proposal Pursuant to section 203(b)(1) of the CAA, the Agency is proposing additional categories of exemptions from new small SI engine regulation similar to the exclusions and exemptions that exist for on-highway engines and that have been proposed in the nonroad large CI engine rule. These include exemptions for purposes of research, investigations, studies, demonstrations, training, or for reasons of national security. Exemptions would be obtained either categorically, that is without application to the Administrator, or by submitting a written application to the Administrator. Export exemptions and manufacturer-owned engine exemptions would be granted without application. Testing exemptions, display exemptions, and national security exemptions would be obtained by application. Exclusions from this regulation include nonroad engines that are used solely for competition or for combat. Exemptions and exclusions are justified in these cases because the sources are limited in number or scope, so minimal environmental harm results; the particular use of the source is determined to further air quality research; and/or the exemption is vital to the security of the nation. (See 39 FR 10601, March 21, 1974.) 3. Effective Date for Certification EPA is proposing that certification of new small SI engines begin in 1996. Manufacturers of engines produced on or after August 1, 1996, would be required to obtain from the Administrator a certificate of conformity covering the engine family. The certificate would be obtained prior to selling, offering for sale, introducing into commerce, or importing into the United States the new engine. While the small SI engines affected by this proposal include a broad range of engine types, EPA believes that the effective date for the proposed standards is reasonable and technologically feasible and that engine manufacturers will be able to implement these regulations within the short lead time provided under this rule. This issue is discussed, in detail, in ``V.I. Effective Date.'' Further, an August 1, 1996 effective date is consistent with the Congressional mandate found in section 213(c) of the Clean Air Act which requires that, ``Standards *␣*␣* shall take effect at the earliest possible date considering lead time necessary to permit the development and application of the requisite technology *␣*␣*'' 4. Emission Standards Section 213(a)(3) of the CAA states that nonroad emissions standards: *␣*␣* shall achieve the greatest degree of emission reduction achievable through the application of technology which the Administrator determines will be available for the engines or vehicles to which such standards apply, giving appropriate consideration to the cost of applying such technology within the period of time available to manufacturers and to noise, energy, and safety factors associated with the application of such technology. In determining what degree of reduction will be available, the Administrator shall first consider standards equivalent in stringency to standards for comparable motor vehicles or engines (if any) regulated under section 7521 of this title, taking into account the technological feasibility, costs, safety, noise, and energy factors associated with achieving, as appropriate, standards of such stringency and lead time *␣*␣*. The emission standards being proposed for this Phase 1 small engine regulation are listed in Table 1 in the Overview Section. The proposed emission standards result in significant emission reductions in the near term while work is going on to develop more stringent Phase 2 standards and while manufacturers work to design engines and equipment capable of meeting lower standards at a later date. EPA believes these proposed emission standards represent the greatest emission reductions achievable given the short lead time prior to this rule's effective date and the technology available during this period. Requiring more stringent Phase 1 emission standards than those proposed today would necessarily delay implementation of new small SI engine standards by at least two years. This additional lead time would be needed to allow manufacturers time to redesign engines and equipment to accommodate requirements of more sophisticated technologies. Air quality benefits which will accrue under the proposed emission standards are large and meet the statutory criteria for nonroad standards required by the CAA. These benefits are discussed in Section VI of this preamble.
