FR940525-1-00088 FR940525-1-00008 ( 6 ) Claims on products that contain more than 25 percent of the Reference Daily Intake for folate (100 mcg per serving) shall state that 1 mg folate per day is the safe upper limit of intake (e.g., ``Folate consumption should be limited to 1,000 mcg per day from all sources''); ( 7 ) The claim shall not state that a specified amount of folate (e.g., 400 mcg in a dietary supplement) is more effective in reducing the risk of neural tube defects than a lower amount (e.g., 100 mcg in a breakfast cereal or from diets rich in fruit and vegetables); ( 8 ) The claim shall identify diets adequate in folate by using phrases such as ``*␣*␣* diets that include 2 to 4 servings per day of fruits (including citrus fruits and juices), 3 to 5 servings of vegetables (including dark green leafy vegetables and legumes), 6 to 11 servings of enriched grain products (such as breads, rice, and pasta) and fortified cereals. Such diets provide many essential minerals and vitamins, including folate. Women who do not eat well-balanced diets or who may be concerned about their diets may choose to obtain folate from dietary supplements.''; or ``Adequate amounts of folate, a B vitamin, can be obtained from diets rich in fruits, including citrus fruits and juices, vegetables, including dark green leafy vegetables and legumes, enriched grain products, including breads, rice, and pasta, fortified cereals, or a dietary supplement.''; or ``Adequate amounts of folate, a B vitamin, can be obtained from diets rich in fruits, dark green leafy vegetables and legumes, enriched grain products, fortified cereals, or from dietary supplements.''; and ( 9 ) The nutrition label shall include information about the amount of folate in the labeled product. This information shall be declared after the declaration for iron if only the levels of vitamin A, vitamin C, calcium, and iron are provided, or in accordance with §381.409 if other optional vitamins or minerals are declared. (B) Nature of the food. ( 1 ) The product shall meet or exceed the requirements for a ``good source'' level of folate as defined in §381.454, except the basis for meal-type products as defined in §381.413(l) shall be per labeled serving size; ( 2 ) The product may meet the cholesterol criterion for ``extra lean'' as defined in §381.462; and ( 3 ) The product shall not contain more than 100 percent of the Reference Daily Intake as defined in §381.409 for vitamin A as retinol or preformed vitamin A or vitamin D. ( 4 ) Optional information. (i) The claim may specifically identify risk factors for neural tube defects. (ii) The claim may include information from paragraphs (h) (1) and (2) of this section, which summarizes the relationship between folate and neural tube defects and the significance of the relationship except for information specifically prohibited from the claim. (iii) The claim may state that women with a history of a neural tube defect pregnancy should consult their physicians or health care providers before becoming pregnant. (iv) The claim may identify the Daily Value level of 400 mcg of folate per day as the target intake goal. (5) Model health claims. The following are examples of model health claims that may be used in food labeling to describe the relationship between folate and neural tube defects: (i) Women who consume adequate amounts of folate, a B vitamin, daily throughout their childbearing years may reduce their risk of having a child with a neural tube birth defect. Such birth defects, while not widespread, are very serious. They can have many causes. Adequate amounts of folate can be obtained from diets rich in fruits, dark green leafy vegetables and legumes, enriched grain products, fortified cereals, or a supplement. Folate consumption should be limited to 1,000 mcg per day from all sources. (ii) Women who consume adequate amounts of folate daily throughout their childbearing years may reduce their risk of having a child with a birth defect of the brain and spinal cord. Such birth defects, while not widespread, are very serious. They can have many causes. Adequate amounts of folate, a B vitamin, can be obtained from diets rich in fruits, dark green leafy vegetables and legumes, enriched grain products, fortified cereals, or a supplement. Women who have had a child with a spinal cord birth defect should consult a physician before becoming pregnant. Folate consumption should be limited to 1,000 mcg per day from all sources. (iii) Women who take steps to ensure that their folate intake is adequate throughout their childbearing years may reduce their risk of having a child with a neural tube defect. Such birth defects, while not widespread, are very serious. They can have many causes. Adequate amounts of folate, a B vitamin, can be obtained from diets rich in citrus fruits and juices, dark green leafy vegetables and legumes, enriched grain products such as breads, rice, and pasta, fortified cereals, or a supplement. Folate consumption should be limited to 1,000 mcg per day from all sources. (iv) Women who take steps to ensure that their folate intake is at least 400 mcg daily throughout their childbearing years may reduce their risk of having a child with spina bifida or anencephaly, birth defects of the brain or spinal cord that, while not widespread, are very serious. These birth defects can have many causes. Adequate amounts of folate, a B vitamin, can be obtained from diets rich in fruits, including citrus fruits and juices, vegetables, including dark green leafy vegetables and legumes, enriched grain products, including breads, rice, and pasta, fortified cereals, or from a supplement. Women who have had a pregnancy affected with a neural tube defect should consult a physician before becoming pregnant. Folate consumption should be limited to 1,000 mcg per day from all sources. (v) Some women who consume the Daily Value of folate (400 mcg) throughout their childbearing years may reduce their risk of having a child affected with spina bifida or anencephaly, birth defects of the brain or spinal cord that, while not widespread, are very serious. These birth defects can have many causes. Women of childbearing age should choose well-balanced diets that include 2 to 4 servings per day of fruits (including citrus fruits and juices), 3 to 5 servings of vegetables (including dark green leafy vegetables and legumes), 6 to 11 servings of enriched grain products (such as breads, rice, and pasta) or fortified cereals throughout their childbearing years. Such diets provide many essential minerals and vitamins, including folate. Women who may be concerned about their diets may choose to obtain folate from a supplement. Folate consumption should be limited to 1,000 mcg per day from all sources. Done at Washington, DC, on: May 16, 1994. Patricia Jensen, Acting Assistant Secretary, Marketing and Inspection Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12466 Filed 5&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;DM&hyph;P
