FR941013-1-00019 FR941013-1-00005 DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE Drug Enforcement Administration 21 CFR Parts 1307, 1309, 1310, 1313 and 1316 Implementation of the Domestic Chemical Diversion Control Act of 1993 (Pub. L. 103&hyph;200) AGENCY: Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), Justice. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: DEA is proposing these regulations to implement the Domestic Chemical Diversion Control Act of 1993, which became effective on April 16, 1994, in order to provide additional safeguards against the diversion of regulated chemicals. DATES: Written comments or objections must be received on or before December 12, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments and objections should be submitted in quintuplicate to the Deputy Administrator, Drug Enforcement Administration, Washington, D.C. 20537, Attention: Federal Register Representative/CCR. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: G. Thomas Gitchel, Chief, Liaison and Policy Section, Office of Diversion Control, Drug Enforcement Administration, Washington, D.C. 20537, Telephone (202) 307&hyph;4025. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Introduction The Chemical Diversion and Trafficking Act of 1988, (PL 100&hyph;690) (CDTA) was passed by Congress to control the diversion of certain chemicals (hereinafter referred to as listed chemicals) that are necessary for the illicit manufacture of drugs such as heroin, cocaine, methamphetamine and LSD. The CDTA and its implementing regulations, as set forth in Title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (21 CFR), parts 1310 and 1313, established a system of recordkeeping and reporting requirements through which DEA and the chemical industry could identify persons seeking to divert listed chemicals for the manufacture of illicit drugs. The CDTA allows for the tracking and, where necessary, control of domestic and international transactions involving listed chemicals. The CDTA has had strong success. The greatest impact has been in the international arena, with a significant reduction in exports of listed chemicals from the United States to countries that are known sources of cocaine. Domestically, the volume of chemicals available to clandestine laboratories was reduced. However, these successes also highlighted several shortcomings in the CDTA, including: 1. The CDTA provided a mechanisms for DEA, with the cooperation of the chemical industry, to identify persons engaging in suspicious transactions and, as needed, take action against those persons. However, lacking evidence that an individual knowingly supplied chemicals for the illicit manufacture of drugs, DEA's options were limited. 2. Persons engaged in the illicit manufacture of methamphetamine and methcathinone were able to obtain supplies of the listed chemicals critical to the manufacture of such drugs through the purchase of drug products that were exempted from the provisions of the CDTA. 3. Illicit drug manufacturers in foreign countries began to purchase their supplies of listed chemicals from countries other than the United States, on occasion utilizing the services of United States based brokers and traders to facilitate the transactions. To address these and other concerns, Congress passed legislation in late 1993 to amend the CDTA. II. The Domestic Chemical Diversion Control Act of 1993 (Pub. L. 103&hyph;200) The Domestic Chemical Diversion Control Act of 1993 (DCDCA) was signed into law on December 17, 1993, and became effective on April 16, 1994. The DCDCA is intended to close avenues used by illicit drug manufacturers to circumvent the CDTA. The main provisions of the DCDCA are as follows: 1. Precursor and essential chemicals have been redesignated as List I and List II chemicals respectively. 2. Any person who manufactures, distributes, imports or exports a List I chemical must obtain a registration from DEA. DEA is authorized to deny an application for registration or suspend or revoke a registration to manufacture, distribute, import or export a List I chemical, if it is established that such registration would not be in the public interest. 3. Transactions involving drug products marketed under the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) which contain ephedrine, either as the sole active medicinal ingredient or in combination with therapeutically insignificant quantities of another active medicinal ingredient, are now included in the definition of regulated transaction. Subjecting these products to the registration, recordkeeping and reporting requirements eliminates a virtually unrestricted source of ephedrine for illicit manufacturers of methamphetamine and methcathinone. The DCDCA also grants DEA the authority to remove the exemption for any other drug that contains a listed chemical if DEA determines that the drug is being diverted in order to obtain the listed chemical for use in the illicit manufacture of a controlled substance. 4. Brokers and traders based in the United States who arrange international transactions involving listed chemicals will be subject to the same reporting and recordkeeping requirements as exporters of listed chemicals, thus controlling a previously unmonitored source of chemicals for clandestine laboratories in foreign countries. 5. Manufacturers of listed chemicals are required to provide DEA with annual reports regarding the manufacture of such chemicals. The reports will provide DEA with information regarding the volume of listed chemicals available in the United States. III. Implementation of the DCDCA To implement the DCDCA, DEA is proposing the following regulatory changes and additions: 1. A new part 1309 of Title 21, Code of Federal Regulations is to be added, setting forth the specific requirements for registration, the application forms to be used, the application fees, exemptions from the registration requirement, security provisions, and administrative procedures regarding approval or denial of an application, revocation of registration, and administrative hearings. With respect to the requirement of registration in the proposed Section 1309.21, DEA has granted a temporary exemption from the registration requirement pending implementation of the registration program, as set forth in an Interim Rule published in the Federal Register on March 24, 1994 (59 FR 13881). Under the CDTA, regulated persons consist of those firms engaged in the distribution, importation or exportation of chemicals. The DCDCA regulates drug products containing ephedrine which are distributed by retail distributors such as convenience stores, liquor stores, truck stops, gas stations, nutrition centers, etc. These retail outlets do not distribute any other listed chemicals and their activities consist solely of the sale of such products directly to walk-in customers. DEA has determined that retail distributors should be categorized separately in light of the limited scope and volume of their chemical activities. Pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 822(d), the Administrator may waive the requirement of registration. The Administrator is proposing in ยง1309.25 of these regulations to exempt persons registered with DEA to manufacture, distribute, dispense, import, or export a controlled substance from the chemical registration requirement for equivalent activities involving drug products that are regulated as List I chemicals pursuant to ยง1310.01(f)(1)(iv). This includes such traditional sources for these products as pharmacies, hospitals, pharmaceutical manufacturers, distributors, etc. Further, the Administrator proposes in ยง1309.27 to exempt from the registration requirement those persons who manufacture a List I chemical solely for internal use, with no subsequent distribution or exportation.
