FR940607-2-00085 FR940607-2-00061 [Release No. 34&hyph;34141; File No. SR&hyph;MSE&hyph;93&hyph;9] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to Proposed Amendments to Its Arbitration Rules June 1, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on April 26, 1993, the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc. (``CHX'' or ``Exchange'') (on the date that the proposal was filed, the CHX was named the ``Midwest Stock Exchange'' or ``MSE'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC'') the proposed rule change as described in Items, I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. On March 31, 1994, the Exchange submitted to the Commission Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change. 1 On June 1, 1994, the Exchange submitted to the Commission Amendment No. 2 to the proposed rule change. 2 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 See letter from David T. Rusoff, Attorney, Foley & Lardner, to Sandra Sciole, Special Counsel, SEC, dated March 30, 1994. 2 See letter from David T. Rusoff, Attorney, Foley & Lardner, to Sandra Sciole, Special Counsel, SEC, dated May 31, 1994. Amendment No. 2 made certain changes to Interpretation and Policy .01 and .02 to Rule 24. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The CHX proposes to amend its arbitration rules as set out in Rule 24 of Article VIII in order to have them conform more closely with the Uniform Code of Arbitration developed by the Securities Industry Conference on Arbitration (``SICA''). 3 3 SICA is comprised of a representative from each self-regulatory organization (``SRO'') that administers an arbitration program, a representative of the securities industry, and four representatives of the public. The SROs that administer an arbitration program are the New York Stock Exchange, American Stock Exchange, Boston Stock Exchange, Cincinnati Stock Exchange, CHX, Pacific Stock Exchange, Philadelphia Stock Exchange, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, the National Association of Securities Dealers, and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. In addition to the conforming changes to Rule 24, the Exchange also proposes to make other changes to Rule 24 as well as changes to Rule 23, Article VIII (Arbitration of Member Disputes), as set forth in the purpose section of this rule filing. 4 4 The text of the proposed rule change was attached to the filing as Exhibit A. Copies of the proposal are available at the Commission as well as at the CHX. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in sections A, B and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change (1) Purpose The purpose of the proposed rule change is to bring the Exchange's arbitration rules more closely in line with SICA's Uniform Code of Arbitration (the ``Uniform Code'' or ``Code''). To that end, the Exchange is proposing several conforming changes to its arbitration rules and is also proposing other changes which will facilitate the administration of the CHX arbitration forum in general. The Exchange is also redesignating most of the section references to Rule 24 in order to conform its rule reference to SICA's Uniform Code. The CHX is proposing to add a provision (CHX Rule 24, Section 1(c)) to its arbitration rules providing that class actions will not be eligible for submission to arbitration. However, an individual may pursue a claim in arbitration if class certification is denied; the case is decertified; the customer is excluded from the class; or the customer elects not to participate in the putative or certified class action or has complied with other court prescribed conditions for withdrawal. The Exchange is amending Section 33 of Rule 24 (redesignated as Section 31) requiring the addition of a provision to pre-dispute arbitration agreements regarding the ineligibility of class actions for arbitration. 5 5 Rule 24, Section 31, Paragraph 5 is proposed to state that all agreements shall include a statement that ``no person shall bring a punitive or certified class action to arbitration, nor seek to enforce any pre-dispute arbitration agreement against any person who has initiated in court a putative class action; who is a member of a putative class who has not opted out of the class with respect to any claims encompassed by the putative class action until (i) the class certification is denied; or (ii) the class is decertified; or (iii) the customer is excluded from the class by the court. Such forbearance to enforce an agreement to arbitrate shall not constitute a waiver of any rights under this agreement except to the extent stated herein.'' Rule 24, Section 1 adds Interpretation and Policy .01 which addresses an existing Exchange policy regarding the determination whether to accept a claim for arbitration at the Exchange. The Exchange's policy is to accept a claim for arbitration if the Exchange is the Designated Examining Authority (``DEA'') of the Respondent member or if the enforcement of the applicable rules has not been ceded to another self-regulatory organization (``SRO'') pursuant to its Rule 17d&hyph;2 Agreement. 6 In other cases, the Exchange may decline the use of its arbitration facilities if the nexus between the dispute and the Exchange is minimal. 6 Pursuant to Rule 17d&hyph;2 under the Act, any two or more SROs may file with the Commission a plan for allocating among the SROs the responsibility to receive regulatory reports from persons who are members or participants of more than one of such SROs to examine such persons for compliance, or to enforce compliance by such persons, with specified provisions of the Act, the rules and regulations thereunder, and the rules of such SROs, or to carry out other specified regulatory functions with respect to such persons. See 17 CFR 240.17d&hyph;2 (1994).
