FR941117-1-00036 FR941117-1-00004 (e) Discharge planning. A resident has a right to participate in his or her discharge planning. ยง483.216 Condition of participation: Facility practices and resident behavior. Each resident's care must be provided in a manner that promotes and maintains his or her dignity. (a) Standard: Restraints. The facility may not impose any physical restraints or administer any psychoactive drugs for purposes of discipline or convenience. No restraints may be used which are not required to treat the resident's psychiatric symptoms and specified in the inpatient plan of treatment. (b) Standard: Freedom from abuse. The resident has the right to be free from verbal, sexual, physical and mental abuse, corporal punishment and involuntary seclusion. The facility must develop written policies that prohibit mistreatment, neglect, or abuse of residents and ensure that the policies are implemented. (1) The facility must_ (i) Not use verbal, mental, sexual or physical abuse, corporal punishment, or involuntary seclusion; and (ii) Not employ or contract with individuals who have a prior employment or personal history of abusing, neglecting or mistreating individuals, or have been found guilty of any of these acts in a court of law. (2) The facility must not house residents who have aggressive tendencies, or may otherwise be dangerous, in close physical proximity with vulnerable residents who are prone to be victimized. Any resident grouping must be planned to protect the safety and promote the treatment of all members of the group. (3) The facility must ensure that all alleged violations involving mistreatment, neglect or abuse, including injuries of unknown source, are reported immediately to the administrator of the facility and to any other officials specified in State law. (4) The facility must have evidence that all alleged violations are thoroughly investigated, and must take appropriate action to prevent further abuse during the period of the investigation. (5) The results of all investigations must be reported to the administrator or to his or her designated representative and to other officials in accordance with State law within 5 working days of the report of the incident. If the alleged violation is verified, the administrator must take appropriate corrective action.
