FR941013-1-00044 FR941013-1-00005 (C) The quantity of ephedrine or other listed chemical contained in the drug included in the transaction or multiple transactions equals or exceeds the threshold established for that chemical by the Administrator; or (v) Any transaction in a chemical mixture listed in §1310.13 of this chapter. * * * * * (h) The term regular importer means, with respect to a listed chemical, a person that has an established record as an importer of that listed chemical that is reported to the Administrator. (i) The term established record as an importer means that the regulated person has imported a listed chemical at least once within the past six months, or twice within the past twelve months from a foreign supplier. The term also means that the regulated person has provided the Administration with the following information in accordance with the waiver of the 15-day advance notice requirements of §1313.15: (1) The name, DEA registration number (where applicable), street address, telephone number, telex number, and, where available, the facsimile number of the regulated person and of each foreign supplier; and (2) The frequency and number of transaction occurring during the preceding 12 month period. * * * * * (m) The terms broker and trader means any individual, corporation, corporate division, partnership, association, or other legal entity which assists in arranging an international transaction in a listed chemical by_ (1) Negotiating contracts; (2) Serving as an agent or intermediary; or (3) Bringing together a buyer and seller, a buyer and transporter, or a seller and transporter. (n) The term international transaction means a transaction involving the shipment of a listed chemical across an international border (other than a United States border) in which a broker or trade located in the United States participates. * * * * * 3. Section 1313.12 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraph (c) and adding new paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) to read as follows: §1313.12 Requirement of authorization to import. * * * * * (c) The 15-day advance notification requirement for listed chemical imports may be waived for: (1) Any regulated person who has satisfied the requirement for reporting to the Administration as a regular importer of such listed chemicals. (2) A specific listed chemical, as set forth in paragraph (f) of the section, for which the Administrator determines that advance notification is not necessary for effective chemical diversion control. (d) For imports where advance notification is waived pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the DEA Form 486 must be received by the Drug Enforcement Administration, Chemical Operations Section, on or before the date of importation through use of the mailing address listed in §1313.12(b) or through use of electronic facsimile media. (e) For importations where advance notification is waived pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section no DEA Form 486 is required, however, the regulated person shall file quarterly reports to the Drug Enforcement Administration, Chemical Operations Section, P.O. Box 28346, Washington, DC 20038, by no later than the 15th day of the month following the end of each quarter. The report shall contain the following information regarding each individual importation: (1) The name of the listed chemical; (2) The quantity and date imported; (3) The name and full business address of the supplier; (4) The foreign port of embarkation; and (5) The port of entry. (f) The 15 day advance notification requirement set forth in paragraph (a) of this section has been waived for imports of the following listed chemicals: (1)&hyph;(2) [Reserved] 4. Section 1313.15 is proposed to be revised to read as follows: 1313.15 Waiver of 15-day advance notice for regular importers. (a) Each regulated person seeking designation as a ``regular importer'' shall provide, by certified mail return receipt requested, to the Administration such information as is required under §1313.02(i), documenting their status as a regular importer. (b) Each regulated person making application under paragraph (a) of this section shall be considered a ``regular importer'' for purposes of waiving the 15-days advance notice, 30 days after receipt of the application by the Administration, as indicated on the return receipt, unless the regulated person is otherwise notified in writing by the Administration. (c) The Administrator may, at any time, disqualify a regulated person's status as a regular importer on the grounds that the chemical being imported may be diverted to the clandestine manufacture of the chemical substance. (d) Unless the Administration notifies the chemical importer to the contrary, the qualification of a regular importer of any one of these three chemicals, acetone, 2-Butanone (MEK), or toluene, qualifies that importer as a regular importer of all three of these chemicals. (e) All chemical importer shall be required to file a DEA Form 486 as required by §1313.12. 5. Section 1313.21 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraph (c), revising the text of and redesignating paragraph (d) as paragraph (g) and adding new paragraphs (d), (e), (f) to read as follows: §1313.21 Requirement of authorization to export. * * * * *
