FR940919-2-00184 FR940919-2-00081 3. This reassessment is prompted by two principal developments. First is the emergence of information as a vital economic resource and source of individual empowerment. In 1991, U.S. companies for the first time spent more money on computer and communications equipment than on industrial, mining, farm and manufacturing machinery_dramatic evidence of the nation's transition from the Industrial Age to the Information Age. 4 Increasingly, the ability of U.S. businesses to remain competitive in a global marketplace and to create challenging, high-paying jobs hinges on their proficiency in creating, manipulating, managing, and using information. Similarly, an individual's ability to acquire, develop, and sustain marketable job skills_and, indeed, to be an informed, productive participant in American society_will depend on how well he or she can access, analyze, and assimilate information. 4 See Thomas Stewart, The Information Age in Charts, Fortune, Apr. 4, 1994, at 75. 4. Second, technological changes_particularly the convergence of computers and communications and the deployment of high capacity, digital transmission facilities_promise to make telecommunications networks the highways of the Information Age, the principal means by which individuals and businesses access and distribute essential information resources. In this environment, it may be anachronistic to continue speaking of universal service in terms of voice telephone service. Accordingly, consensus is growing that there is a need to redefine that concept to meet the demands of a new age. 5. Reform of universal service policies would be necessary even if there were no redefinition issue. As described more fully below, many experts agree that current pricing policies for voice telephone service are characterized by extensive subsidies between and among services, although the extent of those subsidies remains a matter of considerable dispute. 5 In other words, certain services ( e.g., long distance, business service) have been overpriced to maintain low cost residential voice service. Whether or not that pricing structure was ever desirable as a matter of policy, 6 it could be sustained only in a market environment characterized by monopoly provision of telephone service. 5 See infra Section IV. 6 Several economists have estimated that the welfare losses associated with the existing subsidy structure can be measured in the billions of dollars annually. See, e.g., James Griffin, The Welfare Implications of Externalities and Price Elasticities for Telecommunications Pricing, 64 Rev. Econ. & Stat. 59 (1982); Lewis Perl, Welfare Gains from Cost-Based Telephone Pricing (June 19, 1986) (unpublished paper). 6. That environment is rapidly becoming a thing of the past. Competition is the norm in many telecommunications services and equipment markets; it is growing rapidly in the rest. Competition drives prices toward the costs of providing those services and, in so doing, undermines traditional pricing structures that incorporate inter-service subsidies. As a result, even though competition is not inimical to universal service goals, 7 its emergence and expansion is forcing a re-examination of traditional universal service funding policies as surely as technological change and the emergence of the Information Age are prompting changes in the way universal service is defined. The challenge for government and service providers alike is to find a new funding scheme that is compatible with and sustainable in a competitive market environment. 7 See infra Section II. 7. The National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) is issuing this Notice to gather public comment on these important issues. The Clinton Administration (the Administration) has stated a commitment to extending the concept of universal service to ensure that information resources are available to all at affordable rates. 8 This policy is a matter of fundamental fairness; if information means empowerment, the United States ``cannot accept a division of our people among telecommunications `haves' and `have-nots.''' 9 8 The National Information Infrastructure: Agenda for Action 58 Fed. Reg. 49,025, at 49,028 (1993) ( Agenda for Action ). 9 Id. 8. This Notice represents another stage in NTIA's continuing investigation of universal service issues. 10 Since December 1993, NTIA has conducted field hearings in five locations across the country to gather information on those issues. 11 This Notice has been shaped by what the agency has learned over the course of those hearings. The Notice also seeks to supplement the record developed at those hearings on the many questions subsumed within the concept of universal service. At the end of this process, NTIA will work to develop a concept of universal service that fits the challenges and opportunities of the Information Age. As importantly, NTIA intends to identify mechanisms that can fund an expanded version of universal service in a competitive market environment. 10 The Administration's activities relating to universal service are one facet of a comprehensive National Information Infrastructure (NII) initiative. The Administration has established an interagency Information Infrastructure Task Force (IITF), chaired by the Secretary of Commerce, to address the many issues relating to deployment of the NII. The IITF operates through a number of subcommittees and working groups, and with the assistance of a public/private sector Advisory Council. For further information on the IITF and related organizations, see The NII Field Hearings on Universal Service and Open Access: America Speaks Out 1&hyph;2 (Sept. 1944) (Report of the Telecommunications Policy Committee of the Information Infrastructure Task Force) ( NII Field Hearings ). 11 Hearings were held in Albuquerque, New Mexico (December); South Central Los Angeles (February); Raleigh-Durham, North Carolina (April); Sunnyvale, California (May); and Indianapolis, Indiana (July). At each hearing, NTIA received testimony from public interest groups, state and local governments, labor, industry, and academia. Summaries of each of the hearings are on the on-line NTIA Bulletin Board. See not 1 for access information. In this Notice, we also request comment on how best to continue and expand these public outreach activities. 9. Finally, we also seek comment on another issue related to the policies underlying universal service_``open access.'' If, as noted above, information is of increasing importance to businesses and individuals alike, and if competition among service providers is likely to be the norm in the future, ensuring universal service for consumers is only part of the equation. Steps must also be taken to afford information providers access to consumers and vice versa. Accordingly, the Administration is also committed to ensuring that telecommunications facilities and networks are sufficiently ``open'' so that all information providers can transmit their wares to consumers across those facilities reliably, efficiently, and seamlessly, without compromising the integrity or security of the information delivered. 12 NTIA therefore requests comment on a variety of questions relating to the meaning and implementation of open access. 12 Agenda for Action, supra note 8, at 49,027, 49,029. Open access may also permit users themselves to develop new services and applications or to exchange information among themselves, without waiting for services to be offered by commercial providers. Id. at 49,029. 10. Section II of the Notice considers the impact of competition on universal service goals. Section III.A of the Notice addresses current universal service policies and solicits comment on the degree to which the nation has achieved the goal of providing basic voice telephone service to all Americans. Section III.B considers the issue of redefining the traditional concept of universal service and determining what services or functions should be included in an expanded definition of universal service. Section IV focuses on mechanisms for funding universal service in an increasingly competitive market environment. Section V focuses on the role of the Federal and State governments in determining universal service policies. Finally, Section VI requests comment on the definition and implementation of open access.
