FR940505-1-00414 FR940505-1-00012 (4) Exemptions. (i) The requirements of paragraphs (o) (3), (5), (6), and (7) of this section shall not apply to the following: (A) Laboratory units used in research and testing. (B) Units operated exclusively for firefighting and/or flood control. (C) Chemical processing gas turbine units. (ii) Peaking Units and Emergency Standby Units. (A) The requirements of paragraphs (o) (3), (5), (6), and (7) of this section shall not apply to peaking units or emergency standby units that operate less than 200 hours per calendar year. To demonstrate that a unit is operated less than 200 hours in a calendar year, the owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain in calibration equipment that continuously monitors and records elapsed time of operation. The owner or operator shall also keep an operating log of start and stop times, type and quantity of fuel used, and cumulative hours of operation for each unit. (B) The owner or operator of any stationary gas turbine exempt under paragraph (o)(ii)(A) of this section shall notify the Administrator within 7 days if the unit is operated equal to or greater than 200 hours in a calendar year. If the unit is ever operated equal to or greater than 200 hours in a calendar year, the exemption shall be permanently withdrawn and the owner or operator shall be subject to the applicable requirements of paragraphs (o) (3), (6), and (7) of this section in accordance with the compliance schedule in paragraph (o)(5)(iv) of this section. (5) Compliance Schedule. (i) Any owner or operator of a unit in existence prior to [Insert date of publication of the final rule ] that does not need to retrofit the unit or install new control equipment to comply with the requirements of paragraph (o)(3) of this section shall demonstrate compliance with all of the applicable requirements of this section by May 15, 1995. (ii) Any owner or operator of a unit in existence prior to [ Insert date of publication of the final rule ] that must retrofit the unit or install new control equipment to comply with the requirements of paragraph (o)(3) of this section shall demonstrate compliance with all of the applicable requirements of this section by May 15, 1997. Any owner or operator of a unit to which this paragraph is applicable shall meet the following increments of progress: (A) By January 1, 1996, apply for all authority-to-construct permits required by the local Air Pollution Control District for all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment, and (B) By January 1, 1996, comply with the requirements of paragraph (o)(6)(ii)(A) of this section if the owner or operator chooses to monitor operating conditions of its turbine to demonstrate continuous compliance with the section. (C) By January 1, 1997, commence construction of all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment, as approved by the local Air Pollution Control District, to demonstrate compliance by May 15, 1997. (iii) Any owner or operator of a new unit that is constructed on and after [ Insert date of publication of the final rule ] the date of adoption of this section shall apply for, and receive approval of, all authority-to-construct permits required by the local Air Pollution Control District prior to beginning construction of the unit. The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the unit will be operated in compliance with all of the applicable requirements of this section within 60 days after the date of the initial startup of the unit. (iv) On and after [ Insert date of publication of the final rule ], any owner or operator of a unit that becomes subject to requirements of paragraph (o)(3) of this section because of the loss of an exemption under paragraph (o)(4)(ii) of this section shall meet the following increments of progress: (A) Within 7 months after the day that the unit is operated equal to or greater than 200 hours in a calendar year, apply for all authority-to-construct permits required by the local Air Pollution Control District for all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment, and (B) Within 7 months after the day that the unit is operated equal to or greater than 200 hours in a calendar year, comply with the requirements of paragraph (o)(6)(ii)(A) of this section if the owner or operator chooses to monitor operating conditions of its turbine rather than installing a continuous emissions monitoring system to demonstrate continuous compliance with the section. (C) Within 19 months after the day that the unit is operated equal to or greater than 200 hours in a calendar year, commence construction of all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment, as approved by the local Air Pollution Control District, to demonstrate compliance within 24 months after the day that the unit is operated equal to or greater than 200 hours in a calendar year. (6) Reporting, Monitoring, and Recordkeeping. (i) Reporting Requirements. Any owner or operator subject to the requirements of paragraph (o)(3) of this section shall comply with the applicable notification and reporting requirements of ยง60.7, and shall also comply with the following requirements:
