FR941121-1-00022 FR941121-1-00008 Classification This proposed rule includes minor revisions to the instructions accompanying the collection of information approved by the Office of Management and Budget, OMB control number 0648&hyph;0206 (Processor Permit Application). No new information is collected, but the number of persons required to comply with this collection-of-information requirement is reduced. The North Pacific Fishery Management Council, NMFS, and the ADF&G prepared a final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis as part of the Regulatory Impact Review prepared for the Research Plan. A copy of this analysis is available from the Council (see ADDRESSES ). NMFS finds that this proposed action should be implemented as soon as possible so that clear instructions may be sent out to the industry that reflect what will be in place for the 1995 fee collection program authorized under the Research Plan. Delay in implementing the proposed revisions would create unnecessary confusion within the fishing industry concerning implementation of the Research Plan during 1995. NMFS is providing a 15-day comment period to expedite final action while allowing an opportunity for public comment. This proposed rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 677 Fisheries, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: November 15, 1994. Gary Matlock, Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 50 CFR part 677 is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 677_NORTH PACIFIC FISHERIES RESEARCH PLAN 1. The authority citation for part 677 continues to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq. 2. In §677.2, the definitions of ``processor'' and paragraph (1) of ``round-weight or round-weight equivalent'' are revised and the definition of ``tender vessel'' is added, in alphabetical order, to read as follows: §677.2 Definitions. * * * * * Processor means any shoreside processing facility or vessel that processes fish, any person who receives fish from fishermen for commercial purposes, any fisherman who transfers fish outside of the United States, and any fisherman who sells fish directly to a restaurant or to an individual for use as bait or personal consumption. Processor does not include a tender vessel or a restaurant, or a person who receives fish from fishermen for personal consumption or bait. * * * * * Round weight or round-weight equivalent means: (1) For groundfish or halibut _the weight of fish calculated by dividing the weight of the primary product made from that fish by the standard product recovery rate for that primary product as listed in §672.20(j) of this chapter, or, if not listed, the weight of fish calculated by dividing the weight of a primary product by the standard product recovery rate as determined using the best available evidence on a case-by-case basis. * * * * * Tender vessel means a vessel that does not process fish but that is used to transport fish from another vessel to a shoreside processing facility or to a vessel that processes fish for commercial use or consumption, or for delivery to such a processing facility or vessel. 3. In §677.4, paragraph (a) is revised to read as follows: §677.4 Permits. (a) General. In addition to the permit and licensing requirements at §301.3 of this title and §§672.4, 675.4, and §676.13 of this chapter, a processor of fish from a Research Plan fishery must have a Federal Processor Permit issued by the Regional Director under this section, except that this requirement does not apply to any fisherman who transfers fish outside of the United States, or any fisherman who sells fish directly to a restaurant or to an individual for use as bait or personal consumption. Federal Processor Permits will be issued without charge. * * * * * 4. In §677.7, paragraph (e) is revised to read as follows: §677.7 General prohibitions. * * * * * (e) Process or receive fish from a Research Plan fishery without a valid permit issued pursuant to this part.
