FR941004-2-00157 FR941004-2-00090 [Investment Company Act Rel. No. 20589; 812&hyph;9002] AMCAP Fund, Inc., et al.; Notice of Application September 28, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (``Act''). APPLICANTS: AMCAP Fund, Inc.; American Balanced Fund, Inc.; The American Funds Income Series; The American Funds Tax-Exempt Series I; The American Funds Tax-Exempt Series II, American High-Income Municipal Bond Fund, Inc.; American High-Income Trust; American Mutual Fund, Inc.; American Variable Insurance Series; The Bond Fund of America, Inc.; Capital Income Builder, Inc.; Capital World Bond Fund, Inc.; Capital World Growth and Income Fund, Inc.; The Cash Management Trust of America; EuroPacific Growth Fund; Fundamental Investors, Inc.; The Growth Fund of America, Inc.; The Income Fund of America, Inc.; Intermediate Bond Fund of America; The Investment Company of America; Limited Term Tax-Exempt Bond Fund of America; The New Economy Fund; New Perspective Fund, Inc.; SMALLCAP World Fund, Inc.; The Tax-Exempt Bond Fund of America, Inc.; The Tax-Exempt Money Fund of America; The U.S. Treasury Money Fund of America; Washington Mutual Investors Fund, Inc. (collectively, the ``Funds''); and Capital Research and Management Company (``CRMC''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Exemption requested under section 6(c) from sections 13(a)(2), 13(a)(3), 18(f)(1), 22(f), and 22(g) of the Act, and rule 2a&hyph;7 thereunder; under sections 6(c) and 17(b) from section 17(a)(1); and under section 17(d) of the Act and rule 17d&hyph;1 thereunder. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek a conditional order permitting them to offer a deferred compensation plan to certain directors and members of their advisory boards, under which the directors and advisory board members may elect to have their deferred compensation adjusted at a rate equal to the rate of return of shares of one or more investment companies of the American Funds Group. FILING DATE: The application was filed on May 16, 1994, and amended on July 22, 1994. Applicants have agreed to file an additional amendment during the notice period. This notice reflects the changes to be made by such additional amendment. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on October 24, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request such notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary.
