FR940318-0-00197 FR940318-0-00023 HCFC&hyph;22 and HCFC&hyph;142b could technically be used as substitutes for CFC&hyph;11, but their use is extensively controlled under section 610 of the CAA. The primary substitutes for the solvent/diluent uses of CFC&hyph;11, CFC&hyph;113, MCF, and HCFC&hyph;141b are as follows: •Petroleum hydrocarbons (C6&hyph;C20). •Oxygenated organic solvents (ketones, esters, ethers, and alcohols). •HCFC&hyph;141b. •Terpenes. •Chlorinated solvents. •Water-based systems. Other substitutes, including monochlorotoluenes/benzotrifluorides, hydrofluorocarbons, and perfluorocarbons, are also being investigated. This list of substitutes was compiled with the help of companies that submitted information on substitutes to the Agency in response to the January 16, 1992, Advance Notice of Proposed Rule-Making. Today's decisions on these substitutes are listed in appendix B. The remainder of this section discusses these substitutes, the decision on each substitute, and the Agency's reasoning behind each determination. Vendors or users of substitutes not included on the table for the SNAP determinations on aerosols should provide information on the substitutes so that the Agency can add these substitutes to the lists. a. Substitutes for propellants. (1) Saturated light hydrocarbons (C3&hyph;C6). Hydrocarbons are promising replacements for nonessential uses of HCFC&hyph;22 as a propellant in aerosols and pressurized containers. The specific category of hydrocarbons used as propellants are saturated light hydrocarbons (C3&hyph;C6). Examples of these small chain compounds include butane, isobutane, and propane. All have low boiling points, making them excellent propellants. They are used separately or in mixtures, are inexpensive compared to HCFC&hyph;22 (HCFC&hyph;22 is four times more expensive than hydrocarbons), and are readily available from most chemical distributors. The Agency believes that the major area of concern with the replacement of hydrocarbons for HCFC&hyph;22 is the flammability of hydrocarbons. In applications where a nonflammable propellant is needed, a hydrocarbon could not be used. For example, the use of hydrocarbons around electrical equipment could prove hazardous if sparks from the equipment were to ignite the hydrocarbon propellant. Saturated light hydrocarbons are adequate substitute propellants where flammability is not a concern. To reduce product flammability, hydrocarbons can be used with water-based formulations in products such as insecticides, where product quality would not be adversely affected. Manufacturers are also hindered from selling hydrocarbon-propelled aerosols in certain jurisdictions. In California, for example, the use of hydrocarbons is restricted because of their classification as volatile organic compounds which contribute to low level ozone or smog. (2) Dimethyl ether. Dimethyl ether (DME) is a medium pressure, flammable, liquefied propellant. Because of its chemical properties, it can be used as a combination propellant/solvent, although it is typically classified together with other propellants and is used in combination with other propellants. Practices for manufacture and use of aerosol products formulated with DME parallel practices employed with hydrocarbons. (3) Hydrofluorocarbons. Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) such as HFC&hyph;134a, HFC&hyph;125 and HFC&hyph;152a are partially fluorinated hydrocarbons and have been developed relatively recently. These compounds are less dense than HCFC&hyph;22, but with minor reformulation adjustments could function equally well as propellants except in products such as noise horns, which require a more dense gas. Because HFCs have only recently been developed, they are only now becoming readily available and are expected to be priced significantly higher than HCFC&hyph;22, at least in the near term. Preliminary studies show that HFC&hyph;134a and HFC&hyph;125 are nonflammable and have very low toxicity, which would make them good replacements for HCFC&hyph;22 as propellants in products where nonflammability is a requirement. Although HFC&hyph;152a is slightly flammable, it can be formulated with other materials_such as HFC&hyph;125_to control its flammability. HFCs also may be used in conjunction with other flammable chemicals to reduce the flammability of such mixtures. For example, HFCs are being tested for use with dimethyl ether (DME) in safety sprays and animal repellents. Although DME is flammable, the overall product formulation is not. HFC&hyph;134a and HFC&hyph;125 are also being tested as replacements for CFCs still used in medical applications because of their nonflammable, nontoxic properties. (4) Compressed gases. Compressed gases such as carbon dioxide, nitrogen, air, and nitrous oxide are common, low molecular weight gases used as propellants in aerosol products but not as drop-in replacements. First, alternative dispensing mechanisms and stronger containers are needed because these gases are under significantly greater pressure. Containers holding compressed gases are, therefore, larger and bulkier. Second, because these chemicals have low molecular weights, they are inadequate as replacements for HCFC&hyph;22 in products requiring a dense gas propellant, such as noise horns, or in products requiring fine dispersion of the product, such as surface lubricants and weld inspection developers. Third, compressed gases dispel material faster because they are under higher pressure, which contributes to wasted product. Compressed gases are readily available from most chemical distributors and are relatively inexpensive. Compressed gases cool upon expansion. Compressed gases are also nonflammable and can serve as propellants in applications where a nonflammable propellant is necessary, but not in applications where a fine even dispersion is required.
