FR940512-2-00126 FR940512-2-00065 (2) The proposed changes are editorial only and do not affect the plant design or operation. No new failure modes are introduced by such changes and, therefore, the request will not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. (3) The proposed changes merely correct an editorial oversight. These changes do not alter or delete any technical requirements and, therefore, do not involve a reduction in a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Vespasian Warner Public Library, 120 West Johnson Street, Clinton, Illinois 61727. Attorney for licensee: Sheldon Zabel, Esq., Schiff, Hardin and Waite, 7200 Sears Tower, 233 Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606. NRC Project Director: John N. Hannon. Illinois Power Company and Soyland Power Cooperative, Inc., Docket No. 50&hyph;461, Clinton Power Station, Unit No. 1, DeWitt County, Illinois Date of amendment request: April 18, 1994. Description of amendment request: Test methods for carbon adsorber filters specified in Technical Specification Sections 3/4.6.6.3, ``Standby Gas Treatment System,'' and 3/4.7.2, ``Control Room Ventilation System,'' specify the 1979 version of ASTM D3803. The proposed change would delete the year of the standard so that more recent versions of the standard could be used. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration which is presented below: (1) The proposed changes to the Technical Specification surveillance requirements for determining the methyl iodide penetration of carbon samples would not involve a significant increase in the probability or the consequences of any accident previously evaluated because the proposed change merely allows Illinois Power (IP) to utilize a more up-to-date version of the same test method currently specified. More recent versions of the test method are more effective at detecting unsatisfactory charcoal performance because they include equilibration periods to ensure that all samples have a common starting point before being challenged with radioactive gas. The proposed change would not affect the quality of the charcoal or the reliability of the filter subsystems as it only relates to testing and involves no changes to the design or operation of the ventilation subsystems themselves. The updated standards provide more accurate and repeatable test results and do not change the properties or acceptance criteria for these properties. As a result, the performance capabilities of the associated filter subsystems would not be adversely impacted by the proposed change. (2) The proposed change would not involve a change in the design or operation of any plant system or component. In addition, the proposed change would not reduce the level of filter train subsystem reliability nor would it create an initiating event for any accident. Because the performance, function, and redundancy of the original design remain unchanged, the proposed change would not create the potential for a new event. Furthermore, since no new types of equipment would be introduced into the plant design and the proposed change would not adversely impact existing equipment, no potential for a different type of malfunction is created by the proposed change. Therefore, this proposed change cannot create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. (3) The margin of safety for the charcoal filter subsystems as defined in the Bases to the Technical Specifications associated with the proposed change refers to the ability of the filters to remove radioiodines. The proposed change would allow IP to upgrade the currently specified test for determining charcoal adsorber performance with one which utilizes the same type of methodology, but provides greater accuracy and repeatability. The newer versions of the test method are more effective at detecting unsatisfactory charcoal performance because they include equilibration periods to ensure that all samples have a common starting point before being challenged with radioactive gas. Thus, the proposed change would not involve a reduction in the margin of safety.
