FR940105-0-00047 FR940105-0-00008 3. Section 20.42 is revised to read as follows: ยง20.42 Fees to be charged. (a) Categories of requests. Paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section state, for each category of request, the type of fees that the Food and Drug Administration will generally charge. However, for each of these categories, the fees may be limited, waived, or reduced for the reasons given in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section and in ยง20.43 or for other reasons. (1) Commercial use request. If the request is for a commercial use, the Food and Drug Administration will charge for the costs of search, review, and duplication. (2) Educational and scientific institutions and news media. If the request is from an educational institution or a noncommercial scientific institution, operated primarily for scholarly or scientific research, or a representative of the news media, and the request is not for a commercial use, the Food and Drug Administration will charge only for the duplication of documents. Also, the Food and Drug Administration will not charge the copying costs for the first 100 pages of duplication. (3) Other requests. If the request is not the kind described in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section, then the Food and Drug Administration will charge only for the search and the duplication. Also, the Food and Drug Administration will not charge for the first 2 hours of search time or for the copying costs of the first 100 pages of duplication. (b) General provisions. (1) The Food and Drug Administration may charge search fees even if the records found are exempt from disclosure or if no records are found. (2) If, under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, there is no charge for the first 2 hours of search time, and those 2 hours are spent on a computer search, then the 2 free hours are the first 2 hours of the operator's own operation. If the operator spends less than 2 hours on the search, the total search fees will be reduced by the average hourly rate for the operator's time, multiplied by 2. (3) If, under paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section, there is no charge for the first 100 pages of duplication, then those 100 pages are the first 100 pages of photocopies of standard size pages, or the first 100 pages of computer printout. If this method to calculate the fee reduction cannot be used, then the total duplication fee will be reduced by the normal charge for photocopying a standard size page, multiplied by 100. (4) No charge will be made if the costs of routine collection and processing of the fee are likely to equal or exceed the amount of the fee. (5) If it is determined that a requester (acting either alone or together with others) is breaking down a single request into a series of requests in order to avoid (or reduce) the fees charged, all these requests may be aggregated for purposes of calculating the fees charged. (6) Interest will be charged on unpaid bills beginning on the 31st day following the day the bill was sent. Provisions in 45 CFR part 30, the Department of Health and Human Services regulations governing claims collection, will be used in assessing interest, administrative costs, and penalties, and in taking actions to encourage payment. (c) Fee schedule. The Food and Drug Administration charges the following fees: (1) Manual searching for or reviewing of records. When the search or review is performed by employees at grade GS&hyph;1 through GS&hyph;8, an hourly rate based on the salary of a GS&hyph;5, step 7, employee; when done by a GS&hyph;9 through GS&hyph;14, an hourly rate based on the salary of a GS&hyph;12, step 4, employee; and when done by a GS&hyph;15 or above, an hourly rate based on the salary of a GS&hyph;15, step 7, employee. In each case, the hourly rate will be computed by taking the current hourly rate for the specified grade and step, adding 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits, and rounding to the nearest whole dollar. As of January 1, 1993, these rates were $12, $24, and $43 respectively. When a search involves employees at more than one of these levels, the Food and Drug Administration will charge the rate appropriate for each. (2) Computer searching and printing. The actual cost of operating the computer plus charges for the time spent by the operator, at the rates given in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
