FR941230-2-00065 FR941230-2-00046 X Other Relief as May Be Required Nothing in this Final Judgment shall bar the United States from seeking, or the Court from imposing, against any defendant or any person any other relief available under any applicable provisions of law for violation of this Final Judgment. XI Plaintiff's Access A. For the sole purpose of determining or securing compliance with this Final Judgment, and subject to any legally recognized privilege, from time to time duly authorized representatives of the Department of Justice shall, upon written request of the Attorney General or of the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division, and on reasonable notice to any defendant, be permitted: (1) access during office hours of such defendant to inspect and copy all records and documents, excluding individual patient records and records directly relating to the performance by that defendant of any medical or quality assurance review program, in the possession or under the control of such defendant, who may have counsel present, and which relate to any matters contained in this Final Judgment; and (2) subject to the reasonable convenience of such defendant and without restraint or interference from it, to interview directors, officers, employees or agents of such defendant, who may have counsel present, regarding any such matters. B. Upon the written request of the Attorney General or the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division made to any defendant, such defendant shall submit such written reports, under oath if requested, relating to any of the matters contained in this Final Judgment as may be requested. C. No information or document obtained by the means provided in Paragraph XI. shall be divulged by any representative of the Department of Justice to any person other than a duly authorized representative of the United States, except in the course of legal proceedings to which the United States is a party, or for the purpose of securing compliance with the Final Judgment or as otherwise required by law. D. If at the time information or documents are furnished by any defendant to plaintiff, such defendant represents and identifies in writing the material in any such information or documents to which a claim of protection may be asserted under Rule 26(c)(7) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure,'' then ten (10) days notice shall be given by plaintiff to such defendant prior to divulging such material in any legal proceeding (other than a grand jury proceeding) to which that defendant is not a party. XII Jurisdiction Retained Jurisdiction is retained by this Court to enable any of the parties to this Final Judgment to apply to this Court at any time for such further orders and directions as may be necessary or appropriate for the construction or implementation of this Final Judgment, for the enforcement or modification of any of its provisions, and for the punishment of any violation hereof. XIII Notifications Each defendant shall notify plaintiff in writing at least 30 days before any proposed change in its legal structure such as dissolution, reorganization or merger resulting in the acquisition of any hospital or the creation of a successor corporation or association, or any other change which may affect compliance with this Final Judgment. XIV Expiration of Final Judgment This Final Judgment shall expire five (5) years from the date of entry. XV Public Interest Determination Entry of this Final Judgment is in the public interest. Dated: XXXX . XXXXXXXXXXX United States District Judge Certificate of Service I, Geoffrey Swaebe, hereby certify that on the 5th day of December, 1994, I served the foregoing Stipulation and Proposed Final Judgment by causing copies thereof to be sent by Federal Express to: John Stack, Esq., Winston & Strawn, 35 West Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60601, Counsel for Classic Care Network, Inc. Robert Wild, Esq., Garfunkel, Wild & Travis, P.C., 175 Great Neck Road, Great Neck, New York 11021, Counsel for Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center, Central Suffolk Hospital, Good Samaritan Hospital, Huntington Hospital, John T. Mather Memorial Hospital and South Nassau Communities Hospital and by hand delivery to: Anthony J. D'Auria, Esq., Winston & Strawn, 175 Water Street, New York, New York 10038, Counsel for North Shore University Hospital and North Shore University Hospital at Glen Cove. Geoffrey Swaebe, Attorney, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, 26 Federal Plaza, Room 3630, New York, New York 10278, (212) 264&hyph;0652.
