FR940314-2-00018 FR940314-2-00006 2643_Applicability of State Fish and Wildlife Laws and Regulations The Forest Service actively cooperates in the development of State fish and wildlife laws and regulations and may assist in the enforcement of State fish and wildlife laws on National Forest System lands. Pursuant to FSM 2610, Regional Foresters shall ensure that memorandums with State fish and wildlife agencies recognize the role of the Forest Service in cooperating in the development of State fish and wildlife laws and regulations, especially those addressing hunting, fishing, and trapping as they would apply to occupancy and use of National Forest System lands. 2643.1_Hunting, Fishing, and Trapping Regulations Hunting, fishing, and trapping of fish and wildlife and associated practices are permitted on National Forest System lands subjects to State fish and wildlife laws and regulations, unless one or both of the following apply: 1. State fish and wildlife laws and regulations conflict with federal laws; or 2. State laws and regulations would permit activities that conflict with the land and resource management responsibilities of the Forest Service or that are inconsistent with forest plans. 2643.12_Trapping Furbearers Use of Bait for Resident Game Hunting. The use of bait as a lure or attractant for the purpose of taking resident game on National Forest System lands is considered a hunting practice subject to State regulation. Where State hunting regulations prohibit the use of bait, the practice is prohibited on National Forest System lands. Where States permit the use of bait for attracting resident game, this activity is allowed on National Forest System lands, subject to State hunting laws and regulations, unless the authorized officer determines on a site-specific basis that there is a need to prohibit or restrict the practice of baiting because one or more of the following circumstances exist: 1. The State laws and regulations on placement of bait are inadequate to protect forest land or other resources or users in a particular location and/or to prevent trespass or litter; 2. Baiting is inconsistent with the applicable forest plan; or 3. The State law and regulations conflict with Federal law, such as the Endangered Species Act. In addition to the mandatory causes for prohibiting or restricting baiting, the authorized officer also may prohibit baiting, regardless of the adequacy of State regulations, based on consideration of the likely impact of baiting on such matters as water quality, public health and sanitation, the potential for litter, or the potential to threaten the viability of wildlife. Where the authorized officer determines that baiting is a significant problem and should be restricted or prohibited: 1. The officer shall notify State fish and wildlife officials and provide them the opportunity to resolve the issue through further restrictions or the prohibition through State regulation rather than for the Forest Service to issue the restriction or prohibition. 2. If the State does not revise its regulations to adequately regulate or restrict baiting, the Forest Service authorized officer shall, time permitting, close the area or otherwise restrict baiting by issuing an order pursuant to 36 CFR part 261. Where time does not permit closure of an area to baiting because the hunting season is underway and it would be impracticable to issue a closure order, the Regional Forester or Forest Supervisor shall take such mitigation and/or enforcement measures as are appropriate and practicable to ensure consistency with forest plan management direction and compliance with Federal laws, orders, and regulations, and protection of forest users and resources. For example, the agency may close a road or gate, or cite violations of other State or Forest Service regulations. Closure is not the only way to address the practice of baiting. It is expected that land managers as part of their day-to-day management of National Forest System lands and resources will be cognizant of the effects of hunting activities and take such proactive measures, after consultation with the responsible fish and wildlife agency, such as hunter education, as may be necessary to ensure resource protection consistent with forest plan management direction. This policy, in and of itself, does not compel an authorized officer to undertake a specific decision or to make a determination of whether baiting is allowed in those States where the practice is permitted. Special use authorization shall not be issued for placing bait on National Forest System lands for hunting purposes (36 CFR 251.50(c)). For the purposes of this section and to assure consistency in coordination of national forest wildlife matters with State agencies, the authorized officer is the Regional Forester or Forest Supervisor responsible for executing memorandums of understanding with the State wildlife agency. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;5786 Field 3&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
