FR940610-2-00078 FR940610-2-00053 Factor 1 (10 points). Adequacy of justification of need within the community and target population for the proposed program. Factor 2 (25 points). The feasibility, clarity of the description, appropriateness, innovative quality, and potential for replication and dissemination of the proposed model. Factor 3 (15 points). Comprehensiveness of the program plan as described in clearly stated goals, time-limited and measurable objectives for each goal, activities for each objective, and a time line that shows the scheduled production of materials that corresponds to milestones stated in the objectives and program evaluation. Factor 4 (20 points). Thoroughness, feasibility and appropriateness of the project's capability to conduct and collaborate on a comprehensive evaluation design and a plan for dissemination of the project's findings. Factor 5 (15 points). Competency of the applicant organization in fiscal and program management as evidenced by (a) the consistency between the proposed level of effort and the budget justification; (b) skill level and time commitment required in the personnel specifications; (c) the level of resources being proposed to conduct a quality evaluation of the project; and (d) appropriate confidential handling of medical, social service, and epidemiological data of clients served. Factor 6 (15 points). Extensiveness of coordination and collaboration with related HIV activities within the project's catchment area as documented by the applicant. Additional Funding for SPNS Evaluation & Dissemination Center(s) In addition to the funds provided to successful applicants for development of service delivery model demonstration projects, additional funds will be provided to one or more successful applicants to establish, either on site or by subcontract, evaluation and dissemination center(s) to work with all of the SPNS grantees funded under the HIV Service Delivery Models Categories [1] through [4]. The Center(s) will have two primary responsibilities: (1) to provide technical assistance to SPNS grantees in designing and implementing evaluation studies and dissemination activities for their individual projects; and, (2) to develop and coordinate the implementation of cross-cutting evaluations within groups of similar projects. HRSA staff will offer advice and guidance and participate in each of these areas as well as monitor the Center's work to assure its progress is in accordance with program objectives and Federal requirements. HRSA staff may accomplish this task, in part, through an advisory panel composed of Federal employees and external consultants. Inclusion of a request for additional funding for the SPNS Evaluation and Dissemination Center is not a mandatory requirement of the application. Those applications not requesting this additional funding will be given equal consideration for service delivery model funding. All applications, regardless of inclusion of a request for evaluation center funding, will be scored first only on the applicant's proposal for the service delivery model. Service delivery model applications which are approved for funding will then be reviewed for interest in the additional funding. Only then will proposals for an evaluation and dissemination be reviewed and scored according to the following. Review Criteria: Additional Funding for SPNS Evaluation & Dissemination Center(s) Those successful service delivery model applications which include a request for funding for the SPNS Evaluation and Dissemination Center (Part B) will be eligible for review and rating by an objective review panel of that part of the application. Applications will be considered for funding on the basis of overall technical merit as determined through the review process, and the proposed center's suitability for working with the funded SPNS projects. Factors for the technical review of Part B of the applications will include the following: Factor 1 (25 points). Qualifications and experience of the principal investigator, the proposed staff and consultants in designing and conducting health service evaluation studies, disseminating study findings and in providing technical assistance on evaluation and dissemination issues. Factor 2 (30 points). Adequacy of plans for providing technical assistance to SPNS grantees on program evaluation and information dissemination. Factor 3 (25 points). Adequacy of plans for designing and implementing cross-cutting evaluations within groups of similar projects and for assuring data quality. Factor 4 (20 points). Appropriateness of budget, staffing plans, facilities and information management resources, and time frame for implementing the project's operational and programmatic objectives. Role of Federal Staff in Cooperative Agreements The cooperative agreement mechanism allows for substantial post-award programmatic participation by SPNS staff in the projects' operations. In addition to the project officer's monitoring function, SPNS staff will be active participants in the operations of the HIV service delivery model demonstration projects and the SPNS evaluation and dissemination center. SPNS staff will facilitate the exchange of relevant information among the HIV service delivery model projects and provide support for training and consultation. SPNS staff will also monitor the function and activities of the center, assuring satisfactory progress and timely reporting. ``Substantial programmatic participation'' means that SPNS staff will provide guidance and coordination for certain programmatic activities to a degree beyond their customary stewardship responsibilities in grants administration. This may include, but is not limited to, the following: participating in the design and direction of activities to develop cross-cutting evaluation studies; assisting in the selection of project director and/or other key staff; assisting in the selection of contractors; participating in the analysis of data; coordinating or providing training of project staff; participating in selection and approval of analysis mechanisms; participating in selection of results for publication; and providing assistance in the management and technical performance of the project's activities.
