FR940512-2-00174 FR940512-2-00078 3. Applicant must discuss the expected impact of the project on the availability of services to runaway and homeless youth in the local community and indicate how the project will enhance the organization's capacity to provide services that address the needs of runaway and homeless youth in the community. Approach 1. Applicant must describe how runaway and homeless youth and their families will be reached, and how services will be provided in compliance with the Program Performance Standards listed in Part VI, Appendix A. 2. Applicant must describe the center's philosophy regarding the provision of services to runaway and homeless youth and the involvement of the youth's parents or legal guardians in these services. 3. Applicant must include detailed plans for implementing direct services based upon identified goals and objectives. Applicant must identify the strategies that will be employed and the activities that will be implemented, including innovative approaches to securing appropriate center services for the runaway and homeless youth to be served, for involving family members as an integral part of the services provided, for periodic review and assessment of individual cases, and for encouraging awareness of and sensitivity to the diverse needs of runaway and homeless youth who represent particular ethnic and racial backgrounds, sexual orientations, or are street youth. 4. Applicant must describe the center's plans for conducting an outreach program that, where applicable, will attract members of ethnic and racial minorities and/or persons with limited ability to speak English. 5. Applicant must describe the center's plans and procedures for intake and assessment of the youth upon arrival at the center. 6. Applicant must describe the center's plans for contacting the parents or other relatives of the youth they serve, for ensuring the safe return of the youth to their parents, relatives or legal guardians if it is in their best interests, for contacting local governments pursuant to formal or informal arrangements established with such officials, and for providing alternative living arrangements when it is not safe or appropriate for the youth to return home. 7. Applicant must describe the type of shelter that will be available, the shelter capacity of the center and the system of staff supervision to be implemented in the shelter. 8. Applicant must describe the center's plans for ensuring proper coordination with law enforcement personnel, health and mental health care personnel, social service personnel, and welfare personnel. 9. Applicant must describe the center's plans for ensuring coordination with the schools to which runaway and homeless youth will return, and for assisting the youth to stay current with the curricula of these schools. 10. Applicant must describe the center's procedures for dealing with youth who have run from foster care placements. 11. Applicant must describe procedures for dealing with youth who have run from correctional institutions, and must show that procedures are in accordance with Federal, State and local laws. 12. Applicant must describe the center's plans and procedures for providing aftercare services and for ensuring, whenever possible, that aftercare services will also be provided to those youth who are returned beyond the State in which the center is located. 13. Applicant must agree to gather and submit program and client data required by FYSB's Management Information System (MIS). While the computer software and training for the implementation of the MIS will be provided by FYSB to grantees, applicant should include a request for funds in its budget for any computer equipment needed for implementation of the MIS. 14. Applicant must agree to cooperate with any research or evaluation efforts sponsored by the Administration for Children and Families.
