FR940916-1-00162 FR940916-1-00016 (3) Inspection, maintenance and test plan. Six months prior to planned start of the pre-revenue service tests, the railroad shall submit a plan to FRA describing in detail the inspection, maintenance, and test procedures to be used during the tests. (4) Training and qualification program plan. Six months prior to the planned start of the pre-revenue service tests, the railroad shall submit to the FRA a plan describing the specific knowledge and skills necessary to safely conduct the test. The plan shall describe the training to be done to be sure the persons conducting the test have the necessary knowledge and skills. (b) [ Reserved. ] ยง232.905 Introduction of new train brake system technology to revenue service. (a) Reporting of pre-revenue service test results. Six months prior to the planned start of revenue service, the railroad shall submit a written report analyzing the results of its pre-revenue service tests to the FRA. The report shall emphasize the safety implications of the test results. (b) Suggested amendments to the Train Brake System Safety Standards. Four months prior to the planned start of revenue service, the railroad shall recommend in writing to the FRA any performance requirements of the new technology that it believes should be incorporated into the Train Brake System Safety Standards. This recommendation shall include: (1) The proposed performance standard; (2) The means by which the standard is to be measured or enforced; (3) A technical analysis that demonstrates the train brake system safety benefit of enforcing the standard; and (4) A technical analysis that demonstrates that if the performance standard is met, the train brake system will function as intended to safely stop the train. (c) Operating plan. Six months prior to the planned start of revenue service, the railroad shall submit to FRA a written operating plan that describes in detail how the railroad intends to use the new brake technology in revenue service. (d) Inspection, Maintenance and Test Program. Six months prior to the planned start of revenue service, the railroad shall submit to FRA a written Inspection, Maintenance, and Test Program Plan that demonstrates how proper functioning of the system will be assured over its service life under all conditions that may be encountered in the proposed application(s) of the new brake system technology. (e) Training and qualification program. (1) Four months prior to the planned start of revenue service, the railroad shall submit to FRA a written description of the knowledge and skills the railroad will require of its employees to be qualified to inspect, maintain, and test the new brake system technology being introduced. (2) Four months prior to the planned start of revenue service, the railroad shall submit to FRA a written description of the training program the railroad will implement to ensure its employees have the knowledge and skills necessary to inspect, maintain, and test the new brake system technology. (f) The FRA shall use the information supplied by the railroad in response to the requirements of ยง232.905 (a) through (e) as a basis for granting or denying approval for revenue service of the new brake technology. ยง232.907 Follow-up to introduction of new train brake system technology to revenue service. (a) A railroad shall carefully monitor the performance of new train brake system technology for the first two years that the railroad operates the new technology in revenue service. (b) Within 30 days after the two years have passed, the railroad shall notify FRA in writing of any operational problems it encountered with the new train brake system technology during the first two years of revenue service. This notification shall include: (1) A description of the problem and the circumstances that brought it on. (2) The suspected root cause or causes of the problem. (3) The safety implications of the problem. (4) The steps to be taken to eliminate the problem.
