FR941107-2-00219 FR941107-2-00112 In 1987, a new system of isolation, called Body Substance Isolation (BSI), was proposed, after 3 years of study by infection control personnel at the Harborview Medical Center in Seattle and the University of California at San Diego, as an alternative to diagnosis-driven isolation systems. 29 BSI focused on the isolation of all moist and potentially infectious body substances (blood, feces, urine, sputum, saliva, wound drainage, and other body fluids) from all patients, regardless of their presumed infection status, primarily through the use of gloves. Personnel were instructed to put on clean gloves just before contact with mucous membranes and nonintact skin, and to wear gloves for anticipated contact with moist body substances. In addition, a ``Stop Sign Alert'' was used to instruct persons wishing to enter the room of some patients with infections transmitted exclusively or in part by the airborne route to check with the floor nurse, who would determine whether a mask should be worn; personnel were to be immune to or immunized against selected infectious diseases transmitted by airborne or droplet routes (measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella) or they were not to enter the rooms housing patients with these diseases. Other issues related to implementing BSI in a university teaching hospital were described. 30 Among the advantages cited for BSI were that it was a simple, easy to learn and administer system, and that it avoided the assumption that (1) individuals without known or suspected diagnoses of transmissible infectious diseases were free of risk to patients and personnel, and (2) that only certain body fluids were associated with transmission of infection. The disadvantages of BSI included the added cost of increased use of barrier equipment, particularly gloves; 31 the difficulty in maintaining routine application of the protocol for all patients; the uncertainty about the precautions to be taken when entering a room with a ``Stop Sign Alert''; and the potential for misapplication of the protocol to overprotect personnel at the expense of the patient. 32 In a prospective study, 33 a combination use of gown and glove protocols similar to BSI led to lower infection rates in a pediatric intensive care unit (ICU), and in other studies similar combinations of barriers were associated with lower rates of nosocomial RSV infection in a pediatric ICU 34 and of resistant gram-negative organisms in an acute-care hospital. 35 However, in none of these studies, initiated before publication of BSI, were the authors attempting to evaluate BSI, nor were they able to separate the effect of gloves from that of gowns or from gloves and gowns used in combination. Controversial aspects of BSI have been summarized. 15, 16 BSI appeared to replace some, but not all, of the isolation precautions necessary to prevent transmission of infection. BSI did not contain adequate provisions to prevent (1) droplet transmission of serious infections in pediatric populations (e.g., invasive Haemophilus influenza, Neisseria meningitides meningitis and pneumonia, and pertussis), (2) direct or indirect contact transmission of epidemiologically important microorganisms from dry skin or environmental sources (e.g., Clostridium difficile and vancomycin-resistant enterococci), or (3) true airborne transmission of infections transmitted over long distances by floating droplet nuclei. Although BSI emphasized that a private room was indicated for some patients with some diseases transmitted exclusively or in part by the true airborne route, it did not emphasize the need for special ventilation for patients known or suspected of having pulmonary tuberculosis or other diseases transmitted by airborne droplet nuclei. The lack of emphasis on special ventilation was of particular concern to CDC in the early 1990s because of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. 18-19 BSI and UP shared many similar features designed to prevent the transmission of bloodborne pathogens in hospitals. However, there was an important difference in the recommendation for glove use and handwashing. Under UP, gloves were recommended for anticipated contact with blood and specified body fluids and hands were to be washed immediately after gloves were removed. 27-28 Under BSI, gloves were recommended for anticipated contact with any moist body substance but handwashing after glove removal was not required unless the hands were visibly soiled. 29 The lack of emphasis on handwashing after glove removal was cited as one of the theoretical disadvantages of BSI. 15, 37-38 Using gloves as a protective substitute for handwashing may have provided a false sense of security, resulted in less handwashing, increased the risk of nosocomial transmission of pathogens because hands can become contaminated even when gloves are used 39 and are easily contaminated in the process of removing gloves, and contributed to skin problems and allergies associated with the use of gloves. 40-41 On the other hand, proponents of BSI have noted that studies of handwashing have indicated relatively low compliance by hospital personnel, 42-43 that glove use may have been easier to manage than handwashing, and that frequent handwashing may have led to eczema, skin cracking, or, in some persons, clinical damage to the skin of the hands. 44 Although use of gloves may have been better than no handwashing, the efficacy of using gloves as a substitute for handwashing has not been demonstrated. OSHA Bloodborne Pathogens Regulations In 1989, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) published a proposed rule regarding occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens in hospitals and other health care settings. 45 The proposed rule, based on the concept of UP, raised concerns in the infection control community. Among them were concerns about the use of ``visibly bloody'' as a marker for the infectious risk of certain body fluids and substances, the imbalance toward precautions to protect personnel and away from protection for patients, the lack of proven efficacy of UP, and the costs for implementing the proposed regulations. 46-50 After a series of OSHA public hearings and review of written comments, the proposed rule was modified and the final rule on occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens was published in 1991. 51 Although the final rule was expected to improve occupational safety in the care of patients infected with bloodborne pathogens, its impact on the cost of patient care and on nosocomial infection control has remained undefined. Information on complying with the OSHA final rule has been made available by the American Hospital Association 52 and others. 53
