FR940505-1-00316 FR940505-1-00012 (vi) Testing and Monitoring. (A) The Administrator may require, at any time, any owner or operator of a facility subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section, as described under paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, to perform tests using the applicable test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section and/or to install monitoring equipment specified in paragraph (a)(4)(iv)(B) of section to demonstrate compliance with the limitations of paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. (B) The Administrator may require, at any time, any owner or operator of a facility which is exempt from the limitations of paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section because of paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section to perform tests using the applicable test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section to demonstrate that the facility is exempt from the limitations of paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. (3) Disposal of Materials Containing Volatile Organic Compounds. (i) Definitions. (A) For the purpose of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the general definitions in paragraph (a)(3) of this section apply. (B) For the purpose of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the following definitions also apply: Biodegradable waste means any organic waste that can be broken down into its basic elements by microorganisms. Biodegradable waste disposal facility means any facility which is operated as a business or owned by a state or municipality and is used to treat, store, or dispose of biodegradable waste or to reclaim or recycle organic compounds or gases from biodegradable wastes. Organic waste disposal facility means any facility which is operated as a business or owned by a state or municipality and is used to treat, store, or dispose of organic wastes that contain VOCs or to reclaim or recycle organic compounds or gases from organic wastes that contain VOCs. Such facilities include, but are not limited to, biodegradable waste disposal facilities (e.g., landfills); publicly owned treatment works; hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facilities; and sewage sludge, solid waste, and hazardous waste incinerators. Publicly owned treatment work (POTW) means any device or system which is owned by a state or municipality and is used to treat (including recycling and reclamation) municipal sewage or industrial liquid waste. (ii) Applicability. The requirements of paragraphs (b)(3) (iii), (iv), (v), and (vi) of this section shall apply to any owner or operator of any organic waste disposal facility located in the control area as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. (iii) Specific Provisions. (A) Each owner or operator of a source subject to the FIP VOC emissions cap program as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section shall submit a VOC emissions reduction compliance plan to the Administrator by January 1, 1999. The plan shall be prepared for the years 2001 through 2005 and shall include all of the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(A) (1) through (5) of this section. Each owner or operator shall submit a revised plan to the Administrator within 30 calendar days of receipt of comments from the Administrator. Each owner or operator shall comply at all times with the provisions of the most recent plan approved by the Administrator. (1) The name, title, address, and telephone number of the owner or operator of the facility, and of each person responsible for preparing the information required under paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) (2) of this section. (2) Baseline VOC emissions shall be calculated for each facility. Baseline emissions for each facility shall equal the sum of VOC emissions from all emissions sources at the facility including emissions associated with the use of architectural coatings and clean-up solvents. Baseline emissions shall be calculated as specified in paragraph (a)(4) (xii) and (xiii) of this section. (3) Methods to be employed by the owner or operator to limit VOC emissions from emissions sources to within the emissions level required in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. Methods may include but are not limited to: (i) Installation of capture systems and control devices; (ii) Modifications to increase the efficiency of existing capture systems and/or control devices; (iii) Process modifications and/or substitutions; and (iv) Reduction in operating schedules for one or more emissions sources at the facility. For those facilities choosing to comply through use of reduced operating schedules, operating schedules for baseline emissions levels and for emissions levels starting January 1, 2001, continuing for a period not less than 5 years. (4) Projections of annual VOC emissions for each emissions source through the year 2005 after application of the reduction methods described in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(A) (3) of this section. (5) For all sources subject to the FIP cap reduction requirements, all information required as part of the facility's Title V operating permit. For sources not subject to Title V, sources shall submit all information which would be required for sources subject to Title V. 22 22 This information shall include, for example, test or demonstration methods used to demonstrate achievement of the VOC emissions reductions required in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. The methods may include but are not limited to: (1) the test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, and (2) data and engineering calculations approved by EPA documenting process modifications that were made to reduce VOC emissions. E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.073 (See footnote to paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) of this section.) where R 2001 =Allowable VOC for all emissions sources at the facility for the year 2001 in units of kg (lbs) per month,
