FR941110-0-00095 FR941110-0-00016 Response: The Act is constructed so that a facility subject to a validation survey is entitled to only one hearing, either State or Federal. The provisions at section 1919(h)(7) of the Act furnish the means for resolving disagreements between HCFA and the State over whose enforcement action will control, which in turn, determines whether the facility is entitled to a hearing under part 431 or part 498. Moreover, HCFA excludes from the validation sample any facility against which adverse action has been initiated by the State survey agency. Therefore, if HCFA imposes remedies against a provider on the basis of noncompliance identified during a validation survey, HCFA's remedies are the only ones imposed, and the provider can contest the determination of noncompliance leading to the enforcement remedy in one Federal hearing. Section 488.318␣Inadequate Survey Performance Comment: Some commenters asked how HCFA would determine ``inadequate survey performance'' by a State agency. Response: We monitor State agency survey performance primarily by reviewing State survey team findings and by conducting validation surveys. Sections 1819(g)(3) and 1919(g)(3) of the Act, as added by sections 4202 and 4212 of OBRA '87, require the Secretary to conduct validation surveys of at least 5 percent of the SNFs and NFs in each State that have been surveyed by the State survey agency (but in no case less than 5 facilities). Prior to the effective date of OBRA '87, HCFA, acting for the Secretary, monitored State performance by conducting Federal monitoring surveys. OBRA '87 formalizes this process. The validation surveys must be conducted within 2 months of the date of the State's surveys and must be of sufficient number to allow inferences about the adequacy of the State's surveys. Comment: Several commenters said HCFA should sanction individual surveyors when they make erroneous findings against facilities, whether the errors are intentional or unintentional. Response: Section 1864(a) of the Act authorizes the Secretary to enter into agreements with State survey agencies to determine whether SNFs meet the Federal participation requirements for Medicare. Section 1902(a)(33)(B) of the Act provides for State survey agencies to perform the same survey tasks for facilities participating or seeking to participate in the Medicaid program. HCFA assesses the performance of each State's survey and certification program annually, and §488.320 sets forth the sanctions that HCFA may impose upon the States for inadequate survey performance. With respect to sanctions against individuals, we note that, with the exception of the relatively small number of HCFA staff who perform validation surveys, surveyors are State agency personnel, appointed and paid by the State agency, and supervised by State managers. For these reasons, HCFA considers that any corrective or disciplinary action is a State matter. Whenever HCFA validation surveys uncover errors on the part of any individual State agency surveyor, the State is informed so it can take whatever action is necessary. As a final measure, formal mechanisms are in place which provide an opportunity for facilities to appeal certifications of noncompliance that lead to enforcement remedies, except State monitoring. Comment: A few commenters said States may begin to cite more deficiencies than usual in order to avoid sanctions by HCFA based on failure to meet the requirement at §488.168(c) of the proposed rule, which provided that HCFA would consider it inadequate performance when a State agency fails to identify an immediate or nonimmediate jeopardy situation, substandard care, or other deficiencies.
