FR940513-0-00077 FR940513-0-00018 (ii) The total amount of those items of partnership loss or deduction is less than both_ (A) One percent of the partnership's aggregate items of gross loss and deduction for the taxable year; and (B) $50,000. (4) Anti-abuse rule . The purpose of the fractions rule is to prevent tax avoidance by limiting the permanent or temporary transfer of tax benefits from tax-exempt partners to taxable partners, whether by directing income or gain to tax-exempt partners, by directing losses, deductions, or credits to taxable partners, or by some other similar manner. This section may not be applied in a manner that is inconsistent with the purpose of the fractions rule. (l) [Reserved]. (m) Tiered partnerships _(1) In general . If a qualified organization holds an indirect interest in real property through one or more tiers of partnerships (a chain), the fractions rule is satisfied only if_ (i) The avoidance of tax is not a principal purpose for using the tiered-ownership structure (investing in separate real properties through separate chains of partnerships so that section 514(c)(9)(E) is, effectively, applied on a property-by-property basis is not, in and of itself, a tax avoidance purpose); and (ii) The relevant partnerships can demonstrate under any reasonable method that the relevant chains satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2) through (k) of this section. For purposes of applying ยง1.704&hyph;2(k) under the independent chain approach described in Example 3 of paragraph (m)(2) of this section, allocations of items of income or gain that may be made pursuant to a provision in the partnership agreement that charges back minimum gain are taken into account for purposes of the fractions rule only to the extent an allocation is made. (2) Examples . The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (m). Example 1 . Tiered partnerships_collapsing approach . (i) Qualified organization QO3 and taxable individual TP3 form upper-tier partnership P2. The P2 partnership agreement allocates overall partnership income 20 percent to QO3 and 80 percent to TP3. Overall partnership loss is allocated 30 percent to QO3 and 70 percent to TP3. P2 and taxable individual TP2 form lower-tier partnership P1. The P1 partnership agreement allocates overall partnership income 60 percent to P2 and 40 percent to TP2. Overall partnership loss is allocated 40 percent to P2 and 60 percent to TP2. The only asset of P2 (which has no outstanding debt) is its interest in P1. P1 purchases real property with money contributed by its partners and with borrowed money. There is no tax avoidance purpose for the use of the tiered-ownership structure, which is illustrated by the following diagram. E:GraphicsER13MY94.006 (ii) P2 can demonstrate that the P2/P1 chain satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2) through (k) of this section by collapsing the tiered-partnership structure. On a collapsed basis, QO3's fractions rule percentage is 12 percent (30 percent of 40 percent). See paragraph (c)(2) of this section. P2 satisfies the fractions rule because QO3 may not be allocated more than 12 percent (20 percent of 60 percent) of overall partnership income in any taxable year.
