FR940817-1-00070 FR940817-1-00014 13. By amending §240.16b&hyph;3 by revising paragraphs (a), (c)(1), (c)(2)(i)(B) and (C), (c)(2)(ii), (d), the introductory text of paragraph (e), paragraph (e)(1)(i), the heading for paragraph (f), paragraphs (f)(2), (f)(3) and (g), removing paragraph (a)(2), and adding paragraph (h) before the Note to read as follows: §240.16b&hyph;3 Employee benefit plan transactions. (a) Plan Conditions. A transaction by an officer or director shall be exempt from section 16(b) of the Act if it is pursuant to an employee benefit plan that satisfies the conditions of this paragraph and of paragraph (b) of this section, if applicable; and the transaction satisfies one of the transaction exemptions of paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (f), or (g) of this section. The plan shall set forth in writing the means or basis for determining eligibility to participate, as it relates to officers and directors, and either the price at which the securities may be offered and the amount of securities to be awarded or the method by which the price and the amount of the award are to be determined; provided, however, that plans for which paragraph (b)(3) of this section provides an exemption from the shareholder approval requirement of paragraph (b) of this section need not specify the amount of securities to be awarded. * * * * * (c)␣*␣*␣* (1) Six Month Holding Period. The equity security is held for six months from the date of grant or, in the case of a derivative security, at least six months elapse from the date of acquisition of the derivative security to the date of disposition of the derivative security (other than upon exercise or conversion) or its underlying equity security; provided, however, that compliance with this paragraph (c)(1) is not required with respect to a disposition by a plan participant that is exempted by rule from Section 16(b) of the Act. Dividend equivalent rights and stock acquired upon the reinvestment of dividends, other than stock dividends exempted pursuant to §240.16a-9, shall be deemed to have been acquired as of the date of acquisition of the securities on which such dividends or dividend equivalent rights were paid. (2) Plan Administration. *␣*␣* (i) Disinterested Administration. *␣*␣* (B) Participation in a securities acquisition plan meeting the conditions in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall not disqualify a director from being a disinterested person; (C) An election to receive a director's fee in either cash or securities, or partly in cash and partly in securities, shall not disqualify a director from being a disinterested person; and * * * * * (ii) Formula Awards. The grant or award is made pursuant to a plan that: (A) By its terms permits officers and/or directors to receive automatic awards; and either: states the amount and price of securities to be awarded to designated officers and directors or categories of officers and directors, though not necessarily to others who may participate in the plan, and specifies the timing of awards to officers and directors; or sets forth a formula that automatically determines the amount, price and timing, using objective criteria such as earnings of the issuer, value of the securities, years of service, job classification, and compensation levels; provided that (B) Such terms are not amended periodically, and in no event more often than every six months, other than to comport with changes in the Internal Revenue Code, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or the rules thereunder. * * * * * (d) Broad-Based Plans and Intra-Plan Transfers. A transaction in a thrift, stock purchase or similar securities acquisition plan shall be exempt from Section 16(b) of the Act if the plan satisfies the conditions of paragraph (a) and paragraph (b) of this section, if applicable, and the transaction satisfies the conditions of either paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section. (1) For any purchase transaction resulting from an employee contribution and/or an employer contribution, other than an intra-plan transfer, the transaction is pursuant to:
