FR940405-2-00185 FR940405-2-00081 (2) Supportive Services (100 points) An application that meets threshold requirements will be one that contains a supportive services plan that scores a minimum of 75 points out of a possible 100 points in the following areas. (i) Matching funds for five-year demonstration period. The supportive services plan adequately addresses how the applicant or joint applicants will obtain the matching funds needed to provide the minimum services that frail elderly participants are expected to require throughout the initial five year demonstration period. The applicant's plans for obtaining needed matching funds over five years are described (A) Very well (20 points); or (B) Adequately (10 points). (ii) Written commitments for services. The supportive services plan includes written commitments from the providers of supportive services necessary to address the needs identified in at least three of the five activities of daily living as defined in the Multifamily Project Demonstration Guidelines (Section I.B.), and the service providers have given reasonable assurances that services will be continued during the initial five years of the demonstration. Providers of supportive services to address at least three of the activities of daily living have provided: (A) Specific and firm written commitments, with reasonable assurance of ongoing commitments over five years (25 points); or (B) Contingent commitments, with reasonable assurance that contingencies can be satisfied and reasonable assurance of ongoing commitments over five years (15 points). (iii) Involvement of area agency on aging. The letter from the Area Agency/State Agency on Aging indicates how the agency was involved in the development of the proposed supportive services program and case management system and indicates that, in the ongoing operations of the project, the agency will be (A) Very involved (15 points); (B) Moderately involved (10 points); or (C) Minimally involved (5 points). (iv) Professional assessment committee. The supportive services plan demonstrates that the applicant has commitments from at least 3 qualified persons (one of which is a qualified medical professional) to serve as the professional assessment committee (PAC) or a commitment from an alternative entity agreeing to perform the functions of the PAC. (20 points) (v) HA's supportive services experience. The HA or its subcontractor currently administers or has past experience_ (A) Administering an effective supportive service delivery program for frail elderly persons or other persons in need of such services, including minorities and women (20 points); or (B) Delivering supportive services (10 points). (3) Project Development (100 points) An application that meets the threshold requirements will be one that contains a developer's proposal that scores a minimum of 75 points out of a possible 100 points in the following areas. (i) Developer's experience. In developing, marketing and managing multifamily housing for frail elderly persons, the developer has_ (A) Substantial experience (25 points); (B) Moderate experience (10 points); or (C) Little experience (5 points). (ii) Developer's supportive services experience. In coordinating services to meet the needs of frail elderly tenants, the developer has_ (A) Substantial experience (25 points); (B) Moderate experience (10 points) (C) Little experience (5 points). (iii) Development financing commitments. The Owner's submission contains: (A) Letters evidencing committed equity and debt financing to cover all project development costs, and showing that the sources of financing have completed their feasibility analysis of the project and the developer/owner and lender(s) have agreed in writing on the loan amount(s) and business terms (25 points); or (B) Evidence of sufficient equity commitment and lender interest in financing to cover all project development costs (10 points). (iv) Site. The project site is_ (A) Accessible to social, recreational, educational, commercial, transportation and health facilities and services suitable for frail elderly persons to be served by the project; the site and neighborhood are free from disturbing noises and reverberations and from hazards to health and safety (25 points); or (B) Accessible to only a few services suitable for frail elderly persons; the site and neighborhood are reasonably free from disturbing noises and from hazards to health and safety (15 points).
