FR940512-1-00061 FR940512-1-00010 (d) Release for audit, evaluation, and research. Personal information may be released to an organization, agency, or individual engaged in audit, evaluation, or research activities only for purposes directly connected with the administration of an IL program, or for purposes that would significantly improve the quality of life for individuals with significant disabilities and only if the organization, agency, or individual assures that_ (1) The information will be used only for the purposes for which it is being provided; (2) The information will be released only to persons officially connected with the audit, evaluation, or research; (3) The information will not be released to the involved individual; (4) The information will be managed in a manner to safeguard confidentiality; and (5) The final product will not reveal any personally identifying information without the informed written consent of the involved individual or the individual's legally authorized representative. (e) Release to other programs or authorities. (1) Upon receiving the informed written consent of the individual or, if appropriate, the individual's legally authorized representative, the service provider may release personal information to another agency or organization for the latter's program purposes only to the extent that the information may be released to the involved individual and only to the extent that the other agency or organization demonstrates that the information requested is necessary for the proper administration of its program. (2) Medical or psychological information that the service provider determines may be harmful to the individual may be released if the other agency or organization assures the service provider that the information will be used only for the purpose for which it is being provided and will not be further released to the individual. (3) The service provider shall release personal information if required by Federal laws or regulations. (4) The service provider shall release personal information in response to investigations in connection with law enforcement, fraud, or abuse, unless expressly prohibited by Federal or State laws or regulations, and in response to judicial order. (5) The service provider also may release personal information to protect the individual or others if the individual poses a threat to his or her safety or to the safety of others. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 711(c)) §364.57 What functions and responsibilities may the State delegate? A DSU may carry out the functions and responsibilities described in §§364.50, 364.51 (subject to §364.43(d)), 364.52, 364.53, and 364.56 or, except as otherwise provided, may delegate these functions and responsibilities to the appropriate service provider with which the DSU subgrants or contracts to provide IL services. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 711(c), 796c(f) and 796e&hyph;2) §364.58 What appeal procedures must be available to consumers? Each service provider shall_ (a) Establish policies and procedures that an individual may use to obtain review of decisions made by the service provider concerning the individual's request for IL services or the provision of IL services to the individual; and (b) Use formats that are accessible to inform each individual who seeks or is receiving IL services from the service provider about the procedures required by paragraph (a) of this section. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 711(c)) §364.59 May the financial need of an individual be considered to determine his or her participation in the costs of IL services? (a) No Federal requirement. There is no Federal requirement that the financial need of an individual eligible for IL services be considered in the provision of IL services. (b) State plan requirements. The State plan must_ (1) Specify the types of IL services for which a financial need test may be applied; and (2) Assure that any consideration of financial need is applied uniformly so that all individuals who are eligible for IL services are treated equally.
