FR940406-2-00162 FR940406-2-00092 Wednesday April 6, 1994 Part VII Department of Health and Human Services Public Health Service General Family Planning Training Projects; Grant Availability; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 66␣/␣Wednesday, April 6, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Public Health Service RIN 0905&hyph;ZA30 Announcement of Availability of Grants for General Family Planning Training Projects AGENCY: Office of Family Planning, OPA, PHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Office of Family Planning (OFP) of the Office of Population Affairs requests applications for grants under the Family Planning Service Training Program authorized under section 1003 of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act (42 U.S.C. 300a&hyph;1(a)). Funds are available to train family planning personnel in order to maintain the high level of performance of family planning services projects funded under Title X of the PHS Act. Training is provided at general training centers in the ten Department of Health & Human Services' (DHHS) regions. ADDRESS: Application kits may be obtained from and applications must be submitted to: Grants Management Office, Office of Population Affairs, East-West Towers, suite N1115, Rockville, MD 20857. DATES: Applications must be postmarked or received at the above address no later than June 6, 1994. Private metered postmarks will not be acceptable as proof of timely mailing. Applications which are postmarked or delivered to the Grants Management Office later than June 6, 1994 will be judged late and will not be accepted for review. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of the program announcement or meet the applicable requirements of 42 CFR part 59, subpart C will not be accepted for review. Applicants will be notified, and applications will be returned. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Sam Taylor, Acting Director, Office of Family Planning at (301) 594&hyph;4008 is available for assistance on scientific, technical and program aspects, or Mrs. Barbara N. Rosenberg, Grants Management Officer at (301) 594&hyph;4012 is available for business management issues. Staff are available to answer questions and provide limited technical assistance in the preparation of grant applications. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Title X of the PHS Act, 42 U.S.C. 300, et seq., authorizes the Secretary of Health and Human Services to award grants for projects to provide training for family planning service personnel. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 93.260). This notice announces the availability of approximately $2.7 million in funding and solicits applications for ten general training projects to assist in the establishment and operation of regional training centers. Grants will be funded within certain ranges, as set out below. The funding ranges for the regions are determined based on the assessment of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Population Affairs (DASPA) of the regions' relative need for training funds; funding of individual grants within each funding range will be based on the DASPA's assessment of such factors as the training needs within the region and the cost and availability of personnel for funding.
