FR941110-0-00080 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: Several commenters questioned the use of the survey agency and HCFA discretion to conduct an extended survey at any time for any reason. Some commenters disagreed that the Act gives HCFA or the survey agency the discretion to conduct an extended survey at any time. These commenters urged HCFA to clarify that the purpose of an extended survey is to identify policies and procedures that caused the facility to furnish substandard quality of care. Response: We disagree with commenters who believe that the Act does not give HCFA or the survey agency the discretion to conduct an extended survey at any time. Sections 1819(g)(2)(B)(i) and 1919(g)(2)(B)(i) of the Act specifically state, ``Any other facility may, at the Secretary's or State's discretion, be subject to such an extended survey (or a partial extended survey).'' However, we recognize that when facilities are subject to an extended survey or partial extended survey, they are disadvantaged because they automatically lose approval of their nurse aide training and competency evaluation programs (NATCEP) for two years. There may be other instances when a facility would lose their NATCEP, for example, when a facility has a nurse staffing waiver or has had a denial of payment for new admissions remedy, or temporary manager remedy imposed. Therefore, as a matter of policy, we do not expect to exercise our discretionary authority to conduct an extended or partial extended survey unless we have found substandard quality of care on a standard survey or abbreviated standard survey and we will advise the State survey agencies in manual instructions to adopt the same policy. We have built into our survey process the ability of the survey team to expand a standard survey at any time. The expanded standard survey can be tailored to the unique situation in a particular facility and need not include all of the tasks listed at ยง488.310(b). It allows more thorough investigation of specific areas in order to confirm noncompliance when the initial scope of the standard survey is not adequate to substantiate a particular deficiency. But it does not penalize a facility with loss of approval of a NATCEP. We are not including proposed ยง488.160(c)(2) which would spell out the State survey agency's and Secretary's discretion to conduct extended surveys, as it is unnecessary given the explicit language of sections 1819(g)(2)(B)(i) and 1919(g)(2)(B)(i) of the Act. Comment: We received numerous comments urging us to amend the purpose of an extended survey as stated in ยง488.310(a). One commenter suggested the following revision:
