FR940617-0-00173 FR940617-0-00026 (b) Dynamometer calibration weights. A minimum of six calibration weights for each range used are required. The weights must be spaced to reflect good engineering judgement such that they cover the range of weights required and must be traceable to within 0.5 percent of NIST weights. Laboratories located in foreign countries may certify calibration weights to local government bureau standards. §89.307&hyph;96 Dynamometer calibration. (a) If necessary, follow the dynamometer manufacturer's instructions for initial start-up and basic operating adjustments. (b) Check the dynamometer torque measurement for each range used by the following method: (1) Warm up the dynamometer following the dynamometer manufacturer's specifications. (2) Determine the dynamometer calibration moment arm (a distance/weight measurement). Dynamometer manufacturer's data, actual measurement, or the value recorded from the previous calibration used for this subpart may be used. (3) When calibrating the engine flywheel torque transducer, any lever arm used to convert a weight or a force through a distance into a torque must be in a horizontal position ( # 5 degrees). (4) Calculate the indicated torque (IT) for each calibration weight to be used by: IT = calibration weight (N) × calibration moment arm (m) (5) Attach each calibration weight specified in §89.306&hyph;96 to the moment arm at the calibration distance determined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Record the power measurement equipment response (N^m) to each weight. (6) For each calibration weight, compare the torque value measured in paragraph (b)(5) of this section to the calculated torque determined in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. (7) The measured torque must be within 2 percent of the calculated torque. (8) If the measured torque is not within 2 percent of the calculated torque, adjust or repair the system. Repeat steps in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section with the adjusted or repaired system. (c) Optional. A master load-cell or transfer standard may be used to verify the torque measurement system. (1) The master load-cell and read out system must be calibrated with weights at each test weight specified in §89.306&hyph;96. The calibration weights must be traceable to within 0.1 percent of applicable national standards. (2) Warm up the dynamometer following the equipment manufacturer's specifications. (3) Attach the master load-cell and loading system. (4) Load the dynamometer to a minimum of 6 equally spaced torque values as indicated by the master load-cell for each in-use range used. (5) The in-use torque measurement must be within 2 percent of the torque measured by the master system for each load used. (6) If the in-use torque is not within 2 percent of the master torque, adjust or repair the system. Repeat steps in paragraphs (c)(2) through (c)(5) of this section with the adjusted or repaired system. (d) Calibrated resistors may not be used for engine flywheel torque transducer calibration, but may be used to span the transducer prior to engine testing. (e) Perform other engine dynamometer system calibrations as dictated by good engineering practice. §89.308&hyph;96 Sampling system requirements for gaseous emissions. (a) For each component (pump, sample line section, filters, and so forth) in the heated portion of the sampling system that has a separate source of power or heating element, use engineering judgment to locate the coolest portion of that component and monitor the temperature at that location. If several components are within an oven, then only the surface temperature of the component with the largest thermal mass and the oven temperature need be measured.
