FR940505-1-00387 FR940505-1-00012 ( 2 ) Collect gas from each area, cell, or group of cells in the landfill in which refuse has been placed for a period of two years or more. For the purposes of calculating the area of influence of the gas collection system to determine compliance, the owner shall use the EPA method. 32 32 Proposed rule published in the Federal Register of May 30, 1991 (56 FR 24511). ( 3 ) Collect gas at a sufficient extraction rate. For the purpose of demonstrating whether the gas collection system flowrate is sufficient to determine compliance, the owner shall measure gauge pressure in the gas collection header. If a positive pressure exists, the gas collection system flowrate shall be increased until a negative pressure is measured. If the gauge pressure at a wellhead is positive, the valve shall be opened to restore negative pressure. If negative pressure cannot be achieved, an additional well shall be added. (I) The owner shall: ( 1 ) Maintain, monitor, operate, and improve as necessary the gas collection system and landfill cover to prevent leaks from: ( i ) All locations on the surface of the landfill covered by final cover; ( ii ) All locations on the surface of the landfill which have been covered by intermediate cover for over six months; and ( iii ) All locations along the gas transfer path of the gas collection system. When a leak is identified, it shall be conspicuously tagged with a marker which displays the date of identification. The marker shall not be removed until the leak is repaired. (Markers placed by EPA personnel may be removed only by EPA personnel, except as necessary during the repair of leaks.) Within 15 calendar days of identification, each leak shall be repaired to a leak-free state unless such repair requires excavation. Where repair requires excavation, the owner shall submit an excavation plan for approval by EPA which shows that repairs will be made promptly and which specifies the expected date of completion. The owner is in violation of this section if the leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days of identification, or if an excavation plan is not submitted to EPA within 15 calendar days after the date of identification. ( 2 ) Repair leaks to a leak-free state using at least one of the following methods: ( i ) Increasing the collection rate of existing wells. ( ii ) Repairing the landfill cover. ( iii ) Installing additional collection wells. ( iv ) Repairing the gas transfer path. (J) Whenever previously buried waste is brought to the surface during installation or preparation of wells, trenches, piping, or other equipment, or when solid waste is to be excavated and moved, the owner shall cover the excavated waste using fresh soil, plastic sheeting, vapor retarding foam, or other California Integrated Waste Management Board approved ``Alternate Daily Cover,'' by the end of the working day or as necessary to prevent a public nuisance. (ii) Control equipment. All landfill gases collected pursuant to this section shall be processed using control devices that meet the following requirements: (A) All control devices shall meet either of the following requirements: ( 1 ) Have a non-methane organic compound (NMOC) destruction/treatment efficiency of at least 98% by weight; or ( 2 ) Reduce the NMOC concentration at the outlet of the control device to 30 ppm measured as methane and corrected to 3% oxygen. (B) Open flares used as control devices shall be designed and operated in accordance with ยง60.18. (C) The owner shall demonstrate that each control device meets the requirements of this section using the source testing procedures in paragraphs (g)(6) (iv) and (vi) of this section. Source testing shall be performed when the device begins operation. Flares shall be source tested to demonstrate continuing compliance every two years thereafter. All other control devices shall be source tested annually to demonstrate continuing compliance. (iii) Violations. Failure to comply with any provision of this section shall constitute a violation of the section. (iv) Compliance schedule.
