FR940906-1-00037 FR940906-1-00016 The Service's finding is based on information contained in the petition, conversations with the petitioner, and additional information provided to the Service by the petitioner in a letter dated March 29, 1994. All documents are on file in the Carlsbad Field Office (see ADDRESSES section). Adequate rangewide surveys have not been completed for the Colton sand dune Jerusalem cricket. The Service lacks evidence of specific threats to the petitioned insect, especially any threat associated with a population decline. The insect covered by this petition may be sensitive to ecological perturbations resulting from the impacts of human activities. However, information was not presented to show correlations between the insect's ecological sensitivity and population trends. No information exists to support an assumption that the Colton sand dune Jerusalem cricket has been substantially depleted or is subject to serious threats throughout all or a significant portion of its range. Moreover, given that the insect has yet to be formally described, the taxonomic distinctiveness or validity of the species has not been determined. The Service has carefully reviewed the petition. On the basis of the best scientific and commercial information currently available, the Service has determined that the petition does not present substantial information indicating that the requested action may be warranted. However, the Service is interested in any additional information about the Colton sand dune Jerusalem cricket that may be available. Please submit any additional information to the Carlsbad Field Office (see ADDRESSES section). Author This notice was prepared by Marjorie Nelson (see ADDRESSES section). List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and threatened species, Exports, Imports, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, and Transportation. Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1531&hyph;1544. Dated: August 23, 1994. Bruce Blanchard, Acting Director, Fish and Wildlife Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21865 Filed 9&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
