FR940503-1-00040 FR940503-1-00010 The Congressional intent to afford the Respondent a less formal, non-APA hearing is explicit in the legislation. Although such hearing must provide the Respondent with a reasonable opportunity to be heard and to present evidence, such hearing shall not be subject to the procedures under sections 554 or 556 of the APA. On July 1, 1991, the Agency proposed non-APA consolidated rules of practice for the administrative assessment of civil penalties at 40 CFR part 28 (56 FR 29,996). Although the part 28 rules are intended to consolidate all other non-APA administrative penalty programs currently administered by the Agency under uniform rules of practice, the field citation program was excluded from those proposed rules. Programs covered by part 28 include Class I administrative penalties under section 309(g) of the Clean Water Act, section 109(a) of CERCLA, and section 325(b) of EPCRA; and administrative penalties under section 1423(c) of the Safe Drinking Water Act and sections 325(c) and (d) of EPCRA. There are several compelling reasons for developing hearing procedures that are better suited to the field citation program than those provided either by proposed part 28 or the consolidated APA rules of practice promulgated at 40 CFR part 22, 45 FR 24363 (April 9, 1980). The part 28 rules provide many of the same procedural rights in part 22 that are designed to comport with APA requirements. These rights include prehearing conferences; subpoena authority; discovery rights; and cross-examination. The major differences between the two rules are that part 28 provides for a Presiding Officer instead of an Administrative Law Judge; imposes page limits on written submissions; and eliminates the right to appeal the decision of the Presiding Officer or Regional Administrator to the Administrator. Under the part 28 procedures, resolution of an administrative penalty proceeding could take seven or eight months. This lengthy time period would diminish the utility of the field citation program in addressing minor violations quickly and efficiently. Most of the penalty programs covered by the part 28 procedures provide for maximum per day per violation penalties well in excess of the $5,000 limit authorized for field citations. Using the part 28 hearing procedures could result in spending more money to adjudicate field citation appeals than would be justified by the expected monetary recovery. Based on the foregoing reasons, the Agency is considering using a more streamlined set of hearing procedures drafted specifically to apply to the field citation program. Today's proposal relies on some of the part 28 provisions which ensure expedited proceedings. This proposed option also relies on the rules at 33 CFR subpart 1.07, 43 FR 54186 (November 20, 1978), which govern hearings on statutory penalties imposed by the Coast Guard. Under section 311(b)(6) of the Clean Water Act, the Coast Guard is authorized to assess a civil penalty of up to $5,000 against any owner, operator or person in charge of a facility or vessel that discharges either oil or a hazardous substance. The violator may challenge the penalty assessment at a hearing governed by the subpart 1.07 procedures. The similarities between this program and the field citation program make the subpart 1.07 regulations an appropriate model for hearing procedures. These Coast Guard procedures were found to satisfy due process under the Constitution in U.S. v. Independent Bulk Transport , 480 F. Supp. 474 (1979). The part 28 regulations were used as a model for the following major provisions of the proposed part 59 hearing procedures: the Presiding Officer's duties and responsibilities; consent orders; prehearing conference; information exchange; post-hearing submissions; and review of the Regional Administrator's decision by the Environmental Appeals Board. The subpart 1.07 regulations were used as a model for the following provisions: certain preliminary matters; confidential business information; hearing procedures; and the scope of the Regional Administrator's authority for issuing a decision. The relevant part 28 provisions were selected to ensure fundamental fairness while streamlining the procedures available to Respondents. The Presiding Officer under part 28 is authorized to exercise a great deal of discretion to expedite the presentation of evidence in administrative cases. In that regard, the most pertinent authority adopted from the part 28 regulations allows the Presiding Officer to limit the number of witnesses and the extent of direct examination and cross-examination. The provisions adopted from subpart 1.07 further streamline the administrative process for penalty assessment, while guaranteeing fundamental rights. The Respondent is allowed under subpart 1.07 to submit written arguments and evidence in lieu of requesting a hearing. Such response allows the Presiding Officer to make a determination on the administrative record without the delays inherent in conducting the prehearing conference, information exchange, and hearing. Additionally, the subpart 1.07 provisions allow the Presiding Officer to determine the appropriate form of testimony: oral; written; or recorded. Subpart 1.07 also simplifies the hearing process by allowing the Respondent to present facts, statements, documents and other relevant evidence. The relatively informal nature of the proceeding provides the opportunity for expedited penalty assessment. Proposed Hearing Procedures Under proposed part 59, the field citation would be issued during or shortly after an inspection by an EPA officer or employee. The citation is subsequently served upon the Respondent by first class mail or equivalent. Within thirty days after service of the citation, the Respondent must either request a hearing; provide written evidence and arguments in lieu of a hearing; or pay the penalty.
