FR941110-0-00019 FR941110-0-00011 19 CFR Part 171 (T.D. 94&hyph;89) Penalty Guidelines Applicable to Transshipped Textiles and Textile Products AGENCY: Customs Service, Treasury. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This document amends the revised penalty guidelines pertaining to section 592 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, by adopting the interim rule that added, as an example of an aggravating factor in arriving at a final administrative penalty decision, violations involving the illegal importation and entry of transshipped textiles and textile products. This amendment will enhance the U.S. textile import program and other programs or laws administered or enforced by Customs which involve a determination of the country of origin of imported merchandise. DATES: Final rule is effective on November 10, 1994. This final rule is applicable to all textiles and textile products entered or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after, November 10, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert Pisani, Penalties Branch, Office of Regulations and Rulings (202&hyph;482&hyph;6950). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Customs is confronted with a continuing problem involving textiles and textile products which, after exportation from their country of origin, are transshipped through a second country, thereby facilitating a false or otherwise unlawful statement, act, or omission regarding the country of origin of the merchandise when ultimately imported and entered in the United States. Such statements, acts or omissions may impinge on a number of programs or laws administered or enforced by Customs, including country of origin marking requirements, textile quota limitations and visa requirements under the U.S. textile import program, duty assessment and collection, and collection of trade statistics. The consequences of such unlawful statements, acts or omissions may include interference with the consumer's right to make an informed decision regarding a prospective purchase, undermining of bilateral and multilateral textile agreements to which the United States is a party and with resulting injury to domestic producers of textiles and textile products, loss of revenue, and inability to maintain proper trade statistics to support overall U.S. trade policy and analysis. Under section 592 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1592), a penalty may be assessed against any party who has committed fraud, gross negligence or negligence in connection with the unlawful entry of any merchandise in the United States, including textiles and textile products that have been transshipped in the circumstances described above. Provisions relating to the filing of petitions, and action upon petitions, for relief from fines, penalties and forfeitures incurred under laws administered by Customs, including penalties under section 592, are set forth in Part 171 of the Customs Regulations (19 CFR Part 171). Appendix B to Part 171 sets forth Revised Penalty Guidelines under section 592. Although Appendix B is not intended to have regulatory effect, it represents the official Customs position regarding the standards that are generally applicable to the administrative review of petitions for remission or mitigation of penalties incurred under section 592. Appendix B includes, in section (G), certain factors that may be determined by Customs to be aggravating factors in arriving at a final administrative penalty decision. Appendix B is currently undergoing review within Customs with a view to publication of a proposed revision of those guidelines, with opportunity for public comment, in the near future. Notwithstanding the upcoming revision of Appendix B to Part 171 and the intended solicitation of public comments thereon, Customs determined that immediate action should be taken in a penalty mitigation context to address the textile and textile products transshipment problem described above. Customs notes that transshipments have resulted in material false statements, acts or omissions regarding the country of origin of the imported merchandise, including false designations of origin. Consequently, it is Customs position that transshipment must be susceptible to treatment as an aggravating factor in arriving at a final mitigated section 592 penalty decision under Part 171 of the regulations. On March 30, 1994, Customs published as T.D. 94&hyph;29 an interim rule in the Federal Register (59 FR 14745) to amend section (G) of Appendix B to Part 171 by adding a reference to ``transshipment in the case of textiles and textile products affecting a country of origin determination'' as an aggravating factor. Although this change was effective for merchandise entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after April 1, 1994, Customs stated that it would consider any comments submitted. Customs received eleven comments in response to the interim rule. The comments received, and Customs responses to them, where appropriate, are set forth below. Comment Analysis The comments received ostensibly fell into two categories: those unequivocally endorsing the interim rule as written (three comments); and those opposing the interim rule or seeking to limit its application (eight comments).
