FR941110-0-00148 FR941110-0-00016 Response: Surveyors do not have the authority to make binding enforcement determinations; rather, either HCFA or the State makes binding enforcement determinations in accordance with criteria at §488.452. Section 488.406␣Available Remedies While analyzing the comments for this section, we again reviewed the provisions of the Act to ensure conformance in the final regulation. In doing so, we noted that proposed §488.206(c) did not include the remedies of civil money penalties, temporary management, and closure of the facility and transfer of residents, or their equivalents, in the listing of available remedies. We have also clarified that, regardless of what other additional remedies a State may have approved, the State must establish, at a minimum, those specified remedies, or an approved alternative to a specified remedy, that is, termination, State monitoring, denial of payment for new admissions, closure of a facility by the State in emergency situations and/or transfer of residents, civil money penalties, and temporary management. We are correcting this oversight in this final regulation. In addition, during the process of reviewing and analyzing comments, we added another remedy. This remedy, directed in-service training, is described in the discussion of §488.425. Also, since the proposed §488.228, ``Alternative or additional State remedies'', contained virtually the same information as this section, we are eliminating the proposed §488.228 and moving the remaining non-duplicative provisions to this section. All comments received in response to proposed §488.228 are being included and addressed below. Comment: One of the major concerns expressed throughout the comments was that it should be possible to address many or most instances of facility noncompliance through a traditional plan of correction. Several commenters indicated that plan of correction should be added to the list of possible remedies. Response: A plan of correction is a minimum requirement for any facility with deficiencies other than those isolated deficiencies that HCFA or the State determines constitute no actual harm with a potential for minimal harm, and, as for other providers and suppliers, it is not considered an enforcement remedy. Therefore, while we are clarifying the regulation to require that a facility complete and submit a plan of correction each time deficiencies are noted (other than those isolated deficiencies that HCFA or the State determines constitute no actual harm with a potential for minimal harm), we are not adding plan of correction to the listing of available remedies. Comment: Many commenters expressed concerns that the proposed remedies are punitive rather than corrective in nature, excessively burdensome in relationship to the deficiencies, too harsh or that they will direct the focus away from resident care, thereby having a negative effect on long term care. Some commenters stated that the remedies do not allow for one time digressions from a facility's history of compliance. Others believed that the proposed remedies would threaten job security for nursing home staff or the security of facility residents. Response: As indicated in response to the previous comment, many commenters assumed that it was not possible to have a plan of correction as the only corrective measure required in a facility, even when the deficiencies were of a low degree of seriousness. In this final regulation, we acknowledge that a traditional plan of correction may be the only measure needed to correct deficiencies in some facilities which have only lower level deficiencies. While we believe that using plans of corrections in this fashion should alleviate some of the concerns expressed by the commenters, we do not accept the notion that the use of more severe remedies for more severe deficiencies is excessive. There can be little question that the Congress was concerned about what it concluded was an unsatisfactory enforcement scheme prior to nursing home reform. As a result, it wrote into the law a series of remedies that it expects to be used should circumstances at individual facilities warrant. The driving force behind the legislation in this context was to provide the Secretary and the States with the authority to aggressively enforce the Act's new requirements in a way that would discourage facility noncompliance that the Congress believed to be widely evident between surveys, and thereby, to encourage lasting compliance. The design of these enforcement rules provides for incrementally more severe remedies as cited noncompliance is more egregious. We do not believe that an enforcement approach styled this way is harsh or excessive.
