FR940406-2-00081 FR940406-2-00048 If the applicant is receiving funds from the State for community food and nutrition activities, the applicant should address how the funds are being utilized. If State funds are being used in the project for which OCS funds are being requested, their usage should be specifically described. Criterion V: Organization Experience in Program Area and Staff Responsibilities (Maximum 12 points) (a) Organizational experiences in program area (0&hyph;4 points). Documentation provided indicates that projects previously undertaken have been relevant and effective and have provided permanent benefits to the low-income population. Organizations which propose providing training and technical assistance have detailed competence in the specific program priority area and as a deliverer with expertise in the fields of training and technical assistance. If applicable, information provided by these applicants also addresses related achievements and competence of each cooperating or sponsoring organization (b) Management History (0&hyph;4 points). Applicants must fully detail their ability to implement sound and effective management practices and if they have been recipients of other Federal or other governmental grants, they must also detail that they have consistently complied with financial and program progress reporting and audit requirements. Applicants should submit any available documentation on their management practices and progress reporting procedures along with a statement by a Certified or Licensed Public Accountant as to the sufficiency of the applicant's financial management system to protect adequately any Federal funds awarded under the application submitted. (c) Staffing skills, Resources and Responsibilities (0&hyph;4 points). The application briefly describes the experience and skills of the proposed project director showing that the individual is not only well qualified, but that his/her professional capabilities are relevant to the successful implementation of the project. If the key staff person has not yet been identified, the application contains a comprehensive position description which indicates that the responsibilities to be assigned to the project director are relevant to the successful implementation of the project. The application must indicate that the applicant has adequate facilities and resources (i.e. space and equipment) to successfully carry out the work plan. In addressing the above criterion, the applicant should include the following: The applicant must clearly show that sufficient time of the Project Director and other senior staff will be budgeted to assure timely implementation and oversight of the project and that the assigned responsibilities of the staff are appropriate to the tasks identified for the project. Criterion VI: Adequacy of Budget (Maximum: 7 points) (a) Budget is adequate and administrative costs are appropriate in relation to the services proposed (0&hyph;7 points). Part E_Instructions for Completing Application Package (Approved by the OMB under Control Number 0970&hyph;0062) The standard forms attached to this Announcement shall be used when submitting applications for all funds under this Announcement. It is recommended that you reproduce single-sided copies of the SF&hyph;424, SF&hyph;424A and SF&hyph;424B, and type your application on the copies. Please prepare your application in accordance with instructions provided on the forms as well as with the OCS specific instructions set forth below: 1. SF&hyph;424_Application for Federal Assistance Top of Page. Please enter the single priority area designation under which the application is being submitted. An application should be submitted under only one priority area. (See Item 11) Item 1. For the purposes of this announcement, all projects are considered Applications ; there are no Pre-Applications . Item 2. Date Submitted and Applicant Identifier _Date application is submitted to ACF and applicant's own internal control number, if applicable. Item 3. Date Received by State _N/A Item 4. Date Received by Federal Agency _Leave blank. Items 5 and 6. The legal name of the applicant must match that listed as corresponding to the Employer Identification Number. Where the applicant is a previous Department of Health and Human Services grantee, enter the Central Registry System Employee Identification Number (CRS/EIN) and the Payment Identifying Number, if one has been assigned, in the Block entitled Federal Identifier located at the top right hand corner of the form. Item 7. If the applicant is a non-profit corporation, enter N in the box and specify non-profit corporation in the space marked Other. Proof of non-profit status, such as IRS certification, Articles of Incorporation, or By-laws, must be included as an appendix to the project narrative. Item 8. Type of Application _Please indicate the type of application. Item 9. Enter DHHS-ACF/OCS. Item 10. The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number for the OCS program covered under this announcement is 93.571. The title is Community Services Block Grant Discretionary Awards_ Community Food and Nutrition Program. Item 11. In addition to a brief descriptive title of the project, indicate the priority area for which funds are being requested. Use the following letter designations: FN_General Projects
