FR940406-0-00168 FR940406-0-00011 4. A new §86.1009&hyph;2001 is added to subpart K to read as follows: §86.1009&hyph;2001 Calculation and reporting of test results. (a) Initial test results are calculated following the Federal Test Procedure specified in §86.1008&hyph;2001(a). Rounding is done in accordance with ASTM E 29&hyph;67 (reapproved 1980) (as referenced in §86.094&hyph;28 (a)(4)(i)(B)( 2 )( ii ) to the number of decimal places contained in the applicable emission standard expressed to one additional significant figure. (b) Final test results are calculated by summing the initial test results derived in paragraph (a) of this section for each test vehicle or engine, dividing by the number of times that specific test has been conducted on the vehicle or engine, and rounding to the same number of decimal places contained in the applicable standard expressed to one additional significant figure. Rounding is done in accordance with ASTM E 29&hyph;67 (reapproved 1980) (as referenced in §86.094&hyph;28(a)(4)(i)(B)( 2 )( ii )). (c) Final deteriorated test results. (1) The final deteriorated test results for each light-duty truck, heavy-duty engine, or heavy-duty vehicle tested according to subpart B, C, D, I, M, N, or P of this part are calculated by multiplying or adding the final test results by the appropriate deterioration factor derived from the certification process for the engine or evaporative/refueling family and model year to which the selected configuration belongs. For the purpose of this paragraph, if a multiplicative deterioration factor as computed during the certification process is less than one, that deterioration factor shall be one. If an additive deterioration factor as computed during the certification process is less than zero, that deterioration factor will be zero. (2) Exceptions. There are no deterioration factors for light-duty truck emissions obtained during testing in accordance with subpart O of this part or with §86.146&hyph;96. Accordingly, for the CST and the fuel dispensing spitback test the term ``final deteriorated test results'' means the final test results derived in paragraph (b) of this section for each test vehicle. (3) The final deteriorated test results obtained in paragraph (c) (1) and (2) of this section are rounded to the same number of decimal places contained in the applicable emission standard. Rounding is done in accordance with ASTM E 29&hyph;67 (reapproved 1980) (as referenced in §86.094&hyph;28(a)(4)(i)(B)( 2 )( ii )). (d) Within five working days after completion of testing of all engines or vehicles pursuant to a test order, the manufacturer shall submit to the Administrator a report which includes the following information: (1) The location and description of the manufacturer's emission test facilities which were utilized to conduct testing reported pursuant to this section. (2) The applicable standards or compliance levels against which the engines or vehicles were tested. (3) Deterioration factors for the selected configuration. (4) A description of the engine or vehicle and any emission-related component selection method used. (5) For each test conducted. (i) Test engine or vehicle description including: (A) Configuration, engine family, and evaporative/refueling family identification. (B) Year, make, build date, and model of vehicle. (C) Vehicle Identification Number. (D) Miles accumulated on vehicle. (ii) Location where mileage accumulation was conducted and description of accumulation schedule. (iii) Test number, date initial test results, final results and final deteriorated test results for all valid and invalid exhaust emission tests, and the reason for invalidation, if applicable. (iv) A complete description of any modification, repair, preparation, maintenance and/or testing which was performed on the test engine or vehicle and has not been reported pursuant to any other paragraph of this subpart and will not be performed on all other production engines or vehicles. (v) Where an engine or vehicle was deleted from the test sequence by authorization of the Administrator, the reason for the deletion.
