FR940406-0-00022 FR940406-0-00002 (11) Appoint any investigators as necessary to administer this part. The EEO Programs Director is authorized to request the loan or assignment of any investigators or administrative judges from any agency as necessary to administer this part. The EEO Programs Director shall obtain the concurrence of the Staff Director for Management for all appointments of and reimbursements to investigators, whether from the private sector or otherwise, which exceeds the EEO Programs Director's procurement authority; (12) Assure that individual complaints are fairly and thoroughly investigated and that final decisions of the Board are issued in a timely manner in accordance with this part; (13) Dismiss a complaint, or a portion of a complaint, pursuant to §§268.206 and 268.305(c) of this part; (14) Suspend the complaint process when appropriate for any matter that is before the Merit Systems Protection Board for a determination; and (15) Make recommendations based upon investigative reports, hearings and EEOC decisions which require the Board's final decision pursuant to §268.209 of this part. (d) EEO Counselors. The EEO Counselor(s) are appointed by the EEO Programs Director. EEO Counselors shall carry out the functions set forth in §268.204 of this part. (e) Federal Women's Program Manager. The EEO Programs Director shall appoint a Federal Women's Program Manager. The Federal Women's Program Manager shall perform the following functions: Advise the Board of Governors, the Administrative Governor, the Staff Director for Management and the EEO Programs Director on matters affecting, and administer the Board's program with respect to, the employment and advancement of women. (f) Hispanic Program Coordinator. The EEO Programs Director shall appoint a Hispanic Program Coordinator. The Hispanic Program Coordinator shall perform the following functions: Advise the Board of Governors, the Administrative Governor, the Staff Director for Management and the EEO Programs Director on matters affecting, and administer the Board's program with respect to, the employment and advancement of Hispanics. (g) Disabled Persons Program Coordinator. The EEO Programs Director shall appoint a Disabled Persons Program Coordinator. The Disabled Persons Program Coordinator shall perform the following functions: Advise the Board of Governors, the Administrative Governor, the Staff Director for Management and the EEO Programs Director on matters affecting, and administer the Board's program with respect to, the employment and advancement of individuals with a disability. Subpart B_Board Program to Promote Equal Opportunity §268.201 General policy for equal opportunity. (a) It is the policy of the Board to provide equal opportunity in employment for all persons, to prohibit discrimination in employment because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age or disability, and to promote the full realization of equal opportunity in employment through a continuing affirmative program. (b) It is also the policy of the Board to insure equal opportunity for individuals with a disability in Board programs and activities consistent with section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 794) and to provide equal opportunity for all persons in accordance with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, as amended (8 U.S.C. 1324a). (c) No person shall be subject to retaliation for opposing any practice prohibited by this part, or for participating in any stage of administrative or judicial proceedings under this part. The practices prohibited by this part include those made unlawful by Title VII, the ADEA, the Equal Pay Act (29 U.S.C. 206(d)) and the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 791). §268.202 Board program for equal employment opportunity. (a) The Board, on the basis of a person's race, color, religion, sex or national origin, shall not:
