FR940602-2-00068 FR940602-2-00038 VI It is further ordered that respondents shall, within sixty (60) days after the date of service of this Order, file with the Commission a report, in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form in which they have complied with this Order. File No. 922 3002. In the matter of Quick Weight Loss Centers, Inc. a Georgia corporation, and Don K. Gearheart, individually and as an officer of said corporation. Agreement Containing Consent Order To Cease and Desist The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and practices of Quick Weight Loss Centers, Inc., a Georgia corporation (``QWLC&hyph;Ga.''), and Don K. Gearheart, individually and as an officer of said corporation, and it now appearing that QWLC&hyph;Ga., a corporation, and Don K. Gearheart, individually and as an officer of said corporation (hereinafter, collectively, ``proposed respondents'' or ``respondents''), are willing to enter into an agreement containing an order to cease and desist from the use of the acts and practices being investigated, It Is Hereby Agreed by and between QWLC&hyph;Ga., by its duly authorized officers, Don K. Gearheart, and counsel for the Federal Trade Commission, that: 1. Proposed respondent QWLC&hyph;Ga. is a corporation organized, existing and formerly doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Georgia, with its offices and principal place of business located at 1401 Johnson Ferry Road, suite 276, Marietta, Georgia 30062. 2. Proposed respondent Don Gearheart is an individual with his principal residence located at 9520 East Pinnacle Pear Road, Scottsdale, Arizona 85255. 3. Proposed respondents admit all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the attached draft complaint. 4. Proposed respondents waive: (a) Any further procedural steps; (b) The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; (c) All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the Order entered pursuant to this agreement; and (d) Any claim under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504.
