FR941205-2-00156 FR941205-2-00073 In order to be considered for funding, complete applications (an original and two photocopies of the entire application) must be physically received by the appropriate HUD office on February 3, 1995 by 4:00 p.m. or, if mailed, postmarked no later than midnight, February 3, 1995. Applications must be delivered or mailed to the appropriate HUD office at the address indicated in Section II. IV. Checklist of Application Submission Requirements. The following checklist is intended to aid applicants in determining whether their application is complete: Application Completeness Checklist Applicant: Comprehensive Grant Single Purpose Grant Multiyear Amount Requested $ 1. Is amount of funds requested within established maximum? 2. Part I_Needs Description (HUD Form 4124.1) (a) Single Purpose Grants i_Program Area XXXX Housing XXXX Target Area XXXX Non-target Area XXXX Public Facilities XXXX Economic Development (If an ``appropriate'' analysis is required but is not included, the application cannot be rated.) ii._Is description of community development needs included in application? (b) Comprehensive Grants i_Have four design criteria been selected and discussed in application? ii_Is description of community development needs included in application? (c) Multiyear i_Is the plan for two or three years? ii_Does the action plan for each year present a viable project on its own? 3. Part II_Community Development Activities (HUD Form 4124.2) (a) Has national objective been identified for each activity? (b) Will 70 percent of grant funds primarily benefit low- and moderate-income persons? (If not, the application cannot be rated.) 4. Part III_Impact Description (HUD Form 4124.3) 5. Part IV_Outstanding Performance (HUD Form 4124.4) 6. Part V_Program Schedule (HUD Form 4124.5 7. Part VI_Maps (a) Location of proposed activities. (Applicants must show the boundaries of the defined area or areas.) (b) Location of areas with minorities by census tract. (If there are no minority areas, state so on the map.) (c) Housing conditions if project involves housing rehabilitation. (Number and location of each standard and substandard unit should be clearly identified.) 8. (a) Is Standard Form 424 complete? Yes␣␣␣␣No (b) Is original signature on at least one copy? Yes␣␣␣␣No 9. Is Certification signed with original signature? Yes␣␣␣␣No 10. If housing activities have been proposed as part of application, has the Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy (CHAS) been prepared and submitted to HUD (or included with this application)? 11. Form HUD&hyph;2880, Application/Recipient Disclosure/Update Report, as required under subpart C of 24 CFR part 12.
