FR940805-2-00111 FR940805-2-00056 VI. Staff Work A. Before the opportunity for hearing and issuance of the Federal Register notice, OSP will draft a Commission paper for the signature of EDO on the termination of regulatory authority in the State based on the initial recommendations of the MRB. In preparation of the Commission paper, the assigned Project manager should coordinate with OGC as to the form or type of Commission paper. The draft Commission paper (Appendix B) should contain the following information: 1. Background information (Appendix C) 2. MRB recommendations (Appendix D) 3. Letter from Governor requesting termination_if appropriate (Appendix A) 4. Proposed Commission Order Reasserting Authority (Appendix E) 5. Proposed Federal Register Notice regarding the Termination and Reassertion of NRC authority (Appendix F) 6. Letter to the Governor regarding the Commission decision (Appendix G) 7. A public announcement to be issued by Public Affairs (Appendix H) 8. Proposed letters to the appropriate Congressional Committees on the Commission Decision (Appendix I) VII. Hearings Before the Commission can terminate a State's program, it must provide reasonable notice and opportunity for a hearing to the State as required by Section 274j(1). Section 274j(1) does not require such a hearing if termination is requested by the Governor. Before the opportunity for a hearing can arise, the Office of State Programs must submit to the Commission a paper containing a recommendation to terminate the State program in question. This Commission paper will include the recommendations of the MRB and any other material pertinent to the staff's recommendation to terminate the Agreement. Before a decision is made on the OSP recommendation, the Commission must provide the State with notice and an opportunity to request a hearing on the issue. If the State does not request a hearing, the Commission will make a final decision on the issue. If the State does request a hearing, the Commission will initiate the hearing process described below. The hearing for the termination [including the termination of a program that had been previously suspended] of an Agreement State program will be an informal hearing conducted either by the Commission itself, or at the Commission's discretion, by a Special Agreement State Board appointed by the Commission. In cases where the Commission determines that a Special Board will be used, the Board will consists of three members: (1) the chair of the Organization of Agreement States (OAS) (unless the chair is from the State in question, in which case the Agreement State representative will be the past chair of the OAS); (2) an official from the Office of General Counsel, and (3) the Deputy Director of an NRC regional office (outside of the region in which the State is located). The Commission, or the Special Board, as appropriate, will conduct an informal hearing to address the issues in question. At the hearing, the NRC staff, representatives of the Agreement State, and interested third parties will have an opportunity to testify, answer questions from the Special Board, and submit written materials. Third parties may submit written material to the Special Board and may testify for a limited period of time. After consideration of the issues, the Commission or the Special Board will issue a decision on termination. A majority of the Commission or the Special Board will be required to support a decision. In cases where a Special Board is used, the Commission will have discretion to review the decision of the Special Board, and either uphold or overturn the Board's decision. VIII. Agreement State and NRC Activities During Termination Proceedings During the period of time NRC is pursuing termination of an Agreement with a State, State and NRC activities should be coordinated so that there is continued protection of the public health and safety. The State should be urged to request technical assistance in any area where there is a concern regarding the State's ability to carry out its responsibilities under the Agreement. OSP will coordinate with the State, region and NMSS as to the necessary technical assistance to continue the protection of public health and safety. IX. Additional Coordination After Terminations A. NRC will conduct a meeting with the licensees in the State to explain the reassertion of NRC authority and the present fee structure. Lead for the meeting should be the Region in consultation with NMSS, OGC and OC. B. After the termination of the Agreement, OSP will prepare a letter to the Department of Labor advising the Department of the effective date of the termination of the Agreement (Appendix K). C. The Regional State Agreements Officer (RSAO) should obtain from the State a computer printout of all specific and general licenses under the State's agreement. Mailing labels should be obtained if possible from the State. A letter should be prepared notifying each licensee of the termination, reassertion by NRC and appropriate information (Appendix L). D. OSP will prepare a letter to all Agreement and Non-Agreement States notifying them of the effective date of the termination and, if appropriate, enclosing a copy of the order or Federal Register notice (Appendix M). E. The RSAO will coordinate with the State so that all necessary action is taken to have the files for the licenses transferred to the NRC. X. Renewed Interest in 274b After a State has terminated an agreement, it may at a later date express interest in obtaining a new agreement. The State should be treated as other non-agreement States interested in agreements and Procedure C.1 for processing new agreements should be followed for these negotiations.
