FR940819-0-00054 FR940819-0-00017 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The contents of this preamble are listed in the following outline: I. Refrigerant Recycling Regulations II. Revisions to the Refrigerant Recycling Regulations A. Definitions 1. Technician 2. Adoption of Standard Based on ARI 700&hyph;1993 in Definition of ``Reclaim'' B. Prohibitions 1. Sale of Used Appliances Without Service Apertures 2. Exceptions to Prohibition on Sale of Unreclaimed Refrigerant C. Required Practices 1. Exception for Leaky Appliances to Evacuation Requirements at Disposal 2. Use of Nitrogen to Pressurize-113 Appliances for Non-major Repairs 3. Requirements for Recovery Using New Recovery Technologies 4. Availability of Certified Recycling and Recovery Equipment to Persons Disposing of MVACs and MVAC- like Appliances 5. Exemption for Pump-out Units from 15-pound Limit for System-Dependent Equipment 6. Applicability Solely to Equipment Containing More Than 50 Pounds of Refrigerant of Leak Repair and Associated Recordkeeping Requirements D. Equipment Certification 1. Measurement of Recovery Rates E. Technician Certification F. Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements 1. Sales Restriction_Effective Date for Recordkeeping 2. Proof of Employment of Certified Personnel G. Appendix A H. Appendix B I. Appendix D J. Removal of Parenthetical Statements III. Effective Dates IV. Summary of Supporting Analysis A. Executive Order 12866 B. Regulatory Flexibility Act C. Paperwork Reduction Act V. Judicial Review I. Refrigerant Recycling Regulations Final regulations published on May 14, 1993 (58 FR 28660) establish a recycling program for ozone-depleting refrigerants recovered during the servicing and disposal of air-conditioning and refrigeration equipment. Together with the prohibition on venting during the maintenance, service, repair, and disposal of class I and class II substances (see the listing notice January 22, 1991; 56 FR 2420) that took effect on July 1, 1992, these regulations should substantially reduce the emissions of ozone- depleting refrigerants. The regulations require that persons servicing air-conditioning and refrigeration equipment observe certain service practices that reduce emissions, and establish equipment and reclamation certification requirements, as well as a technician certification requirement. A sales restriction on the sale of refrigerant was also established by the final regulations. As of November 14, 1994, only certified technicians will legally be authorized to purchase refrigerant. 1 In addition, the final regulations established a leak repair requirement for equipment that normally holds a refrigerant charge of fifty pounds or more. Finally, the regulations require that ozone-depleting compounds contained in appliances be removed prior to disposal of the appliances, and that all air- conditioning and refrigeration equipment, except for small appliances, be provided with a servicing aperture that will facilitate recovery of refrigerant. 1 It should be noted that EPA has recently proposed to extend this date for technicians that have been trained, tested, and approved by an organization requesting to be grandfathered under ยง82.161(g). (See Federal Register published 8/15/94). II. Revisions to the Refrigerant Recycling Regulations Through this action EPA is promulgating several minor changes to the final rule. Below is a description of each change to the regulatory text that appeared in the Federal Register on May 14, 1993. A. Definitions 1. Technician Section 82.152(x) defines a ``technician'' for purposes of the refrigerant recycling rule. A technician is a person who provides maintenance, service or repair that could reasonably be expected to release ozone-depleting substances through those actions. Section 82.152(x) includes in the definition of ``technician'' a person who disposes of appliances, but does not include any person disposing of small appliances. In excluding such persons, EPA considered the nature of work associated with recovering refrigerants from small appliances prior to disposal, the affected workforce, and any environmental damage that could result from emissions during disposal. In drafting the final rule, EPA left out motor vehicle air conditioners (MVAC) 2 and MVAC-like equipment 3 in exempting certification of technicians disposing of certain types of equipment. Disposal of MVACs and MVAC-like appliances is similar in many ways to the disposal of small appliances. EPA distinguishes between large equipment that is dismantled on-site and portable equipment that may enter the waste stream with its refrigerant charge still intact because of the differences between the two types of equipment once they reach the end of their useful lives. Large equipment dismantled on-site must have refrigerant removed as part of the dismantling process because there is no other option that will result in successful recovery of refrigerant. This large equipment cannot enter the waste stream with the charge intact, while more portable small appliances, MVACs, and MVAC-like equipment frequently does enter the waste stream with the charge intact. 2 Regulations concerning MVAC appliances were promulgated under section 609 and published in the Federal Register on July 14, 1992 (57 FR 31241). 3 MVAC-like equipment is defined in ยง82.152(1) as the mechanical vapor compression, open-drive compressor appliances used to cool the driver's or passenger's compartment of a non-road motor vehicle. This includes the air-conditioning equipment on agricultural or construction vehicles. This definition is not intended to cover appliances using HCFC&hyph;22 refrigerant.
