FR941216-1-00045 FR941216-1-00010 (5) Qualified stated interest. No amounts payable on a debt instrument to which paragraph (b) of this section applies constitute qualified stated interest within the meaning of ยง1.1273&hyph;1(c). (6) Adjustments under the noncontingent bond method. This paragraph (b)(6) provides rules for the treatment of positive and negative adjustments under the noncontingent bond method. (i) Determination of positive and negative adjustments. If the amount of a contingent payment is more than the projected amount of the contingent payment, the difference is a positive adjustment on the date of the payment. If the amount of a contingent payment is less than the projected amount of the contingent payment, the difference is a negative adjustment on the date of the projected payment. (ii) Treatment of net positive adjustment. The amount, if any, by which total positive adjustments on a debt instrument in a taxable year exceed the total negative adjustments on the debt instrument in the taxable year is a net positive adjustment. A net positive adjustment is treated as additional interest for the taxable year. (iii) Treatment of net negative adjustment. The amount, if any, by which total negative adjustments on a debt instrument in a taxable year exceed the total positive adjustments on the debt instrument in the taxable year is a net negative adjustment. A taxpayer's net negative adjustment on a debt instrument for a taxable year is treated as follows: (A) Reduction of interest accruals. A net negative adjustment first reduces interest for the taxable year that the taxpayer would otherwise account for on the debt instrument under paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section. (B) Ordinary income or loss. If the net negative adjustment exceeds the interest for the taxable year that the taxpayer would otherwise account for on the debt instrument under paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, the excess is treated as ordinary loss by a holder and ordinary income by an issuer. However, the amount treated as ordinary loss by a holder is limited to the amount by which the holder's total interest inclusions on the debt instrument exceed the total amount of the holder's net negative adjustments treated as ordinary loss on the debt instrument in prior taxable years. The amount treated as ordinary income by an issuer is limited to the amount by which the issuer's total interest deductions on the debt instrument exceed the total amount of the issuer's net negative adjustments treated as ordinary income on the debt instrument in prior taxable years. (C) Carryforward. If the net negative adjustment exceeds the sum of the amounts treated by the taxpayer as a reduction of interest and as ordinary income or loss (as the case may be) on the debt instrument for the taxable year, the excess is a negative adjustment carryforward for the taxable year. ( 1 ) In general. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(6)(iii)(C)( 2 ) of this section, a negative adjustment carryforward on a debt instrument for a taxable year is treated as a negative adjustment on the debt instrument on the first day of the succeeding taxable year.
