FR940513-2-00256 FR940513-2-00097 (1) Attempt to recruit PHA youth from the appropriate areas through Resident/Youth Councils, local advertising media, signs placed at the proposed FIC project site, and community organizations and public or private institutions operating within the development area. The PHA shall include in its outreach and marketing efforts, procedures to attract the least likely to apply for this program because it includes construction/renovation type of activities, i.e., low-income households headed by women and persons with disabilities; and (2) Determine the qualifications of PHA residents when they apply, either on their own or on referral from any source, and employ PHA youth if their qualifications are satisfactory and the contractor has openings. If the PHA is unable to employ youth determined to be qualified, those residents shall be listed for the first available openings. (3) Davis-Bacon Requirements. All laborers and mechanics employed by contractors or the PHA in renovation or conversion (including combining of units) on the premises of the PHA development to accommodate the provision of supportive services under this program shall be paid not less than the wages prevailing in the locality, as predetermined by the Secretary of Labor pursuant to the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276a_276a&hyph;5). All architects, technical engineers, draftsmen, and technicians employed with respect to such work shall be paid not less than the wages prevailing in the locality as determined by HUD. These requirements do not apply to volunteers under the conditions set out in 24 CFR part 70. (4) Youth/Resident Compensation. Residents employed to provide services funded under this program or described in the application shall be paid at a rate not less than the highest of: (a) The minimum wage that would be applicable to the employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (FLSA), if section 6(a)(1) of the FLSA applied to the resident and if the resident were not exempt under section 13 of the FLSA; (b) The State or local minimum wage for the most nearly comparable covered employment; or (c) The prevailing rate of pay for persons employed in similar public occupations by the same employer. (5) Treatment of Income. (a) 1937 Act. As provided in section 22(i) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (1937 Act), no service provided to a PHA resident under this program may be treated as income for the purpose of any other program or provision of State, or Federal law. Program participation shall begin on the first day the resident enters training or begins to receive services. Furthermore, the earnings of and benefits to any PHA youth resulting from participation in the FIC program shall not be considered as income in computing the tenant's total annual income that is used to determine the tenant rental payment during: (i) The period that the youth participates in the program; and (ii) The period that begins with the commencement of employment of the youth in the first job acquired by the youth after completion of the program that is not funded by assistance under the 1937 Act, and ends on the earlier of: ( A ) The date the youth ceases to continue employment without good cause; or ( B ) The expiration of the 18-month period beginning on the date of commencement of employment in the first job not funded by assistance under this program. (6) Reports. Each PHA receiving a grant shall submit to HUD an annual progress report, participant evaluation and assessment data, and other information, as needed, regarding the effectiveness of the Youth Development Initiative in providing youth with access to education and job opportunities and supportive services. G. Ranking Factors Each application for grant award will be evaluated if it is submitted as required under Section II.B of this NOFA and meets the eligibility requirements in Section I.E of this NOFA. Applications submitted for funds that include renovation (including acquisition and new construction), conversion, or combination of dwelling unit activities will be competitively selected based on the highest scores out of a possible 150 points. Applications submitted for funds solely to implement supportive services will be competitively selected based on the highest scores out of a possible 150 points. Grants will be awarded to the five highest-ranked eligible applicants. HUD will review and evaluate the application as follows, according to whether the application seeks funds for supportive services only or for other activities: (1) Conversion/Renovation/Supportive Services Activities (Maximum 150 points). If the applicant is proposing to build or rehab a facility to render programmatic services, applications will be scored on the following factors: (a) Evidence of the need for supportive services by eligible residents [10 points]; (b) The extent to which the envisioned renovation, conversion, and combination activities are appropriate to facilitate the provision of youth FIC services [15 points]; (c) The extent to which each service provider has evidenced that supportive services and other resources will be provided until at least the later of: (i) five years following the initial receipt of funding under this NOFA; or (ii) one year following the completion of activities funded under this NOFA [25 points]; (d) The extent to which the PHA has demonstrated that it has partnered with youth in the planning phase for the Youth FIC, and will further include the youth residents in the implementation phase [40 points]; (e) The extent to which the PHA has demonstrated that it will contract with or employ youth to provide services and conduct conversion and renovation activities [15 points]; (f) The ability of the PHA or designated service provider to provide the supportive services [5 points]; (g) The extent to which the PHA has coordinated implementation of the program, including those in target areas such as Weed and Seed, Distressed, etc., with State and or local service agencies [5 points]. In assigning points for this factor, HUD shall consider the extent of the involvement of those agencies in the development of the application and their commitment of assistance in the implementation of the Youth FIC. The commitment of these agencies may be demonstrated through evidence of intent to provide direct financial assistance or other resources, such as social services (i.e., counseling and training); the use of public housing funds available through existing State and local programs; or other commitments; and (h) The extent to which the PHA has demonstrated success in modernization activities under the Comprehensive Grant/Comprehensive Improvement Assistance (CIAP) Programs (see 24 CFR part 968); has a good record of maintaining and operating public housing, as determined by the Public Housing Management Assessment Plan (PHMAP) (see 24 CFR part 901); and has utilized innovative and workable strategies to improve management [10 points]; and (i) The extent to which the PHA has demonstrated that it will commit to its Youth FIC part of its formula allocation of Comprehensive Grant Program (CGP) funds for CGP-eligible activities that result in employment, training, and contracting opportunities for eligible youth [25 points].
