FR941205-0-00195 FR941205-0-00029 (e) Form of HFA Debenture. The HFA Debenture should follow the standard form of a State/Municipal Debenture issued under the Uniform Commercial Code, where applicable, and shall be supported by the full faith and credit of the HFA. For HFAs that operate as departments or divisions of States or units of local government and where such HFAs cannot pledge the full faith and credit of the HFA, such HFAs may collateralize their obligation through a letter of credit, reinsurance, or other forms of credit acceptable to the Commissioner. (f) Debenture registration. Unless otherwise required by law, including State or local laws, or other governing bodies, HUD will not require the HFA Debenture to be ``Registered'' (with the Securities and Exchange Commission) as it is a direct, or private, placement, and not a public offering, that is supported by the full faith and credit of the HFA. §266.640 Foreclosure and acquisition. The HFA is not required to foreclose the insured mortgage. It may accept a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure. §266.642 Appraisals. Where actions taken or caused to be taken by the HFA have the effect of the recovery of less than the face amount of the HFA Debenture held by HUD, an appraisal should be made to determine the value of the project. The appraisal should assume a willing buyer and a willing seller. The appraisal must be done within the 45-day period immediately preceding the date when the HFA files an application for final claim settlement. If at the time of final claim settlement the HFA has not sold the project, an appraisal should be made to determine the value of the project at its highest and best use. §266.644 Application for final claim settlement. The HFA shall file an application for final settlement in accordance with the Commissioner's administrative procedures not later than 30 days after any of the following: (a) Sale of the property after foreclosure or after acquisition by deed-in-lieu of foreclosure; or (b) Expiration of the term of the HFA debenture. §266.646 Determining the amount of loss. The amount of the total loss to be shared by HUD and the HFA is equal to: (a) The amount of the initial claim payment; (b) Plus all items set forth in §266.648; and (c) Less all items set forth in §266.650. §266.648 Items included in total loss. In computing the total loss, the following items are added to the amount described in §266.646(a): (a) The amount of all payments that the HFA made from its own funds and not from project income for: (1) Taxes, special assessments, and water bills that are liens before the Mortgage; and (2) Fire and hazard insurance on the property. (b) A reasonable amount of acquisition costs actually paid by the HFA. These costs may not include loss or damage resulting from the invalidity or unenforceability of the Mortgage lien or the unmarketability of the Mortgagor's title. (c) Reasonable payments that the HFA made from its own funds and not from project income for: (1) Preservation, operation and maintenance of the property; (2) Repairs necessary to meet the requirements of local laws;
