FR940114-1-00086 FR940114-1-00018 Consistent with the approach that the student's ability to benefit should be evaluated realistically, the proposed regulations would recognize that those individuals admitted on the basis of their ability to benefit who met one or more of the several statutory requirements would nevertheless be regarded as not having had that ability if they had a physical, mental, or personal impediment to employment in, or performance of the physical duties of, the occupation for which the program was designed. Individuals with certain kinds of criminal records or a history of mental illness may be barred from some positions for which the school proposed to train them, and these students could not benefit from the training even if they successfully completed a test sanctioned by both the industry and school's accrediting agency. Other students may lack the physical ability to perform a job for which their grades on an industry and accreditor-approved test might otherwise show an ability to perform. Both kinds of students would qualify (or qualify the parent PLUS borrower) for relief under these regulations. A number of other kinds of falsification were considered as potential grounds for discharge of the loan under this provision, including a school's acceptance of a student into an ineligible program, but they were not adopted in these proposed regulations. As explained earlier, the statute uses fairly precise language to describe the grounds for discharge under this provision, and that language, by authorizing discharge where there has been a false certification ``by the eligible institution,'' does not authorize relief where the falsity relates to the eligibility of the institution itself. Thus, although misrepresentations regarding the school's financial or administrative capability, including the school's placement services or the quality of the school's facilities, faculty, or equipment, may well have induced the individual to enroll at the school, those representations are not part of the process of ``certification'' of the student's eligibility to borrow, tend to constitute claims that the institution was in fact not an ``eligible institution,'' and are not the kind of representations for which this statute authorizes relief. These proposed regulations therefore do not treat falsifications by the institution about itself as grounds for discharge. For the vocational schools that are the primary focus of this statutory provision, representations about the eligibility of the institution include representations about the eligibility of its programs, and, under the statute and regulations, the institution is virtually defined in terms of the programs it offers. 20 U.S.C. 1088 (1992); 34 CFR 600.7, 668.7(a)(2)(v). Therefore, because the statute confines relief precisely to instances of false certifications regarding the eligibility of the student, not on representations that would tend to show that the institution itself was not eligible, the Secretary does not believe that the statute authorizes relief where the alleged misrepresentation goes to the eligibility of the program in which the student was enrolled. For these reasons, relief under the proposed regulations would not permit a borrower to secure cancellation by challenging the eligibility of the program or the school itself, but would require a demonstration by the student that the school failed to test (or tested improperly) his or her ability to benefit and that he or she did not secure employment in the occupation for which the school stated its program was designed to prepare the student. Bankruptcy Claims Section 437(a) of the HEA as amended by the Higher Education Amendments of 1992 allowed a lender to submit and receive payment on a bankruptcy claim on the date on which the borrower filed for relief in bankruptcy, an action that ``stays collection'' of the loan, rather than when the loan was discharged, as under prior law. The proposed regulations submitted to the negotiation process would have revised current regulations as needed to implement this change. Other features of current bankruptcy claim processing were to remain unchanged. Section 2(c)(63) of Public Law 103&hyph;208 reinstated standards for payment of bankruptcy claims consistent with those now found in FFEL Program regulations at 34 CFR 682.402(d)(5); pursuant to section 5 of Public Law 103&hyph;208, this most recent change took effect as if enacted as part of the 1992 amendments. Any regulations needed to implement this change, moreover, are not subject to negotiated rulemaking requirements of section 492. To implement the new law, the Secretary is here withdrawing those proposals found in 34 CFR 682.402(f)(5) and (g)(2) (iv) and (v) as presented to the negotiators prior to the enactment of Public Law 103&hyph;208, and will leave in effect the provisions of current 34 CFR 682.402(d)(5), redesignated here as ยง682.402(g)(5), and current ยง682.402(e)(2)(ii), redesignated here as ยง682.402(g)(2)(iv).
