FR941005-1-00026 FR941005-1-00004 57. Identify other advantages or disadvantages of this option for defining the assessment base. V. Miscellaneous Requests for Comment In addition to the comments requested elsewhere in this Notice, response to the following questions is invited: 58. Should the assessment base be calculated using daily average data for the quarter (total dollars for the quarter divided by the number of days in the quarter), rather than ``as-of'' quarter-end data? What are the advantages and disadvantages of each of these approaches? Are there preferable alternative approaches, and if so, what are they and what are their advantages and disadvantages? 59. If daily averages over the quarter were used, what additional recordkeeping would be necessary for the institution? (Please describe and quantify.) 60. To what extent, if any, should off-balance-sheet items be factored into the assessment base? 61. If the assessment base is redefined, is there a need for a transition period from application of the existing base to application of the new base? If so, how should the transition period be implemented and how long should it be? 62. Should there be an assessment base for large institutions and a different assessment base for small institutions? If so, what should the respective assessment bases be? How should ``large institution'' and ``small institution'' be defined for this purpose? 63. What are the implications (if any) of a change in the assessment base on the ability of insured depository institutions to innovate and to keep up with changes in the marketplace? 64. Since there are varying degrees of protection for different types of claims resulting from a depository institution failure, would ``fairness'' require that there be some mechanism in the assessment system for adjusting assessments to correspond to the degree of protection provided? If so, what should that mechanism be? 65. Are there other desirable options for defining the assessment base, including modifications to the options presented in this Notice? If so, identify and explain the options and describe their advantages and disadvantages. 66. What would be the impact of a change in the definition of the assessment base on competition within the United States? Describe the impact on domestic competition relative to the assessment base options discussed in section IV and any additional options suggested by the commenter. 67. What would be the impact of a change in the definition of the assessment base on global competition, particularly with regard to foreign deposits? Describe the impact on global competition relative to the assessment base options discussed in section IV and any additional options suggested by the commenter. 68. Please provide any other comments regarding the assessment base. By order of the Board of Directors. Dated at Washington, D.C., this 27th day of September, 1994. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Robert E. Feldman, Acting Executive Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24607 Filed 10&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6714&hyph;01&hyph;P
