FR940228-1-00085 FR940228-1-00010 Finally, the Secretary proposes that, in order to be financially responsible, an institution must not have as part of its audit report for its most recently completed fiscal year any of the following. First, the institution's audit would not contain a statement by the accountant acknowledging substantial doubt about the institution's ability to continue operating as a going concern. A ``going concern'' statement is a professional opinion rendered by an independent certified public accountant, commenting on the institution's unstable financial condition and informing the reader of the possibility that the institution may not survive the coming fiscal year. Although such a ``going concern'' statement is rarely issued, its presence attests to a concern held by the auditor that the institution's ability to continue operating is uncertain. The Secretary believes that if an auditor, after close examination of the institution's operations, concludes that such a statement is warranted, this is cause for the Department to protect its interest in the Title IV, HEA program funds administered by the institution by requiring the institution to be subject to the appropriate remedies for establishing financial responsibility, or to be subject to provisional certification or the proceedings in subpart G of these regulations. Second, the institution's audit could not contain a finding of unauthorized use of donor restricted net assets to meet current operating expenses. Unauthorized use of donor restricted net assets is a violation of the restrictions placed on donations by the donor. Any donor-restricted funds are placed in an endowment fund to be used for specific purposes, such as providing scholarships. Donor restricted net assets are most commonly found at nonprofit institutions. The Secretary believes that if this money is transferred to current funds or total net assets for current operating expenses, this is not only an indication of extremely impaired cash flow, but also a violation of an institution's responsibility as a fiduciary of Title IV, HEA program funds. Third, the institution's audit could not contain a disclaimed or adverse opinion by the accountant. A disclaimed or adverse opinion is an indicator that the auditor is unable to perform a complete audit of the institution with the assurance that the audit presents a reliable presentation of the institution's financial condition. An audit submitted with such a disclaimer or limitation would cause the institution's financial report to be rejected by the Secretary. Such a statement in the auditor's report is an indication that the financial statement was not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as required in current regulations. The statute authorizes the Secretary to prescribe criteria for evaluating operating losses, net worth, asset to liabilities ratios and operating fund deficits. The Secretary's goal in developing these proposed regulations is to ensure that institutions are capable to operate as a fiduciary of Federal funds based on a sufficient financial base to properly provide education and meet the institution's financial obligations. The Secretary, therefore, proposes to amend the current factors of financial responsibility section to establish new financial responsibility standards as a means of further refining the above requirements. The Secretary proposes that, as in the past, failure to meet any one of the factors may result in initiation of an administrative proceeding to limit, suspend, fine or terminate an institution. Because some of these proposed factors are more stringent than those currently found in the regulations, the Secretary recognizes that an institution may need a sufficient period of time to adjust its operations in order to come into compliance with these proposed factors, if they are adopted. Under this proposal, the Secretary may provisionally certify institutions that did not meet these proposed standards to provide them with this additional period of time to comply, provided that the institution shows that it would have met the current standards. The Technical Amendments of 1993 require the Secretary to take into account an institution's total financial circumstances in making a determination of an institution's financial responsibility. The Secretary believes that these proposed factors evaluate, both directly and indirectly, the overall soundness of an institution's financial condition for the period covered by its audited financial statements and, therefore, take into account an institution's total financial condition as required by the Technical Amendments of 1993. The Technical Amendments of 1993 require that criteria developed for the determination of an institution's financial responsibility take into account any differences in generally accepted accounting principles, including required financial statements, that are applicable to for-profit and nonprofit institutions. Therefore, in addition to general standards that all institutions would be required to meet, the Secretary has proposed standards applicable specifically to for-profit, nonprofit, and public institutions that the Secretary believes indicate an equal level of financial responsibility. At the suggestion of some of the negotiators, the proposed specific standards of financial responsibility have been organized by type of institution; i.e., for-profit, nonprofit, and public.
