FR940202-0-00013 FR940202-0-00003 The OTS proposed the following treatment for identifiable intangible assets for purposes of the tangible, core, and risk-based capital requirements: 1. PMSRs and PCCRs would be considered qualifying intangible assets. 2 As such, they would not be deducted from capital provided that, in the aggregate, they did not exceed 50 percent of core capital and provided that PCCRs did not exceed a sublimit of 25 percent of core capital. Excess PMSRs and PCCRs would be deducted in determining core capital. 2 In accordance with FIRREA and its statutorily specified transition, savings associations are permitted to count qualifying supervisory goodwill in core capital. The continued inclusion in core capital of remaining qualifying supervisory goodwill is unaffected by this rulemaking or the standards for PMSRs and PCCRs. To illustrate, assume that a savings association has total core capital of $1,000,000. The association also has qualifying PCCRs of $300,000 and qualifying PMSRs of $200,000. For capital computation purposes, the association could include $250,000 of its PCCRs (25 percent of $1,000,000) and all $200,000 of its PMSRs because the total of PMSRs and allowable PCCRs does not exceed 50 percent of core capital. 2. Savings associations could include the same amount of PMSRs in tangible capital that they include in core capital. Amounts excluded from core capital must also be excluded from tangible capital. 3. PCCRs would be includable only in core capital, not tangible capital. 4. The limits on PMSRs and PCCRs would be based on a percentage of core capital before excess holdings of these assets are deducted, but after nonqualifying identifiable intangible assets ( i.e., nongrandfathered CDIs) are deducted. 3 3 Remaining qualifying supervisory goodwill, grandfathered CDIs, and grandfathered PMSRs are not deducted in calculating this amount. 5. Savings associations would be required to determine the fair market value and to review the book value of their PMSRs and PCCRs at least quarterly. Such assets could not be carried at a book value that exceeds the discounted value of their future net income. 6. For purposes of calculating regulatory capital, the amount of PMSRs and PCCRs reported as balance sheet assets would be reduced to the lesser of 90 percent of their fair market value, 90 percent of their original purchase price, or 100 percent of their remaining unamortized book value. 7. Nongrandfathered CDIs and all identifiable intangible assets other than qualifying intangible assets would be deducted from capital in calculating core capital. II. Summary of Comments and OTS Response The OTS received twenty-seven comment letters on the proposed rule. Commenters included eighteen savings associations, six trade associations, a group of fifteen mortgage servicers, one commercial bank, and one law firm. No comments addressed PCCRs. Comments focused primarily on two areas: the treatment of PMSRs and the treatment of CDIs. Issues raised by commenters are addressed below. A. PMSR Treatment and Valuation No commenters objected to the inclusion of PMSRs as qualifying intangible assets. 1. Fifty Percent Capital Limitation
