FR940922-2-00018 FR940922-2-00006 DOC Position We disagree. In this case, certain farm functions were performed by the owner who worked part-time on the orchard. Respondent computed the imputed labor cost for this grower based on the prevailing wages for unionized farm workers in New Zealand. Without a more accurate alternative, we accepted respondent's methodology as an appropriate estimation of the labor cost. Accordingly, no adjustment has been made for the final results. Grower 7 Comment 31 Petitioners argue that this grower's actual labor costs should be used to reflect its own labor and as a surrogate for other growers' labor costs. DOC Position We used this grower's actual labor costs, not imputed costs, in the preliminary results and in these final results. We disagree with petitioners concerning the use of this grower's labor costs as a surrogate for other growers. ( See DOC position under Comment 14.) Comment 32 Petitioners maintain that this grower has two properties: one property developed by the grower and the other purchased from another party. For the purchased property, petitioners assert that the grower's calculation of set-up costs excluded the amount for improvements. Petitioners insist that the Department should recalculate the set-up costs by including the amount of improvements and re-amortize the orchard set-up costs over 20 years instead of 35 years. Respondent argues that all assets related to the orchard are recorded in the grower's fixed asset register and that the depreciation of these assets is already included in the COP submitted to the Department. Respondent further contends that the inclusion of the same assets in the orchard set-up costs would result in double counting of these assets. DOC Position We agree with petitioners that the orchard set-up costs should be amortized over 20 years instead of 35 years. ( See our position under Comment 7.) Accordingly, we have adjusted the orchard set-up costs for this grower. We disagree with petitioners regarding the inclusion of certain assets related to land improvement expenses in orchard set-up costs because the depreciation of these assets is already included in the COP. Therefore, we have accepted respondent's methodology for these final results. Grower 8 Comment 33 Petitioners contend that labor costs should be recalculated because this grower raised multiple crops and did not differentiate labor costs. According to petitioners, this grower's labor costs should be recalculated based on Grower 7's labor costs. DOC Position We disagree. Respondent's methodology of allocating costs based on land area is an acceptable methodology in this case. Without a more accurate alternative, we accepted respondent's methodology as an appropriate estimation of the labor cost. Accordingly, we have used respondent's allocation for the final results. Comment 34 Respondent argues that the Department should allocate horticultural expenses on net orchard area and should not exclude pasture land from its calculation of orchard expenses. DOC Position We agree, in part, with respondent regarding allocation of certain orchard expenses on orchard area which includes pasture land. ( See our position under Comment 9.) Accordingly, we have adjusted certain orchard expenses for this grower in the final results. However, we disagree with respondent regarding the allocation of orchard expenses on net orchard area. ( See our position under Comment 8.) Grower 9 Comment 35 Petitioners argue that this grower did not report rates for one of the properties which produced kiwifruit and contend that the Department should calculate rates for this property to ensure that all costs are included in the COP calculation. DOC Position We disagree. This grower did not own the second property and simply purchased mature fruit in an arm's-length transaction. Rates and all other expenses associated with the cultivation of kiwifruit were accounted for in the price this grower paid for the mature fruit. Thus, this grower did not incur any expense related to rates. Accordingly, we have not added the rates expense for this grower in these final results. Comment 36 Petitioners argue that since the grower sold kiwifruit produced on two properties and for one property did not calculate orchard set-up costs, the Department should estimate an amount based on multiplying the orchard set-up cost for the first property by the ratio of the second property's canopy hectares to the first property's canopy hectares. Respondent contends that because the grower purchased mature fruit on the vine, the purchase price included all the costs of cultivation including labor, orchard set-up costs and property taxes. DOC Position We disagree with petitioners and respondent. In determining whether sales have been made at less than the COP, prices should not be substituted for some of the costs. Accordingly, we have disregarded the purchased kiwifruit's costs and the quantity from the COP analysis. Grower 10 Comment 37 Petitioners argue that this grower's allocation of costs based on land area usage does not reflect the division of farm expenses. Petitioners request that the Department reallocate the expenses on the basis of orchard revenue. Petitioners further argue that since this grower raised multiple crops and reported imputed labor costs, labor costs for this grower should be recalculated.
