FR940606-2-00095 FR940606-2-00061 The Phlx will trade consecutive and cycle month series pursuant to Phlx Rule 1101A. Specifically, there will be three expiration months from the March, June, September, December cycle plus two additional near-term months so that the three nearest-term months always will be available. All of the component securities in the Index currently are eligible to have, and do have, overlying exchange traded options on them. The Exchange represents that, if at any time less than 90 percent of the component securities, by weight, are eligible for options trading, the Exchange will submit a filing to the Commission pursuant to Rule 19b&hyph;4 under the Act prior to opening any new series of options on the Index. The Exchange represents that surveillance procedures currently used to monitor trading in each of the Exchange's other index options also will be used to monitor trading in options on the Index. These procedures include having complete access to trading activity in the underlying securities comprising the Index, all of which are traded on the NYSE. In addition, the Exchange represents that the Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement dated July 14, 1983, as amended on January 29, 1990, will be applicable to the trading of options on the Index. The exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6 of the Act in general, and with Section 6(b)(5) in particular, in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to facilitate transactions in securities, and to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Phlx does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding, or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve such proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary,Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC. Copies of such filing also will be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the Phlx. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;01 and should be submitted by June 27, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 3 3 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13605 Filed 6&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
