FR940323-2-00179 FR940323-2-00124 D. Certification of Accuracy Institutions participating in the Federal Pell Grant Program must certify the accuracy of the data with each IPS submission. An institution submitting an IPS form certifies the accuracy of the data by including on the form an original signature by the official of the institution accountable for the accuracy of the data submitted. An institution submitting IPS information by floppy disk or electronic transmission certifies the accuracy of the data by including in that transmission a code or signature flag prescribed by the Department for that certification. By including the prescribed code or signature flag, an institution certifies that the submitted data has been provided from a file or record to which only officials with appropriate security clearance have access and that the data contained in the submission are accurate. In the case of an institution submitting IPS information by magnetic tape, the institution signs the tape transmittal form assuring the accuracy of the data. V. Annual Deadline for Submission of SAR Payment Vouchers and Requests for Adjustments of Federal Pell Grant Accounts An institution obtains an adjustment to its Federal Pell Grant account, and the amount of Federal Pell Grant funds for which it is accountable, by submitting supporting SAR Payment Vouchers, or their equivalent, under the procedures described in this notice and the reporting system described in the regulations. An institution is required by 34 CFR 690.83(a) to submit all SAR Payment Vouchers for an award year by a specified date following that award year; for 1993&hyph;94 that date is September 30, 1994. An institution, therefore, must submit any Payment Vouchers not previously submitted during the required reporting periods established in this notice by September 30, 1994 to receive an adjustment to its Federal Pell Grant account on the basis of these Payment Vouchers. Except as provided in part V.B. of this notice, after September 30, 1994, the Secretary closes the institution's Federal Pell Grant account for the 1993&hyph;94 award year. The institution's account is closed on the basis of the information reported by the institution in its submissions of IPS and supporting SAR Payment Voucher information (or the equivalent) through September 30, 1994, and the data reported on the Federal Cash Transaction Report (PMS 272A). The final IPS information submitted by the institution must accurately report the institution's total payments to all Federal Pell Grant recipients for the 1993&hyph;94 award year (IPS Item 15 or its equivalent). A. Timely Delivery For Final Submissions of SAR Payment Vouchers and Requests for Adjustments of Federal Pell Grant Accounts: Proof of Delivery The Department may require an institution to prove that it mailed or otherwise submitted its IPS and SAR Payment Vouchers (or the equivalent) by the September 30, 1994 deadline date. The Department accepts as proof, if the documents were submitted by mail or by non-U.S. Postal Service courier, one of the following: (1) A legible mail receipt with the date of mailing stamped by the U.S. Postal Service. (2) A legibly-dated U.S. Postal Service postmark. Note: The U.S. Postal Service does not uniformly provide a dated postmark. Before relying on this method of proof of mailing, an institution should check with the post office at which it mails its submission. An institution is strongly encouraged to use First Class Mail. (3) A dated shipping label, invoice, or receipt from a commercial courier. (4) Other proof of mailing or delivery acceptable to the Secretary. The Department accepts hand deliveries at the address stated in part IV.B. between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time on days other than Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holidays. An institution that transmits IPS and SAR Payment Voucher information via the EDE Electronic Payments service must ensure that its transmission is completed before midnight (local time) on September 30, 1994.
