FR941222-0-00050 FR941222-0-00005 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;227&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;9101; AD 94&hyph;26&hyph;05] Airworthiness Directives; Airbus Industrie Model A300, A300&hyph;600, A310, and A320 Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD), applicable to certain Airbus Industrie Model A300, A300&hyph;600, A310, and A320 series airplanes, that requires inspection of certain landing gear brakes for wear and replacement if the wear limits prescribed in this AD are not met, and incorporation of the specified wear limits into the FAA-approved maintenance inspection program. This amendment is prompted by an accident in which a transport category airplane executed a rejected takeoff (RTO) and was unable to stop on the runway due to worn brakes; and the subsequent review of allowable brake wear limits for all transport category airplanes. The actions specified by this AD are intended to prevent the loss of brake effectiveness during a high energy RTO. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 23, 1995. ADDRESSES: Information pertaining to this rulemaking action may be examined at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, Rules Docket, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mark Quam, Aerospace Engineer, Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2145; fax (206) 227&hyph;1320. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A proposal to amend part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 39) to include an airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain Airbus Industrie Model A300, A300&hyph;600, A310, and A320 series airplanes was published in the Federal Register on February 15, 1994 (59 FR 7228). That action proposed to require inspection of certain landing gear brakes for wear and replacement if the wear limits prescribed in this AD are not met, and incorporation of the specified wear limits into the FAA-approved maintenance inspection program. Interested persons have been afforded an opportunity to participate in the making of this amendment. Due consideration has been given to the comments received. One commenter supports the proposed rule. One commenter, BFGoodrich, requests that the tables contained in the proposal that list maximum brake wear limits for the affected airplanes be revised. BFGoodrich indicates that the airplane model/series listed for BFGoodrich series 2&hyph;1526 brake part numbers should be ``A320,'' instead of ``A320&hyph;220'' and ``A320&hyph;200.'' The commenter also indicates that three additional part numbers for BFGoodrich brakes should be listed in the tables for Model A320 series airplanes: Part numbers 2&hyph;1526, 2&hyph;1526&hyph;5 (both with maximum wear limits of 1.97 ’ ’), and 2&hyph;1572 (with a maximum wear limit of 2.68 ’ ’). While the FAA agrees with the commenter's remarks, inclusion of the three additional part numbers specified by the commenter would necessitate (under the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act) reissuing the notice, reopening the period for public comment, considering additional comments received, and eventually issuing a final rule; the time required for that procedure may be as long as four additional months. In the interest of issuing this final rule, and in consideration of the amount of time that has already elapsed since issuance of the original notice, the FAA has determined that further delay of this final rule action is not appropriate. However, the FAA may consider further rulemaking on this issue to address the three additional part numbers discussed by the commenter. The Air Transport Association (ATA) of America, on behalf of one of its members, suggests that measuring the maximum length of the wear pin may not be as effective as measuring the total length of the wear pin or controlling the carbon thickness of the brake. The commenter points out that, due to human error, it is possible to have a thinner disc with the same amount of wear pin length showing. The FAA does not concur. The FAA infers from the commenter's remarks that it is referring to controlling the carbon thickness of the brakes by direct measurement of the thickness of the brake stack. The FAA finds that measuring the thickness of the brake stack would only be useful when specifying the brake assembly configuration and the thicknesses of new, refurbished, or overhauled individual discs. Otherwise, a brake disc that is too thin also could be installed in a brake stack having a wear limit that is controlled by measuring the stack thickness. Further, it would not be practical to routinely measure the brake stack on the airplane as all of the wheels attached to the brakes would have to be removed to allow access to accomplish the measurement. The FAA considers that this would pose an unwarranted burden on operators. Currently, only the wear pin must be monitored while the brake is installed on the airplane. If an operator reduces the wear limit, the pin could be shortened or the operator could devise a method of accounting for the reduced wear using the existing wear pin as opposed to removing the wheel and measuring the brake stack. (Thus, the wheels would not have to be removed from the airplane since the wear pin can still be used to monitor brake wear.) The wear limits specified in this AD, which are used to establish wear pin lengths, are interdependent with the brake configuration and minimum disc and stack thicknesses. The stack and disc thicknesses are specified for new, refurbished, or overhauled brakes in the airplane maintenance manual (AMM), the component maintenance manual (CMM), a service bulletin, or the brake manufacturer's assembly drawings. These minimum brake stack and disc thicknesses have been established by tests and in-service wear data and analysis such that monitoring a wear pin should not allow the stack or disc minimum limits to be exceeded. The ATA also questions the need for the proposed AD, and requests that a provision be included in paragraph (a)(2) of the AD to state that the AD would no longer be applicable to operators that have acceptably revised their maintenance programs, and that operators choosing this provision could use an alternative recordkeeping method in lieu of that required by §§91.417 or 121.380 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 91.417 or 121.380). The FAA would be defined as the cognizant Principal Maintenance Inspector (PMI) for operators electing this alternative. The ATA states that if its suggested provision is not included, confusion will always exist as to what records should be maintained for the duration A300/A320 operations. The ATA maintains that once an operator incorporates the criteria (brake wear limits) specified in the proposal into the maintenance program, the AD should be signed off as complete, since such incorporation is the stated purpose of the AD. The ATA is aware of an FAA concern that the proposed type of rule must continue indefinitely because operators may otherwise escalate intervals through their reliability programs. The ATA states that adjustments to operators' programs are accomplished with substantiation and with the approval of FAA Flight Standards District Offices (FSDO). The ATA maintains that FAA FSDO's have sufficient authority to ensure that operators maintain the brakes on their Model A300/A320 series airplanes once the proposed criteria (brake wear limits) have been incorporated into an operator's maintenance program.
