FR941221-2-00087 FR941221-2-00067 ADDRESSES: Proposals shall be mailed to: Division of Acquisition and Assistance, Attention: Ms. Reda Harrison. Reference: SGA/DAA 94&hyph;24, U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration, 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Room S&hyph;4203, Washington, D.C. 20210. Proposals may also be hand delivered. Please review Part II, Section F for instruction. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Reda Harrison, Division of Acquisition and Assistance. Telephone (202) 219&hyph;8702. (Note: This is not a toll-free telephone number). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Employment and Training Administration announces the availability of funds for local community One-Stop Career Center systems to implement ``learning laboratories.'' This announcement consists of five parts: Part I. Background/Description, Part II. Application Process, Part III. Evaluation Criteria for Award, Part IV. Meetings and Part V. Reporting Requirements. Part I. Background/Description American workers confront an economy in continuous transition. Young people and other first time job seekers must try to find their place in a shifting labor market. Job holders find they must constantly learn new skills. Fewer workers can except to be with a single firm throughout their work life. Employers find it harder to find new workers with up-to-date skills. There is a confusing patchwork of job training/retraining and benefit programs which do not efficiently address work force security and career requirements. There is a clear need for a streamlined One-Stop Career Center system which puts customers first by providing them with the information and access to services they need to make sound career decisions. The Department is committed to improving the quality and delivery of services to its ultimate customers_American workers and their employers. The One-Stop Career Center system is the vehicle for transforming this fragmented training and employment system into a coordinated information and service delivery system for all Americans seeking new jobs, better jobs or first jobs. An essential component within the One-Stop system is an enhanced labor market information system. In fiscal year 1994, the Employment and Training Administration (ETA) is using the $50 million Congress appropriated under the Wagner-Peyser Act to begin implementation of a voluntary, national One-Step Career Center system and for first year funding of the American Labor Market Information System (ALMIS).
