FR940114-0-00049 FR940114-0-00020 The National Conference of Building Codes and Standards (NCSBCS), under contract with the Department, sent a team to inspect manufactured homes damaged or destroyed by Hurricane Andrew. Their report, dated September 25, 1992 (Rev. October 1, 1992), evaluated anchoring systems used in Florida and Louisiana. The team found that virtually all manufactured homes they saw in Florida had been anchored, but anchors had failed in most destroyed homes. Some of the systems that failed were anchors embedded only two feet into the soil, which were pulled out of the ground by the force of the storm. Other systems that failed included short anchors embedded in concrete or driven into the coral. In Louisiana, most manufactured homes the team saw had no anchoring systems at all, or only had two or three anchors on each side; less than one-half the number generally specified by manufacturers' instructions for hurricane zones. Also, where anchors were installed, most had been installed incorrectly; often embedded only partially in the ground with 12 ’ ’ or more protruding above finished grade. While the majority of anchoring system failures appeared to result from improper installation, the NCSBCS Team observed several cases where the holding capacity of anchors appeared to have been reduced because of water saturated soil. In order to determine the adequacy of anchoring systems installed in soil that might be exposed to heavy rainfall and hurricane force winds, further investigating and testing of anchors will be conducted by the Department. Numerous failures reported after Hurricanes Andrew and Hugo and other previous wind storms support the Department's concerns over anchoring systems for manufactured housing that are inadequate to resist probable high wind forces. In addition, as the NIST Report indicated: ``[i]f superstructure failures had not occurred [in Hurricane Andrew], the number of anchor system failures might well have been greater ␣*␣*␣*.'' Some field and laboratory testing of commercially available ground anchor and steel strapping systems has been conducted under a HUD contract with Wiss, Janney, & Elstner, Inc. (See WJE Report No. 901798, July 26, 1991, HUD USER_HUD&hyph;0005823). The initial test results indicate that anchors have a significantly lower load resistance capacity than even the levels required by the current standard. Resistance or capacity would be even lower if anchors are not installed in accordance with anchor manufacturer's and home manufacturer's installation instructions or under saturated soil conditions. The Department has also been conducting laboratory tests to evaluate the resistance of manufactured home support and anchoring systems to lateral wind and seismic forces. After the results of the laboratory data have been evaluated and compared to the field data, the Department may propose changes to lower allowable anchor system resistance values. In the interim, the Department cautions home and anchor manufacturers, installers, retailers, insurance companies, lenders, and State and local government agencies that anchoring should be rated for specific soil, loading, and installation conditions for which the anchor is acceptable. Failure to do so may result in anchoring and tiedown systems which have inadequate ultimate capacity to resist probable design wind forces. II. Analysis of Public Comments Characterization of Commenters The Department received 1,116 comments in response to the proposed rule and the notice extending the comment period. Although approximately 235 of these comments are included in file of the Rules Docket Clerk as being received under the extended deadline, many of these were delayed in receipt in the Rules Docket Clerk office because they were sent first to other offices within the Department. The great majority of the comments were duplicative or identical form letters (of the 1,116 total comments, only 75 to 100 included distinctive comments). The commenters generally can be characterized as follows: _ Businesses (including retailers, manufacturers, suppliers, finance companies, park owners, etc.)_704 _Industry groups (including State and national associations)_24 _Members of Congress (including original correspondence and transmittals of constituent letters)_245 _Other governmental agencies and representatives (Federal, State, and local agencies or representatives)_27 _Members of the National Manufactured Home Advisory Council (individually)_15 _Individuals (including consumers, engineers and other experts, salespersons, etc., in individual capacities)_80 _Private standards groups_6 _Consumer groups_2 _Tenants groups_1 _Insurance industry_3 _National Commission on Manufactured Housing_1 _DAPIA (Design Approval Primary Inspection Agency)_2 _Correspondence forwarded from White House_2 _Law firms_3 _Other national associations_1 Many of the comments received by the Department and addressed in the following discussion were common to numerous commenters. Other less universal comments addressed in the discussion may be referenced by number in parentheses following a statement. These numbers correspond to the number given the comment in the file maintained by the Rules Docket Clerk. Comments filed as received in response to the original comment period are referenced as numbers 1&hyph;882 ( # 817 was inadvertently skipped in the numbering sequence), while those in response to the extended comment period are referenced as numbers 1 (2) ^235 (2) . Comments, Generally A number of commenters acknowledged the need to update the Department's standards for manufactured housing. One commenter (77) welcomed the better publicity and reputation the industry would enjoy as a result of updated standards. However, many of these commenters also stated opposition to the specific standards proposed by the Department. About two dozen commenters, including consumer and insurance industry groups, standards organizations, government agencies, and engineers, generally supported the basic standard proposed (e.g., 17, 55, 76, 137, 145, 150, 197, 633, 12 (2) , 204 (2) , 207 (2) ), although several of these commenters also expressed concern about specific cost items. Supporting comments emphasized the importance of affordable, safe housing, rather than merely affordable housing (17), and characterized ASCE 7&hyph;88 as the only consensus wind standard in the Country (76, and others). Procedural Comments Comment : The 30-day comment period allowed in the proposed rule did not permit sufficient consideration of the rule and development of public comments. In addition, the justification for the shortened effective date that the proposed rule had indicated would apply to the final rule was not justified by the need to implement regulatory changes before the 1993 hurricane season. Response : Because of the numerous requests for longer response periods from both the public and members of Congress, and because it was apparent that a rule could not be in place in time for the 1993 hurricane season, the Department has allowed additional time for public comments and implementation of the final rule. The proposed rule was published on April 14, 1993, and the comment period was extended to July 9, 1993. Because of the Department's desire to consider the full extent of public response on this rule, the Department has continued to receive comments regularly while the final rule and regulatory impact analysis were being prepared and has continued to log and review those comments. Therefore, in effect, the comment period for this rule has been approximately 5 months. To alleviate the concerns relating to the industry's need for ample time to redesign homes and retool manufacturing facilities, the Department has decided to extend the effective date originally proposed for this rule. Accordingly, the rule provides for an effective date of, at least, 180 days from today's date of publication. Thus, the concerns of the commenters in these regards have been addressed by the Department.
