FR940912-0-00011 FR940912-0-00005 These revisions to the FCA's collateral evaluation regulations only address the issues associated with the real estate appraisal requirements and do not lessen the overall requirements that have been established for the basic collateral evaluation requirements or the collateral valuation process. The FCA Board is aware of the System's concern about informational requirements for small loans. The FCA has received comments requesting consideration of guidance for ``minimum information'' loan programs (including financial reporting and collateral evaluation information) and related underwriting standards. The FCA believes these regulations provide flexibility to accommodate minimum information loan programs. However, the FCA will consider these issues at a later date in response to the ``regulatory burden'' notice published in the Federal Register on June 23, 1993 (58 FR 34003). The regulations also make technical revisions to part 614, subpart L, concerning credit denials and independent appraisal requirements. Finally, the regulations reconcile FCA regulations pertaining to the release of collateral evaluation information (part 618, subpart G), with the requirements of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act as interpreted by Regulation B. 3 3 The ECOA requires creditors to provide copies of real estate appraisals to applicants/borrowers when the appraisal covers residential collateral. The Federal Reserve Board, on December 16, 1993, published final regulation revisions (58 FR 65657) (Regulation B) implementing this requirement. Institutional compliance was required by June 14, 1994. II. Background A. Bank and Thrift Federal Regulatory Agencies' Positions On March 10, 1993, the four Federal regulatory agencies responsible for regulating banks and thrifts issued a joint interagency statement that eased certain regulatory constraints on the availability of credit for small business loans (including farm loans). The ``Interagency Policy Statement on Credit Availability'' (``Policy Statement'') identified five areas of concern for possible regulatory and operational revisions. The five areas are: (1) Lending to small- and medium-sized businesses; (2) real estate lending and appraisals; (3) appeals of examination decisions and complaint handling; (4) examination processes and procedures; and (5) paperwork and regulatory burdens. While FCA was not a party to the Policy Statement released on March 10, 1993, it does have real property appraisal regulations in place that are similar to those of the Federal regulatory agencies. In addition, the Policy Statement includes farming operations as a segment of the small- and medium-sized businesses to be covered by any revisions arising from the Policy Statement. Therefore, any change in the Federal regulatory agencies' real property appraisal requirements 4 will impact the FCA and the System in terms of the consistency and application of the collateral evaluation requirements. 4 The OCC, FDIC, FRB, and OTS jointly published revised real estate appraisal regulations on June 7, 1994 (59 FR 29482), which were effective on that date. In discussing the real estate lending and appraisal concerns, the Policy Statement asserted that ``in some cases currently required real estate appraisals may not add to the safety and soundness of the credit decision. Indeed, in some cases, appraisals may prove so expensive that they make a sound small- or medium-sized business loan uneconomical.'' 5 President Clinton directed the Federal regulatory agencies to review the existing real property appraisal regulations and address changes as appropriate. The policy position implemented by the Federal regulatory agencies is considered to be ``one aspect of an overall effort by the agencies to evaluate carefully and react appropriately to risk in the United States financial services industry. That overall effort envisions substantial oversight; in some cases, more than we have now, in areas that pose greater risk to the system. By the same token, regulatory burden will be reduced where risk is low, especially for strong, well-managed banks and thrifts *␣*␣*.'' 6 5 Issue No. 2 as addressed in the ``Interagency Policy Statement on Credit Availability,'' jointly released on March 10, 1993, by the OCC, FDIC, FRB, and the OTS. 6 Ibid. The recent amendments to the other Federal regulatory agencies' real estate appraisal requirements relate to: (1) Appraisals of real estate offered as collateral for small- and medium-sized business loans; (2) appropriate appraisal threshold levels ( de minimis ); and (3) exemptions from requirements for the use of State-sanctioned appraisers. In addition, the agencies have eliminated the regulatory prohibition on the use of the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practices (USPAP) ``departure provision'' 7 for real property appraisals. 7 As established by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation, the Departure Provision of USPAP (revised March 22, 1994, effective July 1, 1994) ``permits limited departures from specific guidelines provided that the scope of the assignment is not so limited as to confuse or mislead the client or the intended users of the report; and provided that the appraiser advises the client of the limitations and that the limitations will be disclosed in the report; and the client has agreed that the limited appraisal or consulting services would be appropriate.''
