FR941004-2-00119 FR941004-2-00068 The CITES Secretariat has been working to screen Appendix III proposals and consult with the submitting Party. 28. Guidelines for Evaluating Marine Turtle Ranching Proposals No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet. However, the United States participated in a working group at the ninth meeting of the Animals Committee in Brussels in September, 1993 which developed draft guidelines for recommendation to the Animals Committee on this issue. The ninth meeting of the Animals Committee adopted a requirement for ``regional management on the basis of genetically defined populations''. The United States strongly supported that element, which may have been removed by a subsequent meeting of the Animals Committee. The United States remains supportive of regional cooperation in the management of such widely migratory endangered species as marine turtles. 29. Proposals To Register the First Commercial Captive-breeding Operation for an Appendix I Animal Species No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet. 30. Standard Nomenclature Support adoption of the resolution submitted by the United States, which was submitted at the request of the Nomenclature Committee. This resolution was submitted at the request of the CITES Nomenclature Committee, and deals with nomenclature and taxonomy of CITES species. The resolution submitted was discussed and agreed upon by the Nomenclature Committee at its May, 1994 meeting in Beijing, China. The names of the genera and species of several families are in need of standardization and the current lack of a standard reference with adequate information creates an implementation problem for some species. The United States also recognizes that the taxonomy used in the appendices to the Convention will be most useful to the Parties if standardized and correlated by nomenclatorial references. This resolution makes several recommendations dealing with the inclusion of subspecies in the Appendices, use of references in proposals, synonyms, and the role of the Scientific Authorities in nomenclature issues. The resolution also recommends several standard references for species listed in the CITES Appendices, for mammals, birds, amphibians, cacti, cycads, tree ferns, and other plants. XV. Consideration of Proposals for Amendment of Appendices I and II See the Federal Register notice published on September 6, 1994 (59 FR 46023), which sets forth summaries of the proposed U.S. negotiating positions on the proposals for amendment to the CITES Appendices for COP9 and requests information and comments from the public on these proposed U.S. positions. XVI. Conclusion of the meeting 1. Determination of the Time and Venue of the Next Regular Meeting of the Conference of the Parties No documents have been received indicating requests from possible host governments. Favor holding COP10 in a country where all Parties will be admitted without political difficulties. Support the holding of COPs on a biennial basis, or, as in the case of COP9, after an interval of two and one half years. COP meetings energize governmental and nongovernmental organizations concerned with CITES issues to examine its implementation, and the conservation of affected species. The United States recognizes that the financial burdens of hosting a Conference of the Parties may serve to discourage developing countries from offering to serve as host, unless innovative ways can be found to provide them with financial assistance. Request for Information and Comments The Service invites information and comments on the proposed negotiating positions on COP9 agenda items, excluding item XV, ``Consideration of proposals for amendment of Appendices I and II,'' which is the subject of a separate Federal Register notice. Information and comments on this present notice should be submitted to the Service no later than October 19, 1994.
