FR940325-1-00092 FR940325-1-00008 * * * * * Allotment management plan (AMP) means a documented program developed as an activity plan that focuses on, and contains the necessary instructions for, the management of livestock grazing on specified public lands to meet resource condition, sustained yield, multiple use, economic and other objectives. * * * * * Conservation use means an activity, excluding livestock grazing, for purposes of: (1) Protecting the land and its resources from destruction or unnecessary injury; (2) Improving rangeland conditions; or (3) Enhancing resource values, uses, or functions. Consultation, cooperation, and coordination means an interactive process for obtaining advice, or exchanging opinions on the development, revision or termination of allotment management plans or other activity plans affecting the administration of grazing on public lands, from other agencies and affected permittee(s) or lessee(s), landowners involved, advisory committees where established, any State having lands or responsible for managing resources within the area and other interested public. * * * * * Grazing lease means a document authorizing use of the public lands outside an established grazing district. Grazing leases specify all authorized use including livestock grazing, suspended use, and conservation use. Leases specify the total number of AUMs apportioned. Grazing permit means a document authorizing use of the public lands within an established grazing district. Grazing permits specify all authorized use including livestock grazing, suspended use, and conservation use. Permits specify the total number of AUMs apportioned. Grazing preference or preference means a superior or priority position against others for the purpose of receiving a grazing permit or lease. This priority is attached to base property owned or controlled by the permittee or lessee. Interested public means an individual, group or organization that has submitted a written request to the authorized officer to be provided an opportunity to be involved in the decisionmaking process for the management of livestock grazing on specific grazing allotments or has submitted written comments to the authorized officer regarding the management of livestock grazing on a specific allotment. Land use plan means a resource management plan or management framework plan. These plans are developed through public participation in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 and establish management direction for resource uses of public lands. * * * * * Permitted use means the forage allocated by, or under the guidance of, an applicable land use plan for livestock grazing in an allotment under a permit or lease and is expressed in AUMs. Range improvement means an authorized physical modification or treatment which is designed to improve production of forage; change vegetation composition; control patterns of use; provide water; stabilize soil and water conditions; restore, protect and improve the condition of rangeland ecosystems; or provide habitat for livestock, wild horses and burros, and fish and wildlife. The term includes, but is not limited to, structures, treatment projects, and use of mechanical devices or modifications achieved through mechanical means. * * * * * Suspension means the temporary withholding from active use, through a decision issued by the authorized officer or by agreement, of part or all of the permitted use in a grazing permit or lease. Temporary nonuse means the authorized withholding, on an annual basis, of all or a portion of permitted livestock use in response to a request of the permittee or lessee. * * * * * Unauthorized leasing and subleasing means: (1) The assignment of base property and the associated Federal grazing permit or lease to another party without a required transfer approved by the authorized officer, (2) The assignment of public land grazing privileges to another party without the assignment of the associated base property, (3) Allowing another party to graze on public lands livestock that are not owned or controlled by the permittee or lessee, or (4) Allowing another party to graze livestock on public lands under a pasturing agreement without the approval of the authorized officer. Utilization means the percentage of forage that has been consumed by livestock, wild horses and burros, wildlife and insects during a specified period. The term is also used to refer to the pattern of such use. 18. Section 4100.0&hyph;7 is revised to read as follows:
