FR941103-0-00150 FR941103-0-00019 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Duncan L. Brown, Esq., at the address above; Telephone: 703&hyph;358&hyph;1744. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: National wildlife refuges are generally closed to hunting and sport fishing until opened by rulemaking. The Secretary of the Interior (Secretary) may open refuge areas to hunting and/or fishing upon a determination that such uses are compatible with the purpose(s) for which the refuge was established, and that funds are available for development, operation, and maintenance of a hunting or fishing program. The action must also be in accordance with provisions of all laws applicable to the areas, must be consistent with the principles of sound wildlife management, and must otherwise be in the public interest. This rulemaking opens two refuges to hunting. The hunting programs included in this openings document have refuge-specific hunting regulations which are included in this rulemaking. A proposed rule was published in the Federal Register on July 15, 1994 (59 FR 36342) and comments from the public were solicited. No comments were received. However, the proposed rule indicated that big game hunting at Columbia National Wildlife Refuge and sport fishing at Delevan National Wildlife Refuge may be closed. After consulting further with the Regional Office, a decision has been made to not close these refuges to those activities. Statutory Authority The National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act of 1966, as amended (NWRSAA) (16 U.S.C. 668dd), and the Refuge Recreation Act of 1962 (RRA) (16 U.S.C. 460k) govern the administration and public use of national wildlife refuges. Specifically, Section 4(d)(1)(A) of the NWRSAA authorizes the Secretary to permit the use of any areas within the National Wildlife Refuge System (Refuge System) for any purpose, including but not limited to hunting, fishing, public recreation and accommodations, and access, when he determines that such uses are compatible with the purposes for which each refuge was established. The Service administers the Refuge System on behalf of the Secretary. The RRA gives the Secretary additional authority to administer refuge areas within the Refuge System for public recreation as an appropriate incidental or secondary use only to the extent that it is practicable and not inconsistent with the primary purposes for which the refuges were established. In addition, prior to opening refuges to hunting or fishing under this Act, the Secretary is required to determine that funds are available for the development, operation, and maintenance of the permitted forms of recreation. Openings Packages In preparation for these openings, the refuge units have included in their ``openings packages'' for Regional review and approval from the Washington Office the following documents: a hunting/fishing plan; an environmental assessment; a Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI), or an Environmental Impact Statement and Record of Decision; a Section 7 evaluation or statement, pursuant to the Endangered Species Act, that these openings are not likely to adversely affect a listed species or critical habitat; a letter of concurrence from the affected States; and refuge-specific regulations, as provided herein. From a review of the totality of these documents, and for each refuge unit specifically, the Secretary determines that the opening of the areas to hunting are compatible with the principles of sound wildlife management and will otherwise be in the public interest. In accordance with the NWRSAA and the RRA, the Secretary has also determined that these openings for hunting are compatible and consistent with the primary purposes for which each of the refuges listed below was established, and that funds are available to administer the programs. The hunting programs will be generally within State and Federal (migratory game bird) regulatory frameworks. A brief description of the hunting programs follows:
