FR940613-2-00004 FR940613-2-00002 Regulatory Impact This proposed policy has been reviewed under USDA procedures and Executive Order 12866 on Regulatory Planning and Review. It has been determined that this is not a significant policy. Dated: May 23, 1994. David A. Harcharik, Acting Chief. Proposed Manual Revision Note: The Forest Service organizes its directive system by alpha-numeric codes and subject headings. Only those sections of the Forest Service Manual that are the subject of this notice are set out here. The audience for this direction is Forest Service employees charged with coordinating with the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service_Animal Damage Control Unit on animal damage management activities on National Forest System lands. Forest Service Manual_Chapter 2650_Animal Damage Management The Forest Service and Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS)_Animal Damage Control unit, along with the states, cooperate in discharging the Federal obligations under the Animal Damage Control Act of 1931 to manage animal damage on National Forest System lands. These activities include actions to provide wildlife damage management through direct control, as well as technical assistance to achieve desired management objectives. APHIS carries out animal damage management activities on National Forest System lands, mostly to minimize livestock losses from predation by coyotes, black bears, and other predators. The Forest Service conducts activities to control animal damage caused by small mammals and other animals to National Forest System resources, such as timber stands and roads. 2650.1_Authority. In addition to the authorities listed in FSM 2601, the following authorities govern animal damage management activities on National Forest System lands: 1. The Animal Damage Control Act of March 2, 1931 (7 U.S.C. 426&hyph;426b) as amended by the Rural Development, Agriculture, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100&hyph;202) authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to provide animal damage management services, to maintain technical expertise for evaluating and recommending animal damage management techniques, and to conduct forest and range animal damage research. The Secretary has delegated this authority to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS)_Animal Damage Control unit. 2. Executive Order 12342, January 24, 1982, permits the use of chemical toxicants registered by the Environmental Protection Agency for predator damage control on federal lands. 3. Department of Agriculture Regulation (DR) 9500&hyph;4 (FSM 2601.2) requires Department of Agriculture programs to include measures to alleviate damage by plant and animal pests; develop new techniques and methodologies through management and research programs to limit damage to agriculture or forestry production; and apply integrated pest management practices, where feasible, in carrying out these responsibilities. 4. A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between APHIS and the Forest Service outlines the cooperative approach to animal damage management on National Forest System lands. Both agencies have a joint responsibility for limiting damage caused by wildlife. In this MOU, APHIS and state agencies are recognized as having the authority and expertise to conduct predator control on National Forest System lands, to determine livestock losses, and to determine methodology for animal damage management. See FSM ยง1543.14 for the full text of the MOU. 2650.2_Objective. The objective of animal damage management activities is to protect National Forest System resources, to protect activities taking place on National Forest System lands, and to reduce threats to human health and safety. 2650.3_Policy. National Forest System resources must be adequately protected during animal damage management activities authorized by the states and conducted by the states or Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS)_Animal Damage Control unit. When the Forest Service conducts animal damage management activities, such as controlling small mammal populations on plantations, the agency must comply fully with state and federal laws. In carrying out animal damage management activities: 1. Rely upon APHIS or the state agencies to provide the expertise and conduct predator control on National Forest System lands, to determine livestock losses, and to determine methodology for animal damage management. 2. Cooperate with APHIS, the lead agency, in preparing environmental documentation for predator control and other animal damage management activities initiated by APHIS on National Forest System lands. The Forest Service shall cooperate to ensure that the animal damage management plans developed by APHIS will provide for protection of National Forest System resources.
