FR941205-2-00095 FR941205-2-00051 5. The Landmark Funds Broker-Dealer Services, Inc., registered as a broker-dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., will serve as the principal underwriter of the Contracts. 1 1 Applicants represent that, during the Notice Period, the application will be amended to reflect this representation. 6. There is an annual Contract administration charge of $30 that is deducted in reliance on Rule 26a&hyph;1. Applicants do not anticipate any profit from this charge. 7. There is a daily administrative charge at an annual rate of 0.05% of the assets of the Separate Accounts. This charge is guaranteed not to increase and is deducted in reliance on Rule 26a&hyph;1 under the 1940 Act. Applicants do not expect a profit from this charge. 8. The Contracts do not provide for a front-end sales charge to be deducted from purchase payments. Instead, a surrender or contingent deferred sales charge (``CDSC'') of up to 7% of the amount withdrawn or surrendered is charged. During each Contract year, up to 10% of all purchase payments, less prior withdrawals, may be withdrawn without the imposition of a surrender charge. The following table shows the charges applied to purchase payments withdrawn or surrendered, on a first-in-first-out basis: ␣ 1Number of years since date of purchase payment 1Charge as percentage of purchase payment withdrawn (percent) 0&hyph;1 7 1&hyph;2 6 2&hyph;3 5 3&hyph;4 4 4&hyph;5 3 5+ 0 9. Citicorp Life and First Citicorp will deduct a mortality and expense risk charge that is equal, on an annual basis, to 1.25% of the average daily net asset value of the Separate Accounts: approximately .50% for mortality risks and .75% for expense risks. The mortality risks assumed by Citicorp Life and First Citicorp arise from their guarantees to make annuity payments as provided in the Contracts regardless of how long all annuitants or any individual annuitant lives. Also, Citicorp Life and First Citicorp bear mortality risks associated with the Contracts' death benefit provisions. The expense risks assumed by Citicorp Life and First Citicorp are the risks that actual administrative costs will exceed the amount recovered from the administration charges, processing fees, if any, and the annual contract fee. 10. Premium taxes of states and other governmental entities, currently ranging up to 3.5%, are deducted from Contract Value either at the time the Contract is surrendered, on the annuity income date, or at such other time as the taxes are assessed. 11. Currently no fee is charged for transfers among the sub-accounts and the Fixed Account. However, Citicorp Life and First Citicorp reserve the right to charge $25 for the 13th and each subsequent transfer during a Contract year. Applicants represent that this charge, if imposed, would be deducted in reliance on Rule 26a&hyph;1 under the 1940 Act. Citicorp Life and First Citicorp do not anticipate any profit from this charge. 12. Currently no processing fee is charged for withdrawals. However, Citicorp Life and First Citicorp reserve the right to charge the lesser of $25 or 2% of the amount withdrawn for the 13th and each subsequent withdrawal during a Contract year. This charge would be deducted in reliance on Rule 26a&hyph;1 under the 1940 Act. Applicants do not expect a profit from this charge. Applicants' Legal Analysis and Conditions 1. Sections 26(a)(2) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act prohibit a registered unit investment trust and any depositor or underwriter thereof from selling periodic payment plan certificates unless the proceeds of all payments are deposited with a qualified trustee or custodian and held under arrangements which prohibit any payment to the depositor or principal underwriter except a fee, not exceeding such reasonable amounts as the Commission may prescribe, for performing bookkeeping and other administrative services. 2. Applicants request an order under Section 6(c) exempting them from Sections 26(a)(2) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act to the extent necessary to permit the deduction of the mortality and expense risk charge from the assets of the Separate Accounts under the Contracts.
