FR941212-1-00043 FR941212-1-00012 §1.103 Suspension of action. (a) Suspension of action by the Office will be granted for good and sufficient cause and for a reasonable time specified upon petition by the applicant and, if such cause is not the fault of the Office, the payment of the fee set forth in §1.17(i)[(1)]. Action will not be suspended when a response by the applicant to an Office action is required. * * * * * 26. A new, undesignated center heading and new §1.129 are proposed to be added to Subpart B_National Processing Provisions to read as follows: >Transitional Provisions §1.129 Transitional procedures for limited examination after final rejection and restriction practice. (a) An applicant in an application, other than for reissue or a design patent, that has been pending for at least two years as of the effective date of 35 U.S.C. 154(a)(2), taking into account any reference made in such application to any earlier filed application under 35 U.S.C. 120, 121 and 365(c), is entitled to have a first submission entered and considered on the merits after final rejection under the following circumstances: The Office will consider such a submission, to the extent that it would have been entered and considered if made prior to final rejection, if the first submission is filed prior to or simultaneously with the filing of a notice of appeal and prior to abandonment of the application and the fee set forth in §1.17(r) is paid within one month of any written notification from the Office refusing entry of the first submission and prior to abandonment of the application. If a subsequent final rejection is made in the application, applicant is entitled to have a second submission entered and considered on the merits after the subsequent final rejection under the following circumstances: The Office will consider such a submission, to the extent that it would have been entered and considered if made prior to final rejection, if the second submission is filed prior to or simultaneously with the filing of a notice of appeal of the subsequent final rejection and prior to abandonment of the application and a second fee set forth in §1.17(r) is paid within one month of any written notification from the Office refusing entry of the second submission and prior to abandonment of the application. Any submission filed after a final rejection made in an application subsequent to the fee set forth in §1.17(r) having been twice paid will be treated as set forth in §1.116. A submission as used in this paragraph includes, but is not limited to, an information disclosure statement, an amendment to the written description, claims or drawings and a new substantive argument or new evidence in support of patentability. (b)(1) In an application, other than for reissue or a design patent, that has been pending for at least three years as of the effective date of 35 U.S.C. 154(a)(2), taking into account any reference made in the application to any earlier filed application under 35 U.S.C. 120, 121 and 365(c), no requirement for restriction or for the filing of divisional applications shall be made or maintained in the application after the effective date, except where: (i) The requirement was first made in the application or any earlier filed application under 35 U.S.C. 120, 121 and 365(c) more than two months prior to the effective date; (ii) The examiner has not issued any Office action in the application due to actions by the applicant; or (iii) The required fee for examination of each additional invention was not paid. (2) If the application contains more than one independent and distinct invention and a requirement for restriction or for the filing of divisional applications cannot be made or is withdrawn pursuant to this paragraph, applicant will be so notified and given a time period of one month from the notice to pay the fee set forth in §1.17(s) for each independent and distinct invention claimed in the application in excess of one. If applicant does not pay the required fee for each additional invention in a timely manner, only the first claimed invention and those additional inventions for which the fee has been paid will be searched and examined. The additional inventions for which the required fee has not been paid will be withdrawn from consideration under §1.142(b). An applicant who desires examination of an invention so withdrawn from consideration can file a divisional application under 35 U.S.C. 121. (c) The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to any application filed on or after the effective date of 35 U.S.C. 154(a)(2).< 27. Section 1.139 is proposed to be added to read as follows: >§1.139 Revival of provisional application. (a) A provisional application which has been accorded a filing date and abandoned for failure to timely respond to an Office requirement may be revived so as to be pending for a period of no longer than twelve months from its filing date if it is shown to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that the delay was unavoidable. Under no circumstances will the provisional application be pending after twelve months from its filing date. A petition to revive an abandoned provisional application must be promptly filed after the applicant is notified of, or otherwise becomes aware of, the abandonment, and must be accompanied by: (1) The required response unless it has been previously filed; (2) The petition fee as set forth in §1.17(l); and (3) A showing that the delay was unavoidable. The showing must be a verified showing if made by a person not registered to practice before the Patent and Trademark Office. (b) A provisional application which has been accorded a filing date and abandoned for failure to timely respond to an Office requirement may be revived so as to be pending for a period of no longer than twelve months from its filing date if the delay was unintentional. Under no circumstances will the provisional application be pending after twelve months from its filing date. A petition to revive an abandoned provisional application must be: (1) Accompanied by the required response unless it has been previously filed; (2) Accompanied by the petition fee as set forth in §1.17(m); (3) Accompanied by a statement that the delay was unintentional. The statement must be a verified statement if made by a person not registered to practice before the Patent and Trademark Office. The Commissioner may require additional information where there is a question whether the delay was unintentional; and (4) Filed either: (i) Within one year of the date on which the provisional application became abandoned; or (ii) Within three months of the date of the first decision on a petition to revive under paragraph (a) of this section which was filed within one year of the date on which the provisional application became abandoned. (c) Any request for reconsideration or review of a decision refusing to revive a provisional application upon petition filed pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, to be considered timely, must be filed within two months of the decision refusing to revive or within such time as set in the decision. (d) The time periods set forth in this section cannot be extended, except that the three-month period set forth in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section and the time period set forth in paragraph (c) of this section may be extended under the provisions of §1.136.< 28. Section 1.177 is proposed to be revised to read as follows:
