FR940711-2-00106 FR940711-2-00046 Policy Interpretation Ruling_Title II of the Social Security Act and Title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977: Waiver of Recovery of Overpayments_Notice of Appeal and Waiver Rights_Right to a Pre-Recoupment Oral Hearing Before Waiver Can be Denied Purpose: To state the longstanding Social Security Administration (SSA) policy of: •Giving adequate written notice of a determination of overpayment and the right to contest such determination and request waiver of recovery of the overpayment; and •Providing the person from whom we are seeking recovery of an overpayment with the opportunity for a face-to-face oral hearing before we deny a request for waiver of recovery of the overpayment. The policy is based on the court decisions and orders discussed below. Citations (Authority): Section 204(a) and (b) of the Social Security Act, as amended, and Title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977; 20 CFR 404.502a, 404.506, 404.904, 410.561, 410.561a, and 410.620. Pertinent History: On October 22, 1974, the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Washington in Buffington, et al. v. Weinberger, No. 734&hyph;73C2 (W.D. Wash. October 22, 1974) stopped SSA from recovering overpaid Social Security benefits without giving each member of the plaintiff class adequate written notice of the overpayment determination, the right to contest such determination and the right to a pre-recoupment hearing. Moreover, the court stopped SSA from taking any action to recover the overpayments before affording the class member the opportunity for a hearing. The court ordered that the written notice must include: •A statement of the alleged overpayment, an explanation of the basis for the overpayment and SSA's proposed action to recover the overpayment; •A statement of the individual's right to a pre-recoupment hearing; •Instructions and forms for requesting a pre-recoupment hearing; •An explanation that if the person did not request a pre-recoupment hearing within 30 days of the date of mailing of the overpayment notice, it would be presumed that the person waived his/her right to the hearing and recovery of the alleged overpayment would begin; •A statement of any other administrative relief available (i.e., reconsideration of the fact and/or amount of overpayment and waiver of recovery of the overpayment); and •A statement that the local SSA office would help him/her to complete and submit forms for appeal. The court also ordered the following: 1. SSA had to restore all benefits withheld from the named plaintiffs pending an opportunity for a pre-recoupment hearing. The person had to be given the opportunity to examine his/her claims file at least 5 days prior to the date of the hearing. 2. The pre-recoupment hearing had to be conducted by an SSA employee who had no prior knowledge of the events leading to the overpayment determination and the decision to recover the overpayment. At the hearing the person requesting waiver had to be given the opportunity to: •Personally appear, testify, and cross-examine any witnesses;
