FR940106-0-00049 FR940106-0-00016 Comment: One commenter recommends that HCFA not base criteria and standards on the sliding scale of available funding but on true expectations of performance and therefore delete ``changes in fiscal operations due to fiscal constraints'' as a basis for developing criteria and standards. Response: Each year the specific standards are revised and developed in concert with the specific budget and performance requirements, because that is the fiscally responsible approach to develop uniform and fair performance standards for the Medicare contractor community. We will continue to develop standards in conjunction with budget and performance requirements. Comment: One commenter notes that §§421.124 and 421.203 do not include the contract's provision for an extension of the contract, subject to cost limitations. This would deprive high cost contractors of the formal opportunity to choose between accepting limits on their reimbursable costs and losing their Medicare contracts. Response: The contract allows us to offer a high cost contractor the option of submitting a lower budget or losing its Medicare contract. Sections 421.124 and 421.203 would give us the authority to determine the amount which is reasonable and adequate to efficiently and economically operate as an intermediary and carrier. If we determine that we cannot afford to contract with high cost intermediaries or carriers, we may consider appropriate adverse contract action. IV. Provisions of the Final Rule Based on our review of the comments submitted, we are making no substantive changes to the proposed revisions to the rules affecting criteria and standards for evaluating intermediaries and carriers as published on December 3, 1992, (57 FR 233). Only minor editorial and technical revisions have been made to the proposed rules. List of Subjects in 42 CFR Part 421 Administrative practice and procedure, Health facilities, Health professions, Medicare, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
