FR940830-1-00051 FR940830-1-00009 Option 4_30 grams/day. This represents the 80th percentile sport fish consumption by Michigan sport fishermen. Option 5_40.8 grams/day. This represents the 80th percentile of total fish consumption by Michigan sport fishermen. Option 6_43.1 grams/day. This represents the average sport fish consumption level for the highest consuming sport fish sub-group (lower income minorities). Option 7_57.9 grams/day. This represents the average total fish consumption level for the highest consuming sport fish sub-group (low income minorities). The West study also documents individual consumption rates in excess of this value. The policy options presented in the survey do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the State of Michigan, but EPA believes that they are included in the range of possible fish consumption rates that could be used as part of the final Guidance methodology for deriving human health criteria. EPA requests comments on the, ``1991&hyph;1992 Michigan Sport Anglers Fish Consumption Study'' including: (1) The appropriateness of the study methods used in study; (2) the seven policy options in Chapter 6 of the report on possible fish consumption rates for Michigan; (3) the applicability of the results in the study to other parts of the Great Lakes Basin; and (4) the appropriateness of using a fish consumption rate for the final Guidance higher than the proposed 15 grams/day, based on the range of values considered in the West et al., study or other relevant and appropriate data, and alternative approaches to address different levels of fish consumption in a waterbody. C. Great Lakes Water Quality Initiative Technical Support Document for the Procedure to Determine Bioaccumulation Factors, July 1994 (Technical Support Document, July 1994) As explained in the preamble for the proposed Guidance, aquatic organisms accumulate chemicals in their tissues from exposure to chemicals from all sources, including food and water. Further, as organisms at lower trophic levels are consumed by organisms at higher trophic levels, tissue concentrations of some chemicals increase. As a result of biomagnification, chemical levels in top predators may be orders of magnitude higher than concentrations of the chemical in the ambient water. In the development of National water quality criteria, EPA used the term ``bioconcentration factors (BCF)'' to reflect the propensity of an organism to accumulate a chemical in its tissues. When field-measured bioaccumulation factors (BAFs) were not available, BCFs were used as estimates of BAFs. In the proposed Guidance, EPA requested comment on two uses of BAFs, which account for exposure from all sources. First, EPA calculated BAFs for individual chemicals at different trophic levels. The BAFs at the appropriate trophic level consumed by humans and wildlife species were then used to derive human health and wildlife criteria. In general, if all other factors were equal, a chemical with a higher bioaccumulation factor would have a lower (more stringent) criterion. Second, EPA used the human health BAFs to identify a list of ``bioaccumulative chemicals of concern'' which warrant increased attention in the Great Lakes Basin. See Section II.G. (at 58 FR 20843) of the preamble to the proposed Guidance (58 FR 20802). EPA is today soliciting comment on additional technical information about BAFs and alternative options to approaching four issues described in the proposed Guidance. EPA is also soliciting comment on the newly calculated BAFs for the chemicals in Tables 3 and 4 of the proposed Guidance for human health and wildlife species based on the information and options discussed in this Notice. These BAFs, if promulgated, would change the criteria for human health and wildlife in Tables 3 and 4 of the proposed Guidance. The proposed Guidance included a hierarchy of three methods for deriving BAFs for organic chemicals: a field- measured BAF; a BAF predicted by multiplying a BCF measured in the laboratory by a food chain multiplier (FCM); and a BAF predicted from a BCF calculated from the chemical's n- octanol/water partition coefficient (K ow ) and multiplied by a FCM. For inorganic chemicals, EPA proposed to require either a field-measured BAF or BCF. The four issues discussed in this Notice all pertain to the derivation of BAFs for organic chemicals. EPA is considering whether it should revise its proposed methodology for the calculation of BAFs in the Great Lakes System to incorporate the information discussed in the Technical Support Document, 1994, and summarized below. The material discussed in sections C.1, C.2, and C.3 would replace portions of the proposed Guidance. The material discussed in section C.4 would provide a new method for deriving a BAF for organic chemicals and this method would be added to the hierarchy of methods for organics described above. As explained in the proposed Guidance, EPA proposes to require States and Tribes to adopt requirements for calculation of BAFs that are consistent with EPA's final methodology. Although the State or Tribal regulation need not duplicate this methodology, the State's or Tribe's method must produce a BAF at least as stringent as the BAFs derived by using EPA's methodology. If EPA incorporates the topics discussed in the Technical Support Document, 1994, and this Notice into its methodology, States and Tribes will be required to reflect them in their methodologies and derivation of BAFs. EPA also notes that, if EPA incorporates the material discussed in sections C.1 to C.4 into its methodology for deriving a BAF, EPA would use this material in promulgating BAFs for any State or Tribe.
