FR940907-0-00005 FR940907-0-00002 Using the information obtained from these sources and in consultation with the debtors and the experts, FmHA will calculate two values as required by the statute. First, FmHA will determine the loan's ``net recovery'' value. This value represents the current value of the loan if FmHA were to foreclose. Generally, the value is calculated by adding the value of assets securing the loan and subtracting the costs that would be incurred if the loan was foreclosed. Second, FmHA will determine the value of the restructured loan. This value is determined after a proposed plan is developed for the operation of the facility. That is, the operation and/or debt is modified to determine if the debtor can attain a positive cash flow and pay an adjusted debt service payment plus fund the FmHA Reserve Account. After the restructured loan value and the net recovery value are calculated, FmHA can determine whether the debtor's request for debt restructuring can be approved. As required by the statute, FmHA can approve debt restructuring only if the value of the restructured loan is greater than, or equal to, the net recovery value. Once the Agency reaches this conclusion, the debtor will be notified of the results and given its options. If possible, the debt will be restructured and the facility will continue operations. If the net recovery value is greater than the value of the restructured loan, the debtor may choose to pay off the loan at the reduced net recovery value. If this option is not chosen, the loan likely will be accelerated. Finally, if the debtor's debt is restructured or if the debtor elects to pay off the debt at the net recovery value, then the debtor will be required to execute an Appreciation Recapture Agreement. As explained in the statute, these Agreements allow the Agency to recoup a part or all of the debt that is written down if the debtor's underlying collateral appreciates in value over time and if the debtor sells the collateral within 10 years. Discussion of Comments On January 13, 1993, a proposed rule was published in the Federal Register (58 FR 4095) providing for a 30-day review and comment period ending February 12, 1993. Six comments were received. Several respondents stated that the $300,000 limit on the writedown would not be enough to help many debtors and recommended that the rule be amended to remove the writedown limit. The rule is amended to remove the $300,000 limit. The writedown will be limited to the minimum amount necessary to meet the level of the facility's ability to service the debt. One respondent recommended that the interest rate available under the Rural Rental Housing program, Section 8, which permits loans at rates as low as 1 percent, be extended to include health care facilities located in designated health professional shortage areas. Since FmHA's program regulations do not permit a reduction of interest rates below the poverty line interest rate, FmHA will not reduce the interest rate further. Since publication of the proposed rule, the poverty line interest rate for FmHA and RDA loans changed from 5.0 percent to 4.5 percent. The final rule was changed to reference FmHA Instruction 440.1, Exhibit B, Interest Rates, for FmHA and RDA loans instead of using 5.0 percent. The loan servicing options available through this action will result in debt restructuring packages which will provide significant benefit to all rural areas. One respondent recommended that the definition of net recovery value be expanded to consider the potential net loss to the community if the facility were sold. The definition of net recovery value presently emphasizes that the value of the assets should be calculated based upon the facility continuing to operate as a going concern, not merely as an empty building but as a facility continuing to offer health care services to the community it serves. This value can be based on the facility offering health care services which may, or may not, be similar to those offered by the current operators. This is the most practical and accurate method of determining the net recovery value of the facility. One respondent recommended that we add the availability of writedown to servicing regulations without a mandate for a strict servicing regimen to be initiated as soon as a debtor reaches the delinquency time limitations. This respondent stated that a hospital could be offered net recovery buy out and not have the ability to obtain the buy out financing, at which point the Government would be forced to accelerate the loan. FmHA is concerned about maintaining health care in rural areas. There is language in the rule which allows the Agency discretion in such cases. The program is intended to facilitate the continued operation of rural hospitals and health care facilities. One respondent recommended a waiver of the $300,000 writedown limit when dealing with facilities in designated health professional shortage areas, those which are Medicare waivered acute-care facilities, alternate rural health care delivery models, or facilities associated with related programs that may be approved by appropriate State licensing agencies. As stated above, the $300,000 writedown limit has been removed. Therefore, the final rule is changed from the proposed rule published in the Federal Register on January 13, 1993, as follows: Debt writedown. A one-time reduction of the debt owed to FmHA including principal and interest. This reduction will be the minimum amount necessary to meet the level of the facility's ability to service the debt. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 1956 Accounting, Loan programs_Agricultural, Rural areas. Accordingly, Chapter XVIII, title 7, Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 1956_DEBT SETTLEMENT 1. The authority citation for part 1956 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480; 5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 3711; 7 CFR 2.23 and 2.70. Subpart C_Debt Settlement_Community and Business Programs 2. Section 1956.102 is amended by redesignating the existing text as paragraph (a), adding a heading to newly designated paragraph (a), and by adding a new paragraph (b) to read as follows: §1956.102 Application of policies. (a) General. *␣*␣* (b) For hospitals and health care facilities only. Loan servicing and debt restructuring options according to §1956.143 of this subpart must be exhausted before the other settlement authorities of this subpart are applicable. 3. Section 1956.143 is added to read as follows: §1956.143 Debt restructuring_hospitals and health care facilities. This section pertains exclusively to delinquent Community Facility hospital and health care facility loans. Those facilities which are nonprogram (NP) loans as defined in §1951.203 (f) of subpart E of part 1951 of this chapter are excluded. The purpose of debt restructuring is to keep the hospital or health care facility in operation with manageable debt.
