FR940505-1-00457 FR940505-1-00012 (ii) For on-highway engines, the effective date and the odometer mileage of the useful life renewal period; For nonroad engines, the effective date and hours; and (iii) The vehicle or equipment identification number. (2) The engine configuration certifier shall designate an office or officer to receive a copy of completed certificates. The certificates shall be stored in an adequately organized and indexed file or the information required by paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall be entered into a database completely and stored. The certificate or information in the database shall be stored for a period not less than the useful life renewal period. (f) Engine configuration certification . Engine configuration certifiers shall demonstrate certification compliance as follows: (1) Test procedure and emission results . Certification emissions testing of engine configurations shall be conducted using new engine certification testing procedures specified in § 52.2966(e) for on-highway heavy-duty engines and §52.2975(e) for nonroad engines. Certification emissions testing must be carried out using representative production equipment as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. The test results must demonstrate that engines restored to the engine configuration being certified will comply with the applicable recall standards over the useful life renewal period. (2) Emissions test engine selection . The test engine shall be an engine representative of the engine family and that is at or beyond the end of its original useful life. (3) To demonstrate compliance with the applicable recall standards, the test engine shall be restored to the engine configuration being certified in accordance with the instructions that are to be followed when restoring actual in-use engines. No other maintenance or adjustments shall be performed on the test engine. (4) Test fuel . The engine configuration shall be certified using the same fuel used for new engine certification as specified in §52.2966 (f) for heavy-duty on-highway engines and §52.2975 (f) for nonroad engines. (5) Component selection . Where replacement components are used to restore an engine to the configuration being certified, certification shall be based upon tests utilizing representative production parts and components selected in a random manner. (6) Replacing original equipment parts . Changes to an engine shall not result in the permanent removal or rendering inoperative of any original equipment emission related part other than the part(s) being replaced. Furthermore, engine changes shall not cause or contribute to an unreasonable risk to the public health, welfare or safety, or result in any additional range of parameter adjustability or accessibility to adjustment than that of the vehicle or equipment manufacturer's emission related part. (7) Effects on engine on-board diagnostic system . Changes to an engine shall not alter or render inoperative any feature of the on-board diagnostic system incorporated by the engine manufacturer. The engine configuration being certified may integrate with the existing diagnostic system if it does not alter or render inoperative any features of the system. (g) In-use recall . Engines restored to an engine configuration certified pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section within its useful life renewal period, shall be subject to the recall provisions contained in §52.2966(g). (h) Notification of intent to certify . (1) Prior to the issuance of any useful life renewal certificate, notification of the intent to certify must be approved by the MOD Director. (2) All notifications shall include: (i) Identification and description of the candidate engine configuration to be certified, including a list of replacement parts and part numbers; (ii) Identification of the engine family including make(s), engine model(s), model year(s), engine size(s) and all other specific configuration characteristics; (iii) Identification and description of any emissions related component(s) not being replaced and rationale as to why its replacement is unnecessary;
