FR940805-1-00087 FR940805-1-00013 (v) security procedures that provide for the immediate transfer of juveniles when appropriate. (11) Health care treatment. Health care staff or health-trained detention staff shall perform treatment pursuant to written direct orders by personnel authorized by law to give such orders. (12) Medical/mental health management of juveniles. Qualified health care personnel, in conjunction with detention staff, shall develop a written plan for the management of juveniles with medical, mental health and substance abuse problems, including suicide risks. (13) Licensure requirements. The health authority shall comply with all applicable federal law, licensure requirements, rules, regulations and medical protocols in the delivery of health care services to the juvenile population. (14) Traditional practitioners. The facility shall allow juveniles to participate in or receive traditional healing ceremonies and to use traditional healing methods, limited only to the degree necessary to preserve institutional security and order. (15) Prohibited use of detainees. Juveniles shall not perform duties in the health care program. (16) Management of medications. The administrator and health authority shall provide for the proper management of individual doses of medications that shall be kept in the facility. The administrator and health authority shall review the policy annually and update it as needed. (17) Administration of medications. The administrator or designee shall ensure that persons administering medications have received training appropriate to their assignment. Employees shall administer medications according to direct or physician orders and shall record the administration of medications in a manner and on a form approved by the responsible physician. (18) Preliminary health care screening. Health-trained staff shall perform medical screening of all juveniles on arrival at the facility and record findings on a printed screening form approved by the health authority. The screening process shall include: (i) inquiry into: (A) current and chronic illness and health problems, including dental problems and suicidal thoughts; (B) sexually transmitted diseases and other infectious diseases; (C) medication taken and special health requirements; (D) use of alcohol and other drugs, which includes types of drugs used, mode of use, amount used, frequency used, date or time of last use and history of problems that may have occurred after ceasing use (e.g., convulsions); (E) past or present treatment or hospitalization for mental disturbance or suicide; (F) other health problems designated by the responsible physician; and (G) mental illness; (ii) observation of: (A) behavior, including state of consciousness, mental status, appear ance, conduct, tremor or sweating; and (B) body deformities, trauma markings, bruises, lesions, jaundice and ease of movements; and (iii) disposition to: (A) housing in general population; (B) housing in general population and referral to appropriate heath care service or substance abuse treatment provider; and/or (C) referral to appropriate health care service on an emergency basis. (19) Health appraisal. The health authority shall provide a health appraisal for each juvenile within seven days of admission. A health-trained professional or otherwise qualified personnel shall collect health history and vital signs. Only qualified health care personnel shall collect other data. The health appraisal shall include: (i) review of the intake health screening and emergency medical assessment if performed;
