FR941012-2-00013 FR941012-2-00007 International Trade Administration Proposed Changes to Administrative Protective Order Procedures in Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Proceedings, APO Application Form and Standard APO AGENCY: Import Administration, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce. ACTION: Notice and request for comment on proposed changes to administrative protective order (APO) procedures in antidumping and countervailing duty proceedings, APO application form and standard APO. SUMMARY: The International Trade Administration (ITA) of the Department of Commerce is considering three significant changes in its APO practice: (1) The adoption of a single revised application for an APO containing all of the conditions the ITA will require concerning the use and limited disclosure of hard copy and electronic APO information; (2) the adoption of a single, standard APO to be placed on the record of each case by the administering office, and (3) the issuance of an approved APO list of signatories to the APO. The revised application and APO respond to the concerns and requests of the Trade Bar that regularly uses our APO procedures. Copies of the proposed revised application for APO and the proposed standard APO are printed at the end of this notice, and are available in the Central Records Unit. Written comments will be considered before the ITA issues a final decision regarding this matter, if received not later than 60 days after publication of this notice. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 12, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ann Sebastian, for Investigations, at (202) 482&hyph;3354, Maureen McPhillips, for Compliance, at (202) 482&hyph;3019, or Andrew Lee Beller, Central Records Unit, Import Administration, at (202) 482&hyph;1248. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background ITA's APO procedures apply to the vast quantity of proprietary information ITA receives in the course of its administrative antidumping duty (AD) and countervailing duty (CVD) proceedings from both foreign governments and companies, and the U.S. domestic industry. The Trade Secrets Act, 18 U.S.C. 1905, prevents a federal agency from disclosing business proprietary information unless a specific exemption is provided by statute. Section 777 of the Tariff Act of 1930, 19 U.S.C. 1677a, however, provides an exemption for the ITA from the Trade Secrets Act, and permits limited disclosure of business proprietary information under an APO to representatives of parties to specific proceedings for which the proprietary information was submitted. The purpose of limited disclosure is to provide representatives with the information necessary to fully represent the interests of the parties in open and fair proceedings. The ITA last revised its APO application, procedures, and relevant regulations in 1989 in order to implement the provisions of The Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 (the Omnibus Trade Act) affecting access under APO. The Omnibus Trade Act broadened the scope of disclosure of business proprietary information under APO, required direct service of APO information on authorized parties, and established statutory deadlines for the release of APO information. Given the dramatic increase in the amount of information submitted in ITA's proceedings, as well as in the increased desire for access to electronic media, the 1989 APO application and procedures reflected ITA's concerns that information in both hard copy and electronic form be adequately protected. Under these still current procedures, ITA's APO application and the APO itself contain detailed restrictions on the use and distribution of proprietary information. A party's representative submits an APO application, and the ITA generally issues an APO to that representative. Except for instances where a party is represented by co-counsel, a party may have only one representative for each proceeding. If a party wishes to have an additional representative, it must operate through the single representative. Any time a party wishes to add or change a representative, it must file an additional APO application, and the ITA will issue an amended APO.
