FR940413-2-00158 FR940413-2-00070 The Commission believes that the proposal's provisions are sufficiently specific to permit compliance with its terms. The Commission also understands that industry efforts are currently underway to draft proposed guidelines to assist dealer compliance with the proposal. In addition, the MSRB will provide continued interpretive guidance to assist dealer compliance with the proposal. The Commission, in accordance with its statutory mandate, will continue to monitor the implementation of the proposal and the effects the proposal may have on the market. I. Amendment No. 1 The Commission finds good cause for approving the MSRB's Amendment No. 1, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of the amendment. As originally submitted, the proposal's prohibitions on municipal securities business would arise from contributions made on or after April 1, 1994. The MSRB filed the amendment to change the April 1, 1994 date to a date 10 days after publication in the Federal Register of the order approving the proposal. The MSRB also amended the proposal to change the effective date of the proposal's disclosure and recordkeeping requirements to a date 10 days after publication of the approval order in the Federal Register . Thus the proposal's prohibitions will arise from contributions made on or after April 25, 1994. The proposal's disclosure and recordkeeping requirements also will not be effective until April 25, 1994. The Commission believes that the amendments will facilitate compliance by municipal securities dealers. The amendments, in conjunction with the proposal's notice and comment period, will provide municipal securities dealers sufficient time to adopt and implement procedures to comply with the proposal. VI. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the MSRB's Amendment No. 1. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the amendment that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the amendment between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section. Copies of the amendment also will be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the MSRB. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by May 4, 1994. VII. Conclusion For the foregoing reasons, the Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the MSRB and, in particular, section 15B(b)(2)(C). It is therefore ordered, Pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the proposed rule change and Amendment No. 1 described above be, and hereby are, approved, and shall be effective April 25, 1994. 99 99 The Commission simultaneously issued an order relating to this matter, ``Order Preliminarily Declining to Issue Stay Sua Sponte and Establishing Guidelines for Consideration of Stay Applications.'' Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33870 (April 7, 1994). By the Commission. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8838 Filed 4&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
