FR940819-0-00074 FR940819-0-00018 The definition of ``escort vessel'' has been revised in order to reflect the fact that a variety of vessel types can perform escort services other than just the ``towing vessels'' cited in the statute. Furthermore, a vessel that may be suitable for escorting a particular tanker under certain transit conditions may not be suitable for escorting other tankers, or even the same tanker under other conditions. The necessary elements of an escort vessel are that: it is dedicated exclusively to the tanker for the duration of its transit; and it is properly equipped for its intended role in an emergency response (pushing, towing, etc.). The second element means that it is not necessary for the escort vessels to have duplicative capabilities. For example, one escorting vessel does not have to be outfitted with towing gear if another escorting vessel is adequately outfitted. The definition of ``laden'' replaces the NPRM's definition of ``transporting oil in bulk'' because it is more precise. The definition of ``single hull tanker'' has been added, although it still maintains the same vessel applicability as proposed in the NPRM: any tanker that is not double-hulled. Definitions of ``tanker owner or operator'' and ``tanker master'' have been added. They distinguish a shoreside owner or management organization (that has overall operational control of the tanker), including a demise (bareboat) charterer, from a tanker's master (who is the licensed, onboard person in charge of the tanker). The NPRM's definition of ``static bollard pull'' has been deleted because it is not used in the rule. 4. Responsibilities. The NPRM originally made the tanker master responsible for selecting the escort vessels. Six comments were received on this issue, and all of them generally expressed the opinion that the tanker master should not be responsible for selecting or deciding escort vessel suitability. Some comments argued that the tanker master may not be sufficiently familiar with the local waters, weather conditions or other navigational considerations to select the best escort vessels; these are some of the reasons why pilots are embarked when any vessel enters a port. Some comments also argued that escort vessel selections might be made by the tanker's shoreside management company, putting the tanker master under considerable pressure to accept whatever vessels have been dispatched. The Coast Guard generally agrees that proper selection of escort vessels requires some specialized knowledge and pre-planning which might be beyond the abilities of the tanker master to accomplish. Such knowledge might have to be developed from tanker-specific maneuvering and control studies. Also, tanker owners or operators may wish to make contractual arrangements with escort vessel operators to ensure appropriate vessels are available at favorable rates. Because the resources to conduct studies or make contractual agreements are controlled by the tanker's owners or operators (shoreside management), it is more appropriate that they should be ultimately responsible for the escort vessel selection and providing the tanker master with any specialized information. Therefore, ยง168.10 makes the tanker owners or operators responsible for escort vessel selection and informing the tanker master of the performance capabilities of the escort vessels. The master is responsible for operating the tanker within those performance capabilities. The regulations do not preclude owners or operators from authorizing masters or other agents to make selections, although the tanker owners or operators will have to furnish the necessary technical information for proper escort vessel selection. 5. Applicable vessels. OPA 90 specifically targets single hull tank ships of more than 5,000 gross tons (GT) (5,000 GT corresponds to approximately 10,000 deadweight tons (DWT), which is the tonnage measurement more commonly applied to tankers). The NPRM proposed to include tankers with only double bottoms or double sides but exclude double hulled tankers. Eight comments to the NPRM addressed the issue of hull design (i.e. single hull, double hull, double bottom, or double sides). Most of these comments stated that double hulls should not be excluded from the escort requirements. Two comments did agree with the double hull exclusion, another comment also agreed with the double hull exclusion and stated that double bottom tankers should also be excluded. One comment suggested that the escort requirements should apply to all tankers over 5,000 GT, (regardless of construction) and another comment suggested that they should apply to all vessels carrying oil (regardless of construction or size). One comment suggested that all single-hulled oil tankers should be included whether laden or unladen. The Coast Guard is of the opinion that Congress did not intend for tankers that meet the OPA 90 double hull design requirements to be escorted. Therefore, the originally-proposed hull design standard has not been revised: double hull tankers are excluded, but all other single hull, double bottom, and double side tankers are included. Eleven comments addressed size limits for applicable tankers, suggesting either to raise the gross tonnage threshold (thereby excluding some tankers greater than 5,000 GT) or require escorts for only those tankers carrying more than a particular quantity of oil. One comment pointed out that smaller tankers are less of a threat to the environment than larger ones, and therefore should not have to be escorted. Two of the comments support the proposed size requirements. OPA 90 specifically includes tankers down to 5,000 GT; therefore, the proposed size limit has not been changed. Four comments were received which advocated excluding those tankers with twin screw propulsion systems, on the grounds that a simultaneous failure of both propulsion systems was unlikely. OPA 90 requires tankers that are not double-hulled to be escorted, regardless of propulsion system. Therefore, ยง168.20 makes the regulations applicable to all U.S. and foreign-flag single hull tankers of more than 5,000 GT, including tankers with only double bottoms or double sides, or double hull tankers that do not meet the dimensional standards of 33 CFR 157.10d (which are the OPA 90 double hull standards). The regulations do not apply to tankers less than 5,000 GT or tank barges of any size. 6. Applicable cargoes. The NPRM proposed to include ``oil'' cargoes, without distinguishing between petroleum and non-petroleum (i.e., animal or vegetable) oils. Six comments indicated that tankers carrying animal and vegetable oils should be excluded from the escort regulations. One comment went on to say that if these oils are included, then the ruling would have a detrimental economic impact on his small business. The issue of requiring escorts for tankers carrying only animal and vegetable oils, and other non-petroleum oils, warrants further consideration. This will be addressed in the ongoing rulemaking (CGD 91&hyph;202a) which concerns other U.S. waters where an escort may be required and other criteria for defining the vessels that should be escorted. Therefore, ยง168.30 of this rule applies only to petroleum oils (MARPOL Annex I), which are listed in 46 CFR Table 30.25&hyph;1 as pollution category I cargoes.
