FR941219-2-00065 FR941219-2-00042 Analysis of Proposed Consent Order To Aid Public Comment The Federal Trade Commission (``Commission'') has accepted for public comment from Red Apple Companies, Inc., John A. Catsimatidis, Supermarket Acquisition Corporation and Sloan's Supermarkets, Inc. (a/k/a Designcraft Industries, Inc.) (collectively referred to as the ``Red Apple respondents'') an agreement containing a proposed consent order. The Commission is placing the agreement containing a proposed consent order on the public record for sixty (60) days for receipt of comments by interested persons. Comments received during this period will become part of the public record. After sixty (60) days, the Commission will again review the agreement and the comments received and will decide whether it should withdraw from the agreement or make final the agreement's proposed order. The Commission issued a complaint in this matter on May 27, 1994, stating that it has reason to believe that the Red Apple respondents' acquisitions of Sloan's supermarkets between 1991 and 1993 in residential neighborhoods in New York County, New York, located within the Upper East Side, the Upper West Side, Chelsea, and Greenwich Village would substantially lessen competition in violation of section 7 of the Clayton Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 18, and section 5 of the FTC Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 45. The agreement containing a proposed consent order would, if issued by the Commission, settle the charges alleged in the Commission's complaint. The proposed consent order requires the Red Apple respondents to divest a combination of six supermarkets from two lists of supermarkets organized by geographic market. The listed supermarkets are all located in the Upper East Side, the Upper West Side, Chelsea, and Greenwich Village. Under the proposed consent order, the Red Apple respondents must divest one supermarket within each of the four geographic markets and two additional supermarkets in those geographic markets. The proposed consent order gives the Red Apple respondents 12 months to divest these supermarkets to an acquirer or acquirers that receive the prior approval of the Commission. Under the proposed consent order, if the Red Apple respondents fail to satisfy the divestiture provisions, the Commission may appoint a trustee to divest supermarkets to satisfy the terms of the order. The proposed consent order also prohibits the Red Apple respondents, for a ten-year period, from acquiring, without prior approval from the Commission, any supermarket (or leasehold interest in a supermarket, or stock, share capital, equity or other interest in an entity that owns or operates a supermarket) located in new York County south of 116th Street. The word ``supermarket'' is defined in the order. The proposed consent order also prohibits the Red Apple respondents, for a ten-year period, from entering into or enforcing any agreement that restricts the ability of any person acquiring any supermarket owned or operated by any respondent in New York County south of 116th Street to operate a supermarket or retail food store. Under the proposed consent order, the Red Apple respondents are required to provide to the Commission a report of compliance with the order within sixty (60) days following the date the order becomes final, every sixty (60) days thereafter until the divestitures are completed, and annually for a period of ten years. It is anticipated that the order will resolve the competitive problems alleged in the complaint. The purpose of this analysis is to invite public comment on the proposed consent order to aid the Commission in its determination of whether it should make final the proposed consent order contained in the agreement. This analysis is not intended to constitute an official interpretation of the agreement and proposed consent order, nor is it intended to modify the terms of the agreement and proposed consent order in any way. Donald S. Clark, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31129 Filed 12&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
