FR940722-0-00050 FR940722-0-00013 c. ``Recklessly'' if he engages in the conduct in conscious and unjustifiable disregard of a substantial likelihood of the existence of the relevant facts or risks, such disregard involving a gross deviation from acceptable standards of conduct, except that, as provided in section 12.1&hyph;04&hyph;02, awareness of the risk is not required where its absence is due to self-induced intoxication. d. ``Negligently'' if he engages in the conduct in unreasonable disregard of a substantial likelihood of the existence of the relevant facts or risks, such disregard involving a gross deviation from acceptable standards of conduct. e. ``Willfully'' if he engages in the conduct intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly. North Dakota stated that the above-described standards are more stringent than the Federal standard. North Dakota also stated that it has been enforcing a similar standard in its environmental laws for a long time without any problems. The Director has reviewed the State definitions of the terms ``knowingly,'' ``willfully,'' and ``negligently'' in connection with the review of proposed NDAC 43&hyph;02&hyph;01&hyph;05. The Director notes that the proposed State standards are substantively different from the Federal standards set forth at 30 CFR 846.5. First, the Federal standard is the same for both individual civil and criminal penalties, while the State proposes two separate standards for individual civil and criminal penalties. Under the Federal rules, a corporate director, officer, or agent may be individually subject to either civil or criminal penalties if that individual both ``knowingly'' and ``willfully'' authorized, ordered, or carried out the act or omission that constitutes the violation. In contrast, the State has proposed two separate standards for individual civil and criminal penalties. Under the State proposal, a corporate director, officer, or agent may be individually subject to criminal penalties in connection with a violation committed by the corporate permittee if the individual knowingly caused the violation. In comparison, under the State proposal, a corporate director, officer, or agent is subject to individual civil penalties if that individual commits a violation ``willfully'' or ``negligently.'' Although North Dakota and OSM use some of the same terms in describing their standards for the imposition of individual civil and criminal penalties, the terms are not defined the same in the State program as they are in the Federal program. For example, the Federal definition of the term ``knowingly'' at 30 CFR 846.5 reads as follows: ``Knowingly'' means that an individual knew or had reason to know in authorizing, ordering or carrying out an act or omission on the part of a corporate permittee that such act or omission constituted a violation, failure or refusal. In addition, the Federal definition of the term ``willfully'' at 30 CFR 846.5 reads as follows: ``Willfully'' means that an individual acted (1) Either intentionally, voluntarily or consciously, and (2) With intentional disregard or plain indifference to legal requirements in authorizing, ordering or carrying out a corporate permittee's action or omission that constituted a violation, failure or refusal. After conducting an independent review and analysis, the Director agrees with North Dakota that its proposed standards for the imposition of individual civil and criminal penalties appear to be more stringent than the Federal standards. Pursuant to section 505(b) of SMCRA and the Federal regulations at 30 CFR 730.11(b), the State regulatory authority has the discretion to impose land use and environmental controls and regulations on coal exploration operations that are more stringent than those imposed under SMCRA and the Federal regulations. Moreover, the State regulatory authority has the discretion to impose land use and environmental controls and regulations on coal exploration operations for which no Federal counterpart exists. Section 505(b) of SMCRA and 30 CFR 730.11(b) dictate that such provisions shall not be construed to be inconsistent with the Federal program. Accordingly, the Director is approving North Dakota's proposed definitions of the terms ``knowingly,'' ``willfully,'' and ``negligently'' and that portion of North Dakota's Criminal Code at section 12.1&hyph;02&hyph;02 that contains those definitions, as incorporated at NDAC 43&hyph;02&hyph;01&hyph;05, as part of North Dakota's coal exploration program.
