FR940627-0-00070 FR940627-0-00012 (B) Plan benefiting collectively bargained employees. If a plan benefits both collectively bargained employees and noncollectively bargained employees, the collectively bargained employees are one disaggregation population and the noncollectively bargained employees are another disaggregation population. If the population of collectively bargained employees includes employees covered under different collective bargaining agreements, the population of employees covered under each collective bargaining agreement is also a separate disaggregation population. (C) Plan maintained by more than one employer. If a plan benefits employees of more than one employer, the employees of each employer are separate disaggregation populations. In this case, the portion of the plan benefiting the employees of each employer is treated as a separate plan maintained by that employer, which must satisfy section 410(b) by reference only to that employer's employees. However, for purposes of this paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(C), if the plan of one employer (or, in the case of a plan maintained by more than one employer, the plan provisions applicable to the employees of one employer) treats compensation or service with another employer as compensation or service with the first employer, then the current accruals attributable to that compensation or service are treated as provided to an employee of the first employer under the plan of the first employer (or the portion of a plan maintained by more than one employer benefiting employees of the first employer), and the provisions of paragraph (c)(4)(i)(C) of this section do not apply to those accruals. Thus, for example, if Plan A maintained by Employer X imputes service or compensation for an employee of Employer Y, then Plan A is not treated as benefiting the employees of more than one employer merely because of this imputation. (5) Additional rule for plans benefiting employees of more than one qualified separate line of business. If a plan benefiting employees of more than one qualified separate line of business satisfies the reasonable classification requirement of §1.410(b)&hyph;4(b) before the application of paragraph (c)(4) of this section, then any portion of the plan that is treated as a separate plan as a result of the application of paragraphs (c)(4)(i)(A) and (ii)(A) of this section is deemed to satisfy that requirement. * * * * * Par. 6. Section 1.414(q)&hyph;1 is added to read as follows: §1.414(q)&hyph;1 Highly compensated employee. Q&A&hyph;1 through Q&A&hyph;8: [Reserved] See §1.414(q)&hyph;1T, Q&A&hyph;1 through Q&A&hyph;8 for further guidance. Q&hyph;9: How is the top-paid group determined? A&hyph;9: (a) [Reserved] See §1.414(q)&hyph;1T, Q&A&hyph;9(a) for further guidance. (b) Number of employees in the top-paid group _(1) Exclusions. The number of employees who are in the top-paid group for a year is equal to 20 percent of the total number of active employees of the employer for such year. However, solely for purposes of determining the total number of active employees in the top-paid group for a year, the employees described in §1.414(q)&hyph;1T, A&hyph;9(b)(1) (i), (ii) and (iii)(B) are disregarded. Paragraph (g) of this A&hyph;9 provides rules for determining those employees who are excluded for purposes of applying section 414(r)(2)(A), relating to the 50-employee requirement applicable to a qualified separate line of business. (i) through (iii) [Reserved] See §1.414(q)&hyph;1T, Q&A&hyph;9(b)(1) (i) through (iii) for further guidance. (2) Alternative exclusion provisions _(i) and (ii) [Reserved] See §1.414(q)&hyph;1T, Q&A&hyph;9(b)(2) (i) and (ii) for further guidance. (iii) Method of election. The elections in this paragraph (b)(2) must be provided for in all plans of the employer and must be uniform and consistent with respect to all situations in which the section 414(q) definition is applicable to the employer. Thus, with respect to all plan years beginning in the same calendar year, the employer must apply the test uniformly for purposes of determining its top-paid group with respect to all its qualified plans and employee benefit plans. If either election is changed during the determination year, no recalculation of the look-back year based on the new election is required, provided the change in election does not result in discrimination in operation. (c) through (f) [Reserved] See §1.414(q)&hyph;1T, Q&A&hyph;9 (c) through (f) for further guidance.
