FR941102-2-00086 FR941102-2-00063 III. Workshop Content and Structure The workshop is structured to include NRC staff presentations during the morning and to allow interested parties to make presentations during the afternoon. An opportunity for questions and comments following presentations is planned. In the afternoon session, participants will be allowed to express their views and make presentations. Participants who will be making presentations will be scheduled in the order in which they notified the staff of their intention to make a presentation. Comments will be taken from parties in the order in which they notified the staff of their intent to comment. The order of comment will be: (1) Parties who notified the staff by November 28, 1994; (2) Parties registering to comment before 8:30 a.m. the day of the workshop; and (3) Parties who have not given prior notice. Organizations that notify the staff by November 28, 1994, of their intent to give a presentation will be limited to 20 minutes. Otherwise organization and individual presentations and comments will be limited to 5 minutes. These time limits may be adjusted depending on the number of presentations and comments. The workshop will be transcribed, and the transcript will be available in the NRC Public Document Room. To foster meaningful discussions during this session and to aid participants in preparing their presentations and comments, participants should consider the following set of questions: •What additional areas should be considered regarding the increased use of PRA in regulatory applications? •What areas currently in the PRA Implementation Plan require additional emphasis? What areas are emphasized too much? •Is the overall impact of the PRA Policy Statement on regulatory activities clearly evident by the activities in the PRA Implementation Plan? •What impact will the PRA Policy Statement and the PRA Implementation Plan have on those organizations that the NRC regulates? Dated in Rockville, Maryland, this 27th day of October 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Edward J. Butcher, Chief, Probabilistic Safety Assessment Branch, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27125 Filed 11&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
