FR941021-0-00163 FR941021-0-00022 80. Subsection 309(j)(3) requires the Commission to seek to promote ``economic opportunity and competition,'' among other goals, ``by disseminating licenses among a wide variety of applicants, including [DEs],'' and Subsection 309(j)(4)(D) directs us to ensure, when prescribing regulations governing auction procedures or eligibility to apply for licenses to be assigned by auction, that DEs are given an opportunity to participate in the provision of spectrum-based services. The statute, however, directs the Commission, in specifying auction procedures, to pursue other objectives, aside from ensuring opportunity for DEs. Among these are the goals of promoting ``the development and rapid deployment of new technologies, products, and services for the benefit of the public, including those residing in rural areas, without administrative or judicial delays''and of promoting ``efficient and intensive use of the electromagnetic spectrum.'' 47 U.S.C. ยง309(j)(3). In the Notice , we tentatively concluded auctions would further these objectives and we affirm these conclusions on this Report and Order. 90 The statute also implicitly leaves it to the Commission to strike a balance in the public interest among the statutory objectives. 91 Here, only six applications are being considered. No one disputes TRW's assertion that none of the applicants qualifies as small, minority-owned or women-owned. 92 It therefore would appear that to disseminate Big LEO licenses to DEs we would have to open a new filing window for Big LEO applications. 93 While in some circumstances it might be feasible to take such an approach, we believe that it is not the case here. To ensure that this needed service is made available as quickly as possible, particularly to rural residents not otherwise served by the telecommunications infrastructure, and to preserve the opportunity for the United States to continue its leadership role in promoting global development through an enhanced global information infrastructure, we are committed to awarding licenses by January 31, 1995. 94 Opening a new filing window would make that goal impossible. Potential new applicants would need a reasonable amount of time, traditionally three months from the date of publication in the Federal Register , in which to develop and submit system proposals. 95 Opening a new filing window also would be inequitable to the pending applicants, who filed their proposals well before Section 309(j) was enacted and who have spent considerable time and expense participating in this proceeding. In light of these considerations, we believe that an auction to award Big LEO licenses is an appropriate exercise of our discretion. 90 See Notice , note 2, supra , at para. 43. 91 See Implementation of Section 309(j) , note 79, supra , at para. 74. 92 See Docket 93&hyph;253 for criteria. 93 DEs can, of course, participate in the Big LEO industry by leasing space segment capacity, by manufacturing user handsets, or by offering services to end users. 94 See also note 6, supra. 95 See NVNG MSS Order , note 48, supra. See also RDSS Licensing Order , note 37, supra , where licensee was given six months to amend its applications to conform to rules as adopted. 81. Other considerations . In the Notice , we recognized that although auctions appear advantageous for many reasons, the approach might have unintended consequences internationally. In particular, we noted that other countries may look to our lead in imposing these costs on Big LEO systems. 96 Given the number of countries that may be served by Big LEO systems, we stated that these costs may be considerable and may preclude a U.S.-owned system from serving other countries. We noted, however, that these costs may not in fact be significant in countries that seek to ensure that voice MSS is available within its borders. We further noted that applicants will pay no more than that which they determine is consistent with their expected revenues from providing service in that country. Nevertheless, we recognize that the international nature of the Big LEO service raises concerns that are not applicable to the domestic-only services for which auctions are implemented and requested comment on this issue. 96 Notice , note 2, supra , at para. 44. 82. Motorola, Constellation, LQP, TRW, and COMSTAT all contend that an auction is inadvisable because it would set a bad example for foreign governments. If foreign governments were to use auctions to assign spectrum rights, they maintain, the cost of providing global MSS would be driven up, possibly to such an extent that Big LEO operators would be unable to provide worldwide service. TRW asserts that the consequent cost increases might deter most potential entrants, to the impairment of competition, or might even make it infeasible for anyone to provide Big LEO service. COMSAT speculates that foreign governments might conduct auctions in a manner that places U.S. companies at a disadvantage. 83. The comments have provided no concrete evidence, however, that an auction would have these harmful effects. We have concluded elsewhere that, as a general matter, the public interest is served by awarding licenses to those who assign the highest value to them. 97 In light of these substantial public interest benefits, the commenters' mere recitals of the concerns we raised in the Notice do not persuade us that auctions are inadvisable. 97 Implementation of 309(j) , note 79, supra , at paras. 73&hyph;74 and n.65. 84. We doubt, first, that our choice of licensing method for the Big LEO service will determine foreign licensing practices as much as the commenters predict. Foreign officials already know that we recently obtained a statutory mandate for assigning spectrum licenses by competitive bidding and have decided to assign licenses of enormous aggregate commercial value for a variety of new services by that means. We assume that those responsible for assigning spectrum rights in other countries will conduct spectrum auctions if that would best serve the interests that they are obligated to promote, regardless of what we choose to do in this proceeding. Further, even if auctions are implemented, applicants will bid no more at an auction than that which they determine is economically feasible. 85. Conversely, TRW contends that if we assign Big LEO licenses at auction and foreign authorities issue such licenses to others free of charge, the U.S. licensees would be at a competitive disadvantage in the global market. Constellation similarly maintains that by assigning the licenses at auction the Commission ``would create an incentive for U.S. companies to develop LEO technology through foreign based systems that did not have to spend significant amounts of capital for operating licenses.'' TRW also contends that companies who purchase MSS licenses in the United States at auction might encounter unfair competition from INMARSAT because the INMARSAT Convention and the Communications Satellite Act might be construed to require that COMSAT be allowed to access INMARSAT capacity from the U.S. without paying for spectrum use. 86. We do not believe the prospect that auctions will be conducted only in the United States would disadvantage U.S. licensees globally. We have not yet decided whether, and the terms on which, foreign providers, including INMARSAT, will be able to provide domestic service. We envision that reciprocal bilateral arrangements on a country-by-country basis will be negotiated. In reaching and implementing these arrangements, we will consider at that time whether foreign entities not subject to U.S. auctions would have the economic incentive and ability to offer domestic service at significantly lower rates than Big LEO operators who purchased spectrum. Further, under this scenario, both U.S. and foreign operators appear able to receive licenses free of charge in a foreign country. We fail to see how this would put U.S. operators at a ``global disadvantage.'' Finally, contrary to Constellation's argument, we see no reason to suppose that applicants who could compete successfully as providers of Big LEO service in the U.S. market would lose interest in developing systems in the United States merely because it would be necessary to purchase licenses. If it would be undesirable to serve the U.S. market at high spectrum prices, the prices paid at an auction should fall until serving the U.S. market is commercially desirable.
