FR940830-0-00008 FR940830-0-00003 This rule will have no affect on the outgoing quality regulation of the non-signer provisions. The quality and handling requirements, as specified in §997.30 Outgoing regulations applicable to non-signatory 1993&hyph;94 crop peanuts, continues to be effective for 1994&hyph;95 crop peanuts. This interim rule also updates addresses and facsimile numbers, where applicable, of approved aflatoxin testing laboratories that perform chemical analyses required by the non-signatory handling regulations. This information is provided in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of §997.30 Outgoing regulations. Non-signatory handlers may send peanut samples to any laboratory on the list, per instructions specified in paragraph (c) of the outgoing regulation. This rule also updates information in paragraph (c)(5)(ii) identifying the contact point of the USDA Science Division headquarter's office. Based on available information, the Administrator of the AMS has determined that the issuance of this interim final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. After consideration of all available information, it is found that this action will tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553, it is also found and determined, upon good cause, that it is impractical, unnecessary and contrary to the public interest to give preliminary notice prior to putting this rule into effect, and that good cause exists for not postponing the effective date of this action until 30 days after publication in the Federal Register because: (1) This action merely clarifies restrictions on peanut handlers not subject to the Agreement; (2) the new crop year begins on July 1, 1994, and handlers need to know the regulations applicable to handling the 1994 and subsequent crop year peanuts as soon as possible; (3) this action brings the quality requirements under Part 997 into conformity with those under the Agreement, as required by the Act; and (4) this action provides a 30-day comment period, and any comments received will be considered prior to finalization of this rule. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 997 Food grades and standards, Peanuts, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 7 CFR Part 997 is amended as follows: PART 997_PROVISIONS REGULATING THE QUALITY OF DOMESTICALLY PRODUCED PEANUTS HANDLED BY PERSONS NOT SUBJECT TO THE PEANUT MARKETING AGREEMENT 1. The authority citation for 7 CFR Part 997 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 601&hyph;674. 2. In §997.20, paragraph (e) is amended by removing the second sentence and adding in its place the words: ``Peanuts intended for seed use, produced under the auspices of a State agency which regulates or controls the production of seed peanuts, which do not meet Segregation 1 requirements shall be stored and shelled separate from peanuts intended for human consumption. However, Segregation 2 seed peanuts, produced under the auspices of the State agency, which contain up to 3 percent damaged kernels and are free from visible Aspergillus flavus may be stored and shelled with Segregation 1 seed peanuts which are also produced under the auspices of the State agency.'' 3. In §997.30, paragraphs (c)(5) (i) and (ii) are revised to read as follows: §997.30 Outgoing regulation. * * * * * (c) *␣*␣* (5) *␣*␣* (i) Laboratories at the following locations are approved to perform the chemical analyses required pursuant to this part. The sampling plan and procedures may be obtained from the Division.
