FR940317-1-00136 FR940317-1-00013 (B) The status of the claim will be ascertained at key intervals to ensure that progress is being made, negotiations are proper, and to close the file. The Commander, USARCS will be advised of any problems. (C) If requested by either insurer or NAFI officials, the appropriate claims authority will assist in or conduct negotiations. (D) Where NAFI vehicles are required to be covered by insurance in foreign countries, the insurer will process the claim. However, if the insurer refuses to settle the claim in timely manner or is insolvent, the claim may be processed under subpart J procedures where applicable. §536.204 Persons generating liability. Claims resulting from the acts or omissions of the following classes of persons are cognizable under this section: (a) Civilian employees of nonappropriated fund activities whose salaries are paid from nonappropriated funds. (b) Active duty military personnel while performing off-duty part-time work and for which they are compensated from nonappropriated funds. (c) A claims approval or settlement authority will ask the Commander, USARCS for an advisory opinion prior to settling any claim where the person whose conduct generated the claim does not clearly fall within the above listed categories. §536.205 Claims payable from appropriated funds. Claims payable from appropriated funds will not be considered under this section or paid from nonappropriated funds. Such claims include those resulting from_ (a) Acts or omissions of military personnel while performing assigned military duties in connection with nonappropriated activities. (b) Acts or omissions of civilian employees paid from appropriated funds in connection with nonappropriated activities. (c) Negligent maintenance of a facility used by a nonappropriated fund activity but for which the command concerned is responsible. (d) Temporary use of a nonappropriated fund facility by an appropriated fund activity. (e) Operation of Government vehicles dispatched from motor pools on authorized missions for nonappropriated fund activities when the driver is a member or civilian employee of the DA. §536.206 Settlement. (a) Settlement. Claims cognizable under this section and processed under subparts C, D, E, J or K will be settled by claims authorities authorized to settle claims under those chapters subject to the same monetary limitations and limitations on denial authority, except that TJAG, TAJAG, and the Commander, USARCS, or designee, may settle such claims without regard to monetary limitations. (b) Finality of settlement. The determination of a claims settlement authority on a claim cognizable under this section is final and conclusive. However, a claim processed under subpart C may be appealed in accordance with §536.51(d), and claims processed under subparts D, E, J or K may be reconsidered in accordance with the paragraphs concerning reconsideration in those subparts. §536.207 Payment. (a) Transmission for payment. When a claim for loss of or damage to household goods or hold baggage shipped or stored by an AAFES or NAFI employee is considered under this section and determined to be meritorious in whole or in part, the approval or settlement authority will transmit the entire claims file to the appropriate disbursing office (see paragraph (b) of this section) for payment. When any other claim is considered under this section and determined to be meritorious in whole or in part, the approval or settlement authority will transmit to the appropriate disbursing office the original and one copy of_ (1) The claim form. (2) The action by the approval or settlement authority. (3) The settlement agreement, if required by subpart B. (b) Disbursing offices. Normally, claims settled under this section will be transmitted for payment as indicated below. (1) Claims over $2,500 generated by AAFES activities will be transmitted to Headquarters, Army and Air Force Exchange Service, ATTN: Comptroller Division, Insurance Branch, P.O. Box 660202, Dallas, TX 75266&hyph;0202.
