FR940505-1-00121 FR940505-1-00012 b. Air Quality Significance_ Heavy-duty highway mobile sources are significant contributors to the emissions inventories in all three of the FIP areas. The table below (``1990 Base Year Inventory of Heavy Duty Vehicles'') details the level of emissions from onroad heavy-duty mobile sources in each of the FIP inventories for the 1990 base year. The information contained in this table illustrates the large portion of the FIP inventories that is attributable to emissions from onroad heavy-duty mobile sources. 1990 Base Year Inventory of Heavy Duty Vehicles 1␣ 1Sacramento 2VOC 2NO X 1Ventura 2VOC 2NO X 1South Coast 2VOC 2NO X Onroad HDVs (tons) 12.7 48.3 5.5 14.8 107.8 246.7 Percent of total inventory 5 26 5 17 6 19 c. Enhanced In-Use Compliance Program for Heavy-duty Vehicles_ EPA is proposing an enhanced in-use compliance program for onhighway heavy-duty engines. The heavy-duty vehicle program described in Appendix I Section B is based in large part on the enhanced light-duty vehicle program, described in Appendix I Section A. However, certain changes and additions were made in order to deal with the differences between heavy- and light-duty vehicles. The reader is advised to read the discussion of the enhanced in-use compliance light-duty vehicle program as the information will facilitate understanding the heavy-duty program. The enhanced program for heavy-duty vehicles consists of several parts: More stringent emission standards, new full useful life requirements, high-emitting interstate truck regulations, expanded recall scope, a fleet averaging program and I/M for certain vehicle classes. Each of these program elements is discussed further in Appendix I Section B; however, a short introduction is provided here. Heavy-duty on-highway engines contributed 19 percent of South Coast NO X emissions and 6 percent of South Coast VOC emissions in 1990. These engines are predicted to continue to contribute significantly to the inventory, even though, for NO X , the applicable standards have decreased in recent years (1989 and 1990) and will continue to do so (1998). These NO X inventory contributions continue to be significant largely because the heavy-duty engine NO X standards have been introduced relatively recently and because of a continued increase in heavy duty VMT. In addition, the heavy-duty NO X standards are significantly less stringent than the light-duty standards due to the historical inability of heavy-duty diesel engines to attain low NO X levels. The VOC contribution from heavy-duty engines, although smaller than the NO X contribution, is also a significant part of the inventory. Additional reductions in the contribution of heavy-duty engines to the NO X and VOC inventory are required in order to meet the objectives of the FIP. Thus, EPA has developed the enhanced heavy-duty vehicle program being proposed today. California's heavy-duty engine standards are not significantly more stringent than federal standards. A large part of the reason for this relates to interstate commerce. Approximately 22 percent of the VMT traveled by heavy-duty trucks in California are from out-of-state trucks engaged in interstate commerce. California cannot effectively deal with its air quality problems without regulating these engines, but the State has hesitated from regulating interstate commerce because of concerns about the impact on in-state firms and lawsuits. In order to effectively deal with NO X from heavy-duty engines, controls on interstate trucking must be considered. For these reasons, the program proposed today for heavy-duty vehicles includes not only tighter standards (as described in Appendix I Section B(3)) and a fleet averaging program (as described in Appendix I Section B(9)), but also selected controls on higher emitting interstate trucks (as described in Appendix I Section B(7)). Larger heavy-duty engines see substantially heavier use than smaller engines. These engines are built to very high durability standards and are designed to be cost effectively rebuilt one or more times within their total lifetime. To provide assurance of emissions control effectiveness over this extended actual life, this proposal includes revised recall provisions (similar to those for light-duty) and certification and liability requirements for rebuilt engines (as described in Appendix I Section B(4)).
