FR940112-2-00142 FR940112-2-00100 (a) Methodology for identifying relevant assistance programs and other sources of expertise outside applicant's organization. (b) Methodology for assessing relevance and effectiveness of resources in addressing identified industry needs. 3. Coordination with existing resources (25 points): Applicants should set forth a plan for interacting or coordinating with appropriate existing and/or newly-formed state and local technology-industrial assistance services, potential industry partners, and appropriate federal services, to develop a coordinated state-wide delivery system. Factors that will be considered include: (a) Methodology and adequacy of plans for forming effective linkages and partnerships necessary to plan for and provide a coordinated range of services to meet the needs of the target population. (b) Safeguards to ensure that planned activity does not duplicate existing services or resources. 4. Management (15 points): Applicants should specify plans for proper organization, staffing, and management of the planning process. Factors that will be considered include: (a) Appropriateness and authority of the governing or managing organization to conduct a state-wide (or regional) planning process. (b) Qualifications of the project team and its leadership to conduct a state-wide (or regional) planning process. (c) Appropriateness of the organizational approach for carrying out the planning activity. (d) Evidence of significant involvement and support by the state and by private industry. 5. Financial plan (15 points): Applicants should show the relevance and cost effectiveness of the financial plan for meeting the objectives of the project; the firmness and level of the applicant's total financial support for the project; and the plan to maintain the program after the cooperative agreement has expired. Factors that will be considered include: (a) Cost effectiveness of the budget. (b) Strength of commitment of proposer's cost share. (c) Effectiveness of management plans for control of budget. (d) Appropriateness of matching contribution. (e) Plan for maintaining the program after the cooperative agreement has expired. Selection Procedures The Director of NIST will appoint an impartial evaluation panel to review and evaluate all qualified proposals in accordance with the evaluation criteria and values set forth in this notice. From the qualified proposals a group of finalists will be selected based on this review. This review process should take approximately 30 days. The Director of NIST, or her designee, shall select awardees based on the rank order of total evaluation scores, geographic distribution, and the availability of funds. Eligibility Eligible applicants for these projects are state technology extension programs operated by state governments, or on behalf of state governments by private or public non-profit organizations. All states will be eligible, regardless of state size, industrial density/sparseness, or number of existing industrial assistance programs. States that have received previous planning grants remain eligible for additional Program Planning projects. Applicants will be able to propose conducting the planning activities themselves or arranging for some or all of the planning activities to be carried out by a second party. One proposal for Program Planning will be accepted per state. Financial Information A matching contribution from each applicant is required. NIST may provide financial support up to 50% of the total budget for the project, however, the federal share may not exceed $150,000. The applicant's share of the budget may include dollar contributions from state, county, industrial or other non-federal sources and in-kind contributions necessary and reasonable for proper accomplishment of project objectives. Required Letters A letter will be required from the Governor indicating that the eligible applicant is the lead organization in that state for Program Planning activities, and acknowledging that there is only one proposal from that state for a Program Planning project. Where more than one such otherwise qualified Program Planning proposal per state is submitted, all such proposals from that state may be disqualified.
