FR940428-2-00153 FR940428-2-00072 4. Antidegradation Provisions The conditions of the permit reflect the goal of the CWA and EPA to achieve and maintain water quality standards. The environmental regulations pertaining to the State Antidegradation Policies which protect the State's surface waters from falling below State standards for water quality are found in the following provisions: Maine Title 38, Article 4&hyph;A, Section 464.4.F.; Massachusetts Water Quality Standards 314 CMR 4.04 Antidegradation Provisions; and New Hampshire policy RSA 485&hyph;A:8, VI Part Env-Ws 437.01 and Env-Ws 437.02. This general permit will not apply to any new or increased discharge unless it can be determined that such discharges will result in insignificant effects to the receiving waters. This determination shall be made in accordance with the appropriate State Antidegradation Policies. D. Monitoring and Reporting Requirements Effluent limitations and monitoring requirements which are included in the general permit describe the requirements to be imposed on the facilities to be covered. Facilities covered by the final general permits will be required to submit to EPA, Region I, and the appropriate State authority, a Discharge Monitoring Report (DMR) containing effluent data. The frequency of reporting is determined in accordance with each State's provisions (see the individual State permits). The monitoring requirements have been established to yield data representative of the discharge under authority of Section 308(a) of the Act and 40 CFR ยง122.41(j), 122.44(i) and 122.48, and as certified by the State. E. Endangered Species Non-contact cooling water discharges that may adversely affect a listed or proposed to be listed endangered or threatened species or its critical habitat are not authorized under this general permit without the written approval of the Fish and Wildlife Service and/or the National Marine Fisheries Service. The Fish and Wildlife Service has indicated that the dwarf wedge mussel (Alasmidonta heterodon), a Federally listed endangered species, occurs in a stretch of the Connecticut River from Lebanon, New Hampshire to Weathersfield Bow, Vermont, in the Ashuelot River in Keene, New Hampshire, and historically from a number of rivers in Massachusetts. Any facility whose discharge may adversely effect the mussel or any other threatened or endangered species or its habitat is required to contact the Fish and Wildlife Service at the following address in order to make a formal determination: United States Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service, 400 Ralph Pill Marketplace, 22 Bridge Street, Concord, New Hampshire 03301&hyph;4901. The National Marine Fisheries Service has indicated that the endangered shortnose sturgeon (Acipenser brevirostrum) inhabits certain sections of the Penobscot, Kennebec and Androscoggin Rivers in Maine, and the Merrimack and Connecticut Rivers in Massachusetts. Any facility whose discharge may adversely effect the sturgeon or any other threatened or endangered species or its habitat is required to contact the National Marine Fisheries Service at the following address: United States Department of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, National Marine Fisheries Service, Habitat and Protected Resources Division, One Blackburn Drive, Gloucester, Massachusetts 01930&hyph;2298. F. Other Requirements
