FR940830-0-00015 FR940830-0-00005 The OTS agrees with these comments and, accordingly, the final regulations continue to prohibit Federal mutual associations from combining with stock form institutions where the resulting institution is not a mutual savings association, except in the context of a mutual to stock conversion, and subject to other limited exceptions. Nevertheless, as more fully described below, the OTS has determined that Federal mutual savings associations may, in general, combine with stock form institutions where the Federal mutual association is the resulting association. The final rule includes revisions to 12 CFR 546.2 and 546.3 to effect these changes. C. Review Period Under Section 10(s)(2) of the HOLA The proposal solicited comment on processing procedures and time frames, including whether applications subject to section 10(s)(2) of the HOLA should be deemed ``filed'' when deemed complete under the OTS's general application processing procedures in 12 CFR Part 516. Under the proposal, the 60-day review time for these applications would not commence until an application is reviewed by the OTS and deemed complete under part 516. Some commenters objected to the OTS's interpretation of the term ``filed'' in section 10(s) of the HOLA. These commenters suggested that the review time frames for applications under section 10(s)(2) should commence when an application is first submitted to the OTS, not when it is deemed complete. One commenter supported the proposal, noting that any regulation providing different ``filed'' dates for applications under part 516 and section 10(s) of the HOLA would serve no purpose and would create confusion. As explained in more detail in Section III.D. below, the final rule adopts the proposed application review time frames. To ensure uniform treatment of all transactional applications, the OTS believes applications subject to section 10(s)(2) of the HOLA should be processed, to the extent possible, consistently with all applications under part 516. Also, the processing time frames in the rule are consistent with the procedures established by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency for conversion applications by national banks under section 502(b) of the FDICIA. 7 7 12 U.S.C. 215c; see Comptroller of the Currency's Manual for Corporate Activities, Vol. 1, Policies and Procedures (January 1992). D. Community Reinvestment Act Issues Comments were solicited on whether the OTS should have the ability to suspend the processing time frames under section 10(s)(2) of the HOLA for applications challenged on Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) 8 grounds. 8 Housing and Community Development Act of 1977, 12 U.S.C. 2901&hyph;2907. Two commenters opposed any regulation that would permit suspension of the review time frames for applications subject to section 10(s)(2) of the HOLA. 9 One of these commenters asserted that the OTS lacks the authority to review an applicant's CRA compliance record where a savings association acquires another insured depository institution in an Oakar transaction under section 5(d)(3) of the FDIA. 9 Two other commenters stated that any processing suspension should be limited to one or two 30-day periods. This commenter asserted that although section 5(d)(3) of the FDIA requires the OTS to consider the factors set forth in section 18(c) of the FDIA (the Bank Merger Act (BMA)) in acting upon an Oakar transaction, the BMA is not itself applicable to such transactions. Therefore, according to the commenter, an application to engage in an Oakar transaction is not an ``application for a deposit facility'' within the meaning of the CRA, and the CRA requirement that the OTS take an institution's CRA record into account in its evaluation of an application for a deposit facility 10 is not applicable. 10 12 U.S.C. 2903. We find the commenter's assertions to be unpersuasive. Section 5(d)(3) of the FDIA merely establishes an exception to the general moratorium on insurance fund ``conversion transactions'' set forth at section 5(d)(2)(A)(ii) of the FDIA. Section 5(d)(3) does not state that Oakar transactions are excepted from all otherwise applicable approval requirements, and the BMA itself includes no exception from its plain language with respect to Oakar transactions. Moreover, the authorization provided by section 10(s) of the HOLA is subject to section 5(d)(3) of the FDIA and the BMA, and all other applicable laws. The OTS, after further consideration of its applications processing procedures, observes that the procedures in part 516 of the OTS's regulations are intended to ensure that an application will not be deemed complete until expiration of the public comment period and resolution of any protests or other significant issues raised during that period. Accordingly, any challenges to a transaction on CRA grounds would be resolved prior to the commencement of the processing time frames under section 10(s)(2) of the HOLA. The OTS has amended the publication procedures for applications under ยง563.22(a) to ensure that the public comment period has concluded before the OTS is required to make a completeness determination regarding such applications.
