FR941012-0-00062 FR941012-0-00011 Finally, several commenters said that employers should not be required to pay for certain PPE because the custom in the logging industry is that employees, especially piece-rate workers, provide their own PPE, particularly logging boots (Ex. 5&hyph;11, 5&hyph;24, 5&hyph;45, 5&hyph;67, 5&hyph;74 through 5&hyph;92). These commenters said that piece-rate workers provide all ``tools of the trade,'' that includes some types of PPE. However, the record also shows that some logging establishments do provide logging boots (Ex. 5&hyph;32; Tr. W1 177). For example, one commenter said: [T]he way we set it up is that when you're with us for one year we will buy you three pair of boots and we will supply all safety equipment. After you are with us for one month, we will supply safety chaps, the helmet, the whole works. The first day you come on the job we will supply the helmet, a helmet with the eye protection and the ear protection (Tr. W1 177). Another commenter said: In most instances items such as ear plugs, safety glasses, bucking chaps or any other safety item required to work in a safe environment are provided (Ex. 5&hyph;32). OSHA has carefully reviewed the evidence in the record and, for several reasons, has decided in the final rule to delete the general requirement that the employer be required to provide logging boots. However, the final rule does require that such boots be worn by logging employees, and holds the employer responsible for assuring that the employee has logging boots and wears them. As to the other PPE requirements specified in paragraph (d), OSHA has retained the language of the pulpwood logging and proposed standards that the employer provide such PPE at no cost to the employee. The OSH Act imposes on employers the responsibility for compliance with standards and for providing safe working conditions for employees. This responsibility has been recognized in OSHA's personal protective equipment standards at 29 CFR 1910.132 through 29 CFR 1910.138. Section 1910.132(a) establishes the employer's obligation to provide and maintain personal protective equipment whenever such equipment is necessary by reason of the hazards in the workplace. Section 1910.132(b) does recognize that in some limited circumstances that employees may provide their own PPE. However, OSHA emphasizes that this practice is not the norm, but rather an exception based on unusual or specific circumstances. In addition, section 1910.132(b) underscores the employer's continuing obligation to assure the adequacy and maintenance of the PPE. The record shows that special circumstances exist in the logging industry which may make it appropriate for employees to provide their own logging boots. First, the record shows that the logging industry is highly transient, and that logging boots, unlike other PPE required by the final rule, are not the kind of PPE that can be reused. Logging boots purchased to fit one employee may not fit the next employee. It is important that logging boots fit properly or the boot may not provide the necessary protection. Therefore, based on current turnover rates in the industry, employers would have to purchase non-reusable logging boots costing $200 to $400 many times a year for newly-hired employees, even though there is a significant likelihood that these employees will remain in the job for only a short time. Second, the record shows that logging employees tend to move from one logging establishment to another, taking their ``tools of the trade'' with them, particularly their logging boots. OSHA believes it may be appropriate in this situation to allow employees to take their logging boots to the next place of employment, rather than requiring the new employer to provide logging boots. Logging boots are both portable (i.e., not limited in use to or maintained at a particular workplace, like respirators for instance) and in most cases they fit only that particular employee therefore they cannot be reused by other employees. The other items of PPE required by the final rule, such as leg and head protection, tend to be both less personal to the employee and more connected to the workplace itself, and can be readily used by other employees.
