FR940928-0-00011 FR940928-0-00002 §51.2925 U.S. No. 1. ``U.S. No. 1'' shall consist of apricots of one variety which are mature but not soft, overripe, or shriveled and which are well formed, free from decay, cuts, skin breaks, and worm holes and free from damage caused by limbrubs, russeting, growth cracks, dirt, scab, scale, hail, bruises, disease, insects, or mechanical or other means. For tolerances see §51.2928. §51.2926 U.S. No. 2. ``U.S. No. 2'' shall consist of apricots of one variety which are mature but not soft, overripe or shriveled and which are free from decay, cuts, skin breaks, and worm holes and free from serious damage caused by limbrubs, growth cracks, dirt, scale, hail, bruises, disease, insects, or mechanical or other means. For tolerances see §51.2928. Marking and Packing Requirements §51.2927 Marking and packing requirements. The minimum size or numerical count of the apricots in any package shall be plainly labeled, stenciled, or otherwise marked on the package. (a) Numerical count. When the numerical count is used the fruit in any sample shall not vary more than one-fourth inch in diameter. See §51.2928(b) Size for tolerances. (b) Minimum size. ``Minimum size'' refers to the diameter of the smallest apricot in the package. It shall be stated in terms of whole and eighth inches, as 11/2 inches min., 15/8 inches min., etc., in accordance with the facts. Tolerances §51.2928 Tolerances. In order to allow for variations incident to proper grading and handling the following tolerances are provided as specified: (a) Defects _(1) U.S. No. 1 grade. Not more than 10 percent, by count, of any lot may be below the requirements of this grade and provided that not more than 5 percent, shall be allowed for defects causing serious damage and further provided that not more than 1 percent, shall be allowed for decay. (2) U.S. No. 2 grade. Not more than 10 percent, by count, of any lot may be below the requirements of this grade, and not more than 1 percent shall be allowed for decay. (b) Size. (1) If packages are marked with numerical count: Not more than 10 percent of the samples in a lot may fail the one-quarter inch variation requirement designated in §51.2927 paragraph (a). (2) If packages are marked with minimum size: Not more than 10 percent, by count, of the apricots in any sample may be below the minimum size specified. Application of Tolerances §51.2929 Application of tolerances. Individual samples are subject to the following limitations: Provided, that the averages for the entire lot are within the tolerances specified for the grade. (a) For a tolerance of 10 percent or more; individual samples in any lot may contain not more than one and one-half times the tolerance specified, except that 1 decayed or 1 seriously damaged specimen may be permitted in any sample. (b) For a tolerance of less than 10 percent, individual samples in any lot may contain not more than double the tolerance specified, except that 1 decayed specimen may be permitted in any sample. Definitions §51.2930 Mature. Mature means having reached the stage of development which will insure a proper completion of the ripening process. §51.2931 Well formed. Well-formed means having the shape characteristic of the variety. §51.2932 Damage. Damage means any specific defect defined in this section; or an equally objectionable variation of any one of these defects, any other defect, or a combination of defects, which materially detracts from the appearance, or the edible or shipping quality of the apricot. The dimensions given for these defects are based on an apricot with a diameter of 17/8 inches (4.8 cm). Correspondingly larger or smaller dimensions are allowed on larger or smaller apricots. The following specific defects shall be considered as damage: (a) Growth Cracks which are unhealed or when well healed and over three-eighths of an inch (9.5 mm) in length. (b) Limbrubs which are smooth and shallow and are more than one-fourth inch (6.4 mm) in diameter. (c) Russeting which is reddish to brown in color and exceeds 10 percent of the surface or thick, rough, and very dark and exceeds 5 percent of the surface. (d) Dirt including spray residue appearing to the extent that it is readily apparent. (e) Scab spots when cracked or aggregating more than three-eighths inch (9.5 mm) in diameter. (f) Scale occurring as scale insects, scale marks, or similar marks which are heavily concentrated or are scattered and aggregating more than one-fourth inch (6.3 mm) in diameter. (g) Hail when the skin has been broken or when not shallow and superficial or more than three-eighths inch (9.5 mm) in diameter in the aggregate. (h) Bruises when: (1) The flesh is discolored deeper than one-eighth of an inch (3.1 mm); or (2) Any bruise causing discoloration exceeding the area of a circle three-eighths inch (9.5 mm) in diameter; or (3) An aggregate of lesser bruises detracting from the appearance, edible or shipping quality of the apricot as much as paragraph (h) (1) or (2) of this section. §51.2933 Serious damage.
