FR940304-2-00105 FR940304-2-00043 [CO&hyph;050&hyph;4110&hyph;03] Intent To Amend the Northeast Resource Management Plan AGENCY: Bureau of Land Management, Interior. ACTION: The Bureau of Land Management, Cañon City District as a cooperating agency with the U.S. Forest Service has prepared an environmental impact statement (EIS) for developing a management strategy on mountain plover. The EIS strategy deals primarily with lands within the Pawnee National Grassland Administrative Boundary. BLM is considering using information from the EIS to make decisions on lands outside the Administrative boundary for oil and gas leasing. Such a decision would be considered an amendment of the Northeast Resource Management Plan, and is in accordance with the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (FLPMA) and 43 CFR part 1600. SUMMARY: The EIS analyzed different management strategies for the protection of mountain plover. The mountain plover has been nominated for listing as a threatened species under the Threatened and Endangered Species Act of 1973 as amended in 1982. The EIS provides new information for making oil and gas decisions on Federal mineral estate within areas considered to be important nesting and summer habitat of the mountain plover. Information in the EIS will be extended to cover lands with BLM-administered mineral estate, beyond the U.S. Forest Service boundaries, that meet the criteria defined in the EIS as mountain plover stronghold habitat. Stipulations for oil and gas leases on these lands will restrict oil and gas drilling and development activities during the period of April 10 to July 10. Because surface ownership of these lands is private, and the surface is subject to manipulation beyond the authority of the Bureau, a waiver will be considered for each lease stipulated for mountain plover protection at the time of application for development. The waiver will be granted if the lands have been rendered unsuitable habitat for plovers because of surface use by the private landowner. A waiver of the mountain plover stipulation does not affect any other existing protection stipulation that may apply to these lands. DATES: Comments on the Bureau intention to apply the EIS analysis to the areas outside the U.S. Forest Service administrative boundaries will be accepted on or before April 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: District Manager, Cañon City District Office, P.O. Box 2200, Cañon City, Colorado 81215&hyph;2200. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Interested parties may request further information at the above address. A copy of the EIS may be obtained from the U.S. Forest Service at the Pawnee National Grasslands, 660 ``O'' Street, suite 4, Greeley, Colorado 80631&hyph;3033. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Plan monitoring information and the EIS indicate a need for this action to protect mountain plovers. Implementation of this decision is consistent with the Bureau goals of biological diversity and ecosystem management. BLM will work with private landowners, local, state, and Federal government agencies, and other land managers to protect the mountain plover. The area covered by this plan amendment will include all BLM managed lands within Adams, Larimer, Logan, Morgan, Washington and Weld counties in the State of Colorado. Stuart L. Freer, Associate District Manager. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4970 Filed 3&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;JB&hyph;M
