FR940119-1-00013 FR940119-1-00004 Special conditions are proposed for the functions and operations of the parachute recovery system. These requirements would ensure the following: (a) There is no fire hazard associated with the system, (b) the system has adequate reliability, (c) the sequence of arming and activating the system will prevent inadvertent deployment, (d) the system can be activated from either the pilot's or the copilot's position by various sized people, (e) the system will be labeled to show its identification function and operating limitations, and (f) if must be shown that the occupants will be protected from serious injury after touchdown under various adverse weather conditions, including high winds. Special conditions are proposed for protection of the parachute recovery system. These requirements would ensure that the system is protected from deterioration due to weathering, corrosion, abrasion, and other causes; and that provisions are made to the parachute canister to provide adequate ventilation and drainage. Special conditions are proposed for a system inspection provision. These requirements would ensure that adequate means are available to permit examination of the parachute recovery system components and that instructions for continued airworthiness are provided. Special conditions are proposed for the operating limitations of the parachute recovery system. These requirements would ensure that the system operating limitations are prescribed for inspecting, repacking, and replacing the system's parachute and deployment mechanism at approved intervals. The FAA has considered the features proposed by Ballistic Recovery Systems, Inc., for the GARD installation in the primary, normal, utility, and acrobatic category airplanes and has concluded that special conditions should be proposed for such systems to provide the necessary level of safety. List of Subjects 14 CFR Part 21 Aircraft, Aviation safety. 14 CFR Part 23 Aircraft, Aviation safety. The authority citation for these special conditions is as follows: Authority: Secs. 313(a), 601, and 603 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958; as amended (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, and 1423); 49 U.S.C. 106(g); 14 CFR 21.16 and 21.101(b)(2); and 14 CFR 11.28 and 11.29(b). The Proposed Special Conditions Accordingly, the Federal Aviation Administration proposes the following special conditions as a part of the type certification basis for primary, normal, utility, and acrobatic category airplanes modified to incorporate parachute recovery systems. 1. Flight test demonstration. (a) The system must be demonstrated in flight to satisfactorily perform its intended function, without exceeding the system deployment limit load factors, for the critical flight conditions. (b) Satisfactory deployment of the parachute must be demonstrated, at the most critical airplane weight and balance, for the following flight conditions: (i) For airplanes_(1) Power off stall with slow entry, (2) Spin with deployment at one turn, (3) Maneuvering speed with 0g normal load, and (4) Never exceed speed with 1g normal load. (ii) In addition, for acrobatic airplanes_during inverted flight. 2. Occupant restraint. Each seat in an airplane modified with the parachute recovery system must be equipped with a restraint system, consisting of a seat belt and shoulder harness, that will protect the occupants from head and upper torso injuries during parachute deployment and ground impact at the critical load conditions. 3. Parachute performance. (a) The parachute must comply with the applicable requirements of TSO&hyph;C23c, or an approved equivalent, for the critical airplane weights. (b) The system limit load factor for deployment must not exceed 80 percent of the airplane ultimate load factor. (c) It must be shown that, although the airplane structure may be damaged, the airplane impact during touchdown will result in an occupant environment in which serious injury to the occupants is improbable. (d) It must be shown that, with the parachute deployed, the airplane can impact the ground in various adverse weather conditions, including winds up to 15 knots, without endangering the airplane occupants. 4. System function and operations. (a) It must be shown that there is no fire hazard associated with activation of the system. (b) The system must be shown to function reliably and to perform its intended function. (c) It must be shown that arming and activating the system can only be accomplished in a sequence that makes inadvertent deployment extremely improbable. (d) It must be demonstrated that the system can be activated without difficulty by various sized people, from a 10th percentile female to a 90th percentile male, while sitting in the pilot or copilot seat. (e) The system must be labeled to show its identification, function, and operating limitations. (f) It must be shown that the occupants will be protected from serious injury after touchdown under various adverse weather conditions, including high winds. 5. System protection. (a) All components of the system must provide protection against deterioration due to weathering, corrosion, abrasion, and other causes. (b) Adequate provisions must be made for ventilation and drainage of the parachute canister and associated structure to ensure the sound condition of the system. 6. System inspection provisions. (a) Instructions for continued airworthiness must be prepared for the system that meet the requirements of ยง23.1529. (b) Adequate means must be provided to permit the close examination of the parachute and other system components to ensure proper functioning, alignment, lubrication, and adjustment during the required inspection of the system. 7. Operating limitations. (a) Operating limitations must be prescribed to ensure proper operation of the system within the approved flight envelope of the airplane. (b) Operating limitations must be prescribed for inspecting, repacking, and replacing the parachute and deployment mechanism at approved intervals. Issued in Kansas City, Missouri, on January 3, 1994. Henry A. Armstrong, Manager, Small Airplane Directorate, Aircraft Certification Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1206 Filed 1&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
