FR940805-1-00111 FR940805-1-00013 (25) Participation in research. The health authority shall prohibit the use of residents for medical, pharmaceutical, or cosmetic experiments. This standard shall not preclude individual treatment of a resident based on his or her need for a specific medical procedure that is not generally available. (26) Confidentiality of health records. In compliance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) (the Privacy Act of 1974) as amended and 42 CFR Part 2 (Regulations on Confidentiality of Alcohol and Drug Abuse Patient Records), the health authority shall keep the health record confidential. The health authority shall require that, at a minimum: (i) the active health record be maintained separately from the program record; (ii) access to the health record be controlled by the health authority; and (iii) the health authority share with the administrator or designee information regarding a resident's medical management, security and the ability to participate in programs. (27) Medical record contents. The health authority shall approve the method of recording entries in the record and the form and format of the record. A resident's medical record shall contain: (i) transferred health record; (ii) copies of the completed intake screening form, if separate; (iii) the health appraisal data collection form, if separate; (iv) prescribed medications and their administration; (v) laboratory, x-ray and diagnostic studies; (vi) the signature and title of each documenter; (vii) consent and refusal forms; (viii) release of information forms; (ix) place, date and time of health encounters; (x) discharge summary of hospitalization (if applicable); and (xi) health service reports (e.g., dental, psychiatric and other consultations). (28) Transfer of health information and records. Summaries or copies of the health record shall be sent routinely to the health authority of any facility to which the resident is transferred. The resident shall authorize, in writing, the transfer of health records and information, unless otherwise provided by law or administrative regulation having the force and effect of law. (k) Release _(1) Temporary release. Temporary release programs shall include: (i) identification of the circumstances for which residents may be released on a temporary basis; (ii) operating procedures; (iii) written rules of resident conduct; (iv) a record-keeping system that documents dates, times and authorization for release; (v) a system to evaluate program effectiveness; and (vi) efforts to obtain community cooperation and support. (2) Work or education release. The administrator or designee shall encourage residents to participate in work or education release programs. The appropriate court shall sanction education and work release. (3) Final release. Written procedures for final release of residents shall include, but not be limited to: (i) verification of identity and release authority, including verification of completion of terms of the sentence; (ii) verification that all resident property leaves with the resident and that no facility property leaves the facility; (iii) completion of any pending action, such as grievances or claims for damages or lost possessions; (iv) transfer of health information, if appropriate; and (v) transportation arrangements, if required. (4) Detainers. The presence of a detainer shall not automatically prevent the release of a resident from the community residential facility. ยง10.44 Juvenile programs and services. (a) Individualized program plan _(1) Development of individual program plan. Within the first two weeks of admission, the facility staff shall design a written program, tailored for each individual, with and for each resident. The staff and resident shall sign and date the plan, which shall include measurable criteria of expected behavior and accomplishments and a time schedule for achieving specified goals. (2) Program review. Staff shall review resident progress every two weeks either through staff meetings or by individual staff; staff shall document the outcome of each review. (3) Change in program. Staff shall review and discuss any change in an individualized program with the resident. Staff and resident shall document the review by signature and date. (4) Personalized program reports. The administrator or designee shall make a quarterly progress report available to the parent or legal guardian of each resident. If a resident remains in program for six months, the administrator or designee shall submit a written report to the committing authority. The report shall state the justification for keeping the resident in the program. (5) Case management. Facility staff shall use a case management approach to provide counseling services for each resident. Staff of the community residential facility shall either provide or coordinate this service. (b) Program coordination _(1) Availability of programs. The administrator or designee shall develop a written plan to provide activities, programs and services for residents to prevent enforced idleness. Programs and services, appropriate to the needs of the juvenile population, shall be available in the facility or accessible in the community. Programs and services shall include, but not be limited to, social services, religious services, including traditional religious practices and ceremonies, recreation and leisure time activities, counseling, library services, education programs and substance abuse programming. Staff shall seek the cooperation of various community groups offering activities and programs for the benefit of residents. (2) Inventory of community services. The facility administration shall maintain and make available to all staff and residents a periodic inventory of functioning community services.
