FR940720-2-00030 FR940720-2-00021 Public Meetings on National Energy Policy AGENCY: Office of Policy, Energy. ACTION: Notice of public meetings. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Energy is announcing a series of public meetings around the country to solicit public input in the development of the President's National Energy Policy Plan. The Department is also requesting that interested parties submit written input for use in developing the Plan. DATES AND LOCATIONS: The following are dates and locations that are presently scheduled. Additional information on meetings will be available in future Federal Register notices: Washington, DC. August 2, 1994. Marvin Theater, George Washington University, 800 21st Street NW. Austin, Texas. August 12, 1994. Lyndon B. Johnson Auditorium, University of Texas at Austin, 2315 Red River Street. Denver, Colorado. September 29, 1994. Location TBD. Athens, Georgia. Location and Date TBD. Boston, Massachusetts. Location and Date TBD. Chicago, Illinois. Location and Date TBD. New Orleans, Louisiana. Location and Date TBD. San Francisco, California. Location and Date TBD. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For questions regarding the public meetings, participation or written submissions, please call the National Energy Policy Plan Public Information Hotline: (615) 241&hyph;2545. For other information, contact Terri Walters, U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Policy, 1000 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20585, (202) 586&hyph;5800. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 801 of the Department of Energy Organization Act of 1977 requires the President to submit a National Energy Policy Plan to Congress every two years. The 1993 requirement was waived because of the change of Administration, and the next National Energy Policy Plan is required in 1995. In developing this Plan, the Administration will solicit input from the public on all issues involved with energy. In order to gain input from a diverse set of stakeholders, the Department will conduct a series of regional town meetings and roundtable discussions. Information from related outreach efforts of the Administration will also be compiled to expand the record of public input. The concept of sustainable development will provide a framework for developing a 1995 National Energy Policy Plan. The most common definition of sustainable development is ``to meet the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs'' (Bruntland Commission_Our Common Future 1987). The Administration intends to use this guiding principle to evaluate energy policy options, recognizing the interdependence of economic growth and environmental progress, and considering how the production, distribution, and consumption of energy affects current and future generations. In developing the National Energy Policy Plan, the Administration will also consider the recommendations of the Energy and Transportation Task Force of the President's Council on Sustainable Development. The Council is an advisory committee comprised of several cabinet-level Administration officials and senior representatives of industry and interest groups. By charter, the Council shall ``advise the President on matters involving sustainable development. In furtherance of the mission, the Council will develop and recommend to the President a national sustainable development action strategy that will foster economic vitality.'' A kick-off meeting for the National Energy Policy Plan is scheduled for Washington, DC and will be followed by seven public meetings in cities across the United States. All meetings will be open to the general public. Additionally, written comments on any subject area related to energy are welcome and will be considered valuable input to the formulation of the National Energy Policy Plan. All stakeholders are invited to participate in the meetings as well as to submit written input. This includes state, local, territorial and tribal governments; industry; interest groups; minority groups and the general public.
