FR940830-1-00054 FR940830-1-00009 4. Biota-Sediment Accumulation Factors As explained above, the proposed Guidance presented a hierarchy of three methods to derive BAFs for non-polar organic chemicals. In this Notice, EPA requests comment on modifying the proposed Guidance's hierarchy by adding a predicted BAF based on a biota-sediment accumulation factor (BSAF) as the second method in the hierarchy. The revised hierarchy would reflect this modification as follows: 1. A BAF measured in the field; 2. A BAF predicted from a field-measured BSAF, methodology discussed below; 3. A BAF predicted by multiplying a BCF measured in the laboratory by the food chain multiplier; and 4. A BAF predicted by multiplying a BCF calculated from the log K ow by the food chain multiplier. BSAFs may be used for measuring and predicting bioaccumulation directly from concentrations of chemicals in surface sediment. They may also be used to estimate BAFs (Cook et al., 1993; 1994). Since BSAFs are based on field data and incorporate effects of metabolism, biomagnification, growth, etc., BAFs estimated from BSAFs will incorporate the net effect of all these factors. The BSAF approach is particularly beneficial for developing water quality criteria for chemicals such as polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs) and polychlorinated dibenzofurans (PCDFs) and certain biphenyl congeners which are detectable in fish tissues and sediments but are difficult to measure in the water column and have reduced bioaccumulation potential due to metabolism. BSAFs are measured by relating lipid-normalized concentrations of chemicals in an organism to organic carbon-normalized concentrations of the chemicals in surface sediment samples associated with the average exposure environment of the organism. The BSAF is defined as: where BSAF = C l / C soc ␣␣(9) C l = the lipid-normalized concentration of the chemical in tissues of the biota ( m g/g lipid). C soc = the organic carbon-normalized concentration of the chemical in the surface sediment ( m g/g sediment organic carbon). Differences between BSAFs for different organic chemicals are good measures of the relative bioaccumulation potentials of the chemicals. When calculated from a common organism/sediment sample set, chemical-specific differences in BSAFs primarily reflect the net effect of biomagnification, metabolism, and bioenergetics and bioavailability factors on each chemical's disequilibrium ratio between biota and sediment. In the proposed Guidance, ratios of BSAFs of PCDDs and PCDFs to a BSAF for 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (2,3,7,8&hyph;TCDD) were proposed for evaluation of 2,3,7,8&hyph;TCDD toxic equivalency associated with complex mixtures of these chemicals (bioaccumulation equivalency factors, see 58 FR 20802). The same approach is applicable to calculation of BAFs for other organic chemicals. The approach requires data for a steady-state or near steady-state condition between sediment and water for both a reference chemical (r) with a measured BAF and other chemicals (n=i) for which BAFs are to be determined. BAFd for a chemical ``i'' is defined as: (BA l fd )i = [(BAFD l fd ) r [(BSAF) i (K ow ) i ) / (BSAF) r (K ow )r]␣␣(10) BAFs calculated from two different BSAF data sets for Lake Ontario salmonids are similar and agree well with measured BAFs of Oliver and Niimi (1988). For further details on predicting BAFs from BSAF measurements, and the data supporting this approach, see the Technical Support Document, July 1994. EPA is requesting comment on the inclusion of the BAF predicted from a BSAF in the preferred order of data. 5. Bioaccumulation Equivalency Factors The preamble to the proposed Guidance included a list of the Bioaccumulation Equivalency Factors (BEFs) for PCDDs and PCDFs that could be used when converting concentrations of PCDDs and PCDFs to equivalent concentrations of 2,3,7,8- TCDD. These BEFs have been updated since the proposal and are included in Table 2. The technical rationale for the revised BEFs is provided in the Technical Support Document, July 1994. EPA requests comment on the revised BEFs.
