FR940429-0-00219 FR940429-0-00015 Comments: Two commenters support the Secretary's proposal to set a minimum dollar amount below which a refund or repayment does not have to be made. One commenter suggested the Secretary set the same minimum amount for both refunds and repayments. Discussion: After further consideration, the Secretary believes that this proposed provision is inconsistent with the amendment made to section 490 of the HEA that established criminal penalties for failure to pay refunds, specifically including refunds of less than two hundred dollars. Further, the Secretary believes that by the time the institution has determined the amount of the refund, most of the administrative effort and cost has been expended. The Secretary believes that neither the institution nor the student would benefit from the proposal to allow institutions to forgo making refunds of $25 or less. Also, the Secretary believes that part of the institution's administrative costs are recouped through the administrative fee that is allowed to be excluded from the pro rata refund calculation. Changes: Section 668.22(f)(3)(iii) has been amended to remove the proposed minimum dollar amount below which a refund would not have to be made. Allocation of Refunds and Overpayments. Comments: Three commenters support the Secretary's proposal to mandate the order of return of FFEL programs refund amounts. One commenter supported the proposed allocation of FFEL programs refunds and believed it will reduce student indebtedness. Three commenters believed including PLUS and unsubsidized Stafford loans in the refund allocation negates the basic principle of financial aid, that the family (or student) makes its contribution first before financial aid is expended. One commenter believed PLUS and unsubsidized Stafford loans should be excluded from the refund allocation, because grant money should not be used to pay back student loans, especially loans that are not need-based. Discussion: The Secretary wishes to clarify that section 485 of the Amendments of 1992 specifies the order of return of refunds to the various sources of aid and to the student. The statute does not exclude the PLUS or unsubsidized Stafford loan programs from this order of return. For consistency and reduced administrative burden, the Secretary has proposed the same order of return for repayments as is mandated in the law for refunds. The Secretary believes the return order to be logical and appropriate. Changes: None. Comments: Three commenters disagreed with the Secretary's assertion in the preamble of the February 28, 1994 NPRM that refunds should not be used to eliminate outstanding balances on loans made for prior years. These commenters believed it is in the best interest of the student to allow a refund to be applied to outstanding loans. Discussion: The Title IV, HEA programs award financial assistance based on the costs of attendance and the student's need assessment for a specific period of enrollment in a specific award year. The Secretary believes it is inappropriate to use funds awarded for the current enrollment period to cover costs from a prior enrollment period. Changes: None. Refund Dates. Comments: Four commenters believed the Secretary should be more flexible in terms of how an institution determines and documents a student's last day of attendance in the case of unofficial withdrawal. These commenters asserted that it is unreasonable to expect all institutions to maintain attendance records. Two commenters suggested institutions be required to determine that a student has unofficially withdrawn within a certain time frame, to avoid a student's unofficial withdrawal going unnoticed for an unreasonably long period of time. One commenter believed the proposed provisions should address cases of institution-initiated retroactive withdrawals. Discussion: The Secretary wishes to clarify that the concept of using the student's last recorded date of attendance for refund purposes is not ``new,'' but has been included in ยง668.22 of the Student Assistance General Provisions regulations since 1988. All institutions participating in the Title IV, HEA programs have long been expected to have in place a system by which student attendance can be documented for the purposes of determining the withdrawal date in cases of unofficial withdrawal. The Secretary agrees that unofficial withdrawals should be determined within a reasonable time frame, in connection with the proposed definition of ``withdrawal date.'' The Secretary believes cases of institution-initiated retroactive withdrawals are uncommon and as such do not warrant regulatory inclusion. Changes: Section 668.22(i)(1)(ii) has been amended to limit an institution's determination of a student's unofficial withdrawal to no later than 30 days after the expiration of the enrollment period, the academic year, or the program, whichever is earlier. Comments: One commenter believed the Secretary should not impose a deadline for refunds and repayments. Several commenters simply stated the proposed 30-day deadline would be too difficult to meet, especially for refunds made to lenders, and requested it be extended to 45 or 60 days. Many commenters stated that the proposal to require refunds be made within 30 days was unreasonable, in light of the proposed 20-day return period for equipment, books, or supplies. These commenters believed it is unfair to allow a student a leisurely 20-day period in which to return equipment, only to force the institution to rush the calculation and processing of a refund. Seven commenters stated that the proposed 30-day refund deadline does not take into account the unavoidable delay in determining unofficial withdrawals. These commenters believed most unofficial withdrawals are not discovered until the end of the subsequent enrollment periods add-drop period, and that several institutions will therefore consistently be unable to meet the 30-day requirement. Three commenters requested that all refund deadlines_for refunds to the program accounts, to lenders, and to students_be modified to be consistent, suggesting 60 days as a reasonable length of time for a refund to be made. Discussion: The Secretary wishes to reiterate that, as discussed in the preamble of the February 28, 1994 NPRM, the refund deadline given in ยง668.22(i)(3) applies only to refunds made directly to the student. The Secretary believes refund deadlines are appropriate and necessary. The Secretary would like to clarify that the deadlines for the return of refunds to the Title IV, HEA programs are not ``new.'' These deadlines are not included in the current Student Assistance General Provisions regulations, but in the FFEL programs regulations. The Secretary wishes to clarify that ยง668.22(g)(2)(iv) clearly states the 30-day refund requirement given in that paragraph applies to all Title IV, HEA programs other than the Federal Work-Study and FFEL programs. The deadline for refunds to lenders under the FFEL programs is set forth not in this section of the student aid regulations, but in 34 CFR 682.607. The Secretary believes that a 30-day refund deadline, in spite of the 20-day return period for equipment, is reasonable and sound. The Secretary would like to clarify that ยง668.22(g)(2)(iv) clearly states the refund deadline is determined according to either the date the student officially withdraws or the date the institution determines the student has unofficially withdrawn. The Secretary believes this treatment sufficiently allows for the time needed to determine unofficial withdrawals. The Secretary believes the refund deadline for the purposes of the FFEL programs is appropriately longer than the refund deadlines discussed in this section of the student aid regulations and that this is necessary to account for the added procedures of returning funds to the lender. Changes: Section 668.22(i)(2) has been amended to clarify that the deadline in that paragraph is applicable only to refunds made to students. Appendix A Comments: A few commenters requested the Secretary more specifically define several different terms used in appendix A. Discussion: The Secretary believes the terms used in Appendix A are standard terms of the educational community, having been in common use for several years, and as such, necessitate no further definition. Changes: None. Comments: Three commenters believed that appendix A was originally intended to address proprietary institutions and fails to recognize or treat the specific circumstances of nonproprietary, term-based institutions. Specifically, these commenters stated that mandatory proration of all institutional costs disregards the fact that some institutional costs (such as instructor salary and physical plant costs) are fixed and unaffected by the withdrawal of a small number of students. These commenters requested the Secretary drop appendix A and replace it with requirements that more adequately apply to both proprietary and nonproprietary institutions. Discussion: The proration of educational costs is required for pro rata refund calculations under the Amendments of 1992. The Secretary feels it is reasonable to extend this concept to the Appendix A requirements, in keeping with Congress' intent to provide a fair and equitable refund to Title IV, HEA program recipients. The Secretary notes that, in the past, the guidelines of appendix A were applicable to any institution, not just proprietary institutions, if neither an institution's accrediting agency nor its State had refund standards and the institution did not choose to follow refund policies set by another association of institutions and approved by the Secretary. Appendix A is intended to provide a general and stringent refund standard; the Secretary encourages institutions and accrediting agencies to work together in developing accrediting agency refund standards which can be used instead of appendix A standards and which can be better suited to the particular needs and circumstances of individual institutions. Changes: None.
