FR941202-2-00194 FR941202-2-00098 5.0␣Quality Systems 5.1␣Introduction Quality Systems include all quality assurance (QA) policies and quality control (QC) procedures, which shall be delineated in a QA Plan to help ensure and document the quality of the analytical data. These shall include QA policies, which will establish essential QC procedures applicable to environmental laboratories regardless of size and complexity. The laboratory shall meet any additional or more stringent requirements as specified by the analytical methods, specific programs or Agencies. All items identified in this discussion shall be available for on-site inspection or data audit. 5.2␣Quality System 5.2.1␣Quality Assurance Plan All laboratories shall prepare and have available for review a written description of the laboratory's quality assurance activities, i.e., a QA plan. The QA plan must be an independent document that may incorporate by reference, already available standard operating procedures (SOPs) or other material, e.g., methods, guidance documents, etc., that are approved by the laboratory management. Analysts in the laboratory should either have copies of the document or easy access to the document. The items listed below constitute essential requirements of a Quality System. All laboratories should be encouraged to add any additional items thought to improve the analytical data. The following items shall be included: _General QC procedures _Performance evaluation samples _Staff _Equipment _Test methods & standard operating procedures (SOPs) _Physical facilities _Sample acceptance policy & sample receipt _Sample tracking _Record keeping, data review and reporting _Corrective action policy and procedures _Definition of terms _Bibliography 5.3␣General Quality Control Procedures The following are the essential requirements and routines to calculate and assess analytical precision, accuracy, and method detection limits. All records and related quality control procedures shall be documented and maintained. The required essential quality control shall be as specified in the analytical methods or as listed below, whichever is more stringent. 5.3.1␣Chemical Testing (a) Method Reagent Blanks _A minimum of 1 per batch of 20 or less samples per matrix type per sample extraction or preparation. (b) Matrix Spikes (MS), Matrix Spike Duplicates (MSDs), and Sample Duplicates (SD) . i. Matrix spikes: required frequency as per the method reagent blank, except for analytes for which standards are not available (BOD, TSS, O&G, and pH, etc.). ii. Matrix spike duplicates or sample duplicates shall be analyzed at the same frequency as the original matrix spike (MS). (c) Laboratory Fortified Blanks _(QC Check Samples).
