FR940606-1-00043 FR940606-1-00008 D. Selection of Emission Points Covered by the Proposed Rule The proposed rule would limit organic HAP emissions from the following basic aerospace operations: cleaning, primer application, topcoat application, depainting, chemical milling maskant application, and the handling and storage of waste. The proposed rule would apply to all organic HAP emission points within these operations located within aerospace manufacturing or rework facilities that are major sources. In addition, the proposed rule would require control of emissions from these operations if they are performed in any of the operations for which standards are not being proposed. For example, hand-wipe cleaning operations are performed at several stages within composite processing operations. The hand-wipe cleaning operation, a process covered by the proposed standard, would be subject to the standard, regardless of where in the facility it occurred. Standards are being proposed for inorganic HAP emissions from primer application, topcoat application, and depainting operations. A discussion of the rationale for including or excluding in this proposed rule the basic processes listed in Section V.A. is presented below. 1. Operations for Which Standards Are Being Proposed a. Organic HAP emissions. As noted above, the EPA is proposing organic HAP emission standards for cleaning, primer application, topcoat application, depainting, and chemical milling maskant application, and the handling and storage of waste. Together, these operations are estimated to account for approximately 94 percent of the organic HAP emissions from the industry_cleaning, 87.5 percent; primers and topcoats, 2.1 percent; depainting, 2.6 percent; and chemical milling maskants, 1.5 percent. Based on the information obtained from the section 114 questionnaires and meetings with the industry, there are many readily available techniques to achieve substantial emission reductions in each of these operations. For example, many chemical milling maskant operations were reported as using either solvent-based chemical milling maskants with control devices or waterborne chemical milling maskants. With regard to cleaning operations, many product reformulations are available for hand-wipe cleaning, and there are several equipment and work practice standards for spray gun cleaning that reduce organic HAP emissions. While methylene chloride chemical stripping is the prevalent method for depainting aerospace vehicles, many facilities are using non-HAP alternatives. These alternatives are being used by both commercial and military facilities to reduce emissions from depainting operations. Sufficient data exist for establishing MACT based on non-HAP alternatives for both commercial and military depainting operations. Therefore, these processes are included in the proposed rule. Section 114 questionnaire data and the existence of State and local regulations identify the use of high transfer efficiency spray guns in the aerospace industry. Adequate information exists for establishing MACT for the method of application of primers and topcoats and for limiting the organic HAP content of the coatings. Based on section 114 questionnaire data, nearly all facilities employ housekeeping measures to control emissions from waste storage. Sufficient data exist, therefore, to establish MACT. In summary, based upon their relative contribution to overall organic HAP emissions and the use of demonstrated emission control technologies and techniques to achieve emission reduction, the EPA selected these operations for regulation. b. Inorganic HAP emissions. The EPA is proposing inorganic HAP emission standards for primer application, topcoat application, and depainting operations. Based on section 114 questionnaire responses, there are readily available techniques that are used extensively in the industry to control these emissions. While the inorganic HAP emissions do not represent a large percentage of overall emissions from the industry, the emissions represent potential threats to health because of the highly toxic nature of the inorganic HAP (e.g., chromium and cadmium). For these reasons, the EPA selected these operations for regulation.
