FR940713-2-00176 FR940713-2-00098 (4) The measurement methodology and analysis is sound; (5) The conceptual model (if used) is sound (development/demonstration activities only); (6) The sample populations are correct and significant (research and development/demonstration activities only); (7) The human subjects are sufficiently protected (research and development/demonstration activities only); (8) The device(s) or model system is to be developed in an appropriate environment; (9) The training content is comprehensive and at an appropriate level (training activities only); (10) The training methods are likely to be effective (training activities only); (11) The new materials (if developed) are likely to be of high quality and uniqueness (training activities only); (12) The target populations are linked to the project (utilization activities only); and (13) The format of the dissemination medium is the best to achieve the desired result (utilization activities only). (d) Probability of Achieving Proposed Outcomes: Key Personnel (Weight 4.0). The Secretary reviews each application to determine to what degree_ (1) The principal investigator and other key staff have adequate training and/or experience and demonstrate appropriate potential to conduct the proposed research, demonstration, training, development, or dissemination activity; (2) The principal investigator and other key staff are familiar with pertinent literature and/or methods; (3) All required disciplines are effectively covered; (4) Commitments of staff time are adequate for the project; and (5) The applicant is likely, as part of its non-discriminatory employment practices, to encourage applications for employment from persons who are members of groups that traditionally have been underrepresented, such as_ (i) Members of racial or ethnic minority groups; (ii) Women; (iii) Handicapped persons; and (iv) The elderly. (e) Probability of Achieving Proposed Outcomes: Evaluation Plan (Weight 1.0). The Secretary reviews each application to determine to what degree_ (1) There is a mechanism to evaluate plans, progress and results; (2) The evaluation methods and objectives are likely to produce data that are quantifiable; and (3) The evaluation results, where relevant, are likely to be assessed in a service setting. (f) Program/Project Management: Plan of Operation (Weight 2.0). The Secretary reviews each application to determine to what degree_ (1) There is an effective plan of operation that insures proper and efficient administration of the project(s); (2) The applicant's planned use of its resources and personnel is likely to achieve each objective; (3) Collaboration between institutions, if proposed, is likely to be effective; and (4) There is a clear description of how the applicant will include eligible project participants who have been traditionally underrepresented, such as_ (i) Members of racial or ethnic minority groups; (ii) Women; (iii) Handicapped persons; and (iv) The elderly. (g) Program/Project Management: Adequacy of Resources (Weight 1.0). The Secretary reviews each application to determine to what degree_ (1) The facilities planned for use are adequate; (2) The equipment and supplies planned for use are adequate; and (3) The commitment of the applicant to provide administrative support and adequate facilities is evident. (h) Program/Project Management: (Budget and Cost Effectiveness (Weight 1.0). The Secretary reviews each application to determine to what degree_ (1) The budget for the project(s) is adequate to support the activities; (2) The costs are reasonable in relation to the objectives of the projects(s); and (3) The budget for subcontracts (if required) is detailed and appropriate. Eligible Applicants: Parties eligible to apply for grants under this program are public and private nonprofit and for-profit organizations, including institutions of higher education and Indian tribes and tribal organizations. Program Authority: 29 U.S.C. 761a and 762.
