FR941012-0-00083 FR941012-0-00011 However, other commenters said OSHA should revise the undercut requirement in the final rule (Ex. 5&hyph;21, 5&hyph;39, 5&hyph;46, 5&hyph;52, 5&hyph;63, 5&hyph;74 through 5&hyph;92, 9&hyph;1, 9&hyph;5; Tr. OR 265, 284&hyph;88, 324&hyph;26). One commenter said OSHA should make undercutting a recommended practice in the final rule to allow for innovations in cutting techniques and to allow for consideration of various production requirements for cutting certain types of wood (e.g., veneer). Other commenters stated that OSHA should permit an exception to the undercut requirement for manual felling of saplings or unmerchantable trees, that is, of trees with a small diameter at breast height (DBH) (Ex. 5&hyph;21, 5&hyph;39, 5&hyph;46, 5&hyph;63, 5&hyph;74 through 5&hyph;92, 9&hyph;1, 9&hyph;5; Tr. OR 265, 284&hyph;88, 324&hyph;26). These commenters said that the hazards OSHA was attempting to protect against do not exist for saplings, therefore, undercuts are not necessary. For example, Mr. Alex Hanson, of AOL, stated: On the smaller, nonmerchantable timber that's two, three, four, five, six inches, generally not very tall, 20 foot or less or maybe taller, and when you slash it, you push it over. It doesn't need a face to control the direction of fall. * * * * * [W]hen trees start getting to be merchantable size, then you have safety problems. You get a seven inch or over tree, you want to know where it's going. You don't want to have it just fall anywhere. * * * * * [Y]ou have to buck those merchantable trees. You have to cut the top out so you just don't want them going everywhere. You want things in line. And if they're everywhere, then it increases the risk for the buckers. Generally it's the same guy who is falling it, but you want to have things in an orderly fashion so that he's not having to go everywhere to buck the top. If they're just slashing it, it doesn't really matter where it goes because you're not having to go out there and limb and cut the tops out and create another hazard for yourself (Tr. OR 265, 284&hyph;88). However, other commenters disagreed with AOL about what size tree requires an undercut. One commenter said that undercuts are necessary for any tree that has more than a three-inch base (Ex. 9&hyph;16), while another commenter said undercuts were not necessary for trees with a seven-inch DBH (Tr. OR 421&hyph;22). The APA, however, said that even trees with a small DBH should be undercut: You heard from one of the associations who is recommending that with regard to what I call undercuts, they're also called face cuts, that they not be required on very small trees, and there was a discussion and possibly a recommendation of an 8-inch or 7-inch size limit. Unfortunately, I don't have any data. But we do know and I will watch to see if I can find any and submit it post hearing. I went through our files and could not find anything. But it is our perception, after studying these operations, that a tree that's 8 inches in diameter at breast height is probably about 12 inches in diameter at the stump, and whether it's an oak tree or a Douglas fir tree that's 60 feet tall and 8 inches and 12, it's a significant mass of wood that is difficult to control to get on the ground and could cause and probably has caused injuries and maybe even deaths. There's enough mass there with a 60-foot tree ripping down, uncontrolled in its fall, to cause a death. And you heard from the Montana folks, that they have a little bit of a problem with that too (Tr. OR 485&hyph;88). Moreover, some commenters opposing the undercut requirement also admitted that undercuts were necessary for any merchantable tree, regardless of its size. They said that whenever a tree has a merchantable stem for a sawlog product, it must be undercut to protect the fiber recovery (Tr. OR 422, 487&hyph;88). They said undercutting was essential both for production reasons and safety considerations for employees bucking the felled tree. After considering the evidence in the record, OSHA believes a provision requiring that each tree manually felled be undercut is necessary to protect employees from injury. According to the WIR survey, four percent of employees injured said they had been using the wrong cutting method at the time of their accident (Ex. 2&hyph;1). The OSHA FCI report indicated that 10 fellers were injured because of misjudgments in cutting the tree (Ex. 4&hyph;61). As discussed above, undercutting helps protect the feller from injury by reducing the potential for the tree splitting and falling in an unintended direction or kicking back towards the feller. In the final rule, OSHA is also allowing an exception to the undercutting requirement when the employer demonstrates that felling the particular tree without an undercut will not create a hazard for an employee. OSHA believes that when the hazards of splitting trees, tree kickback and misdirected falls are not present, it may be appropriate to manually fell a tree without undercutting. OSHA notes that the employer bears the burden of demonstrating that the hazards discussed in this section are not present. OSHA also notes that the employers cannot make a blanket determination that trees of a particular size never pose the hazards discussed above if manually felled without an undercut. The condition of the tree and the surrounding area may make manually felling even a small a tree hazardous if it is not first undercut. The tree and those conditions must be assessed on a case by case basis to determine whether felling the tree without making an undercut would create a hazard for an employee.
