FR940511-0-00071 FR940511-0-00015 An application for an amendment to, an extension of, or a renewal of an authorization is also subject to the provisions of §925.11. The applicant may appeal any objection by, or terms or conditions imposed by, the Director or designee to the Assistant Administrator or designee in accordance with the procedures set forth in §925.12. Section 925.12 sets forth the procedures for appealing to the Assistant Administrator or designee actions of the Director or designee with respect to: (1) The granting, conditioning, amendment, denial, suspension or revocation of a National Marine Sanctuary permit under §925.9 or a Special Use permit under Section 310 of the Act; (2) The granting, denial, conditioning, amendment, suspension or revocation of a certification under §925.10; or (3) The objection to issuance or the imposition of terms and conditions under §925.11. Prior to conditioning the exercise of existing leases, permits, licenses, other authorizations or rights or conditioning or objecting to proposed authorizations, NOAA intends to consult with relevant issuing agencies as well as owners, holders or applicants. NOAA's policy is to encourage best available management practices to minimize non-point source pollution entering the Sanctuary and, for municipal sewage discharge, to require, at a minimum, secondary treatment and sometimes tertiary treatment or more, depending on predicted effects on Sanctuary resources and qualities. Section 925.13 has been added which requires the Director to consult with state, local and tribal governments regarding areas of mutual concern, including Sanctuary programs, permitting activities, development and threats to Sanctuary resources. This section also requires the Director to enter into memorandums of understanding with such governments when requested regarding such consultations. V. Miscellaneous Rulemaking Requirements Regulatory Flexibility Act The regulations in this notice allow all activities to be conducted in the Sanctuary other than a relatively narrow range of prohibited activities. The procedures in these regulations for applying for National Marine Sanctuary permits to conduct prohibited activities, for requesting certifications for pre-existing leases, licenses, permits, other authorizations or rights authorizing the conduct of a prohibited activity and for notifying NOAA of applications for leases, licenses, permits, approvals or other authorizations to conduct a prohibited activity will all act to lessen any adverse economic effect on small entities. The regulations, in total, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, and when they were proposed the General Counsel of the Department of Commerce so certified to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration. As a result, neither an initial nor final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis was prepared. Paperwork Reduction Act This rule contains collection of information requirements subject to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act (Pub. L. 96&hyph;511). The collection of information requirements contained in the rule have been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under section 3504(h) of the Paperwork Reduction Act and have been approved under OMB Control No. 0648&hyph;0141. Comments from the public on the collection of information requirements contained in this rule are invited and should be addressed to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (06480141) Washington, DC 20503 (Attn: Desk Officer for NOAA) and to Richard A. Roberts, room 724, 6010 Executive Boulevard, Rockville, MD 20852. Executive Order 12612 A Federalism Assessment (FA) was prepared for the proposed designation, draft management plan and proposed implementing regulations. The FA concluded that all were fully consistent with the principles, criteria and requirements set forth in sections 2 through 5 of Executive Order 12612, Federalism Considerations in Policy Formulation and Implementation (52 FR 41685, Oct. 26, 1987). Copies of the FA are available upon request to the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management at the address listed above. National Environmental Policy Act In accordance with Section 304(a)(2) of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1434(a)(2)) and the provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321&hyph;4370(a)), a DEIS/MP was prepared for the designation and proposed regulations. As required by Section 304(a)(2) of the Act, the DEIS/MP included the resource assessment report required by section 303(b)(3) of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1433(b)(3)), maps depicting the boundary of the area proposed to be designated, and the existing and potential uses and resources of the area. Copies of the DEIS/MP were made available for public review on September 20, 1991, with comments due on December 13, 1991. Public hearings were held in Port Angeles, Seattle, Olympia, Aberdeen, Seaview and Washington, DC from November 7 to 20, 1991. All comments were reviewed and, where appropriate, incorporated into the FEIS/MP and these regulations. Copies of the FEIS/MP are available upon request (see address section). Executive Order 12630 This rule does not have takings implications within the meaning of Executive Order 12630 sufficient to require preparation of a Takings Implications Assessment under that order. It would not appear to have an effect on private property sufficiently severe as effectively to deny economically viable use of any distinct legally potential property interest to its owner or to have the effect of, or result in, a permanent or temporary physical occupation, invasion or deprivation. While the prohibition on the exploration, development and production of oil, gas and minerals from the Sanctuary might have a takings implication if it abrogated an existing lease for OCS tracts within the Sanctuary or an approval of an exploration or development and production plan, no OCS leases have been sold for tracts within the Sanctuary and no exploration or production and development plans have been filed or approved.
