FR941207-0-00134 FR941207-0-00022 89. We amend our attribution rules to raise the voting equity threshold that qualifies an investor as having an attributable interest in an applicant to 25 percent. We will raise the voting equity level for both publicly-traded and closely-held corporations, and will apply the 25-percent threshold for the 25/75-percent equity option available to all applicants and to the 49.9/50.1 percent equity option additionally available to minority and/or women applicants. We observe that 25 percent is the percentage suggested by both CTIA and BET. We agree with CTIA that investors will be more likely to invest in new companies if they have the ability to protect their investment through increased voting rights. We also agree that a 25-percent voting interest will not convey a significantly greater risk of control than a 15-percent voting interest. BET asserts that higher voting thresholds will enable a larger number of existing companies_those which have established financial structures with a higher percentage of voting stock owned by non-controlling stockholders_to compete in the entrepreneurial block. Furthermore, in other contexts, Congress has used a 25-percent threshold as a measure of determining control. For example, under Section 310(b) of the Communications Act, 47 U.S.C. 310(b), foreign companies are permitted to directly or indirectly control up to 25 percent of CMRS licensees. We believe that in this context as well, a 25-percent threshold strikes an appropriate balance between the need to encourage investment and our goal of ensuring that designated entities remain in clear control. Finally, for purposes of clarification, the maximum permissible nonattributable equity level may be no greater than 25 percent of the applicant's total equity and includes the right to vote such share ( e.g., through voting trusts or other arrangement). 54 54 For example, an investor holding 25 percent of an applicant's voting stock will not be considered a nonattributable equity investor if it also has the right, through a voting trust or other arrangement, to vote additional shares. 90. Additionally, however, to discourage large investors from circumventing our equity limitations for nonattributable investors, we clarify that persons or entities that are affiliates of one another, or that have an ``identity of interests,'' will be treated as though they were one person or entity and their ownership interests aggregated for purposes of determining compliance with our maximum nonattributable equity limits. We will aggregate their ownership interests in calculating their total equity interests in the applicant and in determining whether their gross revenues and assets will be attributed to the applicant. Thus, for example, if two entities form a joint venture or consortium to apply for broadband PCS A and B block licenses, they have an identity of interests that is characteristic of affiliates, and will be treated as a single entity when investing in the same entrepreneurs' block applicant. See 47 CFR 24.72(1)(3); see also 47 CFR 24.204, note 1. Consequently, under our rules we would aggregate all equity investments in the applicant and count it as a single, possibly attributable investment in the applicant where such investors have an identity of interests. Ownership Interests 91. The Fifth Report and Order states that ownership interests are to be calculated on a fully diluted basis and that all agreements such as warrants, stock options and convertible debentures will generally be treated as if the rights thereunder have been fully exercised. Designated entities are required to disclose any business five percent or more of whose stocks, warrants, options or debt securities are owned by the applicant or an officer, director, stockholder or key management personnel of the applicant. 55 55 See 47 CFR 24.813(a)(1)) (Form 175 and Form 401 application requirements). 92. Petitioners and ex parte commenters request that we clarify our rules regarding the treatment of various ownership instruments such as warrants, stock options and convertible debentures. Additionally, commenters have asked whether rights of first refusal are considered options and how stock ``calls'' and ``puts'' will be treated. A ``put'' option gives the holder the right to sell a share of stock at a specified price at any time up to the expiration date. Conversely, a ``call'' option gives the holder the right to buy a share of stock at a specified price, known as the ``exercise price.'' 93. In general, we will treat stock options as fully exercised with the exception of some ownership instruments. We recognize that some forms of options are common and often beneficial to the management of a company. Many companies, for example, include stock options in senior management compensation packages. We also recognize that treating options as fully exercised will encourage companies to hire minorities and women for top management positions, because any options they receive will count toward the equity eligibility requirement. 94. We decide that for purposes of calculating ownership interests, however, some ownership instruments will not be treated as ``fully diluted'', or will not be considered options generally. For example, we will not consider rights of first refusal as options when calculating ownership interests. 56 Rights of first refusal differ from other types of options because they cannot be exercised unless there is a proposed sale to a third party. Sales and transfers to third parties are restricted during the holding period, so rights of first refusal do not threaten the composition of designated entities. 57 At the end of the five-year period, it will still be the designated entity's decision as to whether to sell the business, which ensures that the designated entity controls the decision whether to sell. We agree that without these rights, investors are likely to shy away from investing in designated entities. As Pacific Telesis and BellSouth point out, rights of first refusal are a valued safeguard mechanism because they give investors some control over the entry of new business associates. They also enable investors to prevent their own shares from becoming dilutes as a result of a sale. 56 A ``right of first refusal'' is an agreement between parties which grants an investor the right to match a purchase offer from a third party. 57 See 47 CFR 24.839(d) (restrictions on assignment or transfer of control of C and F block licensees). In any event, the Commission would have to approve any sale or transfer that would result from a noncontrolling investor exercising a right of first refusal. 95. ``Put'' options held by the designated entity_which can be realized only after the licensee can permissibly transfer the license_will not be treated as fully diluted for purposes of determining ownership interests. Put options held by the designated entity leave the ownership decision in the designated entity's control and do not force an unwanted sale upon the designated entity. We observe, however, that while such options will not be factored in for purposes of determining de jure control, we will continue to look at whether put options in combination with other terms to an agreement deprive an otherwise qualified control group of de facto control over the applicant. Thus, a ``put'' in combination with other terms to an agreement may result in an applicant not retaining de facto control. For example, if an agreement between a strategic investor and a designated entity provides that (1) the investor makes debt financing available to the applicant on very favorable terms ( e.g., 15-year term, no payments of principal or interest for six years) and (2) that the designated entity has a one-time put right that is exercisable at a time and under conditions that are designed to maximize the incentive of the licensee to sell ( e.g., six years after issue, option to put partnership interest in lieu of payment of principal and accrued interest on loan), we may conclude that de facto control has been relinquished. ``Call'' options held by investors will be considered exercised immediately to calculate ownership levels because they can be used to force a designated entity to sell its ownership interests. Finally, we observe that such a call option would vest an impermissible degree of control in the applicant's so-called ``noncontrolling'' investors. 96. In summary, agreements between designated entities and strategic investors that involve terms (such as management contracts combined with rights of first refusal, loans, puts, etc.) that cumulatively are designed financially to force the designated entity into a sale (or major refinancing) will constitute a transfer of control under our rules. We will look at the totality of circumstances in each particular case. We emphasize that our concerns are greatly increased when a single entity provides most of the capital and management services and is the beneficiary of the investor protections.
