FR940406-1-00052 FR940406-1-00012 (3) There are future year production requirements for substantial quantities of like items; (4) The items being acquired have a history of increasing costs; (5) The work is sufficiently defined to permit an effective analysis and major changes are unlikely; (6) Sufficient time is available to plan and conduct the should-cost review adequately; and (7) Personnel with the required skills are available or can be assigned for the duration of the should-cost review. (c) The contracting officer should decide which elements of the contractor's operation have the greatest potential for cost savings and assign the available personnel resources accordingly. While the particular elements to be analyzed are a function of the contract work task, elements such as manufacturing, pricing and accounting, management and organization, and subcontract and vendor management are normally reviewed in a should-cost review. (d) In acquisitions for which a program should-cost review is conducted, a separate program should-cost review team report, prepared in accordance with agency procedures, is required. Field pricing reports are required only to the extent that they contribute to the combined team position. The contracting officer shall consider the findings and recommendations contained in the program should-cost review team report when negotiating the contract price. After completing the negotiation, the contracting officer shall provide the administrative contracting officer (ACO) a report of any identified uneconomical or inefficient practices, together with a report of correction or disposition agreements reached with the contractor. The contracting officer shall establish a follow-up plan to monitor the correction of the uneconomical or inefficient practices. (e) When a program should-cost review is planned, the contracting officer should state this fact in the acquisition plan (see part 7, subpart 7.1) and in the solicitation. 15.810&hyph;3 Overhead should-cost review. (a) An overhead should-cost review is used to evaluate indirect costs, such as fringe benefits, shipping and receiving, facilities and equipment, depreciation, plant maintenance and security, taxes, and general and administrative activities. It is normally used to evaluate and negotiate a forward pricing rate agreement (FPRA) with the contractor. When an overhead should-cost review is conducted, a separate audit report is required. (b) The following factors should be considered when selecting contractor sites for overhead should-cost reviews: (1) Dollar amount of Government business; (2) Level of Government participation; (3) Level of noncompetitive Government contracts; (4) Volume of proposal activity; (5) Major system or program; (6) Mergers, acquisitions, takeovers; and (7) Other conditions, e.g., changes in accounting systems, management, or business activity. (c) The objective of the overhead should-cost review is to evaluate significant indirect cost elements in-depth, identify inefficient and uneconomical practices, and recommend corrective action. If it is conducted in conjunction with a program should-cost review, a separate overhead should-cost review report is not required. However, the findings and recommendations of the overhead should-cost team, or any separate overhead should-cost review report, shall be provided to the ACO. The ACO should use this information to form the basis for the Government position in negotiating a FPRA with the contractor. The ACO shall establish a follow-up plan to monitor the correction of the uneconomical or inefficient practices. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8142 Filed 4&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;34&hyph;M
