FR940516-1-00031 FR940516-1-00001 (iii) The action was brought by any other federal or state regulatory agency, or by a self-regulatory organization, domestic or foreign, and involved allegations of fraud or other willful misconduct. (m) Trading for Own Account. If the commodity pool operator, the pool's trading manager, any of the pool's commodity trading advisors or any principal thereof trades or intends to trade commodity interests for its own account, the pool operator must disclose whether participants will be permitted to inspect the records of such person's trades and any written policies related to such trading. (n) Performance disclosures as set forth in ยง4.25. (o) Limited risk pools. If the pool is a limited risk pool, as defined in ยง4.10(i) the commodity pool operator must: (1) Describe the nature of the limitation on risk intended to be provided, the manner by which such risk limitation will be achieved, including sources of funding, and what conditions must be satisfied for participants to receive the benefits of the risk limitation; (2) Specify when the limitation on risk becomes operative; and (3) Disclose, in the break-even analysis required by ยง4.24(i)(6), the costs of purchasing and carrying the assets to fund the limitation on risk, expressed as a percentage of the price of a unit of participation. (p) Transferability and redemption. (1) A complete description of any restrictions upon the transferability of a participant's interest in the pool; and (2) A complete description of the manner in which a participant may redeem its interest in the pool. That description must specify: (i) How the redemption value of a participant's interest will be calculated; (ii) The conditions under which a participant may redeem its interest, including the cost associated therewith, the terms of any notification required and the time between the request for redemption and payment; (iii) Any restrictions on the redemption of a participant's interest, including any restrictions associated with the pool's investments; and (iv) Any liquidity risks relative to the pool's redemption capabilities. (q) Liability of pool participants. The extent to which a participant may be held liable for obligations of the pool in excess of the funds contributed by the participant for the purchase of an interest in the pool. (r) Distribution of profits and taxation. (1) The pool's policies with respect to the payment of distributions from profits or capital and the frequency of such payments; and The Federal income tax effects of such payments for a participant, including a discussion of the Federal income tax laws applicable to the form of organization of the pool and to such payments therefrom. If a pool is specifically structured to accomplish certain Federal income tax objectives, the commodity pool operator must explain those objectives, the manner in which they will be achieved and any risks relative thereto. (s) Inception of trading and other information. (1) The minimum aggregate subscriptions that will be necessary for the pool to commence trading commodity interests; (2) The minimum and maximum aggregate subscriptions that may be contributed to the pool; (3) The maximum period of time for which the pool will hold funds prior to the commencement of trading commodity interests; (4) The disposition of funds received if the pool does not receive the necessary amount to commence trading, including the period of time within which the disposition will be made; and (5) Where the pool operator will deposit funds received prior to the commencement of trading by the pool, and a statement as to whom any income from such deposits will be paid. (t) Ownership in pool. The extent of any ownership or beneficial interest in the pool held by: (1) The commodity pool operator; (2) The pool's trading manager;
