FR940413-2-00153 FR940413-2-00070 The Commission believes that the proposed rule change is a necessary and appropriate measure to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices and the appearance of fraud and manipulation in the municipal securities market by eliminating ``Pay to play'' arranged underwritings. The proposal represents a balanced response to allegations of corruption in the municipal securities market; it provides specific prohibitions to help ensure that underwriter selection is based on expertise, not on the amount of money given to a particular candidate for office. C. Municipal Securities Dealers: Small Firms and Minority and Women Owned Firms Several commentators believe that the proposal will disadvantage small, regional municipal securities firms and firms owned by minorities or women. 70 Because larger firms may have more employees that may be eligible to use the de minimis exemption, these commentators believe that the proposal will provide larger firms an unfair advantage. 71 70 See e.g., letter from Timothy L. Firestine, Director of Finance, Montgomery County Government, to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (February 24, 1994); letter from Stan W. Helgerson, Finance Director, Village of Carol Stream, Illinois, to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (March 10, 1994); letter from Jeffrey L. Esser, Executive Director, Government Finance Officers Association, to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (March 10, 1994); letter from Carolie R. Smith, President, Smith Mitchell Investment Group, Inc., to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (March 9, 1994). 71 One commentator, for example, states that ``larger firms with multiple departments including those not devoted to public finance will be able to support candidates through contributions made by corporate or other specialists who are not affected by this rule. Minority- and women-owned firms typically are small speciality public finance firms so their employees would be barred from supporting candidates.'' Letter from Jeffrey L. Esser, Executive Director, Government Finance Officers Association, to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (March 10, 1994). Another commentator recommends that the proposal should extend the de minimis exemption to officials for whom the municipal securities finance professionals are not entitled to vote to allow ``continuing access to clients and [enable] us to exercise our constitutional and political rights.'' Letter from Carolie R. Smith, President, Smith Mitchell Investment Group, Inc., to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (March 9, 1994). Another commentator recommends that the proposal exclude small issues ( e.g $10,000,000 par value or less) to lessen the impact of the rule on small regional, minority-owned, and women-owned firms. Letter from Raymond J. McClendon, Vice-Chairman and Chief Operating Officer, Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co., Inc., to Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary, Commission (March 9, 1994).
