FR940505-2-00117 FR940505-2-00084 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with section 6(b) of the Act in general and furthers the objectives of section 6(b)(5) in particular in that it will promote just and equitable principals of trade and remove impediments to and perfect the mechanisms of a free and open market and a national market system. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The CSE does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others The CSE solicited comments on the original filing from other Intermarket Trading System participants. 8 8 See File No. SR&hyph;CSE&hyph;90&hyph;6. III. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Room. Copies of the filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the CSE. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by May 26, 1994. IV. Commission's Findings and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Proposed Rule Change and Amendment No. 1 The CSE filed this interim extension at the Commission staff's request to enable the Commission to review the impact of the Exchange's quality of markets filing on the preferencing program. Under the circumstances, the Commission finds that allowing the preferencing pilot to continue for an additional 90 days is necessary. The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the CSE and, in particular, the requirements of section 6(b)(5). The Commission finds good cause for approving the proposed rule change prior to the 30th day after the date of publication of notice of filing thereof. Accelerated approval will avoid an unnecessary interruption of the preferencing pilot. Accordingly, under these circumstances, the Commission believes the CSE's preferencing pilot should be permitted to continue operating for 90 days, ending August 6, 1994. It is therefore Ordered, pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the proposed rule change be, and hereby is, approved for an additional period, ending August 6, 1994. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to the delegated authority. 9 9 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12)(1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10750 Filed 5&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
