FR941222-2-00015 FR941222-2-00012 [I.D. 121694A] North Pacific Fishery Management Council; Meeting AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Notice of public meetings. SUMMARY: The North Pacific Fishery Management Council (NPFMC or Council) and its advisory bodies will meet the week of January 9, 1995, at the Hilton Hotel, 500 W. 3rd Avenue, Anchorage, AK. All meetings are open to the public with the exception of an executive session to be held during the lunch hour one day during the meeting week to review personnel matters and pending litigation. All meetings will be held at the hotel and are scheduled as follows: On January 9, the NPFMC Advisory Panel will begin meeting at 8:00 a.m. and the Scientific and Statistical Committee will begin meeting at 10:30 a.m. Each meeting will continue until business is completed. The Council will meet jointly with the Alaska Board of Fisheries beginning at 8:00 a.m. on January 10, and begin their normal plenary session at 8:00 a.m. on January 11. The meeting is expected to continue through January 14. There may be other workgroup and/or committee meetings held during the week. Notice of meetings will be posted. During the joint meeting on January 10, the Council and Alaska Board of Fisheries will address the following agenda items: (1) Crab management and crab bycatch in groundfish and other crab fisheries; (2) Salmon bycatch issues; and (3) Review scallop fishery issues and other fisheries issues of mutual interest. During the normal plenary NPFMC session beginning on January 11, the Council will address, and may take appropriate action on, the following agenda items, time permitting: (1) Report from the NMFS on current status of fisheries and regulations; (2) Review available information on implementation, administration and enforcement costs associated with the Council's proposed license limitation program for groundfish and crab fisheries; (3) Receive progress report on development of analysis for extension of inshore-offshore allocations and pollock community development quota program; (4) Review proposed rule for scallop fishery management plan, including issue of management jurisdiction over vessels not registered with the State of Alaska, crab bycatch limits, incorporation into the Research Plan, and permits for persons or vessels; (5) Review actions to protect red king crab in Bristol Bay, including a report on opilio bycatch and consider next steps; (6) Review proposed amendments to groundfish fishery management plans to protect chum and chinook salmon; (7) Review of the Salmon Research Foundation; (8) Review proposals for amendments to groundfish fishery management plans; give staff further direction; (9) Receive a committee report on options to manage the guided sport halibut fishery off Alaska and determine next steps; (10) Receive report from the NMFS on possible enforcement problems related to fisheries occurring outside the U.S. EEZ, particularly in relation to the sablefish IFQ program; (11) Preliminary review of an amendment to require improved sorting of halibut incidentally caught in trawl groundfish fisheries off Alaska; (12) Discuss inter-council coordination in developing management and data reporting amendments for the Pacific pelagics fishery; (13) Review and comment on State of Alaska oil and gas lease sales in areas adjacent to Council-managed fisheries; (14) Discuss issues of observer training and minority hire; and (15) Review a plan amendment for the sablefish and halibut Individual Fishery Quota (IFQ) Program that would exempt the Community Development Quota portion of the program from the block proposal. Receive a report from the IFQ Implementation Workgroup on various issues concerning the IFQ Program. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: North Pacific Fishery Management Council, P.O. Box 103136, Anchorage, AK 99510; telephone: (907) 271&hyph;2809. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: These meetings are physically accessible to people with disabilities. Requests for sign language interpretation or other auxiliary aids should be directed to Helen Allen (907) 271&hyph;2809, at least 5 working days before the meeting begins. Dated: December 16, 1994. David S. Crestin, Acting Director, Office of Fisheries Conservation and Management, National Marine Fisheries Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31423 Filed 12&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;F
