FR941019-1-00019 FR941019-1-00002 Conversion Factor Matrix* [Numbers in percent] 1Residual maturity 1Interest rate 1Foreign exchange and gold 1Equity** 1Precious metals, except gold 1Other commododities Less than one year 0.0 1.0 6.0 7.0 12.0 One to five years 0.5 5.0 8.0 7.0 12.0 Five years or more 1.5 7.5 10.0 8.0 15.0 *For contracts with multiple exchanges of principal, the factors are to be multiplied by the number of remaining payments in the contract. **For contracts that automatically reset to zero value following a payment, the remaining maturity is set equal to the time remaining until the next payment. Gold is included within the foreign exchange column because the price volatility of gold has been found to be comparable to the exchange rate volatility of major currencies. In addition, the BSC determined that gold's role as a financial asset distinguishes it from other precious metals. The proposed matrix is designed to accommodate the different structures of contracts, as well as the observed disparities in the volatilities of the associated indices or prices of the underlying assets. Two footnotes are attached to the matrix to address two particular contract structures. The first relates to contracts with multiple exchanges of principal. Since the level of potential future exposure rises generally in proportion to the number of remaining exchanges, the conversion factors are to be multiplied by the number of remaining payments (that is, exchanges of principal) in the contract. This treatment is intended to ensure that the full level of potential future exposure is adequately covered. The second footnote applies to equity contracts that automatically reset to zero each time a payment is made. The credit risk associated with these contracts is similar to that of a series of shorter contracts beginning and ending at each reset date. For this type of equity contract the remaining maturity is set equal to the time remaining until the next payment. While the capital charges resulting from the application of the new proposed conversion factors may not provide complete coverage for risks associated with any single contract, the BSC believes the factors will provide a reasonable level of prudential coverage for derivative contracts on a portfolio basis. Like the original matrix, the proposed expanded matrix is designed to provide a reasonable balance between precision, and complexity and burden. B. Recognition of the Effects of Netting The simulation studies used to generate the conversion factors for potential future exposure analyzed the implications of underlying rate and price movements on the current exposure of contracts without taking into account reductions in exposure that could result from legally enforceable netting arrangements. Thus, the conversion factors are most appropriately applied to non-netted contracts, and when applied to legally enforceable netted contracts, they could in some cases, overstate the potential future exposure. Comments provided during the consultative process of revising the Basle Accord to recognize qualifying bilateral netting arrangements and further research conducted by the BSC, have suggested that netting arrangements can reduce not only a banking organization's current exposure for the transactions subject to the netting arrangement, but also its potential future exposure for those transactions. 15 15 While current exposure is intended to cover an organization's credit exposure at one point in time, potential future exposure provides an estimate of possible increases in future replacement cost, in view of the volatility of current exposure over the remaining life of the contract. The greater the tendency of the current exposure to fluctuate over time, the greater the add-on for potential future exposure should be to cover expected fluctuations. As a result, in July 1994 the BSC issued a proposal to incorporate into the calculation of the add-on for potential future exposure a method for recognizing the risk-reducing effects of qualifying netting arrangements. Under the proposal, institutions could recognize these effects only for transactions subject to legally enforceable bilateral netting arrangements that meet the requirements of netting for current exposure as set forth in the recent amendment to the Accord. Depending on market conditions and the characteristics of a bank's derivative portfolio, netting arrangements can have substantial effects on a bank's potential future exposure to multiple derivative contracts it has entered into with a single counterparty. Should the counterparty default at some future date, the bank's exposure would be limited to the net amount the counterparty owes on the date of default rather than the gross current exposure of the included contracts. By entering into a netting arrangement, a bank may reduce not only its current exposure, but also its future exposure as well. Nevertheless, while in many circumstances a netting arrangement can reduce the potential future exposure of a counterparty portfolio, this is not always the case. 16 16 For purposes of this discussion, a portfolio refers to a set of contracts with a single counterparty. A bank's global portfolio refers to all of the contracts in the institution's derivatives portfolio that are subject to qualifying netting arrangements. The most important factors influencing whether a netting arrangement will have an effect on potential future exposure are the volatilities of the current exposure to the counterparty on both a gross and net basis. 17 The volatilities of net current exposure and gross current exposure of the portfolio may not necessarily be the same. Volatility of gross current exposure is influenced primarily by the fluctuations of the market values of positively valued contracts. Volatility of net current exposure on the other hand, is influenced by the fluctuations of the market values of all contracts within the portfolio. In those cases where net current exposure has a tendency to fluctuate more over time than gross current exposure, a netting arrangement will not reduce the potential future exposure. However, in those situations where net current exposure has a tendency to fluctuate less over time than gross current exposure, a netting arrangement can reduce the potential future exposure. 17 Volatility in this discussion is the tendency of the market value of a contract to vary or fluctuate over time. A highly volatile portfolio would have a tendency to fluctuate significantly over short periods of time. One of the most important factors influencing a portfolio's volatility is the correlation of the contracts within the portfolio, that is, the degree to which the contracts in the portfolio respond similarly to changing market conditions. Net current exposure is likely to be less volatile relative to the volatility of gross current exposure when the portfolio of contracts as a whole is more diverse than the subset of positively valued contracts. When a netting arrangement is applied to a diversified portfolio and the positively valued contracts within the portfolio as a group are less diversified than the overall portfolio, then the effect of the netting arrangement will be to reduce the potential future exposure for the portfolio.
