FR940711-0-00075 FR940711-0-00022 (12) Develop, with the coordination of the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy (USD(P)), agreements with friendly and Allied Nations relating to acquisition matters consistent with DoD Directive 5530.3. 4 4 See footnote 1 to ยง384.4(a)(1). (13) Develop assessments of, and establish policies to maintain the capability of the U.S. defense industry to meet DoD needs. (14) Supervise the management and performance of the Strategic and Critical Materials Program pursuant to E.O. 12626, 53 FR 47491, 3 CFR, 1988 Comp., p. 585. (15) Establish policies and procedures, with the coordination of the Under Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readiness), for the effective management of the acquisition workforce within the Department of Defense, including accession, education, training, and career development. (16) Advise the Secretary and Deputy Secretary of Defense on technical and programmatic issues arising in Defense Resources Board matters. (17) Establish and manage the cooperative research and development program. (18) Manage the OSD Study Program. (19) Establish policies and procedures for the management of the DoD environmental security strategy for cleanup, compliance, conservation, and pollution prevention. (20) Supervise the Defense Science Board. (21) Chair the Nuclear Weapons Council. (b) For each assigned functional area identified in ยง384.5, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology shall: (1) Direct planning and analyses activities to assess the technical, economic, and military worth of specific acquisition programs and investment areas. (2) Establish policies, systems, and standards that promote more effective and efficient administration and management of acquisition resources, and monitor the execution of approved programs to ensure available resources are being applied in accordance with established policies and standards. (3) Review and evaluate DoD Component plans, programs, and budget submissions to ensure adherence to established priorities, policies and procedures, standards, and resource guidance; and, as appropriate, develop recommended alternatives for Secretary and Deputy Secretary of Defense consideration during all phases of the PPBS process. (4) Promote coordination, cooperation, and mutual understanding of all matters related to assigned activities, both inside and outside the Department of Defense. (c) Perform such other duties as the Secretary or Deputy Secretary of Defense may prescribe. ยง384.5 Functions. The USD(A&T) shall carry out the responsibilities described in ยง384.3, for the following functional areas: (a) Acquisition management, including acquisition special access programs. (b) Science and technology and the defense technology base. (c) Design and engineering, and the development of weapon systems. (d) Logistics acquisition and management, to include supply systems, weapons systems logistics elements, items standardization, transportation, energy, warehousing, distribution, and related activities. (e) Procurement. (f) Scientific and technical information. (g) Production and manufacturing. (h) Industrial base resources and productivity. (i) Force modernization and sustainability and the availability of fielded major weapons systems. (j) Developmental test and evaluation, as defined in DoD Directive 5000.1 and, to the extent permitted by law, review and approval of the Test and Evaluation Master Plan. (k) Environmental policy, services, and related actions. (l) Assignment and reassignment of research and engineering and acquisition responsibility for programs, systems, and activities. (m) Codevelopment, coproduction, coprocurement, logistics support, wartime host-nation support, and research interchange with friendly and Allied Nations, in coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for Policy (USD(P)). (n) Installation management and base closures. (o) Construction, including construction funded by host nations under the NATO Infrastructure Program and similar programs with other Allied countries. (p) Strategic and critical materials, to include the acquisition, retention, and disposal of stocks and the conservation and development of sources of materials. (q) Unique acquisition matters in support of special operations and low-intensity conflict programs, systems, and activities related to acquisition, in coordination with the USD(P). (r) Defense Acquisition program protection measures and related counterintelligence and system security activities, in coordination with the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Command, Control, Communications, and Intelligence (ASD(C3I)). (s) Economic adjustment. (t) Defense atomic energy, chemical warfare, and biological defense plans and programs.
