FR940524-1-00045 FR940524-1-00010 (m) Fume means a solid condensation particle, generally less than 1 micrometer in diameter. (n) Gas means an aeriform fluid which is in a gaseous state at ordinary temperature and pressure. (o) Hazardous atmosphere means: (1) Any atmosphere containing a toxic or disease producing gas, vapor, dust, fume, mist, or pesticide, either immediately or not immediately dangerous to life or health; or (2) Any oxygen-deficient atmosphere. (p) A hood or helmet is a respirator component which covers the wearer's head and neck, or head, neck, and shoulders, and is supplied with incoming respirable air for the wearer to breathe. It may include a headharness and connection for a breathing tube. (q) Immediately dangerous to life or health means conditions that pose an immediate threat to life or health or conditions that pose an immediate threat of severe exposure to contaminants, such as radioactive materials, which are likely to have adverse cumulative or delayed effects on health. (r) Incoming inspection means the activity of receiving, examining, and accepting only those materials and parts whose quality conforms to specification requirements. (s) In-process inspection means the control of products at the source of production and at each step of the manufacturing process, so that departures from specifications can be corrected before defective components or materials are assembled into the finished product. (t) Institute means the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Department of Health and Human Services. (u) Liquefied-breathing gas means oxygen or air stored in liquid form and supplied to the wearer in a gaseous form. (v) Mist means a liquid condensation particle with a size ranging from submicroscopic to macroscopic. (w) MSHA means the Mine Safety and Health Administration, U.S. Department of Labor. (x) Not immediately dangerous to life or health means any hazardous atmosphere which may produce physical discomfort immediately, chronic poisoning after repeated exposure, or acute adverse physiological symptoms after prolonged exposure. (y) Oxygen-deficient atmosphere means an atmosphere which contains an oxygen partial pressure of less than 148 millimeters of mercury (19.5 percent by volume at sea level). (z) Powered air-purifying respirator means a device equipped with a facepiece, hood, or helmet, breathing tube, canister, cartridge, filter, canister with filter, or cartridge with filter, and a blower. (aa) Respirator means any device designed to provide the wearer with respiratory protection against inhalation of a hazardous atmosphere. (bb) Single-use respirator means a respirator that is entirely discarded after excessive resistance, sorbent exhaustion, or physical damage renders it unsuitable for further use. (cc) Vapor means the gaseous state of a substance that is solid or liquid at ordinary temperature and pressure. ยง84.3 Incorporation by reference. Note: The technical publications referenced in this part 84, which have been prepared by organizations other than the Institute, were approved for incorporation by reference in 30 CFR part 11. The Institute will be submitting these publications for approval of the incorporation by reference by the Director of the Office of the Federal Register under this part 84 prior to the publication of a final rule. ยง84.4 Respirators for mine rescue or other emergency use in mines. (a) (1) NIOSH and the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA), U.S. Department of Labor, shall jointly review and issue certifications for respirators used for mine emergencies and mine rescue, including any associated service-life plans, users' manuals and other supporting documentation. (2) Each certification for a respirator designed for mine rescue or other emergency use in mines shall include, as a condition of approval, any use limitations related to mine safety and health. (b) NIOSH and MSHA shall jointly determine appropriate recall and retrofit remedies for field complaints or identified deficiencies involving any respirators used in the mining environment.
