FR940413-1-00023 FR940413-1-00007 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR 165 [COTP Baltimore 94&hyph;003] Safety Zone Regulation: Hammerman Area of Gunpowder Falls State Park, Baltimore County, MD AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard Marine Safety Office Baltimore is considering a proposal to establish a safety zone for the purpose of the third annual Maryland ``Swim For Life'', at the request of the Maryland ``Swim For Life'' Committee of Baltimore, Maryland. The ``Swim For Life'' event will consist of a two and a one half mile swim to be held at the Hammerman area of Gunpowder Falls State Park, Gunpowder River, Maryland. The Swim will start at Hammerman area beach number five, to the Maxwell Point buoy, thence to Oliver Point buoy and thence to Hammerman area beach numbers one and two. The safety zone is necessary to control small craft and recreational vessel traffic, and to provide for the safety of life and property on U.S. navigable waters from the hazards associated with this swimming event. Entry into this zone is prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port. DATES: Comments must be received on or before May 13, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be mailed to U.S. Coast Guard Marine Safety Office Baltimore, Custom House, 40 South Gay Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202&hyph;4022. Comments and other materials referenced in this notice will be available for inspection and copying at the above address in room 343. Normal office hours are between 7:30 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. Comments may also be hand delivered to the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Chief Warrant Officer Timothy P. Ryan, (410) 962&hyph;2651. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments Interested persons are invited to participate in this rulemaking by submitting written views, data and arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their names and addresses, identify this notice (COTP Baltimore 94&hyph;003) and the specific section of the proposal to which their comments apply, as well as give reasons for each comment. All comments received before the expiration of the comment period will be considered before final action is taken on this proposal. The proposed regulation may be changed in light of comments received. No public hearing is planned, but one may be held if written requests for a hearing are received and it is determined that the opportunity to make oral presentations will aid the rulemaking process. Background and Purpose In November, 1993, an application was received by U.S. Coast Guard Group Baltimore from the Maryland Swim For Life Committee, requesting a safety zone for the ``Swim For Life'' event. This event is to be held in the Hammerman area of Gunpowder Falls State Park, Gunpowder River, Maryland, on June 18, 1994. As part of their application, the ``Swim For Life'' Committee requested the Coast Guard provide control of spectator and commercial traffic during the swimming event. Discussion of Regulations This regulation is necessary to ensure the safety of spectator craft, recreational vessels as well as swimmers participating in the event, and to provide for the safety of life and property on U.S. navigable waters during the event. Since the Gunpowder Falls river will not be closed for an extended period, vessel traffic should not be severely disrupted. This regulation is issued pursuant to 33 U.S.C. 1231 as set out in the authority citation for all of part 165. Drafting Information The drafters of this regulation are Chief Warrant Officer Timothy P. Ryan, project officer for the Captain of the Port, Baltimore, Maryland and Lieutenant Monica Lombardi, project attorney, Fifth Coast Guard District Legal Staff. Regulatory Evaluation This rule is not major under Executive Order 12291 and not significant under the Department of Transportation Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this rule to be so minimal that a Regulatory Evaluation is unnecessary. Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), the U.S. Coast Guard must consider the economic impact on small entities of a rule for which a general notice of proposed rulemaking is required. ``Small entities'' include independently owned and operated small businesses that are not dominant in their field and that otherwise qualify as ``small business concerns'' under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632). Because it expects the impact of this rule to be minimal, the Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. If, however, you think that your business qualifies as a small entity and that this rule will have a significant economic impact on your business, please submit a comment (See addresses ) explaining why you think your business qualifies and in what way and to what degree this rule will economically affect your business. Collection of Information This rule contains no collection of information requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). Federalism Assessment This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that this rule will not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant preparation of a Federalism Assessment. List of Subjects in 33 CFR Part 165 Harbors, Marine safety, Navigation (water), Records and recordkeeping requirements, Security measures, Vessels, Waterways.
