FR941116-2-00076 FR941116-2-00060 [TA&hyph;W&hyph;29, 919] Pennzoil Products Co., Bradford, PA; Notice of Negative Determination Regarding Application for Reconsideration By an application dated September 14, 1993, Local # 6990 of the United Electrical Workers (UE) requested administrative reconsideration of the subject petition for trade adjustment assistance. The denial notice was signed on August 16, 1994 and published in the Federal Register on September 2, 1994 (59 FR 45711). Pursuant to 29 CFR 90.18(c) reconsideration may be granted under the following circumstances: (1) If it appears on the basis of facts not previously considered that the determination complained of was erroneous; (2) If it appears that the determination complained of was based on a mistake in the determination of facts not previously considered; or (3) If in the opinion of the Certifying Officer, a misinterpretation of facts or of the law justified reconsideration of the decision. The investigation findings show that the workers were primarily engaged in employment related to the production of crude oil. Some natural gas was produced. The Department's denial was based on the fact that the ``contributed importantly'' test of the increased import criterion of the Group Eligibility Requirements of the Trade Act was not met. The ``contributed importantly'' test is generally demonstrated through a survey of the workers' firm's customers. The Department's survey of the Pennzoil's customers shows that all of its crude oil was shipped to a corporate refinery who does not import crude oil. The Department's survey of the natural gas customers shows that they did not increase their imports of natural gas while reducing their purchases from Pennzoil during the relevant periods. The union claims that the international price of crude oil affects the price of domestic crude oil and was responsible for the worker separations at Pennzoil. Price is not a criterion for a worker group certification. Also, Pennzoil shift from domestic production to overseas exploration and production would not form a basis for a worker group certification. The Trade Act was not intended to provide TAA benefits to everyone who is in some way affected by foreign competition but only to those who experienced a decline in sales or production and employment and an increase in imports of like or directly competitive products which ``contributed importantly'' to declines in sales or production and employment. Conclusion After review of the application and investigative findings, I conclude that there has been no error or misinterpretation of the law or of the facts which would justify reconsideration of the Department of Labor's prior decision. Accordingly, the application is denied. Signed at Washington, D.C., this 7th day of November 1994. Victor J. Trunzo, Program Manager, Policy and Reemployment Services, Office of Trade Adjustment Assistance. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28271 Filed 11&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;30&hyph;M
