FR940725-0-00051 FR940725-0-00008 (v) Counseling and guidance of children, parents, and service providers regarding hearing loss. (vi) Determination of the child's need for group and individual amplification, selecting and fitting an appropriate aid, and evaluating the effectiveness of amplification. (2) Counseling services. Services provided by qualified social workers, psychologists, guidance counselors, or other qualified personnel to help a preschool child or child with a disability to benefit from special education. (3) Early identification. The implementation of a formal plan for identifying a disability as early as possible in the individual's life. (4) Medical services. Those evaluative, diagnostic, and supervisory services provided by a licensed and credentialed physician to assist CSCs in determining whether a child has a medically related disability condition that results in the child's need for special education and related services and to implement IEPs. Medical services include diagnosis, evaluation, and medical supervision of related services that, by statute, regulation, or professional tradition, are the responsibility of a licensed and credentialed physician. (5) Occupational therapy. Therapy that provides developmental evaluations and treatment programs using selected tasks to restore, reinforce, or enhance functional performance. It addresses the quality and level of functions in areas such as behavior, motor coordination, spatial orientation; visual motor and sensory integration; and general activities of daily living. This therapy, which is conducted or supervised by a qualified occupational therapist, provides training and guidance in using special equipment to improve the patient's functioning in skills of daily living, work, and study. (6) Parent counseling and training. Assisting parents in understanding the special needs of their preschool child or child and providing parents with information about child development and special education. (7) Physical therapy. Therapy that provides evaluations and treatment programs using exercise, modalities, and adaptive equipment to restore, reinforce, or enhance motor performance. It focuses on the quality of movement, reflex development, range of motion, muscle strength, gait, and gross motor development, seeking to decrease abnormal movement and posture while facilitating normal movement and equilibrium reactions. The therapy, which is conducted by a qualified physical therapist, provides for measurement and training in the use of adaptive equipment and prosthetic and orthotic appliances. Therapy may be conducted by a qualified physical therapist assistant under the clinical supervision of a qualified physical therapist. (8) Psychological services. Services listed in paragraphs (rr) (8) (i) through (rr) (8) (iv) of this section that are provided by a qualified psychologist: (i) Administering psychological and educational tests and other assessment procedures. (ii) Interpreting test and assessment results. (iii) Obtaining, integrating, and interpreting information about a preschool child's or child's behavior and conditions relating to his or her learning. (iv) Consulting with other staff members in planning school programs to meet the special needs of preschool children and children, as indicated by psychological tests, interviews, and behavioral evaluations. (v) Planning and managing a program of psychological services, including psychological counseling for preschool children, children, and parents. For the purpose of these activities, a qualified psychologist is a psychologist licensed in a State of the United States who has a degree in clinical or school psychology and additional pediatric training and/or experience. (9) Recreation. This term includes: (i) Assessment of leisure activities. (ii) Therapeutic recreational activities. (iii) Recreational programs in schools and community agencies. (iv) Leisure education. (10) School health services. Services provided, pursuant to an IEP, by a qualified school health nurse, or other qualified person, that are required for a preschool child or child with a disability to benefit from special education. (11) Social work counseling services in schools. This term includes: (i) Preparing a social and developmental history on a preschool child or child identified as having a disability.
