FR940804-0-00111 FR940804-0-00024 C. Sufficiency of Internal Enforcement Mechanisms. Four organizations and two individuals commented that these rules, as proposed, lacked enforcement mechanisms sufficient to deter prohibited communications. These comments took two forms: (1) a general suggestion that the Department could not be trusted to police itself (or as, one commenter put it, it would be a case of ``the fox maintain[ing] .␣.␣. guard over the hen-house''); and (2) a specific concern that the restrictions to be placed in the United States Attorneys' Manual would not in fact be enforced against Department attorneys who violated them. The Attorney General has exclusive authority over any violations of these rules. As a general matter, violations of these rules will be addressed as matters of attorney discipline by the Department, rather than by any external disciplinary authority. Only if the Attorney General finds a willful violation of these rules may sanctions for the violations be imposed by a state disciplinary authority. This disciplinary structure reflects the Department's belief that allowing sanctions to be issued independent of the Department's internal review process would frustrate the Department's efforts to eliminate the current uncertainty arising from the differing interpretations of the various anti-contact rules by federal courts, state courts, and state disciplinary authorities. The Department intends fully to enforce these rules and to issue appropriate and strong sanctions for any violation of these rules. The Department also disagrees with those comments that suggest that the provisions the Department currently intends to add to the United States Attorneys' Manual will not be enforced. The Manual contains a great number of significant Department of Justice policies, many of which impose substantial restrictions on Department attorneys. There is no evidence that such policies are routinely overlooked by Department attorneys or that violations of policies set forth in the Manual are not regarded by the Department as serious breaches of professional duties. On the contrary, the failure to follow such policies is taken very seriously. The Department expects its attorneys involved in criminal or civil law enforcement to follow all provisions in the Manual amendments that it intends to issue regarding ex parte contacts. Failure to follow such rules will result in appropriate discipline by the Department. V. Section-by-Section Analysis Section 77.1: Purpose and Authority Comments relating to this section are addressed in the ``General Comments'' section above. No changes have been made to this section. Section 77.2: Definitions The following terms are defined in section 77.2 of this part. In the final rule, unlike in the proposed rule, these terms are arranged alphabetically for the reader's ease. a. ``Attorney for the government.'' The term ``attorney for the government'' includes virtually all Department of Justice attorneys with investigative, litigative, or management responsibilities, regardless of title. It does not, however, include law enforcement agents employed by the Department of Justice who are also members of state bars, if they are employed as, and are performing the function of, agents rather than attorneys. The Federal Bureau of Investigation, Drug Enforcement Agency and other investigative agencies have long recruited individuals with advanced degrees_including, for example, engineering, business, and law degrees_to serve as agents. The Department strongly encourages the recruitment of educated and specially-trained individuals for positions as agents. An agent's bar membership should not adversely affect his or her ability to conduct comprehensive investigations and otherwise to fulfill his or her law enforcement functions. Therefore, the rule specifically exempts attorney-agents from its scope if they are employed by the government as investigative agents and not as attorneys. The term also does not include attorneys for departments or agencies outside the Department of Justice, regardless of their litigative authority, except to the extent such persons have been specially appointed pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 515 or 543.
