FR940513-2-00103 FR940513-2-00042 Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress and the availability of funds. At the request of the applicant, Federal personnel may be assigned to a project in lieu of a portion of the financial assistance. The amount of this award may not be adequate for the support of all Prevention Center activities and other sources of funding may be necessary. Purpose The purpose of this program is to support health promotion and disease prevention research that focuses on the prevention of the major causes of death and disability and promote health practices that lead to more effective State and local programs. Program Requirements In conducting activities to achieve the purpose of this program, the recipient will be responsible for the activities under A. (Recipient Activities), and CDC will be responsible for the activities under B. (CDC Activities). A. Recipient Activities 1. Conduct and evaluate one or more demonstration projects in health promotion and disease prevention or preventive health services, or both, in defined communities or targeted populations. 2. Conduct a demonstration project in health promotion and disease prevention with a State or local health or education department. 3. Establish collaborative activities with appropriate organizations, individuals, and State health or education agencies. 4. Establish an advisory committee to provide input on major program activities. The committee should include scientists, health-care providers, health officials, voluntary health organizations, and consumers. 5. Coordinate and collaborate with other PHS supported research programs to prevent duplication and enhance overall efforts. B. CDC Activities 1. Collaborate as appropriate with recipient in all stages of the project. 2. Provide programmatic and technical assistance. 3. Participate in improving program performance through consultation based on information and activities of other projects. 4. Provide scientific collaboration. 5. At the request of the applicant, assign Federal personnel in lieu of a portion of the financial assistance to assist with developing the curriculum, training, or conducting other specific necessary activities. Evaluation Criteria Applications will be evaluated through a dual review process. The first review will be a peer evaluation of the scientific and technical merit of the application conducted by the Prevention Centers Grant Review Committee. The second review will be conducted by senior Federal staff, who will consider the results of the first review, national program needs, and relevance to the mission of CDC. Awards will be made on the basis of priority score rankings by the peer review, recommendations based on program review by senior Federal staff, and the availability of funds. A. The Prevention Center Grants Program Objective Review Committee may recommend approval or disapproval based on the intent of the application and the following criteria: 1. Prevention Center Theme (5 Points) The extent to which the theme will result in innovative approaches or interventions to meet health priorities, emerging health needs, health needs of an identified demographic group, or combination thereof. 2. Overall Program Plan (15 Points) The extent to which the overall program plan has clear objectives that are specific, measurable, and realistic, and makes effective use of Prevention Center resources to advance the Center's theme.
