FR940711-1-00008 FR940711-1-00003 Notice of Proposed Rulemaking June 29, 1994. Table of Contents I. Introduction II. Public Reporting Burden III. Discussion A. Background B. Current Stranded Cost Policy 1. Wholesale Customers Leaving The System 2. Retail-Turned-Wholesale Customers Leaving The System 3. Retail Customers Leaving The System C. The Proposed Regulations 1. Recovery of Stranded Costs Associated With New Wholesale Power Sales Contracts 2. Recovery of Stranded Costs Associated With Existing Wholesale Power Sales Contracts 3. Recovery Of Wholesale Stranded Costs In Wholesale Transmission Rates 4. Filing Requirements For Wholesale Stranded Cost Recovery 5. Evidentiary Demonstration For Wholesale Stranded Cost Recovery 6. Recovery Of Retail Stranded Costs i. Jurisdictional Analysis ii. Treatment of Retail Costs IV. Regulatory Flexibility Act V. Environmental Statement VI. Information Collection Statement VII. Public Comment Procedures Regulatory Text I. Introduction The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Commission) seeks public comment on amending its regulations to establish provisions concerning the recovery of wholesale and retail stranded costs by public utilities and transmitting utilities under sections 205, 206, 211 and 212 of the Federal Power Act (FPA). 1 Wholesale stranded costs are defined as any legitimate, prudent and verifiable costs incurred by a public utility or a transmitting utility to provide service to a wholesale requirements customer that subsequently becomes, in whole or in part, an unbundled transmission services customer 2 of that public utility or transmitting utility. Retail stranded costs are defined as any legitimate, prudent and verifiable costs incurred by a public utility or transmitting utility to provide service to a retail franchise customer that subsequently becomes, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, an unbundled transmission services customer of that public utility or transmitting utility. 1 A public utility is defined under section 201(e) of the FPA as ``any person who owns or operates facilities subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission under this Part (other than facilities subject to such jurisdiction solely by reason of section 210, 211, or 212).'' A transmitting utility is defined under section 3(23) of the FPA as ``any electric utility, qualifying cogeneration facility, qualifying small power production facility, or Federal power marketing agency which owns or operates electric power transmission facilities which are used for the sale of electric energy at wholesale.'' Not all transmitting utilities are public utilities. For instance, a municipally-owned electric utility that owns transmission facilities which are used for the sale of electric energy at wholesale is a transmitting utility, but is not a public utility. 2 An unbundled transmission services customer is one who purchases transmission as a product that is separate from the purchase of generation. For recovery of wholesale stranded costs, the proposed rule distinguishes between stranded costs associated with wholesale requirements contracts executed after the date the proposed rule is published in the Federal Register (``new'' contracts) and stranded costs associated with wholesale requirements contracts executed on or before that date (``existing'' contracts). The proposed rule would not allow a public utility or transmitting utility to seek recovery of stranded costs associated with ``new'' wholesale requirements contracts through transmission rates for section 205 or 211 transmission services. Recovery of such costs will not be allowed except through explicit stranded cost provisions contained in new wholesale requirements contracts. If the seller under a new wholesale requirements contract is a public utility, and the new contract explicitly addresses stranded cost recovery, the public utility may seek recovery, in accordance with the contract, under sections 205&hyph;206 of the FPA. 3 The public utility may not seek recovery of wholesale stranded costs through any transmission rate for section 205 or 211 transmission services. If the seller under a new wholesale requirements contract is a transmitting utility subject to the Commission's jurisdiction under section 211, but not also a public utility subject to the Commission's section 205&hyph;206 jurisdiction, 4 there will be no Commission forum for addressing wholesale stranded costs associated with the new contract. Such utilities will not be able to seek recovery of wholesale stranded costs associated with such new contracts through rates for transmission services ordered under section 211, and the Commission does not have jurisdiction over their power sales contracts. Therefore, these utilities must address recovery of stranded costs through their new wholesale requirements contracts subject to the appropriate regulatory authority approval. 3 For example, when a public utility files a new wholesale requirements contract that contains an explicit exit fee amount, it may request that the Commission allow it to recover the fee, in accordance with the contract, without having to make a subsequent section 205 filing, as long as the exit fee provision is sufficiently specific. Customers are contractually obligated to pay such exit fees previously approved by the Commission, and such an exit fee is part of the filed rate. 4 Compare 16 U.S.C. 796(23) with 16 U.S.C. 824(e).
