FR940919-0-00109 FR940919-0-00016 Certain portions of today's rule are being promulgated pursuant to sections 3004 (d) through (k), and (m), of RCRA (42 U.S.C. 6924 (d) through (k), and (m)). These will be added to Table 1 in 40 CFR 271.1(j), which identifies the Federal program requirements that are promulgated pursuant to HSWA and that take effect in all States, regardless of their authorization status. States may apply for either interim or final authorization for the HSWA provisions in Table 1, as discussed in the following section of this preamble. Table 2 in 40 CFR 271.1(j) is also modified to indicate that this rule is a self-implementing provision of HSWA. B. Effect on State Authorization As noted above, today's rule, with the exception of the changes in the definition of solid waste (see preamble section IX, and further discussion in this section, below), will be implemented in authorized States until their programs are modified to adopt these rules and the modification is approved by EPA. Because the rule is promulgated pursuant to HSWA, a State submitting a program modification may apply to receive either interim or final authorization under RCRA section 3006(g)(2) or 3006(b), respectively, on the basis of requirements that are substantially equivalent or equivalent to EPA's. The procedures and schedule for State program modifications for either interim or final authorization are described in 40 CFR 271.21. On December 18, 1992, EPA extended the period allowing interim authorization to January 1, 2003 (see 40 CFR 271.24(c) and 57 FR 60129). Section 271.21(e)(2) requires that States that have final authorization must modify their programs to reflect Federal program changes and must subsequently submit the modification to EPA for approval. The deadline by which the State would have to modify its program to adopt these regulations is specified in section 271.21(e). Once EPA approves the modification, the State requirements become Subtitle C RCRA requirements. States with authorized RCRA programs may already have requirements similar to those in today's rule. These State regulations have not been assessed against the Federal regulations being promulgated today to determine whether they meet the tests for authorization. Thus, a State is not authorized to implement these requirements in lieu of EPA until the State program modifications are approved. Of course, states with existing standards could continue to administer and enforce their standards as a matter of State law. In the period between the effective date of today's rule and the approval of state program modifications, the regulated communities in authorized states generally must comply with state regulations in addition to the provisions in today's rule. The regulated community should continue to consult with state agencies authorized to administer LDRs. In implementing the Federal program, EPA will work with States under agreements to minimize duplication of efforts. In many cases, EPA will be able to defer to the States in their efforts to implement their programs rather than take separate actions under Federal authority. States that submit official applications for final authorization less than 12 months after the effective date of these regulations are not required to include standards equivalent to these regulations in their application. However, the State must modify its program by the deadline set forth in ยง271.21(e). States that submit official applications for final authorization 12 months after the effective date of these regulations must include standards equivalent to these regulations in their application. The requirements a state must meet when submitting its final authorization application are set forth in 40 CFR 271.3. The regulations promulgated today need not affect the State's Underground Injection Control (UIC) primacy status. A State currently authorized to administer the UIC program under the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) could continue to do so without seeking authority to administer the amendments that will be promulgated at a future date. However, a State which wished to implement Part 148 and receive authorization to grant exemptions from the land disposal restrictions would have to demonstrate that it had the requisite authority to administer sections 3004 (f) and (g) of RCRA. The conditions under which such an authorization may take place are summarized below and are discussed in a July 15, 1985 final rule (50 FR 28728). The modifications to the definition of solid waste in this rule (see preamble section IX) are based on non-HSWA authority. This portion of the rule, because it is not based on HSWA authority, will be applicable immediately only in those States that do not have final RCRA authorization. In authorized States, these requirements will not apply until the States revise their programs to adopt equivalent requirements under State law. In addition, this modification broadens the ``closed-loop'' recycling exclusion from the definition of solid waste. The modification to this rule is less stringent, or reduces the scope of, the Federal program. Therefore, although EPA strongly encourages timely adoption, authorized States are not required to modify their programs to adopt regulations consistent with and equivalent to this provision. XVI. Regulatory Requirements A. Regulatory Impact Analysis Pursuant to Executive Order 12866 Executive Order No. 12866 requires agencies to determine whether a regulatory action is ``significant.'' The Order defines a ``significant'' regulatory action as one that ``is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect, in a material way, the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) create serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients; or (4) raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order.'' The Agency estimated the costs of today's final rule to determine if it is a significant regulation as defined by the Executive Order. The incremental compliance costs for today's rule were estimated as a range from $194 to $219 million per year. Therefore, today's final rule is considered an economically significant rule, having an annual effect on the economy of over $100 million. The Agency prepared a regulatory impact analysis which analyzed the costs, economic impacts, and benefits of today's final rule. This section of the preamble for today's final rule provides a discussion of the methodology used for estimating the costs, economic impacts and the benefits attributable to today's final rule, followed by a presentation of the cost, economic impact and benefit results. Limitations to these estimates are described in the results section. More detailed discussions of the methodology and results may be found in the background document, ``Regulatory Impact Analysis of the Land Disposal Restrictions Final Rule for the Phase 2 Newly Listed and Identified Wastes,'' which has been placed in the docket for today's final rule.
