FR941021-0-00009 FR941021-0-00001 (iv) Equipment cabinets intended for use as SAI housings shall be assigned size designations according to their maximum pair termination capacities. The capacity will vary depending on the type of terminating equipment used. SAI cabinets shall be suffix designated with an ``A'' for pole mounting, ``X'' for pad mounting, and ``S'' for stake mounting. (v) Large pair count splice cabinets are classified according to their splice capacity. Approximately 48 cm3 (3.0 in.3) of splice area per pair straight spliced shall be permitted. (vi) The minimum volume associated with large pair count splice cabinets shall be as shown in the following table: ␣ 1Splice cabinet1 designation 1Minimum volume 2(cm.3) 2(in.3) 1Maximum splice capacity (pairs) BD6000 295,000 (18,000) 6,000 BD8000 393,000 (24,000) 8,000 BD10000 491,000 (30,000) 10,000 Note 1: Additional sizes of splice cabinets shall be considered by REA on a case-by-case basis. (3) Design and fabrication requirements for housings. (i) Type H pedestal housings may consist of an enclosed channel incorporating an integrally mounted stake that serves as a backplate, or they may be designed for universal mounting on stakes or poles. The body of the housing shall have two major components; an upper cover and a base cover. The upper cover shall have a top, front and back plate with the front cover removable to permit entry and provide increased work space. The base cover shall consist of a front plate and back plate. The base cover back plate may be an extension of the upper back plate cover. (ii) Type M pedestal housings shall consist of a one piece upper sleeve designed to fit over the base cover trapping air to prohibit water from entering the splice area when installed in locations prone to temporary flooding. Pedestals designed to be mounted extra high on poles for locations susceptible to deep snow shall have a bottom close-off option available to prohibit the ingress of birds, rodents and insects. (iii) The external housing components on all outside plant housings shall provide reasonable protection against accidental removal or vandalism. Housings shall be equipped with a cover plate retaining bolt and cup washer that may be opened only with an industry accepted socket type can wrench. Housings may be equipped with provisions to allow the purchaser to install a padlock. (iv) Installed housings shall resist the disassembling force of frost heaving applied to the bottom of ground line cover plates. The base cover must remain stationary to stabilize the contents of the housing cavity. (v) In an effort to provide protection against dust penetration, blowing snow, rain, and ultraviolet light degradation of internal components, all mechanical gaps shall be restricted. The use of seals, overlaps, gaskets, and/or dovetailing is required to assure satisfactory protection of housed equipment. (vi) Knockouts, cutouts, or notches designed to accommodate aerial service drops shall not be permitted. A design option for housings intended to accommodate service drops shall include a separate channel or equivalent in the base cover to allow future additions of service drops without the removal of gravel or the moisture barrier in the base of the housing. Service wire channels must be designed to prevent the entry of birds, reptiles, rodents and insects. (vii) Minimal venting of SAI housings may be necessary to relieve internal pressure and condensation. (viii) There shall be no aluminum housing components that will become buried in the soil when the housing is properly installed. (ix) Housing components may be assembled using rivets, welds, glue, bolts and nuts, or other techniques suitable for the materials involved. (x) Housings and their components that require field assembly must be capable of being assembled with tools normally available to outside plant technicians. (xi) Hinged doors on SAI housings and large pair count splice housings shall be equipped with a device that restrains the doors in the open position. (xii) Outside plant housings shall be free of sharp edges, burrs, etc., that could present a safety hazard to personnel involved in installation and use of the product or to the general public. Surfaces inside housings must not allow pinching of conductors during installation of cover plates or the opening and closing of doors. (xiii) A ground line mark shall be provided, approximately 15 cm (6 in.) below the top edge of the housing base cover plate on housings intended for ground level mounting. Base cover plates shall have a minimum height of 31 cm (12 in.).
