FR940627-2-00035 FR940627-2-00026 •Demonstrate knowledge of the problems and issues that will be addressed. Provide documentation of a commitment to improving the quality of child welfare service programs in the topical area, and documentation of experience in providing training, technical assistance and consultation particularly to providers serving economically, racially and culturally diverse populations. •Describe the Resource Center's orientation to training and technical assistance and any conceptual frameworks that will be used in the analysis of needs and in the design and delivery of training and technical assistance. Describe a plan for identifying the training and technical assistance needs of States and other publicly supported child welfare service programs and a plan for delivering services in response to those needs. Present strategies for obtaining input from the ten DHHS Regional Offices and the agencies themselves. •Describe a plan for utilizing Federal funds and matching contributions to meet requests for on-site training, technical assistance and consultation. Since the Resource Centers will have considerable, but finite, Federal funds, applicants must present strategies for prioritizing requests and maximizing available financial resources including techniques such as, but not limited to, cost-sharing arrangements. •Describe a plan for continually identifying and/or developing innovative and exemplary programs; planning, collaboration and implementation methods; service development strategies; practice techniques; resources such as training curricula and educational manuals; and rigorous research and program evaluation approaches. Discuss strategies for helping agencies perform exemplary and innovative activities in overcoming the categorical nature of traditional services, and facilitating critical linkages for children and families to mental health and substance abuse services. Discuss strategies for continually disseminating information about innovations and exemplary efforts and assisting the field in adapting such resources to meet specific needs. Specify audiences dissemination efforts will focus on, how these audiences have been identified, and why they are relevant to dissemination efforts. Describe how ongoing requests from the general public for information will be handled. •Describe a plan for continually identifying relevant emerging issues and the needs of new service populations as well as a plan for preparing and disseminating information and policy papers to the field which address these emerging issues and new service populations. •Describe a plan for coordinating activities with other National Resource and Research Centers and Clearinghouses funded by DHHS and other sources, to assure effective utilization of resources and to avoid duplication of efforts. Provide a specific assurance of establishing close working ties with the Training and Technical Assistance Resource Coordination Contractor to be funded by the Children's Bureau in FY 94. •Describe a plan for conducting, in conjunction with the Children's Bureau, one national conference/meeting on an annual basis for relevant service providers, professionals, groups and organizations. The conference/meeting may be an enhancement of an established national conference/meeting. Describe how the Resource Center will participate in the planning, promotion and implementation of the ACYF-sponsored National Child Welfare Conference. •Describe a plan to help agencies improve services to overrepresented populations, particularly minority group families and minority children in care. Identify techniques to be used in assessing factors which impede the delivery of culturally appropriate services and strategies to assist agencies in reducing those factors. •Describe a plan to ensure that the services and program activities of the Resource Center are responsive to topically-related cultural competence issues, activities are provided in a manner that is racially/culturally sensitive to the population being served, and the staff of the Resource Center is racially and culturally diverse and reflective of the populations being served. •Describe a plan for continually developing a national network of professionals in the field to serve as consultants and for linking these individuals with persons and agencies requesting assistance; for ensuring that the network is racially and culturally diverse; and for ensuring the quality of the consultation provided by eliciting consumer input. •Describe a plan for fostering and strengthening communication and coordination activities among client and advocacy groups, agencies, and professional organizations serving children, youth and families. Specify key players and entities that need to be connected, identify issues around which relationships need to be built, and propose methods for establishing linkages and partnerships. •Describe a plan for continually evaluating the overall operation of the Resource Center with particular emphasis on eliciting consumer input in assessing the quality of the training, technical assistance and consultation services provided. •Provide an assurance that at least one key staff member would attend an annual 4 day meeting of Children's Bureau grantees in Washington, D.C.
