FR940913-2-00069 FR940913-2-00050 Records to be matched: HUD will utilize its system of records entitled HUD/DEPT&hyph;2, Accounting Records. The debtor files for HUD programs involved are included in this system of records. HUD's debtor files contain information on borrowers and co-borrowers who are currently in default (at least 90 days delinquent on their loans); or who have any outstanding claims paid during the last three years on Title II insured or guaranteed home mortgage loans; or individuals who have defaulted on Section 312 rehabilitation loans; or individuals who have had a claim paid in the last three years on a Title I loan. For the CAIVRS match, HUD/DEPT&hyph;2, System of Records, receives its program inputs from HUD/DEPT&hyph;28, Property Improvement and Manufactured (Mobile) Home Loans_Default; HUD/DEPT&hyph;32, Delinquent/Default/Assigned Temporary Mortgage Assistance Payments (TMAP) Program; and HUD/CPD&hyph;1, Rehabilitation Loans-Delinquent/Default. The SBA will provide HUD with debtor files contained in its system of records entitled, Loan Case File (SBA 075). HUD is maintaining SBA's records only as a ministerial action on behalf of SBA, not as a part of HUD's HUD/DEPT&hyph;2 system of records. SBA's data contain information on individuals who have defaulted on their direct loans. The SBA will retain ownership and responsibility for their systems of records that they place with HUD. HUD serves only as a record location and routine use recipient for SBA's data. Notice Procedures: HUD and the SBA will notify individuals at the time of application (ensuring that routine use appears on the application form) for guaranteed or direct loans that their records will be matched to determine whether they are delinquent or in default on a Federal debt. HUD and the SBA have published notices concerning routine use disclosures in the Federal Register to inform individuals that a computer match may be performed to determine a loan applicant's credit status with the Federal Government. Categories of Records/Individuals Involved: The debtor records include these data elements: SSN, claim number, program code, and indication of indebteness. Categories of records include: records of claims and defaults, repayment agreements, credit reports, financial statements, and records of foreclosures. Categories of individuals include: former mortgagors and purchasers of HUD-owned properties, manufactured (mobile) home and home improvement loan debtors who are delinquent or in default on their loans, and rehabilitation loan debtors who are delinquent or in default on their loans. Period of the Match: Matching will begin at least 40 days from the date copies of the signed (by both Data Integrity Boards) computer matching agreement are sent to both Houses of Congress or at least 30 days from the date this Notice is published in the Federal Register , whichever is later, providing no comments are received which would result in a contrary determination. Issued at Washington, DC, September 7, 1994. Marilynn A. Davis, Assistant Secretary for Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22635 Filed 9&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;01&hyph;M
