FR940928-2-00034 FR940928-2-00030 [OPP&hyph;36140B; FRL&hyph;4872&hyph;5] Inert Ingredients in Pesticide Products; List of Minimal Risk Inerts AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: EPA is issuing a list of inert ingredients considered to be of minimal risk in pesticide products (List 4A). In addition, EPA is announcing that substances commonly consumed as food will also be considered minimal risk, List 4A, even if they have previously not been used in pesticide products and are therefore not currently on the list. Substances commonly consumed as foods will be considered acceptable for use in all pesticide products, both food and nonfood use, and will not require a specific exemption from tolerance. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 28, 1994. ADDRESSES: By mail, submit written comments identified by the document control number [OPP-36140B] to: Public Response and Program Resources Branch, Field Operations Division (7506C), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. In person, deliver comments to: Rm. 1132, Crystal Mall Bldg. #2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA 22202. Information submitted as a comment concerning this document may be claimed confidential by marking any part of all of that information as ``Confidential Business Information'' (CBI). Information so marked will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. A copy of the comment that does not contain CBI must be submitted for inclusion in the public record. Information not marked confidential will be included in the public docket by EPA without prior notice. The public docket is available for public inspection in Rm. 1132 at the address given above, from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: By mail: Tina Levine, Registration Support Branch, Registration Division (7505W), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. Office location and telephone number: 2800 Crystal Drive, North Tower, Arlington, VA 22202, (703)-308-8393. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: EPA announced its policy on toxic inert ingredients in pesticide products in the Federal Register of April 22, 1987 (52 FR 13305). Through this policy, EPA encourages the use of the least toxic inert ingredients available and requires the development of data necessary to determine the conditions of safe use of products that contain toxic inert ingredients. In developing this policy, EPA categorized inert ingredients into the following four lists according to toxicity: List 1_Inerts of toxicological concern. List 2_Potentially toxic inerts, with high priority for testing. List 3_Inerts of unknown toxicity. List 4_Inerts of minimal concern. In the Federal Register of November 22, 1989 (58 FR 48314), EPA issued a notice announcing some modifications to the previously published Lists 1 and 2. In that notice, EPA also noted that List 4 was being divided into two parts. The original List 4 became List 4A, representing minimal risk inert ingredients. List 4B was created to represent inert ingredients for which EPA has sufficient information to conclude that their current use patterns in pesticide products will not adversely affect public health and the environment. List 4B will be developed as EPA works through the inerts strategy and reviews the current inerts on Lists 2 and 3. EPA is issuing List 4A to provide guidance to formulators of active ingredients being proposed for deregulation under section 25(b) of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act. The substances included on List 4A can be added to such active ingredients without jeopardizing their deregulated status. These minimum risk inert ingredients are recognized as safe for use in pesticide products based upon their known properties. In reviewing List 4 inert ingredients for the proposed section 25(b) rule, many inerts on the original List 4 were moved from List 4A to List 4B. In particular, acutely toxic inerts were moved to 4B because, although the testing of products for acute toxicity ensures low concern for these inerts in registered products, without such regulatory oversight there may be unacceptable acute risks. In addition, many of the inerts on the original List 4 received little review for environmental fate and ecological effects. Those inerts have been moved to List 4B while EPA further assess their environmental risks. EPA also plans soon to move inert ingredients now on List 3 to Lists 4A and 4B. The Food and Drug Administration has considered these inerts for use as direct food additives and in pharmaceuticals, and they are undergoing additional review by the FDA and the Office of Water before final disposition. Many of the inerts on List 4A are commonly consumed foods. There may be other foods useful as inert ingredients in pesticide products that are not included in this list because they have not been used in pesticide products up to now. EPA is announcing a policy that, as a general matter, it will consider all commonly consumed foods as List 4A, inerts of minimal concern. Although some commonly consumed foods are currently exempted from the requirement of a tolerance by virtue of their listing in the 40 CFR 180.1001, EPA generally will no longer list common foods in this way. EPA generally considers substances that are commonly consumed as food to fall into the category of ``generally recognized as safe'' substances. EPA will not require a specific listing for commonly consumed foods in this subpart unless specific information suggests that categorization of ``generally recognized as safe'' is inappropriate. List 4A_Minimum Risk Inerts Acetic acid Agar Alfalfa Alfalfa meal Almond hulls Almond shells Alpha cellulose Apple pomace Attapulgite-type clay Beef fat Beeswax Beet powder Bentonite Bone meal Bran Bread crumbs Calcareous shale Calcite Calcium carbonate Canary seed Cane syrup Carbon dioxide Cardboard Carrageenan Carrots Casein Cheese Chlorophyll Cinnamon Citric acid Citrus meal Citrus pectin Citrus pulp Clam shells Cloves Cocoa Cocoa shells Coco shell flour Cod liver oil Coffee grounds Cookies Cork Corn Corn cobs Corn flour Corn meal Corn oil Cornstarch Corn syrup Cotton Cottonseed meal Cottonseed oil Cracked oats Cracked wheat Dextrin Dextrose Dolomite Douglas-fir bark, ground Eggs Egg shells Edible fish meal Edible fish oil Flour Fuller's earth Gelatin Glue, as depolymerized animal collagen Glycerin Granite Grape pomace Graphite Ground oats Guar gum Gum arabic Gum tragacanth Gypsum Hearts of corn flour Hydrogenated vegetable oils Honey Invert sugar Invert syrup Kaolinite-type clay Lactose Lanolin Lard Latex Lecithin Lime Limestone Linseed oil Malt flavor Meat meal Meal scraps Medicated feed Mica Milk Millet seed Mineral oil, U.S.P. Molasses Montmorillonite-type clay Nitrogen Nutria meat Nylon Oatmeal Oats Olive oil Onions Orange pulp Oyster shells Paper Paprika Paraffin wax Peanut butter Peanut oil Peanuts Peanut shells Peat moss Pecan shell flour Pectin Polyethylene film Polyethylene pellets Potatoes Pumice Raisins Red cedar chips Red dog flour Rice Rice hulls Rubber Rye flour Safflower oil Sawdust Seaweed, edible Shale Soapstone Sodium bicarbonate Sodium chloride Sorbitol Soybean hulls Soybean meal Soybean oil Soy flour Soy protein Sucrose Sugarbeet meal Sunflower seeds Tallow Vanillin Vermiculite Vitamin C Vitamin E Walnut flour Walnut shells Water Wheat Wheat germ oil Whey Wintergreen oil Wool Xanthan gum Yeast List of Subjects Environmental protection, Agricultural commodities, Administrative practice and procedure, Pesticides and pests, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Authority: 7 U.S.C. 136a. Dated: June 14, 1994. Stephen L. Johnson, Director, Registration Division, Office of Pesticide Programs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23890 Filed 9&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
