FR940426-2-00126 FR940426-2-00078 In South Suburban Safeway Lines, Inc. v. City of Chicago, 416 F.2d 535, 539 (7th Cir., 1969), the court observed that in section 3(e) Congress seems to have been primarily concerned over the possibility of public acquisition of private facilities *␣*␣* although competition with and supplementation of existing facilities are also dealt with. The legislative history of section 3(e) is consistent with the court's understanding. In brief, section 3(e) originated in Senate Bill S.6 (88th Cong., 1st Sess.), one of the bills leading to the Urban Mass Transportation Act of 1964. The principal sponsor of S.6, Senator Harrison Williams of New Jersey, indicated that this provision was intended to further a neutral Federal posture on the question of whether public or private companies should operate federally assisted mass transportation services. In discussing the provisions of the bill, Senator Williams said that The public would not have to operate the transit facilities and equipment itself. It could provide for their operation by lease or other arrangement. Thus, every locality would remain free to choose public or private operation of its transportation system or any combination of the two. 109 Cong. Rec. 198 (Daily ed., January 14, 1963) (emphasis added). In the House of Representatives, an amendment to H.R. 3881 (88th Cong., 1st Sess.) contained language substantially similar to that which the Senate had passed. Subsequently, the Senate adopted the House language, and the provision was signed into law. The debate in the House revealed that the intent of section 3(e) was to provide fair and equitable treatment of private providers whose existing operations might face competition from or acquisition by federally funded transit systems and to require the Administrator to use his judgment in making the required findings. 110 Cong. Rec. 14464 (Daily ed., June 25, 1964). However, the legislative history provides no guidance on how the required findings are to be made. The statute does not favor private operations over publicly owned operations. ``All the statute requires is encouragement of private participation to the maximum extent feasible. It does not allow private operators to write their own ticket.'' Westport Taxi Service, Inc. v. Adams, Civil No. B&hyph;76&hyph;369 (D.Conn., April 13, 1977), slip opinion at 12; aff'd. in part, rev'd. in part, 571 F.2d 697 (2d Cir. 1978). At the same time, Congress has made it clear that decisions regarding mass transportation services to be provided with Federal assistance are to be made locally. Indeed, section 2(b) of the FT Act states that one of the fundamental purposes of the Act is To provide assistance to State and local governments and their instrumentalities in financing such systems, to be operated by public or private mass transportation companies as determined by local needs *␣*␣*. 49 U.S.C. app. 1601(b)(3) (emphasis added). Strongly reinforcing this principle, section 12(d) prohibits FTA from regulating ``in any manner the mode of operation of any mass transportation system *␣*␣*.'' Thus, the public/private operator choice is to be made at the local level. This emphasis on local decisionmaking in determining how best to serve the transportation needs of the local area has been recognized by the courts: The statutory scheme of (FTA) emphasizes the large role to be played by local bodies responsible for urban mass transit *␣*␣*. This reliance on the local or State group is consistent with the statute's encouragement of local responsibility in urban mass transportation. The statute does not promote a procedure which leaves all decisions with the Secretary (of Transportation), but rather emphasizes local solutions to problems. Pullman v. Volpe, 337 F. Supp. 432, 438&hyph;439 (E.D. Pa. 1970). The participation of private enterprise in mass transit is addressed at several points in the current FT Act; most notably, section 9(f) requires that in developing a proposed program of projects recipients consult with ``interested parties, including private transportation providers'' and in developing the final program of projects recipients particularly consider the ``comments and views *␣*␣* of private transportation providers.'' This activity at the recipient level is the first step that leads to the planning process under section 8. In section 8(o) Congress has required that local transportation plans and programs prepared under section 8 encourage ``to the maximum extent feasible the participation of private enterprise.'' In section 3(e), Congress has directed that where an existing mass transportation company is providing service, FTA may not provide financial assistance to a public body for the operation of competing or supplemental service, unless it finds that the relevant transportation improvement program required by section 8 provides for such private enterprise participation to the ``maximum extent feasible.'' In section 9(e)(1), Congress extended the requirement of section 3(e) to the section 9 formula grant program. The statutory scheme viewed as a whole thus juxtaposes two potentially competing interests: private enterprise participation and local determination. By authorizing the Administrator to use his discretion in making the required finding, Congress has placed responsibility for resolving any conflicts in the hands of the Federal agency. Since that finding rests on judgments of ``feasibility,'' which are made in the first instance in the program of projects developed by the local metropolitan planning organizations (MPOs), it is apparent that Congress has vested the agency with broad discretion in carrying out this responsibility. Between 1964 and 1984, FTA provided no separate guidance relating to the participation of private enterprise in mass transportation. FTA first issued guidance on this issue in a policy statement, ``Private Enterprise Participation in the (Federal Transit) Program'' (49 FR 41310, October 22, 1984), which set forth the factors FTA would consider in determining whether a recipient's planning process appropriately considered the participation of private enterprise. These factors included consultation with private providers in the local planning process, consideration of private enterprise in the development of the mass transit program, the existence of records documenting the participatory nature of the local planning process, and the rationale used in determining whether or not to contract with private operators for transit services. In 1986, FTA further informally implemented its private enterprise guidance for sections 3 and 9 recipients in FTA Circular 7005.1 (``Documentation of Private Enterprise Involvement in sections 3 and 9 Programs'') and for sections 16(b)(2) and 18 recipients in Chapter X of FTA Circular 9040.1C (``Section 18 Program Guidance'') and Chapter IV of FTA Circular 9070.1C (``Section 16(b)(2) Program Guidance''). These circulars state clearly that FTA will not condition grants on a certain level of private enterprise involvement. At the same time, the circulars outline certain elements and procedures relating to private enterprise participation that a grantee should use in its planning process. Congress has responded twice to FTA's 1984/1986 policy initiative on private enterprise participation, on both occasions acting to restrain the agency. First, in the Conference Report accompanying the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1987 (Pub. L. 99&hyph;464), Congress expressed concern that FTA had exceeded its discretion by conditioning certain section 9 grants on private enterprise involvement; section 327 of that Act prohibited such conditioning of section 9 formula grants. Second, the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991, Pub. L. 102&hyph;240, (ISTEA) amended section 8(i)(5) of the FT Act to add the following: The Secretary shall not withhold certification under this section based upon the policies and criteria established by a metropolitan planning organization or transit grant recipient for determining the feasibility of private enterprise &hyph;&hyph;&hyph;&hyph;participation in accordance with section 8(o) of the Federal Transit Act. Thus, on the one hand, section 3(e) requires that FTA make a finding that the MPO has appropriately encouraged private enterprise participation; on the other, this new provision requires that in considering whether to certify that an MPO is meeting its obligations under Federal law, FTA may not consider the process used by the MPO (or a transit grant recipient) to determine the feasibility of private enterprise participation. Moreover, the ISTEA Conference Committee Report states that under section 8(i)(5), ``localities shall be afforded wide flexibility in establishing criteria to be used in determining the `feasibility' of private involvement in local programs.'' Clearly, then, Congress signaled FTA that it is to pay as significant deference to MPO judgments as to feasibility. In the Notice, FTA stated that it had reviewed its policy in light of the statutory background and believed that the 1984/1986 initiatives should no longer be part of its guidance. The Notice pointed out that FTA has not generally provided advance notice and opportunity for comment when adopting or rescinding the circulars it uses to provide guidance to grantees. FTA invited public comment on the 1984 Policy Statement and Circular 7005.1 only after their issuance as final documents. In this proceeding, however, FTA has provided prior notice of its proposal to change policy consistent with ISTEA to remove unnecessary Federal direction of local parties' discharge of their planning responsibilities under the FT Act and to thereby give full weight to the local decisionmaking process. FTA invited comments on its proposed action during the 60 days following publication of the Notice. Before summarizing the comments generally, we will briefly address two issues. First, a few commenters suggest, in effect, that the agency's action to rescind the previous policy represents a retreat from the statute's requirements. We firmly disagree. The participation of private enterprise in the Nation's transit industry is not only encouraged by the FT Act, it is essential to the health and success of that industry. The question addressed in this notice is not whether, but how, FTA will go about encouraging that participation.
