FR940819-2-00009 FR940819-2-00001 §1951.959 Exception authority. The Administrator may, in individual cases, make an exception to any requirement or provision of this subpart or address any omission of this subpart which is not inconsistent with the authorizing statute or other applicable law if it is determined that application of the requirement or provision or failure to take action in the case of an omission would adversely affect the Government's interest. The Administrator will exercise this authority upon the request of the State Director, with the recommendation of the Assistant Administrator for Farmer Programs; or upon request initiated by the Assistant Administrator for Farmer Programs. Requests for exception must be made in writing and supported with documentation to explain the adverse effect and proposed alternative courses of action, and to show how the adverse effect will be eliminated or minimized if the exception is granted. §§1951.960&hyph;1951.999 [Reserved] §1951.1000 OMB control number. The collection of information requirements in this regulation have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget and assigned OMB control number [0000&hyph;0000]. Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to be 15 minutes per response, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to Department of Agriculture, Clearance Office OIRM, Room 404&hyph;W, Washington, D.C. 20250; and to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (OMB # 0000&hyph;0000), Washington, D.C. 20503. Exhibit A of Subpart T_Addendum to the Promissory Note/Assumption Agreement for the Disaster Set-Aside Program Purpose: For use with the DSA program and to be signed by the borrower and attached to the promissory note/assumption agreement. Addendum to the Promissory Note/Assumption Agreement for the Disaster Set-Aside Program Date Case Number Name Note/Assumption Agreement: Fund Code Loan No. Date Amount This addendum amends the above described promissory note or assumption agreement to set forth the terms and conditions for set-aside of the installment described below. Date of Scheduled Installment Set-Aside Amount of Installment Set-Aside: Principal $ Interest Total $ Any principal amount set-aside will continue to accrue interest at the same rate being charged the non-set-aside portion of the note. This addendum does not change any of the terms or conditions of the promissory note/assumption agreement. The undersigned borrower and any cosigners hereby agree to pay the installment being set-aside, plus any accrued interest on the principal amount set-aside, on or before the final due date of the loan, as set forth on the note or assumption agreement being amended. If the promissory note/assumption agreement is later restructured through primary loan servicing, the addendum will automatically be considered cancelled and the amount set-aside will be included in the total debt restructured. The undersigned borrower(s) understands that by signing this addendum he/she is agreeing to the withdrawal of any pending request for primary loan servicing. This withdrawal does not affect the undersigned's future eligibility for primary loan servicing. Borrower Borrower Dated: August 15, 1994. Michael V. Dunn, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20434 Filed 8&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;07&hyph;U
