FR940324-2-00065 FR940324-2-00042 Applicants for the coordinating center should present a plan for how best to meet the overall responsibilities described above and the goals of the HIV/AIDS Mental Health Services Demonstration Program. In addition, previous relevant experience in data collection and evaluation, as well as facilities and resources available to complete the project, should be described. Eligibility: Applications may be submitted by public and nonprofit private entities, such as community mental health centers, community-based organizations providing HIV/AIDS care and related services, State and local health departments, universities, colleges, hospitals, and alternative health and mental health care entities that serve medically disenfranchised populations. Entities may apply for either or both types of award (services demonstration project and coordinating center). Entities staffed largely by women and minorities are especially encouraged to apply. Availability of funds: It is estimated that approximately $1.2 million total (direct and indirect costs) will be available in FY 94 and that additional funding up to a total of $3.4 million may be available through further collaboration with other agencies for services demonstration projects. It is anticipated that 8&hyph;12 services demonstration projects will be awarded under this Request for Applications (RFA) in FY 94. Actual funding levels will depend upon the availability of funds at the time of the award. It is expected that an additional $700,000 total (direct and indirect costs) will be available for a coordinating center. Period of Support: Support may be requested for an initial period of up to 4 years. Annual awards will be made subject to continued availability of funds and progress achieved. Application Receipt and Review Schedule: The schedule for receipt and review of applications under this announcement is as follows: ␣ 1Receipt date 1IRG review 1Council review 1Earliest start date May 26, 1994 July 1994 Sept. 1994 Sept. 1994. Applications must be received by the published application receipt date. An application received after the deadline may be acceptable if it carries a legible proof-of-mailing date assigned by the carrier and the proof-of-mailing date (private metered postmarks are not acceptable as proof of timely mailing) is not later than one week prior to the deadline date. If the receipt date falls on a weekend, it will be extended to the following Monday; if the date falls on a national holiday, it will be extended to the following work day. Consequences of Late Submission: Applications received after the above receipt date will not be accepted and will be returned to the applicant without review.
