FR940228-1-00008 FR940228-1-00002 Proposal No. 7 In §982.46, revise paragraph (b) to read as follows: §982.46 Inspection and certification. * * * * * (b) All hazelnuts so inspected and certified shall be identified as prescribed by the Board. Such identification shall be affixed to the hazelnut containers by the handler under direction and supervision of the Board or the Federal-State Inspection Service, and shall not be removed or altered by any person except as directed by the Board. * * * * * Proposal No. 8 Revise §982.51 by removing the word ``percent'' at the end of the first sentence of paragraph (a). Proposal No. 9 In §982.52, revise paragraph (b) to read as follows: §982.52 Disposition of restricted hazelnuts. * * * * * (b) Export. Sales of certified merchantable restricted hazelnuts for shipment to destinations outside the United States and such other distribution areas as may be recommended by the Board and established by the Secretary shall be made only by the Board. Any handler desiring to export any part or all of that handler's certified merchantable restricted hazelnuts shall deliver to the Board the certified merchantable restricted hazelnuts to be exported, but the Board shall be obligated to sell in export only such quantities for which it may be able to find satisfactory export outlets. Any hazelnuts so delivered for export which the Board is unable to export shall be returned to the handler delivering them. Sales for export shall be made by the Board only on execution of an agreement to prevent reimportation into the area designated in §982.16. A handler may be permitted to act as an agent of the Board, upon such terms and conditions as the board may specify, in negotiating export sales, and when so acting shall be entitled to receive a selling commission as authorized by the Board. The proceeds of all export sales, after deducting all expenses actually and necessarily incurred, shall be paid to the handler whose certified merchantable restricted hazelnuts are so sold by the Board. * * * * * Proposal No. 10 In §982.54, revise paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) to read as follows: §982.54 Deferment of restricted obligation. * * * * * (b) Bonding requirement. Such bond or bonds shall, at all times during their effective period, be in such amounts that the aggregate thereof shall be no less than the total bonding value of the handler's deferred restricted obligation. The bonding value shall be the deferred restricted obligation poundage multiplied by the applicable bonding rate. The cost of such bond or bonds shall be borne by the handler filing same. (c) Bonding rate. Said bonding rate shall be an amount per pound as established by the Board. Such bonding rate shall be based on the estimated value of restricted credits for the current marketing year. Until bonding rates for a marketing year are fixed, the rates in effect for the preceding marketing year shall continue in effect. The Board should make any necessary adjustments once such new rates are fixed. (d) Restricted credit purchases. Any sums collected through default of a handler on the handler's bond shall be used by the Board to purchase restricted credits from handlers, who have such restricted credits in excess of their needs, and are willing to part with them. The Board shall at all times purchase the lowest priced restricted credits offered, and the purchases shall be made from the various handlers as nearly as practicable in proportion to the quantity of their respective offerings of the restricted credits to be purchased.
