FR941130-2-00117 FR941130-2-00070 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20727; 812&hyph;8906] Investors Life Insurance Company of North America, et al. November 22, 1994. AGENCY: U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the ``SEC'' or the ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of application for an exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``1940 Act''). APPLICANTS: Investors Life Insurance Company of North America (``Investors'') and its two separate accounts, Investors Life Insurance Company of North America_CIGNA Separate Account I (``Account I'') and Investors Life Insurance Company of North America_INA/Putnam Separate Account (``INA/Putnam Account''). (Investors, Account I, and INA/Putnam Account shall be referred to herein collectively as the ``Applicants''). RELEVANT 1940 ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under Section 26(b) of the 1940 Act approving proposed substitution of portfolio shares; order requested under Sections 6(c) and 17(b) of the 1940 Act to the extent that the proposed substitution may involve transactions prohibited by Section 17(a) of the 1940 Act. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: The Applicants seek an order permitting the substitution (the ``Substitution'') of shares of each of the portfolios of the CIGNA Annuity Funds Group for shares of corresponding portfolios of Putnam Capital Manager Trust. The Applicants also seek an order permitting the purchase and sale of securities between affiliates in connection with the Substitution. FILING DATES: The Application was filed initially on March 22, 1994. An amended and restated application was filed on October 24, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing the Secretary of the Commission and serving the Applicants with copies of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the Commission by 5:30 p.m. on December 19, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on the Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the Secretary of the Commission. ADDRESSES: Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Applicants, Investors Life Insurance Company of North America, 701 Brazos Street, Austin, Texas 78701, Attention: Theodore A. Fleron, General Counsel. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patrice M. Pitts, Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0670, Office of Insurance Products (Division of Investment Management). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application is available for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations and Statements 1. Investors is a stock life insurance company which was organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1963. Investors changed its state of domicile to the State of Washington in 1992. 2. In September 1982, Investors established Account I as a separate investment account to fund certain flexible premium and single premium variable annuity policies (the ``Account I Policies''). Account I is organized and registered under the 1940 Act as a unit investment trust. Account I currently has five divisions, each of which invests exclusively in shares of a designated portfolio of the CIGNA Annuity Funds Group (the ``CIGNA Funds''). 1 Each such division contains two subdivisions, one for the allocation of tax qualified and one for non-tax qualified net payments made under variable annuity contracts. 1 Before October 1985, the underlying funding vehicle for Account I was the CIGNA Annuity Fund, Inc. On October 16, 1985, the CIGNA Funds acquired the assets and liabilities of CIGNA Annuity Fund, Inc., pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Reorganization which had been approved by the shareholders of CIGNA Annuity Fund, Inc. 3. The underlying investment vehicle for Account I is the CIGNA Funds, a Massachusetts business trust organized on April 10, 1985, which is registered under the 1940 Act as an open-end management company of the series type. The CIGNA Funds currently consist of five portfolios, each with its own investment objectives and investment portfolio. Before November 29, 1993, the investment adviser to the five portfolios of the CIGNA Funds was CIGNA Investments, Inc. (``CII''), a subsidiary of CIGNA Corporation. 4. In June 1980, the Investors established INA/Putnam Account as a separate investment account to fund certain single premium variable annuity policies (the ``INA/Putnam Policies''). The INA/Putnam Account is organized and registered under the 1940 Act as a unit investment trust. The INA/Putnam Account initially had five divisions, each of which invested exclusively in shares of one of the following mutual funds (collectively, the ``Putnam Funds''): Putnam Income Fund; Putnam High Yield Trust; Putnam Equity Income Fund (formerly known as Putnam Strategic Income Trust and Putnam Option Income Trust); Putnam Daily Dividend Trust; and Putnam Investors Fund. Each division of the INA/Putnam Account contained two subdivisions, one for the allocation of tax qualified and one for the allocation of non-tax qualified net payments made under variable annuity contracts. Putnam Investment Management, Inc. (``Putnam'') currently serves as investment adviser to the Putnam Funds. 5. Following the issuance of Revenue Ruling 81&hyph;225 by the Internal Revenue Service on September 25, 1981, Investors discontinued offering the INA/Putnam Policies. 2 For owners of INA/Putnam Policies issued prior to Revenue Ruling 81&hyph;225 who were adversely affected by that Revenue Ruling, Investors added an additional division to the INA/Putnam Account, for which the underlying investment vehicle is the CIGNA Funds. Those INA/Putnam Policy owners were able to transfer contract values from the Putnam Funds to the CIGNA Funds. The CIGNA Funds initially offered a money market option (the ``CIGNA Annuity Money Market Fund''); subsequently, the investment options were expanded to include the CIGNA Annuity Income Fund and the CIGNA Annuity Equity Fund as well. 3 The Putnam Funds have remained available under INA/Putnam Contracts issued prior to the cut-off dates described in Revenue Ruling 81&hyph;225. Accordingly, there currently are eight divisions of the INA/Putnam Account. 2 Revenue Ruling 81&hyph;225 pertains to variable annuity contracts offered through insurance company separate accounts holding shares of mutual funds which also offer their shares to the public. Revenue Ruling 81&hyph;225 questioned the tax treatment of variable annuity contracts when the underlying mutual funds are not managed by the issuing company or an affiliate, or when the policyholder may initially allocate, and subsequently reallocate, the contract values among several underlying funds. 3 As indicated above, the CIGNA Funds currently consist of five portfolios. However, shares of two of those five portfolios (the CIGNA Annuity Growth and Income Fund and the CIGNA Annuity Aggressive Equity Fund) have not been made available to owners of the INA/Putnam Policies.
