FR941110-0-00057 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: Several commenters responded to our specific request for comments on whether States, adversely affected by the repayment statutory provisions of section 1919(h)(3)(D), should have the right to appeal resulting disallowances to the Departmental Appeals Board (DAB) in addition to appealing a provider's certification of noncompliance under part 498. The commenters said that States should have this right to appeal but believed that few States would find it necessary to exercise this right. Response: We agree that States probably would not often find it worthwhile to challenge a decision that had withstood the test of an appeal in accordance with part 498. However, because section 1116(d) of the Act provides States with a statutory right to reconsideration whenever HCFA takes a disallowance, and regulations at 45 CFR part 16 provide States with a hearing before the DAB when disallowances are made, we agree that appeal to the DAB should be an option for the States. At any such DAB hearing, the decision of the ALJ upholding HCFA's adverse action against the provider would, of course, be part of the evidence. Comment: A few commenters noted that State hearings will significantly increase, and stated that the regulatory impact statement fails to consider the amount of time surveyors and other staff, including attorneys, will need to prepare for and participate in hearings. They commented that overall costs for which HCFA must reimburse the states will be increased. Response: We recognize that the revised regulations expand the initial determinations for which States are required to grant an appeal. However, we have no program experience upon which to base a prediction of appeal volume or costs. There is not even a precedent to follow from the Medicare program, inasmuch as the expanded initial determinations are also new in the Medicare regulations. We anticipate that, in many cases, providers will be able to meet the necessary requirements before remedies are to be imposed, thus obviating the need for a hearing. Moreover, we are finding that the percentage of facilities with no deficiencies continues to increase, thereby causing us to predict fewer facilities facing some form of appealable enforcement action than has been the case previously. Because of these factors which may affect the increased number of initial determinations that are appealable, we can offer no valid prediction as to effect on volume or costs of appeals. However, we expect that the informal dispute resolution process will reduce the number (or scope) of adverse actions that lead to a hearing. Any increased net costs to States that are found to occur will be reflected in the budget process. Because we are now providing for an informal dispute resolution, we are revising §431.154 (``Informal reconsideration'') to delete references to SNFs and NFs and state that_ •If the State decides to provide an ICF/MR with an opportunity for an evidentiary hearing required by §431.153(a) only after the effective date of a denial of participation or termination, the State must offer the ICF/MR an informal reconsideration, to be completed before the effective date of the adverse action; and •The informal reconsideration must, at a minimum, include _Written notice to the facility of the denial of participation or termination, and the findings upon which it was based; _A reasonable opportunity for the facility to refute those findings in writing; and _A written affirmation or reversal of the denial, termination, or non-renewal.
