FR940602-2-00178 FR940602-2-00094 3. Ensure the current use is in full compliance with the terms of the permit before issuing the new term permit. 4. Review and update the term permit provisions to ensure that the new permit contains those clauses necessary to comply with all current regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture and all present Federal, State, or county laws, regulations, or ordinances which are applicable to the area covered by the permit. 41.23b_ Project Analysis. When a Forest plan is amended or revised and consistency of the existing recreation residence use with new Forest plan management direction is uncertain, conduct a site specific project analysis to verify the new direction. Recognize that an inconsistency indicated by the Forest plan is not tantamount to recreation residence removal. Recreation residence use may continue by appropriate modification of the term permit provisions to recognize specific occupancy conditions, or by amendment of the Forest plan to accommodate the use (FSM 2721.23e.1.b). 1. Public Involvement. During the project analysis process, encourage and solicit information, comments, and involvement from holders and other interested parties. Follow Forest Service public involvement procedures, including those associated with NEPA (FSM 1620, FSH 1900.12, and FSH 1909.15). Facilitate holder involvement by timing review periods as closely as possible to the recreation residence use season. 2. Analysis Documentation. The project analysis record and appropriate NEPA compliance document must contain objective, detailed information regarding existing recreation residence use and other applicable resource conditions. The documentation must include a full range of alternatives that includes consideration for retention of some or all of the existing recreation residence use. 3. Analysis Factors and Considerations. a. Lot use. Examine the relationship of the existing recreation residence use with the proposed alternative public use of the lot, including compatibility and conflict. Describe any current or anticipated conflicts between recreation residence use and the proposed use. Examine and describe the feasibility of other sites to meet the proposed use or how the proposed use could be provided for by modifying recreation residence use or by modifying the proposed use. Develop a range of alternatives that: (1) If possible, examine and describe ways to meet the proposed use without significant conflict with existing recreation residence uses and how potential conflicts can or cannot be mitigated. (2) Examine the feasibility of common, shared, or multiple use that includes recreation residences. Also examine the feasibility of adjusting lot and tract sizes, configurations and boundaries, or relocation of lot improvements to better accommodate such use. (3) Examine the feasibility of alternative sites for recreation residence use and for the proposed use. (4) Compare the benefits and disadvantages of the proposed use with the benefits and disadvantages of continued recreation residence use, including economic considerations, such as the cost of removing the use.
