FR941205-2-00155 FR941205-2-00073 (d) Form HUD&hyph;2880, Applicant/Recipient Disclosure/Update Report, as required under subpart C of 24 CFR part 12, Accountability in the Provision of HUD Assistance; and if applicable, (e) CHAS or ``abbreviated strategy''. 2. Streamlined Application Requirements for Certain Applicants Applications submitted under the Fiscal Year 1994 NOFA but not selected for funding will automatically be reactivated for consideration under this NOFA, unless the applicant notifies the Department in writing by February 3, 1995 that the applicant does not wish the prior application to be considered in the Fiscal Year 1995 competition. Applications which are reactivated may be updated, amended or supplemented by the applicant provided that such amendment or supplementation is received no later than the due date for applications under this NOFA. If there is no significant change in the application involving new activities or alteration of proposed activities that will significantly change the scope, location or objectives of the proposed activities or beneficiaries, there will be no further citizen participation requirement to keep the application active for a succeeding round or competition. Applicants with activities approved for funding under the Fiscal Year 1994 NOFA are eligible for additional funding for those activities under this NOFA. Applicants seeking additional funding for activities selected for funding under the Fiscal Year 1994 NOFA may notify the Department in writing by February 3, 1995 that they wish to seek additional funding for those activities. Such applicants may incorporate by reference the application materials in the applicant's Fiscal Year 1994 application, and may provide material to update or supplement the prior application. All applicants are free to submit an entirely new application in place of a previous application should they so desire. D. Funding Award Process In accordance with section 102 of the Reform Act and HUD's regulation at 24 CFR 12.16, HUD will notify the public by notice published in the Federal Register of all award decisions made by HUD under this competition. In accordance with the requirements of section 102 of the Reform Act and HUD's regulations at 24 CFR part 12, HUD also will ensure that documentation and other information regarding each application submitted under this notice of funding availability is sufficient to indicate the basis upon which assistance was provided or denied. Additionally, in accordance with ยง12.14(b) of these regulations, HUD will make this material available for public inspection for a period of five years, beginning not less than 30 calendar days after the date on which assistance is provided. III. Technical Assistance Prior to the application deadline, the Buffalo Office will provide technical assistance on request to individual applicants, including explaining and responding to questions regarding program regulations, and defining terms in the application package. In addition, HUD will conduct informational meetings around the State to discuss the Small Cities Program, and will conduct application workshops in conjunction with these meetings. Please contact the Buffalo Office for further information regarding these meetings. Application kits will be available at these meetings, as well as from the HUD offices previously identified in Section II of this NOFA, and will also be available at the informational meetings. In order to ensure that the application deadline is met, it is strongly suggested that applicants begin preparing their applications immediately and not wait for the informational meetings.
