FR940804-0-00092 FR940804-0-00023 In the NPRM, this section addressed the requirement established by section 107(b) of the ADA to ``[prevent] imposition of inconsistent or conflicting standards for the same requirements under [title I and section 504].'' As noted earlier, in order to comply with this statutory mandate, the NPRM presented two options for the legal standard to be applied by section 504 agencies in their investigation of complaints that are also subject to title I, and requested comment as to the appropriate standard. However, in the period between the publication of the NPRM and the publication of this final rule, the Rehabilitation Act was specifically amended to provide that the standards of title I of the ADA and the provisions of sections 501 through 504, and 510, of the ADA, as such sections relate to employment, shall be the standards applied by section 504 agencies in investigating complaints of employment discrimination. See section 506 of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992, Public Law 102&hyph;569, 106 Stat. 4344, 4428. The final rule tracks the language of the amendment. Section XX .13␣Agency Specific Memoranda of Understanding This section has been newly added to the final rule, to allow maximum flexibility for the development of agency specific memoranda of understanding (MOU) that would further serve to minimize duplication of effort and fully preserve an aggrieved individual's rights under both statutes. When a section 504 agency amends its regulations to make them consistent with title I of the ADA, the EEOC and the individual section 504 agency may enter into an MOU providing for the investigation and processing by the section 504 agency of complaints or charges dual filed under both section 504 and title I of the ADA by the section 504 agency. Execution of an MOU would be discretionary on the part of both the EEOC and the particular section 504 agency. Section 504 agencies that amend their regulations to make them consistent with title I standards would have, in agreement with the EEOC, the option of acting as the EEOC's agent for investigating and processing under title I all complaints covered by both title I and section 504 that are filed with the section 504 agency. It is contemplated that the terms of the MOU would be similar to the joint rule implementing section 107(b) as it pertains to section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act and title I. 29 CFR part 1641; 41 CFR part 60&hyph;742. Regulatory Process Matters This rule takes effect immediately, rather than 30 days after publication, because it solely concerns agency procedure and practice. This final rule has been drafted in accordance with Executive Order 12866, section 1(b), Principles of Regulation. The Department of Justice and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission have determined that it is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866, section 3(f), Regulatory Planning and Review, and accordingly this rule has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. Executive Order 12875 prohibits executive departments and agencies from promulgating any regulation that is not required by statute and that creates a mandate upon a state, local, or tribal government unless certain conditions are met. Although the procedures for processing complaints or charges of employment discrimination established by this regulation may affect complaints or charges of employment discrimination filed against such entities, the final rule does not create any mandates affecting such entities and may, in fact, reduce any current burden by streamlining the processing of complaints and charges at the Federal level. The Attorney General and the Chairman of the EEOC have reviewed this regulation in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), and by approving it certify that this regulation will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This final rule does not establish reporting or record-keeping requirements that are considered to be information collection requirements as that term is defined by the Office of Management and Budget in 5 CFR part 1320. This part will be added to the rules of the Department of Justice at 28 CFR chapter I as a new part 37, and to the rules of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission at 29 CFR chapter XIV as a new part 1640. Since the parts are identical, the text of the joint final rule is set out only once at the end of the joint preamble. The part heading, list of subjects, table of contents, and authority citation for the parts as they will appear in each CFR title follow the text of the joint rule. Text of Final Joint Rule The text of the final joint rule, as adopted by the agencies specified in this document, appears below: PART XX _PROCEDURES FOR COORDINATING THE INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS OR CHARGES OF EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION BASED ON DISABILITY SUBJECT TO THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT AND SECTION 504 OF THE REHABILITATION ACT OF 1973 Sec. XX .1␣Purpose and application. XX .2␣Definitions. XX .3␣Exchange of information. XX .4␣Confidentiality. XX .5␣Date of receipt. XX .6␣Processing of complaints of employment discrimination filed with an agency other than the EEOC. XX .7␣Processing of charges of employment discrimination filed with the EEOC. XX .8␣Processing of complaints or charges of employment discrimination filed with both the EEOC and a section 504 agency. XX .9␣Processing of complaints or charges of employment discrimination filed with a designated agency and either a section 504 agency, the EEOC, or both. XX .10␣Section 504 agency review of deferred complaints. XX .11␣EEOC review of deferred charges. XX .12␣Standards. XX .13␣Agency specific memoranda of understanding. § XX .1 Purpose and application. (a) This part establishes the procedures to be followed by the Federal agencies responsible for processing and resolving complaints or charges of employment discrimination filed against recipients of Federal financial assistance when jurisdiction exists under both section 504 and title I. (b) This part also repeats the provisions established by 28 CFR 35.171 for determining which Federal agency shall process and resolve complaints or charges of employment discrimination: (1) That fall within the overlapping jurisdiction of titles I and II (but are not covered by section 504); and (2) That are covered by title II, but not title I (whether or not they are also covered by section 504). (c) This part also describes the procedures to be followed when a complaint or charge arising solely under section 504 or title I is filed with a section 504 agency or the EEOC.
