FR940707-1-00006 FR940707-1-00001 Subpart A_General Provisions ยง1003.1 Purpose and scope. This part establishes the procedures to be utilized and identifies the sanctions that are available in proceedings before the Office of Hearings and Appeals of the Department of Energy. These procedures provide standard rules of practice in a variety of informal adjudications when jurisdiction is vested in the Office of Hearings and Appeals. The procedures contained in this part may generally be incorporated by reference in proceedings established by rule, regulation or by specific designation, under statutory authority of the Department of Energy, which invoke the adjudicatory authority of the Office of Hearings and Appeals. e.g., 10 CFR part 430 (DOE Energy Conservation Program for Consumer Products). These rules do not apply in instances in which DOE regulations themselves contain procedures governing OHA proceedings conducted under authority of those particular regulations. e.g., 10 CFR part 708 (DOE Contractor Employee Protection Program). ยง1003.2 Definitions. (a) As used in this part: Action means an order, interpretation, ruling issued, or a rulemaking undertaken by the DOE. Aggrieved, for purposes of administrative proceedings, describes and means a person who is adversely affected by an action of the DOE. Conference means an informal meeting, incident to any proceeding, between the Office of Hearings and Appeals and any person aggrieved by that proceeding. Director means the Director of the Office of Hearings and Appeals or duly authorized delegate. DOE means the Department of Energy, created by the Department of Energy Organization Act (Pub. L. 95&hyph;91, 42 U.S.C. 7254). Duly authorized representative means a person who has been designated to appear before the Office of Hearings and Appeals in connection with a proceeding on behalf of a person interested in or aggrieved by that proceeding. Such appearance may consist of the submission of a written document, or of a personal appearance, verbal communication, or any other participation in the proceeding. Exception means the waiver or modification of the requirements of a regulation, ruling or generally applicable requirement under a specific set of facts. Federal legal holiday means the first day of January, the third Monday of January, the third Monday of February, the last Monday of May, the fourth day of July, the first Monday of September, the second Monday of October, the eleventh day of November, the fourth Thursday of November, the twenty-fifth day of December, or any other calendar day designated as a holiday by Federal statute or Executive order. OHA means the Office of Hearings and Appeals of the Department of Energy. Order means a written directive or verbal communication of a written directive, if promptly confirmed in writing, issued by the DOE. For purposes of this definition a written directive shall include telegrams, telefax, telecopies and similar transcriptions. This definition does not include internal DOE orders and directives issued by the Secretary of Energy or delegate in the management and administration of departmental elements and functions. Person means any individual, firm, estate, trust, sole proprietorship, partnership, association, company, joint-venture, corporation, governmental unit or instrumentality thereof, or a charitable, educational or other institution, and includes any officer, director, owner or duly authorized representative thereof. Proceeding means the process and activity, and any part thereof, instituted by the OHA, either on its own initiative or in response to an application, complaint, petition or request submitted by a person, that may lead to an action by the OHA. SRO means a Special Report Order issued pursuant to section 1003.8(a). (b) Throughout this part the use of a word or term in the singular shall include the plural, and the use of the male gender shall include the female gender. ยง1003.3 Appearance before the OHA. (a) A person may make an appearance, including personal appearances in the discretion of the OHA, and participate in any proceeding described in this part on his own behalf or by a duly authorized representative. Any application, appeal, petition, or request filed by a duly authorized representative shall contain a statement by such person certifying that he is a duly authorized representative. Falsification of such certification will subject such person to the sanctions stated in 18 U.S.C. 1001. (b) Suspension and disqualification. The OHA may deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of participating in proceedings, including oral presentation, to any individual who is found by the OHA_ (1) To have made false or misleading statements, either verbally or in writing; (2) To have filed false or materially altered documents, affidavits or other writings; (3) To lack the specific authority to represent the person seeking an OHA action; or
