FR940913-0-00079 FR940913-0-00027 (1) When additional information is needed to comply with legislative requirements, HUD shall issue instructions to require recipients to submit such information under the ``Remarks'' section of the reports. (2) When HUD determines that a recipient's accounting system does not meet the standards in §84.21, additional pertinent information to further monitor awards may be obtained upon written notice to the recipient until such time as the system is brought up to standard. HUD, in obtaining this information, shall comply with report clearance requirements of 5 CFR part 1320. (3) HUD will shade out any line item on any report if not necessary. (4) HUD may accept the identical information from the recipients in machine readable format or computer printouts or electronic outputs in lieu of prescribed formats. (5) HUD may provide computer or electronic outputs to recipients when such expedites or contributes to the accuracy of reporting. §84.53 Retention and access requirements for records. (a) This section sets forth requirements for record retention and access to records for awards to recipients. HUD shall not impose any other record retention or access requirements upon recipients. (b) Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other records pertinent to an award shall be retained for a period of three years from the date of submission of the final expenditure report or, for awards that are renewed quarterly or annually, from the date of the submission of the quarterly or annual financial report, as authorized by HUD. The only exceptions are the following. (1) If any litigation, claim, or audit is started before the expiration of the 3-year period, the records shall be retained until all litigation, claims or audit findings involving the records have been resolved and final action taken. (2) Records for real property and equipment acquired with Federal funds shall be retained for 3 years after final disposition. (3) When records are transferred to or maintained by HUD, the 3-year retention requirement is not applicable to the recipient. (4) Indirect cost rate proposals, cost allocation plans, etc. as specified in §84.53(g). (c) Copies of original records may be substituted for the original records if authorized by HUD. (d) HUD shall request transfer of certain records to its custody from recipients when it determines that the records possess long term retention value. However, in order to avoid duplicate recordkeeping, HUD may make arrangements for recipients to retain any records that are continuously needed for joint use. (e) HUD, the Inspector General, Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, have the right of timely and unrestricted access to any books, documents, papers, or other records of recipients that are pertinent to the awards, in order to make audits, examinations, excerpts, transcripts and copies of such documents. This right also includes timely and reasonable access to a recipient's personnel for the purpose of interview and discussion related to such documents. The rights of access in this paragraph (e) are not limited to the required retention period, but shall last as long as records are retained. (f) Unless required by statute, HUD shall not place restrictions on recipients that limit public access to the records of recipients that are pertinent to an award, except when HUD can demonstrate that such records shall be kept confidential and would have been exempted from disclosure pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) if the records had belonged to HUD. (g) Indirect cost rate proposals, cost allocation plans, etc. Paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section apply to the following types of documents, and their supporting records_indirect cost rate computations or proposals, cost allocation plans, and any similar accounting computations of the rate at which a particular group of costs is chargeable (such as computer usage chargeback rates or composite fringe benefit rates). (1) If submitted for negotiation. If the recipient submits to HUD or the subrecipient submits to the recipient the proposal, plan, or other computation to form the basis for negotiation of the rate, then the 3-year retention period for its supporting records starts on the date of such submission. (2) If not submitted for negotiation. If the recipient is not required to submit to HUD or the subrecipient is not required to submit to the recipient the proposal, plan, or other computation for negotiation purposes, then the 3-year retention period for the proposal, plan, or other computation and its supporting records starts at the end of the fiscal year (or other accounting period) covered by the proposal, plan, or other computation. Termination and Enforcement §84.60 Purpose of termination and enforcement. Sections 84.61 and 84.62 set forth uniform suspension, termination and enforcement procedures. §84.61 Termination. (a) Awards may be terminated in whole or in part only if paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section apply. (1) By HUD, if a recipient materially fails to comply with the terms and conditions of an award. (2) By HUD with the consent of the recipient, in which case the two parties shall agree upon the termination conditions, including the effective date and, in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated. (3) By the recipient upon sending to HUD written notification setting forth the reasons for such termination, the effective date, and, in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated. However, if HUD determines in the case of partial termination that the reduced or modified portion of the grant will not accomplish the purposes for which the grant was made, it may terminate the grant in its entirety under either paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section.
