FR940819-2-00036 FR940819-2-00013 Business Development Center Applications: Rochester, NY AGENCY: Minority Business Development Agency, Commerce. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In accordance with Executive Order 11625 and 15 U.S.C. 1512, the Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) is soliciting competitive applications for its Rochester, New York Minority Business Development Center (MBDC). The purpose of the MBDC Program is to provide business development services to the minority business community to help establish and maintain viable minority business. To this end, MBDA funds organizations to identify and coordinate public and private sector resources on behalf of minority individuals and firms; to offer a full range of client services to minority entrepreneurs; and to serve as a conduit of information and assistance regarding minority business. The MBDC will provide service in the Rochester, New York Metropolitan Area. The award number of the MBDC will be 02&hyph;10&hyph;095992&hyph;01. DATES: The closing date for applications is September 26, 1994. Applicants must be post-marked on or before September 26, 1994. ADDRESSES: U.S. Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency, New York Regional Office, 26 Federal Plaza, Room 3720, New York, New York 10278. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ron Isler at (212) 264&hyph;3262. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Contingent upon the availability of Federal funds, the cost of performance for the first budget period (12 months) from February 1, 1995 to January 31, 1996, is estimated at $198,971. The total Federal amount of $169,125 and is composed of $165,000 plus the Audit Fee amount of $4,125. The application must include a minimum cost share 15% $29,846 in non-federal (cost sharing) contributions for a total project cost of $198,971. Cost-sharing contributions may be in the form of cash, client fees, third party in-kind contributions, non-cash applicant contributions or combinations thereof. The funding instrument for this project will be a cooperative agreement. Competition is open to individuals, non-profit and for-profit organizations, state and local governments, American Indian tribes and educational institutions. Applications will be evaluated on the following criteria: the knowledge, background and/or capabilities of the firm and its staff in addressing the needs of the business community in general and, specifically, the special needs of minority businesses, individuals and organizations (45 points), the resources available to the firm in providing business development services (10 points); the firm's approach (techniques and methodologies) to performing the work requirements included in the application (20 points); and the firm's estimated cost for providing such assistance (25 points). An application must receive at least 70% of the points assigned to each evaluation criteria category to be considered programmatically acceptable and responsive. Those applications determined to be acceptable and responsive will then be evaluated by the Director of MBDA. Final award selections shall be based on the number of points received, the demonstrated responsibility of the applicant, and the determination of those most likely to further the purpose of the MBDA program. Negative audit findings and recommendations and unsatisfactory performance under prior Federal awards may result in an application not being considered for award. The applicant with the highest point score will not necessarily receive the award. The MBDC shall be required to contribute at least 15% of the total project cost through non-Federal contributions. To assist in this effort, the MBDC may charge client fees for services rendered. Fees may range from $10 to $60 per hour based on the gross receipts of the client's business. Periodic reviews culminating in year-to-date evaluations will be conducted to determine if funding for the project should continue. Continued funding will be at the total discretion of MBDA based on such factors as the MBDC's performance, the availability of funds and Agency priorities. Anticipated processing time of this award is 120 days. Executive order 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs'', is not applicable to this program. Federal funds for this project include audit funds for non-CPA recipients, In the event that a CPA firm wins the competition, the funds allocated for audits are not applicable. Questions concerning the preceding information can be answered by the contact person indicated above, and copies of application kits and applicable regulations can be obtained at the above address. The collection of information and requirements for this project have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and assigned OMB control number 0640&hyph;0006. Pre-Award Costs _Applicants are hereby notified that if they incur any costs prior to an award being made, they do so solely at their own risk of not being reimbursed by the Government. Notwithstanding any verbal assurance that an applicant may be received, there is no obligation on the part of the Department of Commerce to cover pre-award costs. Awards under this program shall be subject to all Federal laws, and Federal and Departmental regulations, policies, and procedures applicable to Federal financial assistance awards. Outstanding Account Receivable_ No award of Federal funds shall be made to an applicant who has an outstanding delinquent Federal debt until either the delinquent account is paid in full, repayment schedule is established and at least one payment is received, or other arrangements satisfactory to the Department of Commerce are made. Name Check Policy_ All non-profit and for-profit applicants are subject to a name check review process. Name checks are intended to reveal if any key individuals associated with the applicant have been convicted of or are presently facing criminal charges such as fraud, theft, perjury or other matters which significantly reflect on the applicant's management honesty or financial integrity.
