FR940810-0-00333 FR940810-0-00022 Appendix to This Final Rule_Analysis of Comments and Changes ( Note: This appendix will not be codified in the Code of Federal Regulations) The Department received comments on these regulations from 17 commenters, 13 of whom supported the regulations. Comment: One commenter suggested that the Department used the word ``exception'' in the proposed regulations because the Department cannot grant waivers. The commenter argued that there is no meaningful distinction between ``exception'' and ``waiver'' and, therefore, the Secretary lacks the authority to grant ``exceptions'' to requirements that evaluations of Chapter 1 and MEP programs be based on the current national standards. Discussion: It is, of course, true that the Secretary cannot waive statutory or regulatory requirements absent specific authority. As a result, the Secretary is engaging in formal rulemaking to make exceptions to the generally applicable standards by adopting less prescriptive standards that would apply in the case of States that request authority to use testing tied to State systemic reform efforts in lieu of separate Chapter 1 evaluations. It is important to recognize that the Secretary would not be granting exceptions to any statutory requirements. Rather, he would be granting exceptions to particular regulatory provisions that were initially promulgated and have now been revisited through the appropriate rulemaking process. By authorizing the Secretary to grant ``exceptions,'' the regulations clarify that the generally applicable national evaluation standards are still the primary provisions governing Chapter 1 and MEP evaluations. The Secretary recognizes, however, that some States, as part of their systemic State education reform efforts, have developed new assessment systems that may be inconsistent with these standards because, for example, they are not based on national norms or do not test children in every grade. These regulations contain less prescriptive national standards that permit these States to use their own assessment systems to evaluate the effectiveness of their Chapter 1 and MEP programs, rather than requiring these States to administer separate tests purely for Chapter 1 and MEP purposes. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter asserted that the regulations do not comply with the Chapter 1 statute. According to the commenter, the Secretary is ``waiving all Chapter 1 testing requirements *␣*␣* without adopting any substitute that can equally ensure compliance with the statute.'' In particular, the commenter contended that the regulations would eliminate the requirement to use ``objective measurements'' of ``individual student achievement,'' thereby shifting the focus away from individual students. The commenter also argued that the proposed regulations would undermine the statutory requirement that improved student performance be sustained for more than one year. Discussion: These regulations neither waive nor are inconsistent with any statutory requirements. For example, the basic evaluation requirement in section 1019(a) of Chapter 1 requires an LEA to evaluate the effectiveness of programs assisted under Chapter 1. The LEA must use ``objective measurement of individual student achievement in basic skills and more advanced skills, aggregated for the LEA as a whole'' as an indicator of the impact of the program. Under the type of State assessment system to which the exception would apply, all of these requirements would have to be met. The assessments would have to_use objective measures; measure basic and more advanced skills; assess the achievement of individual children; and be capable of being aggregated for each LEA as a whole. Nothing in section 1019(a), however, requires these assessment systems to assess each child served in Chapter 1 or to be based on national norms; rather, the Secretary imposed these requirements through the current national standards. Moreover, contrary to the commenter's interpretation, the requirement in section 1019(a)(3) regarding ``sustained gains'' relates to improved performance of the program over a period of more than one year, not to individual student performance. As the preamble indicates, under these final regulations SEAs and LEAs must continue to meet all statutory assessment requirements. In particular, SEAs and LEAs must still evaluate the effectiveness of their Chapter 1 programs under section 1019, perform the annual review required under section 1021(a), measure sustained program gains under sections 1019(a)(3) and 1021(a)(2), identify schools and students in need of program improvement under section 1021 (b) and (f), and meet schoolwide project accountability requirements under section 1015(e). Similarly, under the MEP, SEAs must ensure that they and their operating agencies adhere to the requirements of sections 1012(b), 1019(b), and 1202(a)(6) to use desired outcomes for evaluating performance, to collect and report demographic and performance data, and to examine sustained gains for formerly migratory children. If the Secretary grants an exception under these final regulations, these requirements may be met using the State assessment and any other sources of information deemed appropriate. Thus, if a State assessment system does not provide sufficient information to meet one or more of these requirements, the SEA, LEA, or operating agency would have to supplement that system with other appropriate information. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter asserted that the proposed regulations did not satisfy the Administrative Procedure Act. The commenter specifically argued that the proposed regulations should contain the criteria on which exceptions would be based so that commenters could adequately respond. Discussion: In accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, the proposed regulations contained adequate notice of the standards that States would have to meet to be excepted from the generally applicable national evaluation standards. Those standards were_the assessment system has been developed to support a State's education reform efforts; the system provides information about the yearly performance of each Chapter 1 school; and the information provided is from at least one grade level, measures student achievement in basic and more advanced skills and challenging subject matter, and can be aggregated for the LEA as a whole. However, in response to several comments, the Secretary has added two additional standards and one clarification. The assessment system must yield consistent results that accurately reflect what the assessment system was designed to measure. The use of the assessment system may not impair an SEA's or LEA's ability to account for results under Chapter 1. The information from the assessment system must be from at least one grade level in each Chapter 1 school. Similar standards apply to the MEP, except that the system must provide a statewide estimate of the yearly performance of migratory children in the State, rather than information on individual schools. Changes: Two additional standards have been added to §§200.90(b) and 201.57(b). The State assessment system must yield consistent results that accurately reflect what the assessment system was designed to measure, and use of the system may not impair an SEA's or LEA's ability to account for results under Chapter 1 or the MEP. In addition, §200.90(b)(1) has been revised to make clear that the assessment system must provide information from at least one grade level in each Chapter 1 school. Comment: One commenter contended that the Secretary's explanation for why these regulations are needed was inadequate. In the commenter's view, the Secretary offered only ``an assortment of unsubstantiated policy-oriented statements in lieu of hard, objective facts.'' The commenter concluded that the Secretary is trying to change the national evaluation standards by ``administrative fiat,'' without any explanation of the reasons and supporting evidence for the changes.
