FR940505-1-00270 FR940505-1-00012 (v) Recordkeeping. (A) Each owner or operator of a facility which is subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section, as described under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, shall collect and record all information necessary to demonstrate compliance with the limitations of paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section for each emissions source and maintain the information at the facility for a period of five (5) years. The information shall be collected and recorded each day of each calendar year beginning in 2001 and ending with 2005. (B) Each owner or operator of a facility which is exempt from the limitations of paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section, as described under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section, shall collect and record all information necessary to demonstrate that total VOC emissions from all emissions sources are less than 4.5 kg (10 lbs) during each day and maintain the information at the facility for a period of five (5) years. The information shall be collected and recorded each day of each calendar year beginning in 2001 and ending with 2005. (vi) Testing and Monitoring. (A) The Administrator may require, at any time, any owner or operator of a facility subject to the limitations of paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section, as described under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, to perform tests using the applicable test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section and/or to install monitoring equipment specified in paragraph (a)(4)(iv)(B) of this section to demonstrate compliance with the limitations of paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. (B) The Administrator may require, at any time, any owner or operator of a facility which is exempt from the limitations of paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section because of paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section to perform tests using the applicable test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section to demonstrate that the facility is exempt from the limitations of paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. (5) Petroleum and Natural Gas Extraction, Processing, and Storage. (i) Definitions. (A) For the purpose of paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the general definitions in paragraph (a)(3) of this section apply. (B) For the purpose of paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the following definitions also apply: Crude oil means a naturally occurring mixture which consists of hydrocarbons and sulfur, nitrogen, or oxygen derivatives of hydrocarbons and which is a liquid at standard conditions. Extraction facility means any facility where drilling and servicing equipment, flow lines, separators, gathering lines, and auxiliary nontransportation related equipment are used to extract petroleum or natural gas from a well. Gasoline means any petroleum distillate which is used as a motor fuel. Petroleum means the crude oil removed from the earth and the oils derived from tar sands, shale, and coal. Processing facility means any facility where petroleum or natural gas is used as a feedstock to produce gasoline, kerosene, distillate fuel oils, residual fuel oils, lubricants, or other related products. Storage facility means any extraction facility, processing facility, bulk gasoline plant, bulk gasoline terminal, or any petroleum storage facility which distributes petroleum, natural gas, or gasoline to retail outlet and wholesale purchaser-consumer facilities. This definition does not apply to retail gasoline service stations. (ii) Applicability. The requirements of paragraphs (b)(5) (iii), (iv), (v), and (vi) of this section shall apply to any owner or operator of any petroleum or natural gas extraction, processing, or storage facility located in the control area as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. (iii) Specific Provisions. (A) Each owner or operator of a source subject to the FIP VOC emissions cap program as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section shall submit a VOC emissions reduction compliance plan to the Administrator by January 1, 1999. The plan shall be prepared for the years 2001 through 2005 and shall include all of the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(A) (1) through (5) of this section. Each owner or operator shall submit a revised plan to the Administrator within 30 calendar days of receipt of comments from the Administrator. Each owner or operator shall comply at all times with the provisions of the most recent plan approved by the Administrator. (1) The name, title, address, and telephone number of the owner or operator of the facility, and of each person responsible for preparing the information required under paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) (2) of this section. (2) Baseline VOC emissions shall be calculated for each facility. Baseline emissions for each facility shall equal the sum of VOC emissions from all emissions sources at the facility including emissions associated with the use of architectural coatings and clean-up solvents. Baseline emissions shall be calculated as specified in paragraph (a)(4)(xii) and (a)(4)(xiii) of this section. (3) Methods to be employed by the owner or operator to limit VOC emissions from emissions sources to within the emissions level required in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. Methods may include but are not limited to: (i) Installation of capture systems and control devices; (ii) Modifications to increase the efficiency of existing capture systems and/or control devices; (iii) Process modifications and/or substitutions; and
