FR940819-2-00111 FR940819-2-00066 (1) Access during normal office hours to inspect and copy all books, ledgers, accounts, correspondence, memoranda and other documents and records in the possession, custody, or control of Defendant, which may have counsel present, relating to any matters contained in this Final Judgment. (2) Subject to the reasonable convenience of Defendant and without restraint or interference from it, to interview officers, employees, or agents of Defendant, who may have counsel present, regarding any matters contained in this Final Judgment. (B) Upon written request of the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division, on reasonable notice given to Defendant at its principal office, subject to any lawful privilege, Defendant shall submit such written reports, under oath if requested, with respect to any matters contained in this Final Judgment. (C) No information or documents obtained by the means provided by this Section shall be divulged by the Plaintiff to any person other than a duly authorized representative of the Executive Branch of the United States government, except in the course of legal proceedings to which the United States is a party, or for the purpose of securing compliance with the Final Judgment, or as otherwise required by law. (D) Defendant shall produce to plaintiff, within forty-five (45) days, any documents provided to the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission (``DG&hyph;IV'') in connection with its monitoring or securing of compliance with any Undertaking by or Decision against Microsoft that relates to Microsoft's licensing of any Covered Product. In addition, Defendant shall not object to disclosure to Plaintiff by DG&hyph;IV of any other information provided by defendant to DG&hyph;IV, or to cooperation between DG&hyph;IV and Plaintiff in the enforcement of this Judgment, provided that Microsoft shall receive in advance a detailed description of the information to be provided and the Plaintiff will accord any Microsoft information received from DG&hyph;IV the maximum confidentiality protection available under applicable law. Specifically, Plaintiff will treat Microsoft information that it receives from DG&hyph;IV as ``confidential business information'' within the meaning of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. §552, with Microsoft deemed a ``submitter'' of the information under the statute. Plaintiff shall take precautions to ensure the security and confidentiality of Microsoft information provided in electronic form. (E) If at the time information or documents are furnished by Defendant to Plaintiff, Defendant represents and identifies in writing the material in any such information or document to which a claim of protection may be asserted under Rule 26(c)(7) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, and Defendant marks each pertinent page of such material ``Subject to claim of protection under Rule 26(c)(7) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure,'' then ten days notice shall be given by Plaintiff to Defendant prior to divulging such material in any legal proceeding (other than a grand jury proceeding) to which Defendant is not a party. VI. Further Elements of Judgment (A) This Final Judgment shall expire on the seventy eighth month after its entry. (B) Jurisdiction is retained by this Court over this action and the parties thereto for the purpose of enabling any of the parties thereto to apply to this Court at any time for further orders and directions as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out or construe this Final Judgment, to modify or terminate any of its provisions, to enforce compliance, and to punish violations of its provisions. VII. Public Interest Entry of this Final Judgment is in the public interest. Entered: United States District Judge Page 15 of the Final Judgment Section VII␣Public Interest Entered and United States District Judge should be printed as is. This is not an omission. Cynthia Preston, Office of Operations. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20216 Filed 8&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;01&hyph;M
