FR940413-2-00115 FR940413-2-00059 F. Period of Performance The period of performance will be fifteen (15) months from the date of execution. G. Funding DOL has set aside up to $1.5 million to be disbursed, contingent upon resources being available for this purpose. It is anticipated that grant awards will be in the $250,000 to $300,000 range. H. Option to Extend Based on the availability of funds, effective program operation, and the needs of the Department, the grant(s) may be extended for up to one (1) additional year. I. Matching Requirement In order to receive a grant award, an applicant must include matching non-Federal contributions in an amount equal to 100 percent of Federal funds to be provided. Part III_Statement of Work The primary goal of this initiative is to assist economically disadvantaged individuals in establishing and maintaining microenterprises. Proposals must contain a clear statement of the need for such a project, together with the identification of the proposed service delivery strategy to accomplish the primary goal and to meet this stated need. They should also enumerate sources of start-up capital for new microenterprises, such as community-based credit providers. Proposals should detail new methods and techniques for the States to focus on the entrepreneurial training needs of disadvantaged individuals. The Department is aware that most States already possess some organizational capacity and staffing to assist generally in the formation and development of small business activity, most notably through the Small Business Development Centers described in the next segment. An applicant should not attempt simply to add to this existing State assistance. Rather, and applicant must demonstrate in its proposal how the proposed training is necessary in assisting economically disadvantaged individuals to establish and maintain microenterprises. A. Activities The proposal should present a clear discussion of what activities related to microenterprise and economic development are already functioning within the State and how this new initiative will link those activities and add a new dimension to them. Examples of such activities include: (1) Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities as authorized by Title XIII of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993. Their mission is to provide favorable Federal income tax treatment and other incentives to encourage the conduct of trades or businesses and general economic development within designated areas. (2) Small Business Development Centers (SBDC) as authorized by the Small Business Act of 1953 as amended. Their stated mission is to provide management assistance to prospective and small business owners through one-on-one counselling and specialized training efforts. (3) Economic Development Districts (EDD) as authorized by the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, as amended. EDDs serve as the structural entities for formulating and implementing economic development plans and activities within boundaries. These examples represent some of the types of existing activities and resources that may be considered in developing a proposal under this solicitation.
