FR941011-2-00023 FR941011-2-00005 3. acquired by separate procurement, 4. used under an ADP leasing arrangement, or 5. specified for use in contracts for programming services. b. Interpretation of the FIPS for Shell and Utilities. NIST provides for the resolution of questions regarding the FIPS specifications and requirements, and issues official interpretations as needed. All questions about the interpretation of this FIPS should be addressed to: Director, National Computer Systems Laboratory, Attn: POSIX Shell and Utilities FIPS Interpretation, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD 20899. c. Validation of Conforming Operating Systems Environments. NIST is developing cooperatively with industry a validation suite for measuring conformance to this standard. This suite will be required for testing conformance of POSIX Shell and Utilities implementations. These testing requirements will be announced at a future date. Waivers. Under certain exceptional circumstances, the heads of Federal departments and agencies may approve waivers to Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS). The head of such agency may redelegate such authority only to a senior official designated pursuant to section 3506(b) of Title 44, U.S. Code. Waivers shall be granted only when: a. Compliance with a standard would adversely affect the accomplishment of the mission of an operator of a Federal computer system, or b. Cause a major adverse financial impact on the operator which is not offset by Governmentwide savings. Agency heads may act upon a written waiver request containing the information detailed above. Agency heads may also act without a written waiver request when they determine that conditions for meeting the standard cannot be met. Agency heads may approve waivers only by a written decision which explains the basis on which the agency head made the required finding(s). A copy of each such decision, with procurement sensitive or classified portions clearly identified, shall be sent to: National Institute of Standards and Technology; ATTN: FIPS Waiver Decisions, Technology Building, Room B&hyph;154; Gaithersburg, MD 20899. In addition, notice of each waiver granted and each delegation of authority to approve waivers shall be sent promptly to the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate and shall be published promptly in the Federal Register. When the determination on a waiver applies to the procurement of equipment and/or services, a notice of the waiver determination must be published in the Commerce Business Daily as a part of the notice of solicitation for offers of an acquisition or, if the waiver determination is made after that notice is published, by amendment to such notice. A copy of the waiver, any supporting documents, the document approving the waiver and any supporting and accompanying documents, with such deletions as the agency is authorized and decides to make under 5 U.S.C. Sec. 552(b), shall be part of the procurement documentation and retained by the agency. Where to Obtain Copies: Copies of this publication are for sale by the National Technical Information Service, U.S. Department of Commerce, Springfield, VA 22161. (Sale of the included specifications document is by arrangement with the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Incorporated.) When ordering, refer to Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 189 (FIPSPUB189), and title. Payment may be made by check, money order, or deposit account. Appendix A_Application Portability Profile FIPS 189 is the second component of a series of specifications needed for the operating system services area of an applications portability profile. FIPS 151&hyph;1 (and its replacement, FIPS 151&hyph;2) provided the crucial first step by providing vendor independent interface specification between an application program and an operating system. When fully extended, POSIX will provide the functionality required to support source code portability for a wide range of applications across many different machines and operating systems. NIST has published Special Publication 500&hyph;210, Application Portability Profile (APP), The U.S. Government's Open System Environment Profile, OSE/1, Version 2.0, June 1993. The APP has been developed to provide sufficient functionality to accommodate a broad range of application requirements. The functional components of the APP constitute a framework for organizing standard elements that can be used to develop and maintain portable applications. A key aspect of the APP is that it is based on an open system environment defined by non-proprietary specifications. Components may be added or deleted as technology changes and as Federal government requirements change. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25049 Filed 10&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;CN&hyph;M
