FR941205-0-00157 FR941205-0-00029 Subpart B also sets forth minimum reserve requirements that must be met by participating HFAs (§266.110). An HFA is required to maintain its basic sound financial capacity at all times. An HFA that qualifies for the program under the criteria in section 544(2) (A) or (B) of the 1992 Act ( i.e. , is designated ``top-tier, or the equivalent thereof'' or receives an overall rating of ``A'' on its general obligation bonds from a nationally recognized rating agency) will not be required to maintain additional reserves unless determined necessary by the Commissioner. ``Other agencies,'' i.e. , those that qualify based on other criteria, will be required to establish minimum reserve requirements that are set forth in §266.110(b). Any HFA that initially qualifies under, but later loses, the ``top-tier or equivalent'' designation or an overall rating of ``A'' on its general obligation bonds will be required to immediately establish and maintain the reserve amounts required for ``other agencies'' by §266.110(b). The final rule clarifies two requirements set forth in the interim rule. First, it makes clear (§266.105(b)(1)) that there must be documentation satisfactory to the Commissioner that the HFA meets the qualification requirements of §266.100(a). This documentation must be submitted as a part of its application. Second, it provides that any dedicated account required under §266.110(b) must be established prior to execution of any Risk Sharing Agreement. Sections 266.115&hyph;266.125 describe the monitoring and evaluation activities and requirements of the program, the kinds of HFA conduct that could give rise to sanctions by the Department, and the nature of sanctions that HUD may impose. The rule provides HFAs the right to an informal hearing where sanctions have been applied. In this final rule, the language of §266.15(b)(5) relating to the availability of HFA financial and other records for HUD inspection is revised to reflect the statutory phrasing enacted as section 307(b)(2) of the 1994 Act. Finally, §266.130 provides that HFAs may obtain reinsurance for their portion of the risk and describes the conditions under which reinsurance will be permitted. Subpart C_Program Requirements Subpart C contains program requirements such as project eligibility and fair housing and equal opportunity requirements. It also describes review functions to be retained by HUD as well as those delegated to HFAs. Project size and affordability requirements in the rule follow the authorizing legislation. Subject to requirements in the regulation, mortgage insurance will be available under this program for project new construction and substantial rehabilitation, and for existing projects without substantial rehabilitation. Similarly, projects receiving section 8 or other rental subsidies are eligible for insurance under the program, subject to limitations on the rent levels. These limits are designed to ensure that project rents are clearly adequate to support the mortgage. Other eligible projects include single room occupancy (SRO) projects, board and care and assisted living facilities, and projects designed for persons 62 years of age or more. In response to providers of affordable housing, mobile home parks (exclusive of the mobile homes) have been added as an eligible housing type. This will permit HFAs to provide this important type of affordable housing through the Risk-Sharing Program. Transient housing, hotels, nursing homes and intermediate care facilities, and projects located in military impact areas are ineligible for insurance under this program. The final rule makes clear that, for purposes of this pilot program, cooperative properties are considered rental housing, just as they are under the National Housing Act (see §266.200(a)). While section 542(c)(7) refers to rents, and section 544 defines multifamily housing as covering not less than five (5) ``rental'' units on one (1) site, cooperative carrying charges are similar to rents and HUD does not believe that Congress intended to preclude the insurance of mortgages for cooperatives under the program.
