FR941107-1-00025 FR941107-1-00007 c. Civil mail and wire fraud . The proposals also would require disclosure of civil and administrative proceedings relating to mail and wire fraud. 85 Thus, for example, court orders enjoining violations of mail or wire fraud statutes, 86 as well as U.S. Postal Service orders requiring a designated person to cease and desist from conducting a scheme or device for obtaining money or property through the mail by false representations, 87 would be disclosed. 85 Proposed Item 401(f)(iii)(A)( 3 ). 86 Generally, legal actions involving mail or wire fraud would be criminal proceedings [ see 18 U.S.C. 1341, providing criminal penalties for fraud and swindles accomplished through the mails and 18 U.S.C. 1343, providing criminal penalties for schemes and artifices to defraud by means of wire, radio or television]; however, the Attorney General of the United States may commence a civil action in any federal court to enjoin ongoing or prospective violations of federal mail or wire fraud statutes. 18 U.S.C. 1345. 87 See 39 U.S.C. 3005. d. Fiduciary duties . The proposed amendments would extend disclosure to legal actions involving laws and regulations governing fiduciary obligations owed to corporations, partnerships, business trusts and similar business entities. 88 If, for example, a designated person was subject to a court order resulting from a breach of a fiduciary duty imposed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (``ERISA''), 89 or had been found to have breached a fiduciary duty as a director of a corporation, in violation of state corporation or common law, disclosure would be required. 88 Proposed Item 401(f)(1)(iii)(A)( 2 ). One type of a ``similar business entity'' under the proposed rule is a limited liability company, which strictly speaking is neither a corporation nor a partnership, but has characteristics of both. See Del. Code Ann. tit. 6, ยง18&hyph;101 et seq. , for an example of a state statute (Delaware) providing for the organization of limited liability companies. 89 See Section 409 of ERISA [29 U.S.C. 1109] (providing for equitable remedies against fiduciaries who breach fiduciary duties imposed by ERISA). e. Restrictions on any business practice . The current provision requiring disclosure where a court enjoins or otherwise limits the designated person from engaging in any business practice 90 would be expanded to require disclosure of similar orders issued by administrative authorities. 91 Under the proposals, for example, Federal Communications Commission orders requiring a designated person to cease and desist from engaging in activities that violate regulations governing telecommunications, 92 International Trade Commission orders restricting such person from engaging in unfair practices in the importation of articles into the United States, 93 Federal Trade Commission orders requiring the person to cease and desist from engaging in unfair methods of competition, 94 and other similar federal or state administrative actions would be required to be disclosed. 90 Current Item 401(f)(3)(ii). 91 Proposed Item 401(f)(1)(iii)(B). 92 See 47 U.S.C. 312. 93 See 19 U.S.C. 1337. 94 See 15 U.S.C. 45. f. Request for comment concerning civil and administrative proceedings . The proposed provisions discussed above relating to civil and administrative proceedings require disclosure if a finding, order or sanction relates to an alleged violation by a designated person of securities, commodities, banking and insurance laws and regulations and other designated laws and regulations, as well as orders restricting a designated person from engaging in any business practice. Comment is requested as to whether the requirement to disclose restrictions on any business practice is sufficient to apprise investors of the backgrounds of those who direct the affairs of public companies. Comment also is sought as to whether disclosure relating to violations of laws governing corporations, partnerships or other entities should be restricted to violations of a fiduciary duty provision, as proposed, or restricted further to violations of a fiduciary duty involving fraud. Commenters also are requested to address whether those proposals should be expanded to require disclosure of findings, orders and sanctions entered in proceedings involving alleged violations of any laws respecting such business entities. Finally, comment is requested as to whether there is any category of civil or administrative proceeding that should be excluded from the disclosure requirements and the reason for the recommended exclusion.
