FR940826-0-00122 FR940826-0-00020 III. Auction Design and Procedures A. Activity and Stopping Rules 12. Activity rules and stopping rules are intended to govern the speed and duration of bidding in an auction. An activity rule encourages each bidder to participate actively through the course of an auction. Activity rules are intended to ensure that simultaneous auctions with simultaneous stopping rules will close within a reasonable period of time and that bid prices will convey meaningful information during the course of the auction. In the Second Report and Order, the Commission adopted a three-stage Milgrom-Wilson activity rule as the preferred activity rule when a simultaneous stopping rule is employed. 26 Under this rule the auction moves from stage I to stage II when, in each of three consecutive rounds of bidding, the high bid has increased on less than some specified percent of the spectrum (measured in terms of MHz-pops) being auctioned. 27 The auction will move from stage II to stage III when in each of three consecutive rounds the high bid has increased on less than some specified percent of the spectrum (measured in terms of MHz-pops). The Commission, however, retained the flexibility to decide whether to use an activity rule, and if so what type of activity rule to use. We described possible activity rules, and stated the range of alternatives from which we would choose and the circumstances that might cause us to choose particular rules. We stated that we would announce the activity rule to be used by Public Notice before an auction. 28 A stopping rule specifies when an auction is over. In the Second Report and Order we stated that, for simultaneous auctions, our preferred stopping rule was that all markets would close simultaneously if a single round passed in which no new acceptable bids are submitted for any license. We retained the discretion, however, to announce at any point during a multiple round auction would end after a specified number of rounds. 29 26 Second Report and Order at ¶144. 27 The number of ``MHz-pops'' is calculated by multiplying the population of the license service area by the amount of spectrum authorized by the license. 28 Id. at ¶133. 29 Id. at ¶132. 13. Petitions. Southwestern Bell Corporation (SBC), the GTE Service Corporation (GTE), and the Association of Independent Designated Entities (AIDE) argue that the three-stage Milgrom-Wilson activity rule is unnecessarily complex and should be simplified or eliminated. 30 SBC points out that the three-stage Milgrom-Wilson activity rule would require the Commission to track a large number of upfront payments and eligibility levels, and notes that the software the Commission intends to develop to track activity levels may not be developed in time. SBC states that allowing five automatic waivers, as the Commission proposes to do, does not reduce the uncertainty and expense which the activity rule imposes and may make bidding strategy more complex. 31 GTE states that the upfront payment formula, when combined with the activity rule, unnecessarily restricts bidder flexibility. 32 GTE states that the activity rules limit the ability of bidders to revise their plans in the course of the auction, particularly if information revealed during the latter stages of the auction causes a bidder to become interested in additional properties. The activity rules, according to GTE, discourage qualified entities from participating as fully as they might otherwise do, so that some licenses may not be awarded to the entity placing the highest value on them. 33 30 SBC Petition at 1&hyph;6; GTE Petition at 6&hyph;11; AIDE Petition at 12&hyph;13. 31 SBC Petition at 3&hyph;6. 32 GTE Petition at 7. 33 Id. at 9&hyph;10.
