FR940303-2-00075 FR940303-2-00054 Survey of Intermediary Organizations HUD Microenterprise Report Section 807(c)(4) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (``1992 Act'') requires the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to submit to Congress a report on the effectiveness of the use of Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds in promoting development of microenterprises, including a review of any statutory or regulatory provision that impedes their development. This survey is being undertaken in an effort to provide HUD with current, relevant information regarding the actual experiences of community and economic development practitioners in this area for the Department's consideration in the preparation of the required report to Congress. Your participation is voluntary, but failure to respond will hurt HUD's ability to report accurately to Congress on the nature and extent of microenterprise activity in the CDBG program. Therefore, your participation is greatly appreciated. This survey seeks to obtain information regarding any microenterprise assistance activities you may be undertaking with CDBG funds. •A ``microenterprise'' is defined by the 1992 Act to be a commercial enterprise that has five or fewer employees, one or more of whom owns the enterprise. •For the purposes of this survey, ``microenterprise assistance activities'' are those that are designed to promote the establishment and expansion of microenterprises, as such entities are defined above. Examples of such activities include: •Provision of training for persons interested in starting microenterprises. •Provision of technical assistance and training to existing microenterprises. •Provision of financial assistance to new and existing microenterprises. Name of Organization (Optional): Address, City; State/HUD Region: Name & Phone Number of Contact Person (Optional): 1. Does your organization use Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds for microenterprise assistance activities? ␣␣Yes XXX No XXX (If No, please go to Q.6) 2. What national objective(s) is/are your CDBG-funded microenterprise assistance activities designed to meet? (Check all that apply.) ␣␣ XXX Low/mod Area Benefit ␣␣ XXX Low/mod Jobs ␣␣ XXX Slum/Blight ␣␣ XXX Urgent Need 3. Please identify the nature of your entity (e.g., public non-profit agency, Community Development Corporation (CDC), Small Business Investment Company (SBIC), etc.). (Check all that apply.) ␣␣ XXX Public non-profit agency ␣␣ XXX CDC ␣␣ XXX SBIC ␣␣ XXX Other Please describe) 4. Would you say that the level of CDBG assistance you provide to microenterprises is ␣␣ XXX Too much (End of survey) ␣␣ XXX About right (End of survey) ␣␣ XXX Too little (Please go to Q.5) 5. Is there anything about the CDBG statute or regulations that prevents you from assisting as many microenterprises as you would like? ␣␣ XXX No ␣␣ XXX Yes (Please describe) (End of Survey) For respondents that answered ``No'' to Q.1, please answer Q.6 and Q.7. 6. Would you like to see your organization use CDBG to support microenterprise development? ␣␣ XXX No ␣␣ XXX Yes 7. If ``Yes'' to Q.6, is there anything about the CDBG statute or regulations that prevents you from assisting microenterprises with CDBG funds? ␣␣ XXX No ␣␣ XXX Yes (Please describe) This mailing has been sent to familiarize you with the survey questions. An interviewer will contact you by telephone in the near future to obtain your responses. If you have any questions concerning this survey, please contact: Ms. Barbara Neal, Entitlement Communities Division, U.S. Department of Housing & Urban Development, room 7282, 451&hyph;7th Street, SW., Washington, D.C. 20410. Telephone Number: (202) 708&hyph;1577. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4824 Filed 3&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;29&hyph;M
