FR940810-1-00047 FR940810-1-00009 Spending Funds Outside the Jurisdiction of the Recipient This portion of the proposed rule would add a new §570.309. In the early years of the CDBG program, HUD would likely find an application that proposed spending CDBG funds outside of the jurisdiction of the grantee to be plainly inappropriate to address the identified needs of the jurisdiction. Under the statute then, such a finding was the basis for HUD to disapprove the application. Since 1981, the regulations have been silent on this matter, but the Department has ruled in several cases that a grantee's decision to spend CDBG funds outside the jurisdiction was allowable. The Department now believes that it would be helpful to state clearly the circumstances under which this practice is allowed in order to remove any uncertainty on the part of grantees and auditors. The limitation proposed (i.e. that the principal benefit of such an activity must be for residents of the jurisdiction of the recipient) is important to ensure that the community's share of the national appropriation of entitlement funds, which is based on the community's relative share of needs, is expended in a manner that addresses the needs for which the funds were provided. What would be precluded by this change is the lending of CDBG funds to entities outside the grantee's jurisdiction when the principal benefit to the jurisdiction would be interest earned on the loan. Thus an urban county would not be authorized to loan funds to non-participating units of general local government within the boundaries of the county unless the urban county could make the required determination that the activity (without regard to the use of the interest expected to be earned on a loan made for the activity) would principally benefit citizens within the urban county. Revolving Funds This portion of the proposed rule includes changes at §§570.500(a)(1)(viii), 570.502(a)(5), 570.500(b), and 570.504(b)(2)(i). A revolving fund is defined at §570.500(b) to mean ``*␣*␣* a separate fund (with a set of accounts that are independent of other program accounts) established for the purpose of carrying out specific activities which, in turn, generate payments to the fund in carrying out the same activities.'' Revolving funds are used most frequently in connection with rehabilitation and economic development projects that involve loans. Revolving funds are established and administered typically in the following manner. A loan is made with CDBG funds (e.g., to a private property owner to rehabilitate her home). Payments on that loan (i.e., principal or interest, or both) constitute program income that is credited as CDBG program income on the grantee's books and held in an account independent of other program accounts. The program income in that account, including interest earned on the funds while on deposit pending their re-use, becomes the source of financing for additional loans of the same type (e.g., housing rehabilitation). Hence, the term ``revolving fund'' has been used to describe such a fund. Of course, much of the same objective could be achieved without the need to establish an independent account. Loan payments could simply be placed in the grantee's general CDBG account. (The entity used for other CDBG funds would vary from community to community; however, CDBG funds are often budgeted and accounted for in a special revenue fund.) Program income generated by a particular activity could be earmarked in advance for use in carrying out additional transactions (e.g., loans) involving the same kind of activity (e.g., housing rehabilitation). However, the use of a revolving fund has another advantage over the fund used to budget and account for other CDBG funds, besides the fact that the community does not have to reconsider the use of program income generated by a particular activity following its receipt. The second advantage is the special treatment given program income in revolving funds under the current CDBG regulations. A recipient that establishes a revolving fund to carry out a particular activity must substantially disburse any program income in that fund before making additional cash withdrawals from the Treasury for the same kind of activity; however, the recipient may make additional withdrawals from the Treasury for other activities before substantially disbursing the program income from the revolving fund. This authority appears to have created an incentive for some grantees to create revolving funds to shelter the program income on hand from cash withdrawal requirements and to earn interest income from the investment of the program income pending its use for the revolving fund activity. There is also some indication that it has created the incentive for some grantees to delay the reuse of the funds, since the longer the funds stay in the account the more interest they earn while on deposit. The HUD Inspector General has identified a number of cases where funds in a revolving account were clearly not being used in a timely manner. Because of the fact that the grantees involved were allowed to leave the funds in a revolving account and to draw funds from their lines of credit to meet their cash needs for other CDBG assisted activities, this has resulted in additional, and seemingly unwarranted, cost to the U.S. Treasury. HUD is generally in favor of the use of revolving funds, since it is a sensible way to program funds to meet ongoing needs, such as housing rehabilitation and business assistance. However, it must also be concerned about avoiding unnecessary costs to the Treasury. Under this proposed rule, recipients would no longer be authorized to shelter program income in revolving funds. The proposed rule would require that all program income, including program income in a revolving fund, be disbursed before further cash withdrawals are made from the U.S. Treasury. The changes made by this rule would not preclude the use of funds in a revolving manner. However, the Department recognizes that compliance with the proposed rule's requirement that all program income be disbursed before additional cash withdrawals are permitted would make administration of revolving funds more complicated. This additional complexity may, as a practical matter, make revolving funds infeasible for some grantees. Other options that HUD believes might be used to address the problem include: (1) limiting the amount of program income in any revolving fund to the amount that could be expected to be needed for funding the activity within a certain time period (such as 30 days); and (2) limiting the number of revolving funds per recipient. However, each of these has a drawback. A limitation on the amount allowed in a revolving account would mean additional administrative burden for both the grantee and HUD to ensure compliance with such a limitation. A limit on the number of revolving funds might pose an undesirable restriction on a grantee's capacity to address its needs in the most sensible way. Because of these problems and since these options would still permit funds to be withdrawn from the Treasury for other purposes while program income is available to the recipient, they were not selected to be proposed for this rule.
