FR941202-2-00147 FR941202-2-00098 Article VI_Meetings of the Conference A. Annual Meeting The Annual Meeting of members shall be held each year. The agenda for this meeting shall include the election of officers, reports from the various committees, task forces, study groups, and the Treasurer, other items pertinent to the Conference, and presentation to the Membership of pending issues requiring action by vote. The Annual Meeting may include the presentation of technical papers, discussions, displays, or other events at the discretion of the Board of Directors. B. Interim Meeting The Interim Meeting of the Board of Directors and those Standing Committees designated by the Chair shall be held annually, approximately six months prior to the Annual Meeting to develop the agenda and committee recommendations for presentation to and action by the membership at the Annual Meeting. Draft resolutions and standards regarding environmental laboratory accreditation which have been published in the Federal Register and commented upon are discussed and modified as appropriate in the Interim Meeting. C. Special Meetings 1. The Conference Chair is authorized to order a meeting of the Board of Directors at any time deemed necessary by the Chair to be in the best interest of the Conference. 2. Other Committees of the Conference are authorized to hold meetings at times other than the Annual Meeting or Interim Meeting provided that: a. such meeting or meetings have been funded in the Conference budget approved by the Board of Directors, or b. such meeting or meetings are approved by the Chair and funding is available within the approved budget or can be made available. 3. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the eligible voters. D. Rules of Order The rules contained in Robert's Rules of Order (Revised) shall govern the Conference in all cases to which they are applicable, and in which they are not inconsistent with the Constitution or Bylaws or the special rules of the Conference.
