FR940112-0-00081 FR940112-0-00021 Comment: Several commenters asked how a State would apply the projection of institutional expenses option if it also chooses to combine the retroactive and prospective budget periods under Provision B. Response: If the budget period includes part or all of the 3-month retroactive period, institutional and other medical expenses actually incurred during that portion of the retroactive period would be added to projected institutional expenses in the prospective period. An individual is eligible if the combined total of actually incurred plus projected medical expenses equals or exceeds his or her spenddown liability for the budget period. Comment: Commenters suggested that we revise the regulations to clarify that States may continue to use a 1-month budget period for institutional cases. Response: We agree that a clarification to the proposed regulations is needed on this point. In regard to medically needy eligibility, the proposed regulations at §§435.831 and 436.831 specify that, ``[t]he agency must use a budget period of not more than 6 months to compute income.'' It is clear that any budget period between 1 and 6 months may be used. However, it was not clear in the proposed rule that a State may use more than one budget period. For example, under the proposed rule, a State may use a 6-month budget period for all medically needy individuals. Or, the State may use one budget period for institutionalized individuals in long-term care facilities (e.g., 1 month), and another for noninstitutionalized individuals. A third option would be for a State to use different budget periods for different groups of institutionalized individuals or use different budget periods for different groups of noninstitutionalized individuals. We believe States should have the flexibility to prescribe different spenddown periods to simplify the administration of their Medicaid programs. For example, for effective and efficient administration in cases where the individual is institutionalized, the State may wish to use the same time period for determining spenddown liability that the State uses to determine the Medicaid contribution toward the cost of care. Allowing States to prescribe the spenddown period in these cases permits States to align the budget period used for spenddown purposes with the budget period used in the post-eligibility process. Thus, a State that uses a 6-month period for determining medically needy spenddown liability for noninstitutionalized individuals and a 1-month period for determining contributions toward the costs of care for the institutionalized may wish to begin new 1-month spenddown periods for medically needy recipients who become institutionalized. Alternatively, the State may wish to determine contributions toward the costs of care in 6-month periods to coincide with the 6-month medically needy spenddown period used. In either situation, administrative simplification could be achieved in some cases by using the same income calculation for both the determination of spenddown liability and the determination of the contribution toward the costs of care. However, if a State imposes different spenddown budget periods in different situations, the variations should have general application and not be applied on an individual-by-individual basis, and the variations should be based on reasonable standards. We are clarifying this point in the regulations by revising §§435.831(a) and 436.831(a) to specify that States are not limited to the use of a single budget period, but must use budget periods of not more than 6 months to compute income. Comment: Several commenters asked for clarification on how projection at the Medicaid reimbursement rate will be used by a State when an individual enters an institution during the month rather than on the first day of the month. Response: As noted in the response to an earlier comment, actually incurred institutional and other medical expenses are added to projected institutional expenses during a budget period. If the combined total of these expenses exceeds an individual's spenddown liability, the individual is eligible on the day that liability is met (or on the first day of the month in full-month coverage States or, if the exception in §§435.831(i)(3) and 436.831(i)(3) applies, on the first day of the budget period whether the State uses a monthly budget period or a multi-month budget period). Thus, depending on individual circumstances, an individual could be eligible on the first day of the budget period, on the first day of institutionalization occurring on or after the first day of the budget period, or at some other time during the budget period, as illustrated by the following examples. Example 1. The individual enters the institution on the 16th of the month. The monthly spenddown liability is $500. The projected institutional expenses at the Medicaid rate to the end of the month are $800 ($1,600 monthly rate). The individual has also incurred $600 in other medical expenses before the month of application, which remain the individual's current liability. Because the individual has $600 of other medical expenses, the spenddown is met on the first day of the monthly budget period (before the first day of institutionalization).
