FR940516-1-00081 FR940516-1-00005 1. To allow interested parties to readily identify and locate documents so that they can intelligently and effectively participate in the rulemaking process; and 2. To serve as the record in case of judicial review (except for interagency review materials (section 307(d)(7)(A))). C. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866, (58 FR 51735 (October 4, 1993)) the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) review and the requirements of this Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: 1. Have an annual effect of the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; 2. Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; 3. Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or 4. Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in this Executive Order. Pursuant to the terms of Executive Order 12866, OMB has notified EPA that it considers this a ``significant regulatory action'' within the meaning of the Executive Order. EPA has submitted this action for OMB review. Changes made in response to OMB suggestions or recommendations will be documented in the public record. D. Paperwork Reduction Act The information collection requirements in this proposed rule have been submitted for approval to OMB under the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq . An Information Collection Request (ICR) document has been prepared by EPA (ICR No. 1681.01), and a copy may be obtained from Sandy Farmer, Information Policy Branch, EPA, 401 M Street SW., (2136), Washington, DC 20460, or by calling (202) 260&hyph;2740. The public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 600 hours per source, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to Chief, Information Policy Branch, 2136, U. S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC 20503, marked ``Attention: Desk Officer for EPA.'' The final rule will respond to any OMB or public comments on the information collection requirements contained in this proposal. E. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) requires EPA to consider potential impacts of proposed regulations on small business ``entities.'' If a preliminary analysis indicates that a proposed regulation would have a significant economic impact on 20 percent or more of small entities, then a regulatory flexibility analysis must be prepared. Regulatory Flexibility Act guidelines for regulations like this one whose start action notifications (SAN's) were filed before April 1992 indicate that an economic impact should be considered significant if it meets one of the following criteria: 1. Compliance increases annual production costs by more than 5 percent, assuming costs are passed onto consumers; 2. Compliance costs as a percentage of sales for small entities are at least 10 percent more than compliance costs as a percentage of sales for large entities; 3. Capital costs of compliance represent a ``significant'' portion of capital available to small entities, considering internal cash flow plus external financial capabilities; or 4. Regulatory requirements are likely to result in closure of small entities. Pursuant to section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 605(b), the Administrator certifies that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. All of the affected BLR and WSR producers are large enough not to satisfy the criteria for a small business. Consequently, no significant small business impacts will result from compliance with these standards. F. Miscellaneous In accordance with section 117 of the Act, publication of this proposal was preceded by consultation with appropriate advisory committees, independent experts, and Federal departments and agencies. The Administrator will welcome comments on all aspects of the proposed regulation, including health, economic and technical issues, and on the proposed test methods. This regulation will be reviewed 8 years from the date of promulgation. This review will include an assessment of such factors as evaluation of the residual health and environmental risks, any overlap with other programs, the existence of alternative methods, enforceability, improvements in emission control technology and health data, and the recordkeeping and reporting requirements. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 63 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Hazardous substances, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: April 29, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10973 Filed 5&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
