FR941003-1-00067 FR941003-1-00006 C. The National Environmental Policy Act Pursuant to 36 CFR Part 805, National Environmental Policy Act Implementation Procedures, the Council has determined that an Environmental Impact Statement is not required. D. Executive Order 12866 The Council is exempt from compliance with Executive Order 12866 pursuant to a memorandum issued by the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs on October 12, 1993. Although the Council is exempt from compliance, the Council has complied with the principles set forth in the Order by identifying problems in our regulatory process and seeking to modify our regulations in order to establish a more efficient and practical regulatory framework. The Council has sought the views of the public, including State, local and tribal entities, through the use of focus group meetings, questionnaires and solicitation of informal advice. Furthermore, the Council has voluntarily submitted this regulation to the Office of Management and Budget for review in accordance with the Executive Order. E. Executive Order 12875 The Council is exempt from compliance with the documentation requirements set forth in Executive Order 12875. However, the Council has adhered to the principles embodied in the Order. The proposed regulations, like the current regulations, do not mandate State, local and tribal governments to participate in the Section 106 process, but rather, mandate Federal agencies to inform and request the involvement of such sectors. The State, tribal or local governments have the option of declining to participate in the process. Thus, the regulations do not impose unfunded mandates. Moreover, the Historic Preservation Fund makes monies available to States that participate in the Section 106 process. The Council's proposed regulations impose obligations on Federal agencies and do not delegate responsibilities to the States. If a Federal agency chooses to delegate its responsibilities, then the requirements of the Order must be addressed by that agency. State, local and tribal representatives have been an integral part of the development of the proposed rules as members of the Council's Regulations Task Force, as participants in focus groups, and as respondents to the Council's questionnaire. The proposed regulations provide a flexible process which includes various alternative procedures, including categorical exemptions, programmatic agreements and development of counterpart procedures to comply with the requirements of Section 106. F. Executive Order 12898 The Council is not required to comply with this Order. Nevertheless, the regulations implementing Section 106 do not pose environmental risks, but rather, seek to avoid adverse effects on historic properties in all areas of the United States. G. Memorandum Concerning Government-to-Government Relations with Native American Tribal Governments The Council has fully complied with this Memorandum. A Native American representative serves as a member of the Council and as a member of the Council's Regulations Task Force. The proposed regulations enhance the opportunity for Native American involvement in the Section 106 process and clarify the obligation of Federal agencies to consult with Native Americans, fulfilling the objectives of the 1992 NHPA amendments. List of Subjects in 36 CFR Part 800 Administrative practice and procedure, Historic preservation, Indians, Intergovernmental relations. Dated: September 26, 1994 Robert D. Bush, Executive Director.
