FR940207-1-00013 FR940207-1-00002 Comment 5(b)(1)&hyph;1 clarifies that institutions need not highlight the new terms reflected in the disclosures. (c) Notice for Time Accounts One Month or Less That Renew Automatically Institutions have limited disclosure responsibilities for rollover time accounts with maturities of one month or less. If a term previously disclosed (other than the interest rate and annual percentage yield) is changed at renewal, institutions must send a brief notice describing the change ``within a reasonable time'' after the renewal of the account. Comment 5(c)&hyph;1 provides that 10 calendar days after the renewal is a reasonable time except for accounts shorter than 10 days, which should receive disclosures before any subsequent renewal. (d) Notice Before Maturity for Time Accounts Longer Than One Year That Do Not Renew Automatically Comment 5(d)&hyph;1 clarifies that institutions need not provide new account disclosures when funds are subsequently transferred following the maturity of a nonrollover time account, unless a new account is established. The Board solicits comments on how institutions treat funds held in a nonrollover time account following maturity, and whether new account disclosures are appropriate in cases where funds remain with institutions. For example, is a check sent to the consumer automatically, or within a certain number of days of maturity? Are funds transferred to an account, and if so, how long are the funds typically held in that account? Section 230.6_Periodic Statement Disclosures (a) General Rule Comment 6(a)&hyph;2 provides guidance to institutions when quarterly periodic statements are normally sent for the account but a consumer's electronic fund transfer triggers the institution's duty under Regulation E to send a statement that month. Institutions need not treat interim monthly statements as periodic statements subject to the requirements of this regulation; if they choose not to do so, they must provide the disclosures (such as the interest earned and annual percentage yield earned) on subsequent quarterly statements. Comment 6(a)&hyph;3 clarifies that institutions may include limited account information for one account (an MMDA, for example) on the periodic statement of another account. However, disclosing interest or rate information would trigger the duty to state the annual percentage yield and other disclosure requirements on that statement. Comment 6(a)&hyph;4 provides guidance on additional information that may appear on periodic statements. Paragraph (a)(3) Fees Imposed Comment 6(a)(3)&hyph;2 provides examples of similar types of fees that can be grouped together if they are disclosed with the same name or description. It also makes clear that all other account fees, including those related to electronic services that are not fund transfers, must be disclosed in accordance with ยง230.6 of this part. Comment 6(a)(3)&hyph;4 clarifies that institutions may comply with the requirements of Regulation E for disclosing electronic funds transfer fees on periodic statements. Paragraph (a)(4) Length of Period Comment 6(a)(4)&hyph;2 provides that if a consumer opens or closes an account during a period, the annual percentage yield earned and the other disclosures for the consumer's account must reflect only those days the account was open, such as when a consumer changes from an interest-bearing account to a noninterest-bearing account in the middle of a period. (b) Special Rule for Average Daily Balance Method When an institution uses the average daily balance method for monthly periods and provides a quarterly statement, the literal language of the regulation suggests that institutions should provide three interest figures with three corresponding annual percentage yield earned figures. Comment 6(b)&hyph;3 would permit institutions to show either separate figures for each month or a figure for the whole quarter. The Board believes consumers may receive more useful information if institutions provide one interest figure and one corresponding annual percentage yield earned figure for the period. Section 230.7_Payment of Interest (a) Permissible Methods Comment 7(a)&hyph;5 clarifies that the regulation does not require institutions to pay interest after a time account matures and provides examples to illustrate the rule.
