FR940630-2-00046 FR940630-2-00039 FCC Form 159 Regulatory fee payments must be accompanied by FCC Form 159 (``FCC Remittance Advice''). A copy of this form, with specific instructions, is attached to this Public Notice. Please see, ``Special Instructions for Completing FCC Forms 159 & 159&hyph;C'' for detailed information on how to correctly complete these Forms. Where To Send Regulatory Fee Payments All regulatory fee payments must be sent to the following address: Federal Communications Commission, Regulatory Fees, P.O. Box 358835, Pittsburgh, PA 15251&hyph;5835. Method of Payment Regulatory fee payments may be made by check or money order. Payments may also be made by credit card (Visa or Mastercard only). When paying by credit card, please make sure you sign the appropriate block of Form 159. Payments may also be made electronically provided prior approval has been obtained from the Commission. Contact Thomas M. Holleran at (202) 418&hyph;1925 for prior approval. In its Report and Order the Commission noted that ``NECA has proposed to process regulatory fees on behalf of its pooling exchange carriers and to submit their consolidated fees to our lockbox bank in a single instrument of payment.'' The Commission has no objection to NECA's submission of the fee on behalf of its pooling exchange carriers or others. However, we remind entities subject to the payment of a regulatory fee that the regulatee, not an agent, such as NECA, is responsible for ensuring that the payment is made and that it is subject to penalty for failure to submit the entire fee due in a timely manner. LEC's will be expected to pay their fees based on the number of access lines as determined by NECA. In case of a dispute between a carrier and NECA concerning the carrier's line count as of December 31, 1993, NECA will certify its calculation of the carrier's line count and the basis for its calculation. We encourage arrangements to consolidate a number of regulatory fee payments for different entities into a single payment instrument made by a single payee. We recognize the benefits to be gained by all the parties involved. Notwithstanding the published schedule of payment due dates, consolidation of 100 or more regulatory fees due from different entities by a single payee will be due on September 2, 1994. Entities participating in such consolidated payment arrangements that are eligible, and choose, to pay by installment, should pay one-half of the regulatory fee eligible for installment payment by September 2, 1994. The second installment payment will then be due September 30, 1994. Note: Multiple fee payments may be made with one payment instrument. Payors who will be making a single payment for a significant number of entities and wish to submit automated data submissions in lieu of a large number of FCC Forms 159&hyph;C (``Advice Continuation Sheets'') should contact Thomas M. Holleran at (202) 418&hyph;1925 at least four weeks prior to the payment due date. Installment Payments Interexchange carriers are permitted to make installment payments if their total regulatory fee exceeds $500,000. Local exchange carriers are permitted to make installment payments if their total regulatory fee exceeds $700,000. 1 Fee payments for other than interexchange or local exchange carriers access lines cannot be counted toward the respective installment threshold. Nor can competitive access providers, providers of international bearer circuits and licensees of any public fixed or mobile service pay their fees by installment. Eligible carriers choosing to make installment payments must pay one-half of their total fee by August 17, 1994. The second installment payment is due no later than September 14, 1994. Entities participating in consolidated payment arrangements that are eligible, and elect, to pay by installment should note the different due dates for their installment payments (see ``Method of Payment'' above). 1 A holding company may combine the fee payments of its operating companies to reach this installment-payment threshold. Compliance Licensees are solely responsible for accurately accounting for all licenses and for paying proper regulatory fees. Any omission or payment deficiency can result in a 25% monetary penalty, dismissal of pending actions, and/or revocation of any authorization. Additionally, the Commission intends to invoke its authority under the Debt Collection Act against any licensee failing to meet its regulatory fee payment obligations.
