FR940325-1-00007 FR940325-1-00004 Background and Purpose The 1978 amendments to the Ports and Waterways Safety Act (PWSA), 33 U.S.C. 1223(c), require that a port access route study be conducted prior to establishing or adjusting a traffic separation scheme (TSS). The Coast Guard is undertaking a port access route study to determine the effect of amending the TSS on vessel traffic safety in the study area. A TSS is an internationally recognized routing measure that minimizes the risk of collision by separating vessels into opposing streams of traffic through the establishment of traffic lanes. Vessel use of a TSS is voluntary; however, vessels operating in or near an International Maritime Organization (IMO) approved TSS are subject to Rule 10 of the International Regulations for Prevention of Collisions at Sea, 1972 (72 COLREGS). The TSS in the Approaches to Delaware Bay was last studied in 1981, and the results were published on October 5, 1981, (46 FR 49035). The study concluded that the existing TSS was adequate for the foreseeable future. A Coast Guard initiated Waterways Analysis and Management System Study (WAMS) of the Delaware Bay Approach, conducted in 1990, recommended reorientation of the eastern approach TSS to the south. WAMS was developed to serve as the basis for a systematic analysis and management of the aids to navigation in our nation's waterways. WAMS is intended to identify the navigational needs of the users of a particular waterway, the present adequacy of the aids system in terms of those needs, and what is required in those cases where the users' needs are not being met. The WAMS process also looks into the resources_physical, financial, and personnel_needed to carry out the Aids to Navigation program responsibilities. The analyses of each waterway and the attendant resources are then integrated to provide documentation for both day to day management and future planning within the Aids to Navigation program. Because of safety concerns, the Mariners Advisory Committee for the Bay and River Delaware has also requested that the eastern approach lanes of the TSS be adjusted and that an inshore traffic zone be established for coastwise traffic. As part of the Delaware River Comprehensive Navigation Study, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is also conducting a study to consider construction of a Midstream Deepwater Port to provide deep draft crude oil carriers improved access for lightering operations in Anchorage A (off the entrance to the Mispillion River), 33 CFR 110.157, southwest of Brandywine Channel. If the Army Corps of Engineers determines there is a need for a Midstream Deepwater Port, a one-way access channel leading from the ocean to Anchorage A, in the vicinity of the current Southeastern Approach, may be designed to facilitate the safe movement of deep draft crude oil carriers to Anchorage A for lightering operations, and to encourage the use of larger and more efficient transport vessels to Delaware River ports. This channel would then lead through the Pilot Area near Cape Henlopen to Anchorage A, with the deepening of the lower (southeastern) corner of the anchorage. Incorporation of this study with the Army Corps of Engineers study is intended to identify those items of mutual concern and to blend channel deepening requirements into vessel traffic management requirements. At the request of the Mariners' Advisory Committee for the Bay and River Delaware, four lighted buoys will be relocated within the Precautionary Area during the week of April 25, 1994. Relocation of these buoys will shift the pilot area one half nautical mile to the southeast and Delaware Bay Approach LB 4 one half nautical mile to the southwest. This will allow more sea room for tug and tow traffic approaching from and departing along the New Jersey coast. Study Area The study area is bounded by a line connecting the following geographic positions: ␣ 1Latitude 1Longtitude 39 ○00 ’ N 75 ○10 ’ W 38 ○50 ’ N 74 ○30 ’ W 38 ○25 ’ N 74 ○30 ’ W 38 ○25 ’ N 75 ○10 ’ W
