FR940602-2-00143 FR940602-2-00089 Federal Highway Administration Environmental Impact Statement: St. Clair and Madison Counties, IL AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The FHWA is issuing this notice to advise the public that an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) will be prepared for the construction of a Mississippi River crossing, which would add capacity and divert traffic from the Poplar Street Bridge between Missouri and Illinois. The proposed project study area will extend from the McKinley Bridge on the north to Illinois Route 157, or Cherokee Street in St. Louis, on the south. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. James C. Partlow, Design Operations Engineer, Federal Highway Administration, Illinois Division, 3250 Executive Park Drive, Springfield, Illinois 62703, Telephone: (217) 492&hyph;4622; Mr. Dale L. Klohr, District Engineer, Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT), 1100 Eastport Plaza Drive, Collinsville, Illinois 62234, Telephone: (618) 346&hyph;3110. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The proposed action is to construct a new crossing of the Mississippi River at downtown St. Louis. The proposed project study area will extend from the McKinley Bridge on the north to Illinois Route 157, or Cherokee Street in St. Louis, on the south. The need for a new Mississippi River crossing is based on the transportation demands, safety considerations and the opportunity for economic enhancement in the greater downtown St. Louis and East St. Louis area. The Poplar Street Bridge, which presently caries 128,000 vehicles per day, is operating over capacity in the peak periods, resulting in delays and congestion. By the year 2020, this condition will deteriorate and affect all of the other existing crossings. Consideration of facility type to this point has been focused on a freeway to freeway bridge with two possible alternates identified within the study area. Because this project qualifies as a major metropolitan transportation investment, the St. Louis Metropolitan Planning Organization (East-West Gateway Coordinating Council) and the Illinois Department of Transportation, the Federal Highway Administration and the Federal Transit Authority are currently applying major transportation analysis procedures to determine other alternate modes which may be considered. In addition to the major investment analysis, an informal scoping process will be undertaken as part of this project. The process will include meetings, review sessions as appropriate, and discussions at regularly scheduled meetings. Participants will include the East-West Gateway Coordinating Council, the Missouri Highway and Transportation Department and other Federal, State and local agencies. Further details and a scoping information packet may be obtained from one of the contact persons listed above. To ensure that the full range of issues related to the proposed action are addressed and all significant issues identified, comments and suggestions are invited from all interested parties. Comments or questions concerning this proposed action and the EIS should be directed to FHWA or IDOT contact persons at the addresses provided above. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.205, Highway Research, Planning, and Construction. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 intergovernmental consultation on Federal programs and activities apply to this program.) Issued on April 28, 1994. James C. Partlow, Design Operations Engineer, Federal Highway Administration, Illinois Division, Springfield, Illinois. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13338 Filed 6&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;M
