FR940712-2-00094 FR940712-2-00064 [Release No. 34&hyph;34320; File No. SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;94&hyph;13] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to the Fine Schedule for the Rule on Dissemination of Quotations in Local Issues July 6, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on May 24, 1994, the Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc. (``PSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The PSE is proposing to amend its fine schedule for violations of Equity Floor Procedure Advice 2&hyph;B, relating to the dissemination of quotations in local issues. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose Equity Floor Procedure Advice (``EFPA'') 2&hyph;B of the Rules of the Pacific Stock Exchange is designed to enforce the requirement that PSE specialists disseminate quotations in their assigned local issues every day. Specifically, the specialist must disseminate a quote prior to one-half (1/2) hour after the PSE opening. In order to enforce this requirement, EFPA 2&hyph;B has a schedule that requires that all specialists be monitored daily on a rotating quarterly basis. Failure to satisfy the requirement currently results in a $25 fine for each violation beginning with the sixth violation. At this time, the PSE is proposing to amend this rule to provide that the fine be changed to $100 with an implementation upon the third violation. It is the position of the Exchange that this will provide an effective deterrent and reflect a more appropriate penalty for non-compliance with EFPA 2&hyph;B. 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act, is general, and Sections 6(b)(5) and 6(b)(6), in particular, in that it is designed to protect investors and the public interest, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, and to assure that Exchange members are appropriately disciplined. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statements on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others Written comments on the proposed rule change were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) As the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the PSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;94&hyph;13 and should be submitted by August 2, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16825 Filed 7&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
