FR940819-2-00119 FR940819-2-00071 [TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,756] Ucar Carbon Company, Inc. Robinson, IL; Notice of Negative Determination Regarding Application for Reconsideration By an application dated July 28, 1994, a former worker requested administrative reconsideration of the subject petition for trade adjustment assistance. The denial notice was signed on June 23, 1994 and published in the Federal Register on July 19, 1994 (59 FR 36792). Pursuant to 29 CFR 90.18(c) reconsideration may be granted under the following circumstances: (1) If it appears on the basis of facts not previously considered that the determination complained of was erroneous; (2) If it appears that the determination complained of was based on a mistake in the determination of facts not previously considered; or (3) If in the opinion of the Certifying Officer, a misinterpretation of facts or of the law justified reconsideration of the decision. The former worker stated that increased imports of aluminum ingot adversely affected workers at UCAR Carbon Company producing calcined petroleum coke which is used to make carbon anodes for the production of aluminum. The Department's denial was based on the fact that the ``contributed importantly'' test of the Worker Group Eligibility Requirements of the Trade Act was not met. Aluminum is not interchangeable with calcined petroleum coke. Investigation findings show that UCAR Carbon in Robison, Illinois closed on May 1, 1994. The workers produced calcined petroleum coke. The findings show that calcined petroleum coke at UCAR Carbon is used to make (1) Carbon anodes which are used up in the production of aluminum and (2) graphite electrodes used in electric arc furnaces for steelmaking. Articles which are consumed in the making of a finished article are not like or directly competitive with the finished article. Calcined petroleum coke and aluminum are not interchangeable. Accordingly, imported aluminum is not like or directly competitive with calcined petroleum coke within the meaning of Section 222(3) of the Trade Act. Therefore, aluminum imports cannot be considered in determining import injury to workers engaged in employment related to the production of calcined petroleum coke. The Trade Act did not intend to provide TAA benefits for everyone who is in some way affected by foreign competition, but only for those workers of a firm which has experienced increased imports of articles that are like or directly competitive with those produced at the subject firm. The increased imports must have ``contributed importantly'' to worker separations and decreased sales or production at the workers' firm. Conclusion After review of the application and investigative findings, I conclude that there has been no error or misinterpretation of the law or of the facts which would justify reconsideration of the Department of Labor's prior decision. Accordingly, the application is denied. Signed at Washington, D.C., this 10th day of August 1994. Robert O. Deslongchamps, Director, Office of Legislation & Actuarial Service, Unemployment Insurance Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20470 Filed 8&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;30&hyph;M
