FR940713-1-00002 FR940713-1-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Food Safety and Inspection Service 9 CFR Part 381 [Docket No. 94&hyph;016P] RIN 0583&hyph;AB79 Enhanced Poultry Inspection AGENCY: Food Safety and Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Food Safety and Inspection Service is proposing to amend the poultry products inspection regulations to implement a new system of post-mortem inspection for all poultry species. The proposed system contains several innovations to provide assurances that USDA-inspected and passed poultry products will be free of visible contamination and will require the use of approved antimicrobial treatments in all official establishments. The proposed system would replace all existing systems of poultry post-mortem inspection with a single system in which two FSIS inspectors would staff each poultry processing line and examine carcasses for disease and visible contamination. The proposed regulation would not mandate a reduction in maximum linespeeds. The proposed system would place additional responsibility on official establishments to assure that the poultry they process is wholesome and free of disease. Establishment personnel, positioned before the on-line post-mortem FSIS inspector, would check carcasses prior to inspection and present for inspection only those poultry that are free of disease. Additionally, they would identify all poultry requiring off-line trim, salvage or reprocessing prior to presentation to FSIS for inspection. A second FSIS inspector would be positioned at a new inspection station that would incorporate that portion of the processing line between viscera harvest and the chiller. This is a location where contamination can occur but where there is currently no on-line inspection taking place. Finished Product Standards would be revised to eliminate process tolerances for fecal contamination. Recordkeeping and verification procedures would be required so that establishment process control could be assured. Additionally, all contaminated poultry that are reprocessed would be reinspected on the main processing line by the second FSIS inspector and antimicrobial treatments would required to be applied to carcasses before the chilling operation. DATES: Comments must be received on or before October 11, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments to Policy Evaluation and Planning Staff, Attn: Diane Moore, Room 3171 South Agriculture Building, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Oral comments, as provided under the Poultry Products Inspection Act, should be directed to Dr. Isabel Arrington, at the address given below. (See also ``Comments'' under Supplementary Information .) FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Isabel Arrington, Staff Officer, Inspection Management Program, Inspection Operations, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250; (202) 720&hyph;7905. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments The Agency recognizes that there may be additional information that was not available for its consideration at the time this proposal was written. Therefore, the Agency is conducting further analysis of the benefits and costs of the proposal and also is soliciting additional information on this proposal. In particular, FSIS is interested in receiving information on inspector sequence, benefits, and costs of the proposed rule. FSIS expects that this information will be submitted in the form of comments from the public. Interested persons are invited to submit comments concerning this proposal. Written comments should be sent to the Policy Evaluation and Planning Staff and should refer to the docket number that appears in the heading of this document. Any person desiring opportunity for oral presentation of views, as provided under the Poultry Products Inspection Act, must make such request to Dr. Arrington so that arrangements may be made for such views to be presented. A record will be made of all views orally presented. All comments submitted in response to this proposal will be available for public inspection in the Policy Office from 9 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
