FR940831-2-00153 FR940831-2-00106 3.5␣Inclusion of Sales and Excise Taxes For all items subject to sales tax, the appropriate amount of tax was added prior to analysis. Runzheimer gathered applicable information on taxes by contacting appropriate sources of information in the allowance areas. Runzheimer also drew upon appropriate tax publications, such as the State of Maryland's Sales and Use Tax Laws and Regulations and the Uniform Sales Tax, ``Ordinance Section 69.05,'' of the City/Borough of Juneau. 3.6␣Goods & Services Survey Results In section 2.2 of this report, Runzheimer presented a detailed explanation of the economic model used to analyze the price data. As it applies to Goods & Services, the approach involved comparing the average prices of marketbasket items in each allowance area with those in the Washington, D.C., area. The resulting price ratios were aggregated into subcategory and then category indexes using the expenditure weightings derived from the 1988 CES. In the area of professional services (accountant and legal fees), Runzheimer and OPM noted the existence of a relatively few extreme values that were either exceptionally low or high cost. In situations such as this, statisticians frequently use the median or trim the data in some manner to enhance reliability. Consequently, Runzheimer recommended that the observations be ranked from low to high and that the top and bottom 20% of the observations be ``trimmed'' (i.e. eliminated) from the data before averages or trends were calculated. (Data were not trimmed if there were fewer than five observations.) OPM agreed. These procedures reduce the influence of anomalies and make survey results more stable from one year to the next. Appendix 4 contains tables showing the ten category indexes, the three weighing patterns, and the three total consumption Goods & Services indexes for each allowance area. The Washington, D.C., area does not require a table because it is, by definition, ``the reference location'' where all category and component indexes equal 100. 4. Housing 4.1␣Component Overview The Housing component consists of expenses related to owning or renting a dwelling. These include: •mortgage or rent payments, •utilities, •real estate taxes, •homeowner's or renter's insurance, •home maintenance, and •telephone. At each of the three income levels, Runzheimer measured annual housing costs under the two main housing categories: ownership and rental. 4.2␣Housing Model 4.2.1␣Expenditure Research Section 2.1.2.4 describes how Runzheimer analyzed the 1988 CES to identify the portion of expenses attributable to each of the four components. Runzheimer also used this survey to determine the national average ratio of families who own, as opposed to rent, their residences. Using the expense data from the seven most appropriate income ranges as input into a linear regression analysis, Runzheimer calculated own and rent weights: Own/Rent Weightings 1Category 1Income levels 2Lower (percent) 2Middle (percent) 2Upper (percent) Homeowner* 37.10 46.91 62.86 Renter 62.90 53.09 37.14 Totals 100.00 100.00 100.00 *With mortgage.
