FR940503-1-00019 FR940503-1-00006 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Internal Revenue Service 26 CFR Part 1 [PS&hyph;34&hyph;93] RIN 1545&hyph;AR64 Definition of Sewage Facilities for Tax-exempt Bond Purposes AGENCY: Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Treasury. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking and notice of public hearing. SUMMARY: This document contains proposed regulations on the definition of sewage facilities. The proposed regulations reflect changes to the law made by the Tax Reform Act of 1986 and affect taxpayers who seek tax-exempt bond financing for sewage facilities. This document also provides notice of a public hearing on these proposed regulations. DATES: Written comments and outlines of oral comments to be presented at the public hearing scheduled for 10 a.m. on July 26, 1994, must be received by July 5, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send submissions to: CC:DOM:CORP:T:R (PS&hyph;34&hyph;93), room 5228, Internal Revenue Service, POB 7604, Ben Franklin Station, Washington, DC 20044. In the alternative, submissions may be hand delivered between the hours of 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. to: CC:DOM:CORP:T:R (PS&hyph;34&hyph;93), Courier's Desk, Internal Revenue Service, 1111 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC. The public hearing will be held in the Commissioner's Conference Room, Internal Revenue Building, room 3313, 1111 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Concerning the regulations, Joanne E. Johnson at (202) 622&hyph;3110; concerning submissions and the hearing, Carol Savage, (202) 622&hyph;8452 (not toll-free numbers). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 103(a) generally provides that the interest on obligations of a State or political subdivision thereof is excluded from gross income. Section 103(b)(1) provides, however, that section 103(a) does not apply to any private activity bond unless the bond is a qualified bond. Section 141(e) defines a qualified bond to include an exempt facility bond which, under section 142(a)(5), includes an issue at least 95 percent of the net proceeds of which are used to provide sewage facilities. Until the Tax Reform Act of 1986 (1986 Act), both sewage disposal facilities and water pollution control facilities constituted exempt facilities under former sections 103(b)(4)(E) and 103(b)(4)(F), respectively, the predecessors to existing section 142. Section 1.103&hyph;8(f)(2)(i) defines sewage disposal facilities to mean any property used for the collection, storage, treatment, utilization, processing, or final disposal of sewage. The 1986 Act eliminated the exempt facility exemptions for air and water pollution control facilities, while retaining the exemption for sewage disposal facilities (renamed sewage facilities by the 1986 Act) under section 142(a)(5). Neither section 142 nor the regulations issued under section 103(b)(4) define sewage. As a result, it has become important to define the facilities eligible for private activity bond financing as sewage facilities under section 142(a)(5). Explanation of Provisions Definition of Sewage Facility The proposed regulations define a sewage facility for purposes of section 142(a)(5). A facility may satisfy the definition of a sewage facility regardless whether wastewater originates from a domestic, a commercial, or an industrial source. The proposed regulations, in effect, generally distinguish between sewage treatment facilities and water pollution control facilities. The proposed regulations define sewage facilities by reference to the operations historically performed at most publicly-owned treatment works (POTW). On the other hand, because toxic, priority, and nonconventional pollutants are more in the nature of water pollutants, the regulations consider treatment of these pollutants as ordinarily not performed in sewage facilities. The proposed regulations provide that sewage facilities include property used for the secondary treatment of wastewater but only to the extent the treatment is for wastewater having an average daily raw wasteload concentration of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) that does not exceed 350 milligrams per liter as oxygen. Thus, to the extent the wastewater treated by the property has an average daily raw wasteload concentration of BOD exceeding 350 milligrams per liter as oxygen, then the property used for the secondary treatment of the excess is not a sewage facility. The limitation is intended to reasonably approximate the upper limit of the average daily raw wasteload concentration for most POTWs. The proposed regulations further provide that any property used for the preliminary and/or primary treatment of wastewater used in connection with secondary treatment qualifies as a sewage facility. Sewage facilities also include related property used for the collection, storage, use, processing, or final disposal of wastewater or sewage sludge and property functionally related and subordinate to a sewage facility. Generally, other treatment of wastewater is not sewage treatment. Thus, for example, sewage facilities, including functionally related and subordinate property, do not include property used for the pretreatment, advanced treatment, or tertiary treatment of wastewater, whether or not the treatment is necessary for preliminary, primary, or secondary treatment. For property that has both a sewage treatment function and another function, such as pretreatment or, in certain cases, secondary treatment of wastewater having an average daily raw wasteload concentration of BOD in excess of 350 milligrams per liter as oxygen, the proposed regulations provide an allocation rule to permit the portion of the property allocable to sewage treatment to be financed as part of an exempt facility issue. The IRS solicits comments on how best to address technological advances to wastewater treatment processes within the definition of sewage facilities.
