FR940630-2-00047 FR940630-2-00039 Waivers, Reductions, and Deferments of Regulatory Fees The Commission will consider requests for waivers, reductions or deferments of regulatory fees, in extraordinary and compelling circumstances only, upon a showing that such action overrides the public interest in reimbursing the Commission for its regulatory costs. Timely submission of the appropriate regulatory fee must accompany requests for waivers or reductions. This will ensure efficient collection in situations where a waiver or reduction is not warranted and will allow the requestor to avoid a 25% late-payment penalty if its request is denied. The regulatory fee would be refunded later if the request is granted. Only in exceptional or compelling instances (where payment of the regulatory fee along with the waiver or reduction request could result in the reduction of service to a community or other financial hardship to the licensee), will the Commission accept a petition to defer payment along with a waiver or reduction request. Additional Information For information on application fees for common carrier services, or for information on application and regulatory fees for mass media, cable television, engineering and technology, field operations or private radio services, the Commission has prepared a number of informative Fee Filing Guides. These Guides are available from the Commission's Public Service Division, from its various field office locations and can be downloaded from the Internet (ftp@fcc.gov). For additional information, please contact the Public Service Division's Fees Hotline at (202) 632&hyph;FEES (3337), or write to: Federal Communications Commission, ATTN: Public Service Division, 1919 M Street, NW., Washington, DC, 20554. Filing Procedures for Carriers & Mobile Service Providers Who Must Pay: Interexchange carriers (long distance telephone companies), local exchange carriers (local telephone operating companies), 2 competitive access providers (companies other than the traditional local telephone companies that provide interstate access services to long distance carriers and other companies), cellular providers (common carriers providing cellular radio service to the public) and mobile service licensees (common carriers authorized, under part 22 of our Rules, to offer land-based or air-to-ground mobile telephone or paging services to the public). 3 Governments and nonprofit (exempt under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code) carriers and licensees are exempt from paying regulatory fees and should not submit payment, but may be asked to submit a current IRS Determination Letter documenting its nonprofit status, or a certification of governmental authority. 2 We will permit the holding company of local exchange carriers to aggregate fee payments due by its operating companies and submit a single payment to cover the fee requirements of its subsidiaries. 3 In addition to cellular telephone service, these services include those using radio to provide telephone services at fixed locations, such as Basic Exchange Telecommunications Radio Services, Rural Radio and Offshore Radio.
