FR940118-1-00068 FR940118-1-00010 Tuesday January 18, 1994 Part VIII Department of Education 34 CFR Parts 600 and 601 Institutional Eligibility Under the Higher Education Act of 1965; Eligibility of Foreign Medical Schools Under the Guaranteed Student Loan Program; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 11␣/␣Tuesday, January 18, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 34 CFR Parts 600 and 601 RIN 1840&hyph;AB88 Institutional Eligibility Under the Higher Education Act of 1965, As Amended; Eligibility of Foreign Medical Schools Under the Guaranteed Student Loan Program AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Secretary proposes to amend the regulations for Institutional Eligibility under the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (HEA), and the regulations for Eligibility of Foreign Medical Schools under the Guaranteed Student Loan Program (GSLP) to reflect changes made to the HEA by the Higher Education Amendments of 1992. The Secretary proposes to remove the latter regulations from title 34 of the Code of Regulations, revise them, and add them to the former regulations, as a new subpart E. The proposed regulations would revise the procedures and criteria under which a foreign institution establishes eligibility to apply to participate in the Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) programs if the institution is comparable to an eligible institution of higher education located in the United States. DATES: Comments must be received on or before March 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: All comments concerning these proposed regulations should be addressed to Ms. Joyce R. Coates, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, SW., room 4318, Regional Office Building 3, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;5346. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Joyce R. Coates, Telephone: (202) 708&hyph;7888. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Institutional Eligibility regulations contain requirements that apply to all postsecondary educational institutions that seek initial or continued eligibility to apply to participate in the programs authorized by the HEA. Negotiated Rulemaking Section 492 of the HEA contains procedural requirements that the Secretary is to follow in developing proposed regulations required for changes made by the Higher Education Amendments of 1992 (Pub. L. 102&hyph;325) to parts B, G, and H of title IV of the HEA. Section 492(a) required the Secretary to convene regional meetings to gain public input on the content of proposed regulations. Participants at those meetings were to include individuals and representatives of the groups involved in the student financial assistance programs authorized under title IV of the HEA, such as students, legal assistance organizations that represent students, institutions of higher education, guaranty agencies, lenders, secondary markets, loan servicers, guaranty agency servicers, and collection agencies. During the meetings, the Secretary was to provide for a comprehensive discussion and exchange of information concerning the implementation of the amendments made by Public Law 102&hyph;325 to parts B, G, and H, and was to take information received at the meetings into account in the development of proposed regulations. Subsequent to the regional meetings, the Secretary was to draft and submit regulations implementing the amendments made to parts B, G, and H to a negotiated rulemaking process. Participants in the negotiations process were to be chosen by the Secretary from individuals nominated by groups participating in the regional meetings and were to reflect the diversity and sizes of organizations providing financial aid services to both local areas and national markets. In accordance with these requirements, the Secretary convened four regional meetings to discuss issues raised by the 1992 Amendments to the Higher Education Act, including the eligibility of foreign institutions to apply to participate in the FFEL programs. The primary issues considered in those meetings were: the general criteria needed for the Secretary to determine the eligibility of institutions outside the United States, how the Secretary should determine whether a foreign institution is comparable to an eligible institution of higher education in the United States, and the appropriate method for calculating examination ``pass rates'' of students or graduates of foreign graduate medical schools. (These pass rates are among a number of statutory requirements for determining the eligibility of foreign graduate medical schools.) Meetings were held in New York, New York; San Francisco, California; Atlanta, Georgia; and Kansas City, Missouri, during the month of September 1992. Participants in the meetings were invited to nominate individuals to serve as negotiators in the negotiated rulemaking sessions. Taking into account views expressed at the regional meetings, the Department prepared draft proposed regulations on the 1992 Amendments. The draft regulations were negotiated during the negotiated rulemaking sessions. The negotiators reached general agreement on the content of the draft regulations relating to the eligibility of foreign institutions to apply to participate in the FFEL programs. A summary of the significant changes made by these proposed regulations to current regulations follows.
