FR940406-2-00078 FR940406-2-00048 1. Legislative Authority The Community Services Block Grant Act as amended authorizes the Secretary of Health and Human Services to make funds available under several programs to support program activities which will result in direct benefits targeted to low-income people. This Program Announcement covers the grant authority found at Section 681A, Community Food and Nutrition, which authorizes the Secretary to make funds available for grants to be awarded on a competitive basis to eligible entities for local and statewide programs (1) to coordinate existing private and public food assistance resources, whenever such coordination is determined to be inadequate, to better serve low-income communities; (2) to assist low-income communities to identify potential sponsors of child nutrition programs and to initiate new programs in underserved or unserved areas; and (3) to develop innovative approaches at the State and local levels to meet the nutrition needs of low-income people. The Act also requires that 20 percent of appropriated funds in excess of $6 million be awarded on a competitive basis to eligible agencies for nationwide programs, including programs benefitting Native Americans and Migrant Farmworkers. 2. Definitions of Terms For purposes of this Program Announcement the following definitions apply: _Displaced worker: An individual who is in the labor market but has been unemployed for six months or longer. _Indian tribe: A tribe, band, or other organized group of Native American Indians recognized in the State or States in which it resides or considered by the Secretary of the Interior to be an Indian tribe or an Indian organization for any purpose. _Innovative project: One that departs from or significantly modifies past program practices and tests a new approach. _Migrant Farmworker: An individual who works in agricultural employment of a seasonal or other temporary nature who is required to be absent from his/her place of permanent residence in order to secure such employment. _Seasonal farmworker: Any individual employed in agricultural work of a seasonal or other temporary nature who is able to remain at his/her place of permanent residence while employed. _Underserved area (as it pertains to child nutrition programs): A locality in which less than one-half of the low-income children eligible for assistance participate in any child nutrition program. _Budget Period: The term ``budget period'' refers to the interval of time into which a grant period of assistance (project period) is divided for budgetary and funding purposes. _Eligible Entity: States and other public and private non-profit agencies/organizations including agencies which administer nationwide programs. _Project Period: The term ``project period'' refers to the total time a project is approved for support, including any approved extensions. _Self-Sufficiency: A condition where an individual or family does not need and is not eligible for public assistance. 3. Purpose of Community Food and Nutrition Program The Department of Health and Human Services is committed to improving the health and well-being of individuals through improved preventive health care and promotion of personal responsibility. The Department seeks to unify the approach to health promotion and disease prevention activities with personal messages aimed at families and communities, in various settings and environments in which individuals and groups can most effectively be reached. The Department is specifically interested in improving the health status of minority and low-income persons. HHS encourages community efforts to improve the coordination and integration of health services for all low-income families, and to identify opportunities for integrating other programs and services for this population. a. Project Requirements Projects funded under this program should: (1) Be designed and intended to provide nutrition benefits, including those which incorporate the benefits of disease prevention, to a targeted low-income group of people; (2) Provide outreach or public education to inform low-income individuals and displaced workers of the services available to them under the various Federally-assisted nutrition programs; (3) Focus on one or more legislatively mandated program activities: (a) Coordination of existing private and public food assistance resources, whenever such coordination is determined to be inadequate, to better serve low-income populations; (b) Assistance to low-income communities in identifying potential sponsors of child nutrition programs and initiating new programs in underserved or unserved areas; and (c) Development of innovative approaches at the national, state or local levels to meet the nutrition needs of low-income people. b. Project Elements Projects must: Focus on one or more of the legislatively mandated program activities in the above_Part A.3.1. OCS views this program as a capacity building program, rather than as a service delivery program.
