FR941220-0-00018 FR941220-0-00005 Comment: One commenter stated that the proposed requirements governing skilled nursing care contradict the current principles contained in the Medicare HHA Manual. Response: We disagree. The requirements of this section are based on section 205.1(A) of the Medicare HHA Manual, which is entitled ``General Principles Governing Reasonable and Necessary Skilled Nursing Care.'' The requirements of this rule closely reflect the manual provisions and in many ways are identical. Comment: One commenter suggested that this section be revised to include a reference to the skilled nursing requirements of 42 CFR 409.33, which provides examples of skilled nursing care for purposes of Medicare coverage of posthospital skilled nursing facility care. Response: We agree and have added a cross-reference to paragraphs (a) and (b) of §409.33. Comment: One commenter stated that this section should specify that teaching and training are covered skilled nursing services. Another commenter stated that this section should specifically note that the management and evaluation of a care plan is a covered skilled nursing service. Response: By adding the cross-reference explained in the previous response, §409.44 now incorporates the description of skilled nursing care contained in §409.33. Section 409.33 includes patient education services and the management and evaluation of a care plan as examples of skilled nursing care. Comment: Several commenters expressed concern about Medicare's policy that a service that can safely and effectively be performed by the average nonmedical person without the supervision of a licensed nurse cannot be considered a skilled nursing service. The commenters specifically disagreed with the preamble's example of a nonskilled service that described a patient who could not self-administer eye drops that are normally self-administrable. The commenters believed that the absence of a caregiver to administer the eyedrops made the administration of the eyedrops a skilled service. Response: Our policy that a nonskilled service does not become a skilled service simply because there is no competent person to perform it is intended to protect Medicare from paying skilled personnel (at a skilled rate) for furnishing nonskilled services. In the example described above, the absence of a caregiver to administer the eyedrops does not make their administration a skilled service. Therefore, this rule at §409.44(b)(1)(iv) states that ``if the service could be performed by the average nonmedical person, the absence of a competent person to perform it does not cause it to be a skilled nursing service.'' This clear statement represents no change from the longstanding Medicare policy that is currently contained in the Medicare HHA Manual at §205.1(A)(2) and (B)(4)(c). Comment: Several commenters requested clarification of Medicare coverage of skilled nursing care following cataract surgery. Response: Medicare coverage of skilled nursing care furnished to beneficiaries who have recently undergone cataract surgery is based on the same policies governing Medicare home health coverage of skilled nursing care furnished to any beneficiary. If, for example, the patient's unique medical condition is such that the skills of a nurse are required to observe and assess his or her condition or furnish additional teaching of a medication regimen or safety precautions, these services would be covered. It is important to note, however, that the routine initial teaching of post-cataract medication administration and post-operative safety precautions that is needed by any individual having cataract surgery is routinely furnished by ophthalmologists as part of their care of cataract patients. Therefore, it is not considered reasonable and necessary for a HHA to duplicate such services.
