FR940304-2-00055 FR940304-2-00034 [Dkt. 9252] Sonic Technology Products, Inc., et al.; Proposed Consent Agreement With Analysis To Aid Public Comment AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Proposed Consent Agreement. SUMMARY: In settlement of alleged violations of federal law prohibiting unfair acts and practices and unfair methods of competition, this consent agreement, accepted subject to final Commission approval, would prohibit, among other things, a California company and its officers from representing that any ultrasonic pest control device can eliminate rodent or flea infestations, and from misrepresenting the results of any scientific studies regarding their ultrasonic pest control products. DATES: Comments must be received on or before May 3, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be directed to: FTC/Office of the Secretary, room 159, 6th St. and Pa. Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20580. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Matthew Gold or David Newman, FTC/San Francisco Regional Office, 901 Market St., suite 570, San Francisco, CA 94103. (415) 744&hyph;7920. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to section 6(f) of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 38 Stat. 721, 15 U.S.C. 46 and Section 3.25(f) of the Commission's Rules of Practice (16 CFR 3.25(f)), notice is hereby given that the following consent agreement containing a consent order to cease and desist, having been filed with and accepted, subject to final approval, by the Commission, has been placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days. Public comment is invited. Such comments or views will be considered by the Commission and will be available for inspection and copying at its principal office in accordance with ยง4.9(b)(6)(ii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice (16 CFR 4.9(b)(6)(ii)). Agreement Containing Consent Order To Cease and Desist In the matter of SONIC TECHNOLOGY PRODUCTS, INC. a corporation, and W. LOWELL ROBERTSON, individually and as an officer of said corporation, and BRIAN PHILLIP JOBE, individually and as an officer of said corporation. Docket No. 9252. This agreement, by and between Sonic Technology Products, Inc., a corporation, and W. Lowell Robertson and Brain Phillip Jobe, individually and as officers of Sonic Technology Products, Inc., and counsel for the Federal Trade Commission, is entered into in accordance with the Commission's Rule governing consent order procedures. Accordingly, It is hereby agreed: 1. Respondent Sonic Technology Products, Inc., is a corporation organized, existing, and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Nevada, with its principal place of business located at 120 Richardson Street, suite C, Grass Valley, California 95945. Respondents W. Lowell Robertson and Brain Phillip Jobe are officers of said corporation. Individually or in concert with others, they formulate, direct, and control the policies, acts, and practices of said corporation. Their office and place of business is the same as that of said corporation. 2. Respondents admit all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the attached draft complaint. 3. Respondents waive: a. Any further procedural steps; b. The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law;
