FR940711-1-00060 FR940711-1-00016 The petition involves 36 land snails, 7 slugs, 37 freshwater snails, and 3 freshwater clams. The species are found primarily in the states of Washington, Oregon, California, and Idaho. Most of these species are associated with late-successional forests or riparian areas. The Service's finding is based on information in the petition, references in the petition, Service files, and consultations with malacologists, Service, and other Federal and State personnel. All documents are on file in the Service's Regional Office in Portland, Oregon. Adequate rangewide surveys have not been completed for any of the species, except for the Trinity bristlesnail ( Monadenia setosa ) (a category 2 candidate). The Service also lacks evidence of specific threats throughout the ranges of any of the petitioned taxa, especially any threat associated with a population decline. Many of the species covered by this petition may be sensitive to ecological perturbations resulting from the impacts of human activities. However, information was not presented to show correlations between the species' ecological sensitivity and any declines in population numbers. The taxonomic distinctiveness or validity of many of the species has not been determined. The Service encourages all interested parties to investigate the population status of and threats to all the species considered in this petition. The Service also encourages all interested parties to submit information that may provide additional specific information on the status of these species or specific threats to their survival. The petition has been reviewed by staff at the Regional Office in Portland, Oregon. The Service finds that the listing of the eight category 2 candidates (Dalles sideband ( Monadenia fidelis minor ), rocky coast sideband ( Monadenia fidelis pronotis ), Trinity bristlesnail, Shasta sideband ( Monadenia troglodytes ), Karok hesperian ( Vespericola karokorum ), Columbia pebblesnail ( Fluminicola columbiana ), California floater ( Anodonta californiensis ), montane peaclam ( Pisidium ultramontanum ) is not warranted at this time. The Service finds that the petitioner has not presented substantial information indicating that listing of the remaining 75 species may be warranted (Hooded lancetooth ( Ancotrema voyanum ), Puget oregonian ( Cryptomastix devia ), Columbia oregonian ( Cryptomastix hendersoni ), mountain shoulderband ( Helminthoglypta arrosa monticola ), Oregon shoulderband ( Helminthoglypta hertleini ), intermediate shoulderband ( Helminthoglypta intercessa ), Klamath shoulderband ( Helminthoglypta talmadgei ), California megomphix ( Megomphix californicus ), Oregon megomphix ( Megomphix hemphilli ), Monadenia callipeplus (no common name), short-crested sideband ( Monadenia cristulata ), traveling sideband ( Monadenia fidelis celeuthia ), green sideband ( Monadenia fidelis flava ), Monadenia fidelis klamathica (no common name), tawny sideband ( Monadenia fidelis leonina ), yellow-base sideband ( Monadenia fidelis ochromphalus ), Salmon River sideband ( Monadenia fidelis salmonensis ), Wheel sideband ( Monadenia rotifer ), Scott River sideband ( Monadenia scottiana ), Chace sideband ( Monadenia chaceana ), Klamath sideband ( Monadenia churchi ), Chelan mountainsnail ( Oreohelix n. sp. 1), Crater Lake tightcoil ( Pristiloma arcticum crateris ), crowned tightcoil ( Pristiloma pilsbryi ), Hanna spot ( Punctum hannai ), Shasta chaparral ( Trilobopsis roperi ), Tehama chaparral ( Trilobopsis tehamana ), Hoko vertigo ( Vertigo n. sp. 1), Dalles hesperian ( Vespericola depressa ), Vespericola eritrichius (no common name), large hesperian ( Vespericola euthales ), Marin hesperian ( Vespericola marinensis ), Pressley hesperian ( Vespericola pressleyi ), Shasta hesperian ( Vespericola shasta ), Sasquatch hesperian ( Vespericola n. sp. 1), Reeves Bar hesperian ( Vespericola n. sp. 2), Klamath hesperian ( Vespericola n. sp. 3), Siskiyou hesperian ( Vespericola sierrana ), evening fieldslug ( Deroceras hesperium ), Burrington jumping-slug ( Hemphillia burringtoni ), warty jumping-slug ( Hemphillia glandulosa ), Malone jumping-slug ( Hemphillia malonei ), panther jumping-slug ( Hemphillia pantherina ), blue-grey tail-dropper ( Prophysaon coeruleum ), shortface lanx ( Fisherola nuttalli), Klamath pebblesnail (Fluminicola n. sp. 1), tall pebblesnail ( Fluminicola n. sp. 2), nerite pebblesnail ( Fluminicola n. sp. 4) , toothed pebblesnail ( Fluminicola n. sp. 5), diminutive pebblesnail ( Fluminicola n. sp. 6), topaz pebblesnail ( Fluminicola n. sp. 7), Fall Creek pebblesnail ( Fluminicola n. sp. 8), lunate pebblesnail ( Fluminicola n. sp. 9), nugget pebblesnail ( Fluminicola seminalis), Great Basin rams-horn ( Helisoma newberryi ), scalloped juga ( Juga acutifilosa ), topaz juga ( Juga occata ), Dalles juga ( Juga hemphilli dallesensis ) , brown juga ( Juga n. sp. 1), Chace juga ( Juga chacei ), Juga n. sp. 1 (no common name), Juga n. sp. 2 (no common name), Juga n. sp. 3 (no common name), redwood juga ( Juga orickensis ), highcap lanx ( Lanx alta ), scale lanx ( Lanx klamathensis ), kneecap lanx ( Lanx patelloides ), rotund lanx ( Lanx subrotundata ), Columbia duskysnail ( Lyogyrus n. sp. 1), Washington duskysnail ( Lyogyrus n. sp. 2), canary duskysnail ( Lyogyrus n. sp. 3), Klamath duskysnail ( Lyogyrus n. sp. 4), nodose duskysnail ( Lyogyrus n. sp. 5), rotund physa ( Physella (Physella ) columbiana ), Archimedes pyrg ( Pyrgulopsis archimedis ), Crooked Creek springsnail ( Pyrgulopsis intermedia ), Klamath rams-horn ( Vorticifex klamathensis ), Sinitsin rams-horn ( Vorticifex klamathensis sinitsini ), knobby rams-horn ( Vorticifex n. sp.1), nerite rams-horn ( Vorticifex neritoides ), and the Willamette floater ( Anodonta wahlametensis ). This finding is based on the scientific and commercial information contained in the petition, referenced in the petition, and otherwise available to the Service at this time. If information becomes available indicating that listing as endangered or threatened is appropriate, the Service would propose to list any such mollusc. References Cited Frest, T. and E. Johannes. 1993. Mollusc species of concern within the range of the northern spotted owl. Deixis Consultants. Seattle, WA. 98 pp. plus addendum. Author The primary author of this notice is Allan Pfister, Division of Listing and Recovery, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Regional Office, 911 N.E. 11th Avenue, Portland, Oregon, 97232&hyph;4181; (503) 231&hyph;6131. Authority The authority for this action is the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ). Dated: June 28, 1994. Mollie H. Beattie, Director, Fish and Wildlife Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16650 Filed 7&hyph;8&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;P
