FR941007-0-00080 FR941007-0-00023 By increasing the potential minimum number of QS holders, the Modified Block Proposal will provide more employment for fishermen and crew members. By increasing the potential for delivery of fishery product in coastal communities, the Modified Block Proposal will provide more employment in the fishery processing sector for those communities. Comment 12: The Modified Block Proposal can be repealed or modified at a later date if it turns out to be overly restrictive. Response: NMFS concurs with this comment. On the other hand, if the Modified Block Proposal is not adopted at this time, adoption at a later time will not accomplish the same goals. Transfers and consolidation of QS that could occur if the Modified Block Proposal is not in place when the IFQ program is implemented might cause irrevocable damage to coastal communities and the small vessel fleet. Classification The Council prepared a final regulatory flexibility analysis (FRFA) that indicates the action will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. By reducing consolidation, the Modified Block Proposal may increase the total cost of harvesting the resource, thereby decreasing the net economic benefits of the IFQ Program and increasing harvesting costs to small entities. The analysis in the FRFA also indicates that by reducing consolidation, the Modified Block Proposal may result in higher levels of harvesting employment. Higher levels of harvesting employment and maintenance of diversity in fishing operations participating in the IFQ Program are the main goals of the Modified Block Proposal. A copy of the FRFA is available from the Council (see ADDRESSES ). This final rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 676 Fisheries, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: October 3, 1994. Gary Matlock, Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 50 CFR part 676 is amended as follows: PART 676_LIMITED ACCESS MANAGEMENT OF FEDERAL FISHERIES IN AND OFF OF ALASKA
