FR940324-2-00119 FR940324-2-00064 Notice Pursuant to the National Cooperative Research and Production Act of 1993; Multidisciplinary Analysis and Design Industrial Consortium Notice is hereby given that, on December 30, 1993, pursuant to section 6(a) of the National Cooperative Research and Production Act of 1993, 15 U.S.C. 4301 et seq. (``the Act''), the Multidisciplinary Analysis and Design Industrial Consortium has filed written notifications simultaneously with the Attorney General and the Federal Trade Commission disclosing: (1) The identities of the parties and (2) the nature and objectives of the venture. The notifications were filed for the purpose of invoking the Act's provisions limiting the recovery of antitrust plaintiffs to actual damages under specified circumstances. Pursuant to section 6(b) of the Act, the identifies of the parties are General Motors Corporation, Detroit, MI; Allison Engine Company Indianapolis, IN; Ford Motor Company, Dearborn, MI; Lockheed Aeronautical Systems Company, Marietta, GA; Northrop Corp._B2 Division, Pico Rivera, CA; United Technologies Research Center, E. Hartford, CT; Boeing Defense and Space Group, Philadelphia, PA; General Electric Corporate Research & Development, Schenectady, NY; Grumman Aerospace & Electronics, Bethpage, NY; McDonnell-Douglas Aerospace, St. Louis, MO; Rockwell International-NAA, El Segundo, CA; and Vought Aircraft Corp., Dallas, TX. The parties intend to identify opportunities for joining aspects of their independent research and development efforts pertaining to implementation of integrated multidisciplinary design, analysis and optimization systems on heterogeneous computer networks. The objectives are to: (1) Define the generic systems architecture and software requirements for an integrated multidisciplinary design, analysis, and optimization system that could service a broad range of U.S. industries; (2) Identify what must be added to the generic technology base to implement an integrated multidisciplinary design, analysis and optimization system for specific product development efforts of interest to U.S. industries, and facilitate efforts to fill such gaps; and (3) Participate in national, industry and academic policy development to influence such policy development in directions that will be synergistic with such objectives. Joseph H. Widmar, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6995 Filed 3&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;01&hyph;M
