FR941222-1-00078 FR941222-1-00008 4. Economic Impacts The following economic impacts potentially are overestimated as a result of inconsistencies in the reporting in the RCRA Section 3007 Questionnaire responses. Some facilities were found to have reported production quantities on a pure product basis while reporting the average selling price per pound on a dilute product basis. This results in an underestimation of revenues, as a result of reduced production volumes, and an overestimation of economic impacts. In addition, some of the volume of several of the wastestreams is for co-managed wastes. The values of production for the co-generated products were not available and, thus, further underestimated revenues which resulted in overestimated economic impacts. Economic impacts were evaluated based on incremental, annualized compliance costs discounted at an after-tax rate of 7 percent over a 20-year period. Of the 49 facilities 9 facilities may incur potential ``significant economic impacts'' ( i.e. , bear compliance costs that would require product cost increases of at least 5 percent) with one of these facilities facing product-line discontinuation. Sixteen of the 49 facilities are estimated to incur potential significant impacts assuming possible future costs for the high-cost LDR alternative. Economic ratios indicate potential closure or product-line discontinuation for 4 of the 16 significantly affected facilities. Under the low-cost LDR alternative, 15 of the 49 facilities are estimated to incur potential significant economic impacts. Two of the 15 significantly affected facilities are estimated to incur closure or product-line discontinuation. 5. Benefits of Listings One objective of a population analysis is to estimate the number of cancer cases that could be avoided as a result of the implementation of the proposed rule. People drinking contaminated water from residential wells located near the source of contamination, people eating home-grown vegetables contaminated by blowing dust or vapors, and people breathing air contaminated by a disposal unit are the potentially exposed population for this rule. The Agency did not estimate the population risks from current practices or the incremental risk reduction from future actions as a result of the proposed regulation; however, preliminary analysis suggests that the incremental risk in terms of cancer cases avoided is expected to be near zero. One benefit associated with this rulemaking is to place wastestreams the Agency has determined could pose a risk to human health and the environment into the hazardous waste management system. When wastestreams are placed in this system, the risk associated with their disposal is minimized by the requirements of this system. The Agency, however, has historical information that shows damage to ground water and other sensitive environments has occurred during the management of wastes from the dye and pigment manufacturing operations. At ten dye and pigment facilities, the quality of ground water has been adversely affected by waste management activities, typically unlined waste trenches, aeration basins, and impoundments. One dye company had to purchase the deeds to three nearby residences and a gas station because VOC-contaminated ground water originating from the plant had contaminated surrounding drinking water wells. At another dye facility, a contaminated ground-water plume migrated under residential houses bordering the site. The residential wells, used for swimming pools and irrigation systems in the neighborhood, were condemned because of chemical contamination. Ground water was contaminated from land treatment of dye wastewater being sprayed onto a field, and passing through a layer of clay. Soil contamination near drum storage pads or drum wash areas has been documented at 7 dye facilities. As a result, the leachate from these soils possibly contributed to the ground- water contamination associated with many of the sites. Concentrations of volatile and semi-volatile organic compounds have been found in soils surrounding an on-site landfill at a dye facility. Finally, dye and pigment facilities are found on the Superfund National Priority List; further evidence that mismanagement of dye and pigment wastes have the potential to yield threats of concern to human health. In summary, although difficult to quantify precisely, a benefit of today's proposal is the prevention of additional or similar incidents occurring from similar management practices of dye and pigment wastes that potentially could degrade the quality of ground water or other sensitive natural resources. In addition to the reduction of human health risk associated with the mismanagement of dye and pigment wastes proposed for listing in this rulemaking, there are a number of other benefits that are even more difficult to quantify. The Subtitle C management framework for generators and permitted treatment storage and disposal facilities establishes standards for hazardous waste handling, management, and remediation that: Reduce ecological risks, reduce natural resource damage, reduce the likelihood and severity of accidents, improve worker safety, promote facility-wide remedial programs, insure that adequate financial assurance is established to handle protective closure of waste management units, increase public participation, improve information availability on waste quantity and movement, ensure minimum uniform national standards, and create incentives for pollution prevention. Ecological and Natural Resource Damage Reduction The risk assessment for this listing has focused on the human health risks associated with plausible management of dye and pigment wastes. An additional concern, given the proximity of several facilities to surface waters and their associated wetland systems, is the potential for ecological damages to biota inhabiting surface waters and wetlands. In some cases migration to the surface water may be occurring via groundwater. EPA requests comments regarding the potential for ecological damages associated with the wastes proposed for listing in today's rulemaking. In addition to direct ecological and human health damage there is evidence from EPA's contaminant fate and transport modelling and case studies of ground water, surface water, and soil degradation. While use of and human exposure to these natural resources may not be occurring now, their use in the future could be limited if they are contaminated. The Subtitle C waste management program will limit future releases and prevent natural resource damages. These benefits have not been quantified.
