FR940318-0-00082 FR940318-0-00014 (4) Coordination with section 382(l)(1). Section 382(l)(1) does not apply in determining the value of the stock of the loss corporation under paragraph (j)(1) of this section. (5) Coordination with section 382(l)(4). If, immediately after the ownership change, the loss corporation has substantial nonbusiness assets (as determined under section 382(l)(4)(B) taking into account only those assets the loss corporation held immediately before the ownership change), the value of the stock of the loss corporation under paragraph (j)(1) of this section is reduced by the excess of the value of such nonbusiness assets over those assets' share of the loss corporation's indebtedness (determined under section 382(l)(4)(D) taking into account the loss corporation's assets and liabilities immediately after the ownership change). (6) Special rule for stock not subject to the risk of corporate business operations _(i) In general. The value of the stock of the loss corporation under paragraph (j)(1) of this section is reduced by the value of stock that is issued as part of a plan one of the principal purposes of which is to increase the section 382 limitation without subjecting the investment to the entrepreneurial risks of corporate business operations. (ii) Coordination of special rule and other rules affecting value. If the value of the loss corporation is modified under another rule affecting value, appropriate adjustments are to be made so that such modification is not duplicated under this paragraph (k)(6). (7) Limitation on value of stock. For purposes of paragraph (j)(1) of this section, the value of stock of the loss corporation issued in connection with the ownership change cannot exceed the cash and the value of any property (including indebtedness of the loss corporation) received by the loss corporation in consideration for the issuance of that stock. (l) Rules for determining the value of the loss corporation's pre-change assets _(1) In general. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (l), the value of the loss corporation's pre-change assets is the value of its assets (determined without regard to liabilities) immediately before the ownership change. (2) Coordination with section 382(e)(2). Section 382(e)(2) does not apply in determining the value of the pre-change assets of the loss corporation under paragraph (j)(2) of this section. (3) Coordination with section 382(e)(3). If the loss corporation is a foreign corporation, in determining the value of the pre-change assets under paragraph (j)(2) of this section, only assets treated as connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States are taken into account. (4) Coordination with section 382(l)(1). For purposes of paragraph (j)(2) of this section, the value of the pre-change assets of the loss corporation is determined without regard to the amount of any capital contribution to which section 382(l)(1) applies. For purposes of applying this paragraph (l)(4), the receipt of cash or property by the loss corporation in exchange for the issuance of indebtedness is considered a capital contribution if it is part of a plan one of the principal purposes of which is to increase the value of the loss corporation under paragraph (j) of this section. (5) Coordination with section 382(l)(4). If, immediately after the ownership change, the loss corporation has substantial nonbusiness assets (as determined under section 382(l)(4)(B) taking into account only those assets the loss corporation held immediately before the ownership change), the value of the loss corporation's pre-change assets is reduced by the value of the nonbusiness assets. (m) * * * (2) Under section 382(l)(6). If section 382(l)(6) applies to an ownership change of a loss corporation, section 382(c) and the regulations thereunder apply to the ownership change. (n) Ownership change in a title 11 or similar case succeeded by another ownership change within two years _(1) Section 382(l)(5) applies to the first ownership change. If section 382(l)(5) applies to an ownership change and, within the two-year period immediately following such ownership change, a second ownership change occurs, section 382(l)(5) cannot apply to the second ownership change and the section 382(a) limitation with respect to the second ownership change is zero. (2) Section 382(l)(6) applies to the first ownership change. If the value of a loss corporation in an ownership change was determined under section 382(l)(6) and a second ownership change occurs within the two-year period immediately following the first ownership change, the value of the loss corporation under section 382(e) with respect to the second ownership change is not reduced under section 382(l)(1) for any increase in value of the loss corporation previously taken into account under section 382(l)(6) with respect to the first ownership change. * * * * *
