FR941006-0-00052 FR941006-0-00012 (15) If a requester needs technical data to meet the terms of an international agreement. (16) If you decide, using regular FOIA fee waiver guidance, that a waiver is in the interest of the United States. ยง806.25 Appeals. Requesters may appeal denials of records, category determinations, fee waiver requests, and ``no records'' determinations by writing to the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, within 60 calendar days after the date of the denial letter. A requester who sends the appeal after 60 calendar days, should explain the reason for the delay. (a) Requesters who appeal have exhausted all administrative remedies within the Department of the Air Force and The Office of the General Counsel to the Secretary of the Air Force (SAF/GC) makes a final decision. Requesters must address all appeals to the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, through the MAJCOM or FOA FOIA office that denied the request. Requesters should attach a copy of the denial letter to their appeal and give their reasons for appealing. (b) After coordinating with the local SJA (and the OPR, if appropriate), MAJCOM and FOA FOIA offices send all appeals, including late submissions, to Air Force Legal Services Agency (AFLSA/JACL) for determination, unless they have reconsidered and approved the request. MAJCOM and FOA FOIA offices give appeals priority. They do not have 20 workdays to process an appeal. (c) Requesters must appeal denials involving Office of Personnel Management's controlled civilian personnel records to the Office of the General Counsel, Office of Personnel Management, 1900 E Street NW, Washington DC 20415. (d) When sending appeals to AFLSA/JACL, attach: (1) The original appeal letter and envelope. (2) The initial request and any attachments. (3) The denial letter, with an index of the denied material, if applicable. (4) Copies of all records you have already provided; or if the records are massive (Several cubic feet) and AFLSA/JACL agrees, an index or description of released records. (5) Copies of all administrative processing documents, including extension letters and opinions and recommendations about the request. (6) Copy of the denied record or denied portions of it marked to show what you withheld. If the records are massive and AFLSA/JACL agrees, you may substitute a detailed description of the documents. (7) A point-by-point discussion of factual and legal arguments the requester's appeal contains and, proof that the denial authority considered and rejected these arguments and why. (8) An explanation of the decisionmaking process for intraagency documents denied under the deliberative process privilege and how the denied material fits into that process. (e) Assemble appeal packages: (1) Arrange attachments in the order listed in paragraph (d) of this section. Use tabbed dividers to separate attachments. (2) List all attachments in your cover letter. (3) Include the name of the person to contact and a phone number.
