FR940513-1-00067 FR940513-1-00017 c. Pollution that cannot be prevented or recycled should be treated in an environmentally safe manner wherever feasible; and d. Disposal or other release into the environment should be employed only as a last resort and should be conducted in an environmentally safe manner. Pollution prevention means ``source reduction,'' as defined under the Pollution Prevention Act, and other practices that reduce or eliminate the creation of pollutants. Source reduction is any practice that reduces the amount of any hazardous substance entering the waste stream or otherwise released into the environment prior to recycling, treatment, or disposal. Source reduction does not include any practice which alters the physical, chemical, or biological characteristics or the volume of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant through a process or activity which itself is not integral to and necessary for the production of a product or the providing of a service. Under the Pollution Prevention Act, recycling, energy recovery, treatment and disposal are not included within the definition of pollution prevention. Some practices commonly described as ``in-process recycling'' may qualify as pollution prevention. Pollution prevention principles have been incorporated into the proposed marine vessel standards. The proposed prohibition of emissions from ballasting and steam stripping operations has the effect of preventing pollution from occurring at the source. Alternative processes (i.e., segregated ballast tanks and vacuum regeneration) are readily available, widely used, and have the benefit of not resulting in HAP or VOC emissions. Although not considered pollution prevention, vapor recovery and recycling is a common practice in this industry, particularly gasoline recovery (the lower vapor pressure crude oils are less conducive to recovery and are more likely to foul the carbon bed). The proposed standards encourage vapor recovery by allowing the use of well- operated and maintained recovery devices that operate at 95-percent emission reduction. Recovery devices are desirable compared to combustion devices because the recovered compounds can be reused in other processes, which reduces the quantity of virgin materials that must be produced. Recovery devices also tend to generate fewer secondary pollution impacts than do combustion devices. D. Emission Points To Be Regulated The emission points to be regulated include all means of venting the tank during loading of product or ballast. These include, but are not limited to, open hatches and/or overhead vent systems. The proposed rulemakings will not directly regulate seals, hatches, or covers associated with the marine tank vessel. However, these items must be in satisfactory condition for the vessel to pass one of the three different marine tank vessel tightness tests, and must remain closed during the loading process.
