FR941012-1-00011 FR941012-1-00004 The Agency proposed a local government financial test on December 27, 1993 (see 58 FR 68353); this document proposes the corporate financial test for MSWLFs. III. Summary of Proposed Rule This proposed rule would add a corporate financial test to the financial assurance mechanisms currently available to owners and operators of subtitle D MSWLFs. It also would allow corporations to use that financial test to guarantee the costs of an owner or operator. It would allow owners and operators to use a combination of financial assurance mechanisms, including this financial test, to assure the costs associated with their facilities. Finally, this rule proposes revisions to one portion of the subtitle C corporate financial test, specifically, to the domestic asset requirement of that test. Discussion of the proposed revisions to the subtitle D provisions can be found in sections IV&hyph;V of this preamble. A discussion of the proposed revisions to the subtitle C corporate financial test can be found in section IX. IV. Section-by-Section Analysis of Proposed Subtitle D Provisions A. Corporate Financial Test (Section 258.74(e)) This proposed corporate financial test includes a financial component and a domestic asset component. Owners and operators that meet the requirements of the financial test also must comply with certain recordkeeping and reporting requirements. Each requirement is described below. 1. Financial Component (Section 258.74(e)(1)) The financial component is designed to measure viability of the owner or operator, based on its current financial condition. To satisfy the financial component, a firm must have a minimum tangible net worth of $10 million plus the costs it seeks to assure (e.g., closure, post-closure, corrective action), either satisfy a bond rating requirement, or pass one of two financial ratios, and satisfy a domestic asset requirement. a. Minimum Size Requirement. In ยง258.74(e)(1)(ii), the Agency is proposing to require firms using the financial test to have a tangible net worth at least equal to the sum of the costs they seek to assure through a financial test plus $10 million. Under proposed ยง258.74 (e)(3), the costs an owner or operator seeks to assure are equal to the current cost estimates for closure, post-closure care, and corrective action or the sum of such costs to be covered, and any other environmental obligations assured by a financial test. The owner or operator must include cost estimates required for municipal solid waste management facilities under this part, as well as cost estimates required for the following environmental obligations, if it assures them through a financial test: obligations associated with UIC facilities under 40 CFR 144.62, petroleum underground storage tank facilities under 40 CFR part 280, PCB storage facilities under 40 CFR part 761, and hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facilities under 40 CFR parts 264 and 265. The Agency is proposing this minimum tangible net worth requirement to ensure that the costs of closure, post-closure care, or corrective action do not force a firm into bankruptcy. Further, an analysis of a sample of bankrupt firms conducted by the Agency demonstrated that firms with less than $10 million in net worth failed four times more frequently than firms with greater than $10 million in tangible net worth. As a result, the Agency believes that this minimum net worth should be required as an initial screen for corporations in demonstrating financial responsibility for the very large costs of closure, post-closure care, and corrective action. The Agency then combined this requirement with other financial criteria to develop the financial test described in this proposed rule. A more detailed discussion of this analysis can be found in Section V. of this preamble and the Background Document developed in support of this rulemaking. b. Bond Rating/Financial Ratio Alternatives. The Agency is proposing to allow firms that meet the minimum size requirement to satisfy the remaining requirements of the financial test in one of two ways.
