FR941025-1-00028 FR941025-1-00006 As discussed above, since 1984, the Commission staff has attempted to clarify the standards' definitions of ``children's sleepwear'' garments by written descriptions and drawings and to distinguish sleepwear from non-sleepwear garments in a publication distributed to the children's garment industry. However, the staff has not been able to provide definitive guidance that resolves all questions about the distinction between sleepwear and non-sleepwear garment. Constantly changing styles and fashions in children's apparel have been a major obstacle to this effort. The Commission has reason to believe that further attempts to provide guidance through additional revisions of the staff enforcement policy guides are not likely to meet with success (6), (17). Some comments suggest that the Commission should require labeling of all children's sleepwear garments to indicate their relative flammability. Other comments urge the Commission to require labeling of those sleepwear garments which do not meet the flammability requirements of the children's sleepwear standards. These comments state that labeling of some or all children's sleepwear garments would be preferable to prohibiting the sale of garments which do not comply with the requirements of the children's sleepwear standards (6). Research into the effectiveness of labeling indicates that in order for a label to be effective, it must be: (1) Noticed, (2) read and understood, and (3) acted upon. That research also indicates that as consumers become more familiar with a product, they are more likely to ignore information about the product. Additionally, if a product is not perceived as hazardous, the likelihood is greater that a label will go unnoticed (12). Children's sleepwear garments are products that are familiar to most consumers. Generally, those garments are not perceived as presenting a safety hazard. Most sleepwear garments offered for sale to consumers bear labels stating size, price, fiber content, and laundering instructions. All of these factors decrease the likelihood that consumers would notice and read additional label information about the flammability of the garment (12). Even if a label is noticed and read, its message must also be understood before it can be acted upon. Explaining the nature of the flammability hazard associated with children's sleepwear and the steps that should be taken to avoid the hazard would be extremely difficult given the limited space that would be available on a label (12). For these reasons, the Commission concludes that labeling some or all children's sleepwear garments would not be effective as the sole means to communicate the flammability hazard associated with those garments or a practical alternative to the performance requirements of the standards. F. Preliminary Regulatory Analysis As noted above, section 4(i) of the FFA requires the notice of proposed rulemaking to contain a regulatory analysis consisting of: (1) A preliminary description of potential benefits and potential costs of the proposed standard or amendment, and an indication of those likely to receive the benefits and to bear the costs; (2) a discussion of the reasons for not publishing any existing standard submitted in response to the ANPR as the proposed standard or amendment, and for concluding that any statement of intent to develop or modify a voluntary standard to address the risk of injury under consideration is not likely to result in the development of an adequate voluntary standard; and (3) a description of any reasonable alternatives to the proposed standard or amendment, together with a summary description of potential benefits and costs of each alternative and a brief explanation of why each such alternative has not been published as the proposed standard or amendment. 1. Potential Benefits of the Proposed Amendments One potential benefit of the proposed amendments is that a greater variety of children's sleepwear will be available to consumers (14).
