FR941004-1-00100 FR941004-1-00018 Section 1357.40␣Direct Payments to Indian Tribal Organizations (Title IV&hyph;B, Subpart 1, Child Welfare Services) This section contains fiscal and administrative requirements applicable to Indian tribes eligible for and administering grants under title IV&hyph;B, subpart 1. Most of the changes proposed in this section are editorial, i.e., to revise the title of the section and paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(5) to clarify that this section applies only to Indian tribal grantees under title IV&hyph;B, subpart 1; to delete paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) (on joint planning, title IV&hyph;B plan requirements, submittal of the plan and the annual budget request, and coordination of services respectively) as these provisions are now incorporated into the child and family services plan requirements in §1357.15; and to redesignate remaining paragraphs. One major change has been proposed. A new paragraph (b) proposes that in order to receive funding under subpart 1, an Indian tribe must have in effect an approved five-year child and family services plan that meets the requirements applicable to Indian tribes in §1357.15. Currently, Indian tribes may submit their title IV&hyph;B (subpart 1, child welfare) services plan at one, two, or three year intervals with annual updates. We believe a five-year plan will not only reduce administrative burden but will enable the Indian tribe to deliver services in the context of a plan that includes both short-term objectives and long-term goals, supported by consultation and coordination activities, leading to more coordinated and effective services. As noted in the discussion on §1357.15, not all requirements are applicable to Indian tribes. We especially ask for comment from the Indian tribes, either on this section or on §1357.15, as to whether the five-year comprehensive plan requirements as proposed will help Indian tribes better serve children and families. New paragraph (c) entitled ``Information related to the requirements of Section 427 of the Act'' retains language from current paragraphs (c)(9) through (c)(15). The remaining provisions in current paragraph (c) are found in §1357.15(b). In paragraphs (b)(2) and (g)(5), we have summarized and corrected references to specific fiscal and administrative requirements for Indian tribes. The cross references in paragraph (g)(5) pertain to five requirements in §1357.30 applicable to Indian tribes which we have not repeated in this section.
