FR940404-2-00079 FR940404-2-00055 Analysis of Proposed Consent Order To Aid Public Comment The Federal Trade Commission has accepted an agreement to a proposed Consent Order from El Portal Luggage, Inc. The proposed Consent Order has been placed on the public record for sixty (60) days for receipt of comments by interested persons. Comments received during this period will become part of the public record. After sixty (60) days, the Commission will again review the agreement and the comments received and will decide whether it should withdraw from the agreement and take other appropriate action, or make final the proposed Order contained in the agreement. This matter concerns the misrepresentation of the country-of-origin of certain luggage products of foreign manufacture that the proposed respondent offers for sale. The Commission's proposed Complaint alleges that some of the goods that El Portal Luggage, Inc. offers for sale are foreign-made, and that when El Portal Luggage, Inc. receives these goods they have labels attached that indicate the country-of-origin. The proposed complaint further alleges that El Portal Luggage, Inc. deliberately removed the country-of-origin labels during a period when El Portal's window and in-store signage emphasized that many of the products it offered for sale were of domestic manufacture. Finally, the proposed Complaint alleges that these activities represented, directly or by implication, that the goods without foreign-origin labels were manufactured in the United States. The representation is alleged to violate section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. 45, because the goods with the labels removed were not manufactured in the United States. The proposed Consent Order prohibits the proposed respondent from misrepresenting, directly or by implication, the identity of the country-of-origin of any product. It also prohibits the proposed respondent from removing, altering, obliterating, or concealing any country-of-origin designation that is attached to any product the proposed respondent receives and offers for sale. Finally, the proposed Consent Order contains provisions requiring record retention demonstrating compliance with the Order; distribution of the Order to employees; notification to the Commission of any changes in the structure of the corporation; and reports to the Commission demonstrating compliance with the terms of the Order. The purpose of this analysis is to facilitate public comment of the proposed Order. It is not intended to constitute an official interpretation of the agreement and proposed Order or to modify in any way their terms. Donald S. Clark, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7974 Filed 4&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
