FR941213-0-00045 FR941213-0-00010 Comment: One commenter suggested that we have as an alternative to the phrase ``patients who are likely to suffer adverse health consequences,'' ``patients who are likely to be inhibited in performing activities of daily living.'' Response: We do not believe it is necessary to add this category of patients because it is subsumed in the original category: someone unable to perform activities of daily living would be likely to suffer adverse health consequences. Comment: Two commenters thought that, if there is no evaluation, hospitals should have to document in the patient's medical record that a patient is not at risk. Response: We do not believe it is necessary to specify in regulations how a hospital may show compliance with this provision. Instead, the hospital should have the flexibility to comply with the requirement in the best way for the hospital. Evaluation of Patients Comment: One commenter believed there should be a mandatory written form for the evaluation, preferably in the form of a check-off list. The commenter also thought this evaluation form should include specified factors, such as social needs and capacity for self-care. Response: At the present time, a nationally used and accepted form for all hospitals does not exist. Section 9305(h) of OBRA '86 requires the Secretary to develop uniform needs assessment instrument(s) in consultation with a panel of experts and to submit a report to Congress, which makes recommendations for the appropriate use of this instrument. The panel completed its work and forwarded its recommendations to Congress in a report on June 30, 1992. It is premature, however, to include a requirement for widespread use of the instrument in patient assessments until the instrument is fully developed, field tested, and its utility proven. Comment: One commenter wanted us to clarify whether the patient could request the development and initiation of a discharge planning evaluation. Response: As stated in ยง482.43(b)(1), a physician or a patient (or patient's representative) may request a discharge planning evaluation. Comment: One commenter thought the patient's physician should explicitly be included in the definition of patient representative. Response: The statute uses the term ``patient representative'' in addition to references to the patient's physician, and thus we conclude that the term was not meant to include physicians. A physician's role is defined by other Federal requirements such as those found in ยง482.12(c), the condition of participation on the governing body concerning care of patients. Not including the patient's physician as his representative was not intended to limit or eliminate the role of the physician in decisions about a patient's medical care, including the setting in which the care is provided, nor was it meant to imply that the physician does not serve the patient's interest. Comment: We received one favorable comment concerning the inclusion of registered nurses and social workers as qualified personnel who develop or supervise the development of the evaluation and discharge plan. We also received two comments indicating that registered nurses and social workers should have additional training or credentialing. Response: The statute provides that the Secretary may view the existing training and credentialing a registered nurse or social worker receives as sufficient for discharge planning and we see no need to impose further requirements. Comment: Four commenters remarked about the provision to allow ``other appropriately qualified personnel'' to develop or supervise the development of the evaluation and discharge plan. One commenter thought we should omit ``other appropriately qualified personnel''; three thought we should specify in regulations rather than interpretive guidelines the qualifications these personnel should have. Response: It is our policy to avoid specifying credentials in the conditions of participation wherever possible. Such requirements could inappropriately restrict hospital selection of staff, may superimpose the requirements of private groups over State law, and do not necessarily ensure the provision of quality care. We believe that including the criteria in the interpretive guidelines will assure that minimum standards are met while allowing State surveyors to monitor the requirement. In the future we will reevaluate the effectiveness of the interpretive guidelines based on survey experience. Comment: Two commenters believed we should delete the phrase ``(consistent with available community and hospital resources)'' that we had included for hospitals that might have difficulty obtaining and retaining qualified personnel. The commenters believed this provision dilutes the statute. Another commenter suggested that as an alternative we add that a hospital may arrange a contractual agreement to meet the discharge plan requirement. Response: We are deleting the parenthetical phrase both in ยง482.43 (b)(2) and (c)(1) after reevaluating its appropriateness. We agree with the commenters that, in the present circumstances, the parenthetical phrase inadvertently dilutes the statute. We are not accepting the second comment as to do so would be superfluous; the condition of participation for the hospital's governing body already contains a standard at ยง482.12(e) for all contracted services. The hospital's governing body must ensure that a contractor for services (including one for shared services and joint ventures) furnishes services that permit the hospital to comply with all applicable conditions of participation and standards for the contracted services. Comment: One commenter thought we should add a requirement that ``other appropriately qualified personnel'' should be supervised by a registered nurse or social worker.
