FR940617-0-00214 FR940617-0-00026 (d) The pass and fail decision numbers associated with the cumulative number of engines tested are determined by using the tables in appendix A to this subpart, ``Sampling Plans for Selective Enforcement Auditing of Nonroad Engines,'' appropriate to the projected sales as made by the manufacturer in its report to EPA under §89.505&hyph;96(c)(1). In the tables in appendix A to this subpart, sampling plan ``stage'' refers to the cumulative number of engines tested. Once a pass or fail decision has been made for a particular pollutant, the number of engines with final test results exceeding the emission standard for that pollutant shall not be considered any further for the purposes of the audit. (e) Passing or failing of an SEA occurs when the decision is made on the last engine required to make a decision under paragraph (c) of this section. (f) The Administrator may terminate testing earlier than required in paragraph (c) of this section. §89.511&hyph;96 Suspension and revocation of certificates of conformity. (a) The certificate of conformity is suspended with respect to any engine failing pursuant to paragraph (b) of §89.510&hyph;96 effective from the time that testing of that engine is completed. (b) The Administrator may suspend the certificate of conformity for a family which does not pass an SEA, pursuant to paragraph §89.510&hyph;96(c), based on the first test or all tests conducted on each engine. This suspension will not occur before ten days after failure of the audit, unless the manufacturer requests an earlier suspension. (c) If the results of testing pursuant to these regulations indicate that engines of a particular family produced at one plant of a manufacturer do not conform to the regulations with respect to which the certificate of conformity was issued, the Administrator may suspend the certificate of conformity with respect to that family for engines manufactured by the manufacturer at all other plants. (d) Notwithstanding the fact that engines described in the application may be covered by a certificate of conformity, the Administrator may suspend such certificate immediately in whole or in part if the Administrator finds any one of the following infractions to be substantial: (1) The manufacturer refuses to comply with the provisions of a test order issued by the Administrator under §89.503&hyph;96. (2) The manufacturer refuses to comply with any of the requirements of this subpart. (3) The manufacturer submits false or incomplete information in any report or information provided to the Administrator under this subpart. (4) The manufacturer renders inaccurate any test data submitted under this subpart. (5) An EPA enforcement officer(s) or EPA authorized representative(s) is denied the opportunity to conduct activities related to entry and access as authorized in this subpart and a warrant or court order is presented to the manufacturer or the party in charge of a facility in question. (6) An EPA enforcement officer(s) or EPA authorized representative(s) is unable to conduct activities related to entry and access as authorized in §89.506&hyph;96 because a manufacturer has located a facility in a foreign jurisdiction where local law prohibits those activities. (e) The Administrator must notify the manufacturer in writing of any suspension or revocation of a certificate of conformity in whole or in part; a suspension or revocation is effective upon receipt of the notification or ten days, except that the certificate is immediately suspended with respect to any failed engines as provided for in paragraph (a) of this section. (f) The Administrator may revoke a certificate of conformity for a family when the certificate has been suspended pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this section if the proposed remedy for the nonconformity, as reported by the manufacturer to the Administrator, is one requiring a design change or changes to the engine and/or emission control system as described in the application for certification of the affected family.
