FR940607-2-00089 FR940607-2-00061 (2) Statutory Basis The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act in general and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5), in particular in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade and protect investors and the public interest by improving the administration of an impartial forum for the resolution of disputes relating to the securities industry. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange believes that no burdens will be placed on competition as a result of the proposed rule change. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others No comments were received on the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period as (i) the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve such proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submissions, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the CHX. All submissions should refer to the file number SR&hyph;MSE&hyph;93&hyph;9 and should be submitted by June 28, 1994. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13734 Filed 6&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
