FR940407-1-00054 FR940407-1-00012 The proposed rule further directs carriers that must rely on proxy companies to impute their cost of common-stock equity capital to use the prescribed risk criteria in selecting proxy companies, and to annually submit their selection of proxy companies along with their annually filed statement of financial and operating data, as required in ยง552.2. After notice and opportunity for comment, the Commission shall annually designate the respective proxy group of companies for each applicable carrier in accordance with its prescribed risk criteria. The sequence of steps for selecting the proxy companies and the prescribed risk criteria are discussed in detail below. i. Risk Criteria (a) Step 1: U.S. Companies Listed in Value Line. The Commission's proposed rule stipulates that the proxy companies must be U.S.-based, and must be those for which The Value Line Investment Survey (``Value Line'') provides financial data. The proxy companies are to be based in the U.S. so as to maintain consistent accounting and tax requirements. Value Line contains financial information on 1,700 companies that publicly issue common stock for over 95 industries, including the transportation sector. The use of Value Line as a resource for selecting proxy companies is particularly suitable since it contains the requisite historical and projected financial data for estimating the cost of common-stock equity. (b) Step 2: Companies that Operate as Common Carriers. Consistent with the concept of selecting firms of comparable business risk, the proxy companies should be those which are in the same line of business as the regulated firm. The proxy companies should operate and derive a major portion of their gross revenues primarily as common carriers in the business of freight transportation. The proxy group, for example, could be comprised of common carriers that transport freight by air, truck, water, and/or rail. The companies should also own or operate transportation vehicles or vessels. Excluded from this group are companies with gross revenues equal to or less than the $25,000,000 waiver level for vessel operating common carriers in the domestic offshore trades, as described in 46 CFR ยง552.2(e). (c) Step 3: Financial Analysis of Comparable Risk. The proposed rule further states that the Commission may also consider a company's financial strength in evaluating the degree of financial risk faced by each of the selected companies. This may include an examination of some, but not necessarily all, of the factors listed below. (i) Total Capitalization Ratios and/or Debt/Equity Ratios. Total capitalization ratios and debt/equity ratios measure the proportional mix of financing in a company's capital structure. They are useful measures of financial risk because they indicate the extent of leverage or fixed-cost financing in a company ( i.e., the degree to which the company's assets are financed by long-term debt and/or preferred stock). A low percentage of fixed-cost financing generally denotes a low level of financial risk. (ii) Debt Ratings. Investment analysis services, such as Standard & Poor's and Moody's, provide investment quality ratings of companies' long-term debt instruments. These include ratings on corporate bonds and commercial paper. The ratings reflect a company's risk of default on debt obligations and the possible risk of bankruptcy. The primary basis of the debt ratings is interest coverage. This represents the number of times a company's earnings are greater than its fixed contractual charges or interest costs. (iii) Stock Safety Rankings. Both Value Line and Standard & Poor's provide common-stock equity rankings for each company listed in their respective publications. While the basis of their ranking systems differ, they both measure the degree of risk associated with each company's common-stock equity. Value Line bases its ranking system on the stability of the common stock's price adjusted for trends, as measured by the standard deviation of weekly percent changes in the stock's market prices over a five-year period, and partially on the subjective analysis of its financial experts. Value Line's safety scale ranges from 1, the highest, to 5. (iv) Financial Strength Ratings. Value Line rates the financial strength of each of the 1,700 companies listed in its publication relative to all the others. The ratings are based on key variables that determine financial leverage, business risk, and company size. The ratings range from A++, the highest, to C. (v) Standard Deviation. The standard deviation is a common statistical measure which can be used to determine the variability of a company's common-stock price changes, or returns on common-stock equity. A high standard deviation indicates a high variability in the range of price changes or returns relative to the average price change or return. Thus, a high standard deviation implies a greater degree of risk associated with a particular company's common stock. Value Line provides a price stability index which ranks the standard deviation of the weekly percentage changes in the market price of each company's common stock over a five-year period. (vi) The Beta Coefficient. Beta is a regression coefficient that measures the volatility of a company's common-stock price changes, or returns on common-stock equity, relative to the stock market as a whole. Where beta for the stock market equals one, common stocks with beta values of less than one are said to be less risky than the market, while stocks with beta values greater than one are said to be riskier than the market. Value Line and Standard & Poor's provide the beta values associated with the common stock of each company listed in their respective publications. The Commission may also consider other information commonly accepted by investors as measures of risk in a company. In this regard, commenters may wish to address whether an accurate measure of comparable risk should include some consideration of the regulated firm's status as a subsidiary of a larger organization and, if so, whether the criteria for inclusion in the proxy group should include position in a larger corporate structure.
