FR940405-1-00072 FR940405-1-00013 There is uncertainty associated with the quantification of any kind of risk. In this risk assessment, OSHA has tried to describe many of the sources of uncertainty and to address their implications for OSHA's estimates of risk. For the purpose of this rulemaking and for deriving a quantitative estimate of occupational risk, OSHA has concentrated on information and data concerning heart disease and lung cancer as potential effects associated with exposure to ETS. B. Review of Epidemiologic Studies and Published Risk Estimates As a first step in this risk assessment, OSHA critically reviewed epidemiologic studies associating exposure to ETS or indoor air pollutants with adverse health effects. The purpose of such a critical evaluation was to determine whether exposure to ETS is a causal factor in cancer and heart disease and whether exposure to indoor air pollutants has caused a significant increase in acute irritant effects. The critical review also enables OSHA to select those studies that have potential for use in a quantitative risk assessment. Tables IV&hyph;1 and IV&hyph;2 contain a summary of OSHA's assessment of several epidemiologic studies of ETS exposed individuals. OSHA evaluated studies on exposure to ETS to determine the importance and weight of each study in the overall hazard identification process. Of those, it was determined that fourteen showed a statistically strong association between exposure to ETS and lung cancer and four showed a significant association between ETS exposure and heart disease. Studies that were determined to be ``positive'' by OSHA's review standards met standard epidemiologic and statistical criteria to support causation. Overall, on the basis of the studies reviewed, OSHA concludes that the relative risk of lung cancer in nonsmokers due to chronic exposure to ETS ranges between 1.20 and 1.50 and the relative risk for heart disease due to ETS exposure ranges between 1.24 and 3.00. ␣ Table IV&hyph;1._Epidemiologic Studies Reviewed by OSHA_Lung Cancer 1 Positive 1Equivocal positive trend 1Equivocal Brownson et al. (1992) Akiba et al Brownson et al. (1987). Correa et al Butler Buffler et al. Fontham et al Gao et al Chan and Fung. Garfinkel et al Gillis et al Hole et al. Geng et al Kabat and Wynder Janerich et al. Hirayama 1984a Katada et al. Humble Koo et al. Inoue et al Lee et al. Kalandidi et al Shimizu et al. Lam et al Sobue et al. Pershagen et al Svenson et al. Sandler et al Wu et al. Stockwell et al Trichopoulos et al
