FR940622-0-00033 FR940622-0-00011 IV. Comments and Responses A. Participation in the CHAMPUS, CHAMPVA and VA Health Care Programs We received comments from nine commenters concerning the CHAMPUS/CHAMPVA and VA issues. They were from hospitals, professional organizations and one individual. Comment: Two commenters raised numerous issues relating to the operations of the CHAMPUS/CHAMPVA programs and the operation of the prospective payment system under those programs (CHAMPVA payments are made under CHAMPUS' DRG-based payment system). The issues concerned such items as the status of hospitals operating under demonstration programs conducted by those programs, and the obligation of CHAMPUS/CHAMPVA patients for making cost-share amounts required under those programs. Response: The purpose of these regulations is to require hospitals that participate in Medicare to participate as well in the CHAMPUS/CHAMPVA and VA programs. These regulations do not relate to rules under which those programs function and do not make any changes in their operations. We have referred questions concerning operational issues to appropriate administrative officials at OCHAMPUS who assure us that providers who are participating in the CHAMPUS Reform Initiative area will not be forced to accept payment less than the DRG amounts. They also tell us that the adjusted standardized amount used in the CHAMPUS DRG-based payment system contains a factor to reimburse hospitals for CHAMPUS' share of the hospitals' bad debts. These regulations do not change the beneficiary's obligation to pay required cost-share amounts. Comment: Four commenters stated that the provider's freedom of choice in making management decisions of participating or not in these additional programs would be taken away by implementing these regulations. Response: The legislation clearly ties participation in Medicare to acceptance, as well, of the CHAMPUS and CHAMPVA participation responsibility. We recognize that this change in the law alters the range of discretion that a hospital may have in selecting participation options but the law offers no alternative to accepting all the programs or declining to participate in Medicare. Comment: One commenter believed that, as a provider of services to CHAMPUS/CHAMPVA and VA beneficiaries for many years, his institution has the right to receive a notice of government action and have a chance to respond to the government decision-making. He received no notice of government action until reading this notice of proposed rulemaking. Response: Under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553 et seq.), it is the notice of proposed rulemaking that is the vehicle for providing notice of this type of government action. Should a provider be subject to termination for not being in compliance with requirements added by this rule, we believe the procedures for termination by HCFA located at §489.53 are fundamentally fair. These procedures include our proposed rules under §489.53(a)(11) that allow HCFA to terminate an agreement with any provider, if HCFA finds that the provider no longer meets the appropriate conditions of participation such as those found in new §489.25 or §489.26, which address providing medical services to CHAMPUS/CHAMPVA or VA beneficiaries. Before we find a hospital in violation, we expect, as discussed in the preamble of the proposed rule, that efforts to resolve any problem will have taken place. If problems are not resolved then the actual notice of termination procedures listed in §489.53(c) will be initiated. Comment: Four commenters stated that third party payors, such as Medicaid and CHAMPUS, pay smaller and smaller proportions of the costs these hospitals incur in serving those covered by these programs. In their view, if hospitals are to continue to provide full access, then Congress, HCFA, the Department of Defense, and State governments must recognize their responsibility to adequately finance the care that they require to be provided. Response: We believe that the prospective payment system results in fair payments. As implemented under Medicare, the prospective payment system differentiates payments by location and type of provider as well as by the relative resource intensity of individual cases. The CHAMPUS and VA DRG-payment systems are similar to that used by Medicare; however, they have been tailored to their own health care utilization patterns. Under a prospective payment system, many of the operational costs have been factored into the DRG. We have been informed that under the CHAMPUS DRG-payment system the cost sharing provisions have been changed to ensure that the amount of the shared cost incurred by the beneficiary will be more equitable. In fact, we have learned that most beneficiaries will pay less under this new system than the old, and no beneficiary is expected to pay more in cost share amounts. As under the Medicare prospective payment system, annual evaluations to recalculate DRG weights are taking place under the CHAMPUS DRG-based system using the most recent period of CHAMPUS data. During annual evaluations, consideration can be given to any problems which have surfaced.
