FR940505-1-00147 FR940505-1-00012 The proposed program is designed to ensure that substantial emission reductions are achieved by the aviation industry. However, the strategy neither establishes a hard and fast emissions budget or cap for individual commercial airline operators, nor specifies compliance measures. Instead, the program relies on environmental performance targets or emissions rate goals with fees for excess emissions. The approach leaves each operator with the discretion to choose the best compliance strategy for achieving environmental goals and satisfying market demands. A commercial airline may choose to satisfy the emission reduction requirements with compliance measures ranging from relatively straightforward options to very challenging, more difficult approaches. EPA's preliminary analysis suggests that the lower end of this range includes such measures as converting ground service equipment to cleaner power sources; increased use of single engine taxiing; implementing procedural improvements to reduce congestion and taxi/idle times; purchasing cleaner, current production aircraft; or possibly purchasing emissions credits. At the upper end of this range, airlines may choose to tow aircraft rather than taxi with onboard power; substantially improve load factors; pursue the production of new engine designs with low-NO X staged-combustion systems which are presently nearing production for certain applications; or develop additional clean engine technology. An airline which continues to have excess emissions after choosing from among these possible measures will pay emission fees on its activities. It might then choose to limit activity to reduce its total fee liability. Concerns have been raised that this strategy may require airlines to choose operational measures that, for safety reasons, should be left to the discretion of the pilot in command. For example, the FAA has advised that the decisions to reduce use of reverse thrust and increase use of single-engine taxiing should ultimately be those of the pilot. Beyond these choices, concerns have been raised that compliance with the no-fee emission reduction targets may depend on technology-forcing aircraft engine development, and that the liability for noncompliance fees may directly or indirectly result in a limitation on activity. EPA requests comments on the likelihood that, and the point within the range of proposed emission reductions (e.g., 30&hyph;45 percent for NO X ) at which, such measures as advanced engine development may be required. The Agency also seeks comment on the legal and policy implications of a strategy that has the potential to create an economic incentive for airlines to limit operations at airports in the FIP areas. EPA also requests comments on the legal and policy implications of the proposed strategy if, after public comment and further study the Agency determines that at the upper end of the emissions reduction range under consideration, the requirement may have the potential to induce airlines to choose between such options as encouraging implemention of aircraft operational measures that currently are left to pilot discretion for safety reasons on the one hand, and limiting the number of operations at the airport on the other. Finally, comment is requested on the relationship between EPA's legal authority under section 110(c) and section 231, should the strategy result in the regulated industry having as its only options, outside of activity limits, reliance on either technology-forcing aircraft engine advances to meet the emission reduction targets, or paying the proposed fees. Regardless of the means by which compliance is achieved, the proposed control strategy does not appear to mandate or indirectly require an accelerated fleet turnover that would potentially conflict with the schedule established under ANCA for reducing noise by the end of 1999 (See 49 U.S.C. App. Section 2157 (a)), because the first FIP controls would not apply until 2001 and the most stringent controls would not be required until 2005. The proposed control strategy also appears consistent with the statutory requirements and mandate for the FAA under the Federal Aviation Act, 49 U.S.C. App. 1348. During the drafting of the proposed control strategy, EPA considered but rejected requiring the airport proprietor to implement and enforce regulation of the commercial airlines. EPA rejected this concept and chose for EPA and FAA to implement and enforce the proposed strategy because the proprietor has more limited authority over the commercial airlines and because the courts have held that there are limits on EPA's ability to mandate municipal entities to control the behavior of others by requiring specific measures. See Brown v. EPA, 521 F.2d 827 (9th Cir. 1475), vacated on other grounds , 431 U.S. 99 (1977).
