FR940217-2-00034 FR940217-2-00021 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For further information contact Carol Drury, U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Public and Consumer Affairs, Washington, DC 20585, at (202) 586&hyph;4940. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On May 26, 1993, Secretary of Energy Hazel R. O'Leary announced her intention to establish a Contract Reform Team, chaired by the Deputy Secretary, to review the Department's contracting mechanisms and practices. The Contract Reform Team was charged with a review of a broad range of contracting issues, including the management and operation of DOE weapons production facilities and national laboratories, support service contracting, and environmental restoration activities, consistent with the Department's changing mission. The Contract Reform Team conducted a thorough analysis of the Department's contracting practices and provided a list of specific recommendations to the Secretary regarding administrative, financial, and regulatory improvements that are intended to increase contractor accountability, enhance competition, provide appropriate incentives for contractors to meet and exceed performance criteria and achieve cost savings, and improve contract administration and financial accountability. The Department is strongly committed to the President's and Vice President's efforts to reinvent Government and recognizes that reforming DOE's contracting practices is critical to our success. This Report represents a major step forward in the Secretary's efforts to reform the Department's contracting practices. The recommendations are intended to create a system that focuses on efficient processes and quality results, rewards initiative and commitment, and provides meaningful sanctions and penalties where necessary. The Department is interested in the views of stakeholders within and outside the Department on the Report's recommendations. Following consideration of stakeholder views, the Department intends to proceed with the implementation phase of its contract reform initiative. Issued in Washington, DC, on February 11, 1994. William H. White, Deputy Secretary, Department of Energy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3641 Filed 2&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
