FR940721-0-00083 FR940721-0-00014 Finally, the Labeling Act requires that the names of all countries supplying 15% or more total parts value be listed. To be meaningful, this requirement should not only include the name of the country, but also the approximate percentages those countries contribute *␣*␣*. NHTSA notes that it is addressing this comment here in this separate section instead of addressing it in each of the several relevant sections earlier in this preamble, since this approach is simpler and since the comment was received near the end of the preparation of the preamble. The agency believes that today's final rule adequately distinguishes between parts assembled in the U.S. using imported materials and parts made in the U.S. using U.S. materials. For purposes of calculating item one of the label, the percentage U.S./Canadian parts content for vehicles within the carline, tracing is required to the extent that a supplier claims that an item of equipment is U.S./Canadian. An outside supplier cannot designate a part as U.S./Canadian unless it determines, on the basis of tracing the part's materials back to the raw material stage, that at least 70 percent of the cost of the part represents value added in the U.S. or Canada. This is true for all items of equipment, including engines and transmissions. The procedures for making country of origin determinations for purposes of items four and five of the label, countries of origin for the engine and transmission, do not require tracing back to raw materials. However, country of origin determinations must be made for each component delivered to the engine or transmission assembly plant (or produced at such plant), and the cost of assembling the engine or transmission is not considered in making such determinations. Therefore, engines and transmissions that are assembled in the U.S. largely of imported materials will not be determined to be of U.S. origin under the procedures. As discussed above, the label will indicate that these country of origin determinations are for ``engine parts'' and ``transmission parts,'' to make it clear to consumers that these country of origin determinations exclude assembly costs. NHTSA does not believe that it would be appropriate to impose additional tracing requirements, since such requirements could be very burdensome. As to the foreign countries which contribute 15 percent or more parts content for vehicle within a carline, manufacturers are required to list not only the names of those countries, but also the specific percentage originating in each such country. If there are more than two such countries, the manufacturer need only provide the information for the two countries with the highest percentages. V. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices A. Executive Order 12866 and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures NHTSA has considered the impacts of this rulemaking action under Executive Order 12866 and the Department of Transportation's regulatory policies and procedures. This rulemaking document was reviewed under Executive Order 12866. This action has been determined to be ``significant'' under the Department's regulatory policies and procedures, given the degree of public interest and the relationship to other Federal programs and agencies, particularly those related to international trade. NHTSA has estimated the costs associated with the rule in a Final Regulatory Evaluation which is being placed in the docket for this rulemaking. That document analyzes the comments concerning costs. The requirements imposed by the rule are strictly informational and do not require any product changes other than the addition of a label. NHTSA estimates the cost of a separate label to be $0.06 to $0.11, and the cost of expanding a Monroney or fuel economy label to be less than $0.01. The total cost for labels for the estimated 14 million vehicles sold in the U.S. annually that are affected by the rule would therefore range from $140,000 to $1,540,000. Based on manufacturers' comments, NHTSA estimates that a one-time cost to implement a system to collect and store the necessary information for the labels is about $1 million apiece for the three large domestic manufacturers, and $500,000 apiece for 20 other large vehicle manufacturers. Ford estimated annual maintenance costs of $150,000. The agency assumes that this figure is reasonable for the three large domestic manufacturers, and that the other large manufacturers will experience annual costs of about $75,000. The above cost estimates do not include the compliance costs for suppliers. NHTSA has limited information concerning the costs that will be experienced by the approximately 15,000 parts suppliers to the vehicle manufacturing industry. Some large suppliers (e.g., Rockwell, Dana Corp., or TRW) make hundreds of parts and could experience costs similar to those of a large vehicle manufacturer. Many small suppliers procure all of their inputs from the same country and will experience negligible costs. NHTSA notes that APMA estimated that parts manufacturers will experience costs ranging from $40,000 to $80,000 in the first year, with a reduction in successive years. Final stage manufacturers will experience only minor costs, since they only need to provide labels showing the final assembly point and the country of origin for the engine and transmission. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act Pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act, the agency has considered the impact this rulemaking will have on small entities. I certify that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Therefore, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required for this action. Although certain small businesses, such as parts suppliers and some vehicle manufacturers, are affected by the regulation, the effect on them is minor since the requirements are informational. C. National Environmental Policy Act The agency has analyzed the environmental impacts of the regulation in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq., and has concluded that it will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. D. Executive Order 12612 (Federalism) This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that the rule does not have sufficient Federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. E. Paperwork Reduction Act The reporting and recordkeeping requirements associated with this final rule are being submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for approval in accordance with 44 U.S.C. chapter 35. F. Executive Order 12778 (Civil Justice Reform) This rule does not have any retroactive effect. States are preempted from promulgating laws and regulations contrary to the provisions of the rule. The rule does not require submission of a petition for reconsideration or other administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court. List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 583
