FR940428-2-00096 FR940428-2-00052 b. The proposed amendment will not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously analyzed. The proposed amendment does not involve any modification to plant equipment or operating procedures, nor will it introduce any new main steam isolation valve failure modes that have not been previously considered. The proposed amendment is limited to a change in the surveillance test pressure & acceptance criteria used to leak test the valves. This test is performed while the plant is in a cold shutdown condition at a time when the valves are not required to be operable. We therefore conclude the proposed changes will not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously analyzed. c. The proposed amendment will not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. The proposed amendment will result in the main steam isolation valves being subjected to the maximum pressure (P a , 42 psig) calculated to occur under worst case accident conditions, and will therefore provide a more realistic and challenging test of valve performance under those conditions. The leakage rate criteria for the test has been adjusted upward to be commensurate with the higher test pressure, but this does not represent any increase in actual leakage under accident conditions. On-site and off-site dose analyses will not be affected. The proposed amendment does not involve any change in operability requirements or limiting conditions for operation beyond the replacement of the old test pressure & acceptance criteria with equivalent criteria consistent with 10 CFR Part 50, Appendix J, NUREG&hyph;1433, and TER&hyph;C5257&hyph;30. Based on these considerations, we conclude the proposed amendment will not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room Location: Minneapolis Public Library, Technology and Science Department, 300 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55401. Attorney for Licensee: Gerald Charnoff, Esq., Shaw, Pittman, Potts and Trowbridge, 2300 N Street, NW., Washington, DC 20037. NRC Project Director: Ledyard B. Marsh. Philadelphia Electric Company, Public Service Electric and Gas Company, Delmarva Power and Light Company, and Atlantic City Electric Company, Docket No. 50&hyph;277, Peach Bottom Atomic Power Station, Unit No. 2, York County, Pennsylvania Date of Application for Amendment: April 6, 1994. Description of Amendment Request: The amendment would reflect the incorporation of the end-of-cycle Minimum Critical Power Ratio Recirculation Pump Trip (MCPR&hyph;RPT) system and the replacement of the Reactor Recirculation System (RRS) Motor Generator (M&hyph;G) Sets with solid state adjustable speed drives (ASDs). Basis for Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: (1) The proposed change does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of any accident previously evaluated. The addition of the end-of-cycle MCPR&hyph;RPT System, which utilizes ASDs, will not have a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The end-of-cycle MCPR&hyph;RPT System has been designed to appropriate standards and specifications to ensure that the ability of the plant to mitigate the effects of accidents is maintained. Additionally, the MCPR&hyph;RPT System has been analyzed such that no new accident initiators will be created such that the probability of an accident previously evaluated will not increase. No new challenges to the reactor coolant pressure boundary will result from the incorporation of the end-of-cycle MCPR&hyph;RPT System which could result in an increase in the consequences of an accident. All engineered safety features will function as described in the PBAPS UFSAR [Peach Bottom Atomic Power Station Updated Final Safety Analysis Report] in order to mitigate the consequences of accidents previously evaluated in the PBAPS UFSAR. Additionally, all fission product barriers and safety margins will be maintained.
