FR940513-2-00135 FR940513-2-00063 6. Possibility of the need for continued culvert maintenance to minimize wetland impacts from changes in hydrologic (i.e., water level) conditions. 7. Assessment of the impact to wildlife following abandonment of rail service. 8. Potential impacts to wildlife that could result from the unauthorized uses of abandoned ROW. F. Air Quality Impacts 1. Analysis of the elimination of current locomotive emissions along the ROW following abandonment. 2. Effects of possible increased emissions due to rail line salvage operations. 3. Explanation of increased air pollutant emissions that could result from additional truck traffic, especially in current non-attainment areas. G. Noise Impacts 1. Analysis of the impact from noise that may be generated by salvage equipment and post-abandonment maintenance equipment. 2. Concerns regarding the impact of abandonment on noise quality in the vicinity of road crossings. 3. Impacts from noise that may be generated by increased vehicular traffic on Route 9 and other roads. H. Impacts on Socioeconomics Evaluation of social and economic impacts resulting from changes in the physical environment due to salvage activities or the diversion of traffic. I. Impacts on Historic and Cultural Resources 1. Impacts to structures (buildings and bridges) that may be eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places and archaeological resources. 2. Potential need for a Memorandum of Agreement between the Maine Historic Preservation Commission, Interstate Commerce Commission, Advisory Council of Historic Preservation, and Canadian Pacific Limited. 3. Assessment of impact of increased truck traffic on the Calais Historic District. J. Impacts on Recreational Resources 1. Effects of salvage activities and elimination of train noises and intrusions on wildlife and other recreational resources. 2. Effects of abandonment on opportunities for hunting, fishing, and bird watching. 3. Potential for use of the abandoned ROW as a multi-use recreational trail. 4. Assessment of impact of bridge removal on recreational opportunities along the ROW. 5. Impact of possible unauthorized recreational vehicle use and increased human activity on existing wildlife and habitat conditions. Proposed Mitigation 1. Necessary and appropriate mitigation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11740 Filed 5&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7035&hyph;01&hyph;P
