FR940819-0-00098 FR940819-0-00019 FAA Response During the Industry Study, the FAA conducted a review of the International Civil Aviation Organization's (ICAO) regulations relating to flight attendant flight, duty, and rest times including a review of ICAO Circular Flight Crew Fatigue and Flight Time Limitations (52&hyph;AN/47/6). The Industry Study identified 23 countries that have government regulations for flight attendant flight and duty limitations and rest requirements, and 24 countries that do not have such regulations. The FAA notes that the Joint Aviation Regulations currently do not include flight time limitations for flight attendants; however, the JAA have proposed flight time limitations for flight crewmembers and flight attendants that are currently under review by the European Community. Based on this information, the FAA has determined that flight attendant flight and duty limitations and rest requirements of some countries are less stringent than the final rule adopted by the FAA, and the requirements of other countries are more stringent than those being adopted. Therefore, the FAA considers the final rule to be within the range of worldwide governmental regulations governing flight attendant duty limitations and rest requirements. Changes to the NPRM The FAA amended several provisions of the proposed rule in response to comments received from the public. Any changes that significantly altered the requirements of the duty period limitations and rest requirements are discussed previously and are summarized in this section. The NPRM made no distinction between domestic and international operations. In the final rule domestic operations are limited to up to 18-hour scheduled duty periods. However, scheduled duty periods that involve one or more flights that land or take off outside the 48 contiguous states and the District of Columbia may be scheduled up to 20 hours, providing required augmentation is provided. The FAA moved flight attendant duty period limitations and rest requirements from proposed §121.466 in the NPRM to §121.467 in the final rule to facilitate the incorporation of future amendments. In addition, paragraphs describing duty period and rest period provisions in the NPRM have been revised and renumbered in the final rule to incorporate new and revised requirements. The FAA also revised the NPRM to include minor editorial changes and revised the list of subjects to include additional terms. Based on comments receive, the FAA removed the proposed requirement that a flight attendant be responsible for ensuring compliance with duty period limitations and rest requirements before accepting any flight assignments. The FAA determined that this is an operator's responsibility and not the responsibility of a flight attendant. The NPRM included the proposal that an operator may not assign a flight attendant a duty period of 14 or more hours following a 10-hour reduced rest period. In §§121.467(b)(9) and 135.273(b)(9), the FAA revised the NPRM to restrict an operator from assigning a flight attendant to a duty period of ``more than 14 hours'' following a 10-hour reduced rest period. This change permits an operator to assign a flight attendant to a duty period of up to and including 14 hours following the reduced rest period. The FAA incorporated provisions into the final rule to give operators the option to apply the flight crewmember flight, duty, and rest requirements to flight attendants. The FAA permits this option provided that the operator establishes written procedures that are referenced in the certificate holder's operations specifications for applying the appropriate flight crewmember flight, duty, and rest requirements to flight attendants. The following chart depicts the scheduled duty period, rest period, and augmented flight attendant crew requirements for this final rule.
