FR940727-0-00157 FR940727-0-00028 (c) If a program amendment fails to be approved and the original project is no longer feasible, the grant funds proposed for amendment shall be returned to HUD. Subpart E_Imminent Threat Grants §953.400 Criteria for funding. The following criteria apply to requests for assistance under this subpart: (a) In response to requests for assistance, the ONAP may make funds available under this subpart to applicants to alleviate or remove imminent threats to health or safety that require an immediate solution. The urgency and immediacy of the threat shall be independently verified prior to the approval of an application. Funds may only be used to deal with imminent threats that are not of a recurring nature and which represent a unique and unusual circumstance, and which impact on an entire service area. (b) Funds to alleviate imminent threats may be granted only if the applicant can demonstrate to the satisfaction of HUD that other local or Federal funding sources cannot be made available to alleviate the threat. (c) The Office of Native American Programs will establish grant ceilings for imminent threat applications. §953.401 Application process. (a) Letter to proceed. The ONAP may issue the applicant a letter to proceed to incur costs to alleviate imminent threats to health and safety only if the assisted activities do not alter environmental conditions and are for temporary or permanent improvements limited to protection, repair, or restoration actions necessary only to control or arrest the effects of imminent threats or physical deterioration. Reimbursement of such costs is dependent upon HUD approval of the application. (b) Applications. Applications shall be submitted in accordance with §953.300(a). Applications which meet the requirement of this section may be approved by the ONAP without competition in accordance with the applicable requirements of §953.307. §953.402 Environmental review. In accordance with 24 CFR 58.34(a)(8), grants for imminent threats to health or safety are exempt from some or all of the environmental review requirements of part 58 of this title, to the extent provided in that section. §953.403 Availability of funds. An amount not to exceed five percent of the funds made available by the NOFA for the ICDBG program may be retained by the Office of Native American Programs (ONAP) for grants under this part. The amount of imminent threat funds retained during each funding cycle will stated in the NOFA. Any remaining funds will be used as if they are a part of the new allocation of funds. Field offices must correctly indicate, however, the fiscal year in which the residual funds were originally allocated when the funds are awarded to applicants. Subpart F_Grant Administration §953.500 General. The requirements of part 570, subpart J of this title_Grant Administration_apply to grants under this part except for those provisions that are specifically stated as applying to the Entitlement Cities or Small Cities_HUD administered programs, and with the modifications stated in this subpart. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under OMB Control No. 2506&hyph;0043.) §953.501 Designation of public agency. One or more Tribal departments or authorities may be designated by the chief executive officer of an Indian Tribe or Alaskan native village as the operating agency to undertake activities assisted under this part. The Indian Tribe or Alaskan native village itself, however, shall be the applicant. Designation of an operating agency does not relieve the Indian Tribe or Alaskan native village of its responsibility to assure that the program will be administered in accordance with all HUD requirements, including these regulations. §953.502 Force account construction. (a) The use of Tribal work forces for construction or renovation activities performed as part of the activities funded under this part shall be approved by HUD before the start of project implementation. In reviewing requests for an approval of force account construction or renovation, HUD may require that the grantee provide the following: (1) Documentation to indicate that it has carried out or can carry out successfully a project of the size and scope of the proposal; (2) Documentation to indicate that it has obtained or can obtain adequate supervision for the workers to be utilized; (3) Information showing that the workers to be utilized are, or will be, listed on the Tribal payroll and are employed directly by a unit, department or other governmental instrumentality of the Tribe or village. (b) Any and all excess funds derived from the force account construction or renovation activities shall accrue to the grantee and shall be reprogrammed for other activities eligible under this part in accordance with §953.308(b) or returned to HUD promptly. (c) Insurance coverage for force account workers and activities shall, where applicable, include workman's compensation, public liability, property damage, builder's risk, and vehicular liability. (d) The grantee shall specify and apply reasonable labor performance, construction, or renovation standards to work performed under the force account. (e) The contracting and procurement standards set forth in 24 CFR 85.36 apply to material, equipment, and supply procurement from outside vendors under this section, but not to other activities undertaken by force account. HUD may approve alternative requirements in lieu of bonding if compliance with the bonding requirements specified in §85.36(h) of this title is determined by HUD to be infeasible or incompatible with the Indian preference requirements set forth in §953.503. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under OMB Control No. 2506&hyph;0043.)
