FR940920-2-00147 FR940920-2-00089 Tuesday September 20, 1994 Part II Department of Education Office of Vocational and Adult Education Reauthorization of Vocational and Adult Education Programs; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 181␣/␣Tuesday, September 20, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Office of Vocational and Adult Education Reauthorization of Vocational and Adult Education Programs AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Request for public comment on the reauthorization of vocational and adult education programs. SUMMARY: The Secretary of Education invites written comments from the public regarding the reauthorization of programs under the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act; the Adult Education Act; and the National Literacy Act of 1991. DATES: Written comments must be submitted on or before November 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be addressed to Dr. Augusta Souza Kappner, Assistant Secretary for Vocational and Adult Education, U.S. Department of Education, 600 Independence Avenue, S.W., Room 4090&hyph;MES, Washington, D.C. 20202. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sharon Jones, Office of Vocational and Adult Education, 600 Independence Avenue, S.W., Room 4050&hyph;MES, Washington, D.C. 20202. Telephone: (202) 205&hyph;9241. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Secretary is requesting public comments on the reauthorization of the Department's Vocational and Adult Education programs, including 18 programs funded at approximately $1.5 billion in fiscal year 1994. The funded programs include: Vocational Education Basic State Grants; Tech-Prep Education; Vocational Education Research; Vocational Education Demonstrations; Vocational Education Data Systems; Adult Education State Programs; State Literacy Resource Centers; Literacy Programs for Prisoners; Workplace Literacy Partnerships; and Adult Education National Programs, including the National Institute for Literacy. Need for Reauthorization The statutory authorization for these programs expires on September 30, 1995. In order to contribute in a timely manner to congressional reauthorization discussions, the Secretary is beginning a review of these programs. The Secretary intends to submit to Congress the Department's proposals to reauthorize these programs in early 1995. To ensure an opportunity for public participation, the Secretary invites public comments on the reauthorization. How the Information Will Be Used The Department has identified six general issues, listed as follows, around which to initiate reauthorization discussions and is particularly interested in receiving comments on those issues. The Department seeks to develop program initiatives that link vocational and adult education programs to the National Education Goals and to the national effort to enable all students to achieve to challenging academic standards. As such, the reauthorization will build on the Goals 2000: Educate America Act, the School-to-Work Opportunities Act, and the pending Elementary and Secondary Education Act reauthorization, each of which focuses on_providing students with greater opportunities to meet high standards; giving States and localities flexibility in the delivery of services in exchange for accountability for results; and directing Federal resources to communities where they are most needed, in amounts sufficient to make a real difference. The Department will also examine how Federal Vocational and Adult Education programs can be coordinated with other Federal programs, such as the Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA), Higher Education Act student aid programs, and Job Opportunities and Basic Skills Training (JOBS) that address similar purposes and serve similar populations. The reauthorization process also provides an opportunity for resolution of issues affecting current programs that have arisen through evaluations, audits, program operations, budget deliberations, and previous legislative actions. Thus, the Department, while it will examine new program strategies, also seeks comment on the program-specific issues listed below. Issues for Public Comment The Secretary seeks comments and suggestions regarding reauthorization of these programs. Comments are especially invited on the following issues.
