FR940428-2-00026 FR940428-2-00016 Golden Field Office; Cooperative Agreement Award to Geothermal Education Office AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of financial assistance award in response to a non-competitive financial assistance application. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) pursuant to the DOE Financial Assistance Rules, 10 CFR 600.7(b)(2) is announcing its intention to make a multi-year financial assistance award to the Geothermal Education Office to develop, publish and distribute user-friendly information about geothermal energy. ADDRESSES: Questions regarding this announcement may be addressed to the U.S. Department of Energy, Golden Field Office, 1617 Cole Blvd., Golden CO 80401, Attention: Ruth E. Adams, Contract Specialist, at (303) 275&hyph;4722. The Contracting Officer for this action is John W. Meeker. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This proposal was a solicited application. The work being done at the Geothermal Education Office is a continuation of a program that was funded by DOE through a contract with Sandia National Laboratory. However, the Department believes that the effort contemplated is more appropriate to be funded through a grant mechanism because the intent of the program is to benefit the public through development and distribution of geothermal energy educational information to American youth. Competition for this effort would have an adverse effect on continuity of these on-going activities. The programmatic evaluation [see 10 CFR 600.7(b)(2)(ii)(D)] completed for this proposal resulted in a recommendation to fund this application for the following reasons: The proposed project will contribute to the DOE mission of ``*␣*␣* providing the scientific and educational foundation, *␣*␣* necessary to achieve efficiency in energy use, diversity in energy sources, *␣*␣*.'' by developing, publishing and distributing user friendly information about geothermal energy. The target group is Kindergarten through 12th Grade (K&hyph;12) teachers and students. The objectives of the Geothermal Education Office (an educational non-profit organization) are to develop, publish and distribute user-friendly information about geothermal energy. Its target group is K&hyph;12 teachers and students. The Geothermal Education Office staff coordinates educational workshops and booths, does extensive mailings, publishes in educational and geothermal industry newsletters, gives input to textbook and other publishers, works on joint projects with other geothermal and energy education organizations, and attends appropriate geothermal association meetings. The probability of meeting the objectives listed below are very high, given that the Geothermal Education Office has been successful in the past for similar endeavors. The staff of the Geothermal Education Office is uniquely qualified to provide this service. Marilyn Nemzer, Director of the Geothermal Education Office, has spent her career in education and has developed the support of other geothermal organizations. At the 1993 Geothermal Resource Council Conference, Marilyn Nemzer, director of the Geothermal Education Office, was honored by the Council for her efforts and accomplishments. The Geothermal Education Office's facilities are fully capable of meeting their needs and the accomplishment of the effort under this grant. The budget proposed for the anticipated work was reviewed and is considered to be appropriate and adequate. The major public benefit to be derived from this project is providing an educational background to the youth of the United States as well as others who might be interested. Informing others about geothermal energy provides a positive public outlook toward all renewable energies and energy efficient products and ideas. Providing an educational foundation of Geothermal Energy fits comfortably within the program's direction and objectives. The Geothermal Education Office has established an information network which is continually growing and is providing educational material and hands-on projects. This experience further enhances the ability of the applicant to achieve the public benefits to be derived from accomplishment of the objectives of this effort. The proposed effort is a continuation of work currently being funded by DOE. Competition for this effort would have a significant adverse impact on the continuity of the proposed activities. Issued in Golden, CO, on April 15, 1994. Christine A. Phoebe, Director, Administrative Div., Golden Field Office. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10156 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
