FR940106-2-00012 FR940106-2-00007 The Department conducted verification of the cost and sales responses of Minasligas and CBCC in Brazil from August 25 through September 14, 1993. Petitioners, CBCC, and Minasligas submitted case briefs on October 27, 1993, and rebuttal briefs on November 1, 1993. On November 3, 1993, a public hearing was held. Best Information Available As stated in the ``Case History'' section of this notice, Italmagnesio withdrew its responses prior to verification and stated that it would not participate further in the investigation. Therefore, Italmagnesio must be considered a non-cooperating party. As a non-cooperating party, based on our past practice ( see e.g., 58 FR 37215, Final Determination of Sales At Less Than Value, Certain Cut-to-Length Carbon Steel Plate from the United Kingdom, July 9, 1993), Italmagnesio will be assigned the higher of the margins alleged in the petition or a calculated margin for another company as best information available (BIA). (See Comment 15) Such or Similar Comparisons We have determined that all the products covered by this investigation constitute a single category of such or similar merchandise. Where there were no sales of identical merchandise in the home market to compare to U.S. sales, we compared similar merchandise based on the following criteria: (1) The percentage range, by weight, of silicon content; (2) grade; and (3) sieve size. (See Comment 2 with regard to sieve size.) Fair Value Comparisons To determine whether sales of FeSi from Brazil to the United States were made at less than fair value, we compared the United States price (USP) to the foreign market value (FMV), as specified below. United States Price A. CBCC We based USP on purchase price, in accordance with section 772(b) of the Act, because the subject merchandise was sold to unrelated purchasers in the United States prior to importation and exporter's sales price was not indicated by other circumstances. We calculated purchase price based on packed FOB port of embarkation prices to unrelated customers. Because CBCC did not report packing for bulk sales, we used information from the public version of Minasligas' response for bulk packing. We made deductions where appropriate for foreign inland freight (which also included foreign inland insurance), foreign brokerage and handling, and warehousing. We made an adjustment to USP for the taxes paid on the comparison sales in Brazil. On October 7, 1993, the Court of International Trade (CIT), in Federal-Mogul Corp. and The Torrington Co. v. United States, Slip Op. 93&hyph;194 (CIT, October 7, 1993), rejected the Department's methodology for calculating an addition to USP under section 772(d)(1)(C) of the Act to account for taxes that the exporting country would have assessed on the merchandise had it been sold in the home market. The CIT held that the addition to USP under section 772(d)(1)(C) of the Act should be the result of applying the foreign market tax rate to the price of the United States merchandise at the same point in the chain of commerce that the foreign market tax was applied to foreign market sales. Federal-Mogul, Slip Op. 93&hyph;194 at 12. The Department has changed its methodology in accordance with the Federal-Mogul decision, and has applied this new methodology in making the final determination in this investigation. From now on, the Department will add to USP the result of multiplying the foreign market tax rate by the price of the United States merchandise at the same point in the chain of commerce that the foreign market tax was applied to foreign market sales. The Department will also adjust the USP tax adjustment and the amount of tax included in FMV. These adjustments will deduct the portions of the foreign market tax and the USP tax adjustment that are the result of expenses that are included in the foreign market price used to calculate foreign market tax and are included in the United States merchandise price used to calculate the USP tax adjustment and that are later deducted to calculate FMV and USP. These adjustments to the amount of the foreign market tax and the USP tax adjustment are necessary to prevent the new methodology for calculating the USP tax adjustment from creating antidumping duty margins where no margins would exist if no taxes were levied upon foreign market sales. This margin creation effect is due to the fact that the bases for calculating both the amount of tax included in the price of the foreign market merchandise and the amount of the USP tax adjustment include many expenses that are later deducted when calculating USP and FMV. After these deductions are made, the amount of tax included in FMV and the USP tax adjustment still reflects the amounts of these expenses. Thus, a margin may be created that is not dependent upon a difference between USP and FMV, but is the result of the price of the United States merchandise containing more expenses than the price of the foreign market merchandise. The Department's policy to avoid the margin creation effect is in accordance with the United States Court of Appeals' holding that the application of the USP tax adjustment under section 772(d)(1)(C) of the Act should not create an antidumping duty margin if pre-tax FMV does not exceed USP. Zenith Electronics Corp. v. United States, 988 F.2d 1573, 1581 (Fed. Cir. 1993). In addition, the CIT has specifically held that an adjustment should be made to mitigate the impact of expenses that are deducted from FMV and USP upon the USP tax adjustment and the amount of tax included in FMV. Daewoo Electronics Co., Ltd. v. United States, 760 F. Supp. 200, 208 (CIT, 1991). However, the mechanics of the Department's adjustments to the USP tax adjustment and the foreign market tax amount as described above are not identical to those suggested in Daewoo.
