FR940513-2-00193 FR940513-2-00091 6. Materials development: Proposals may contain costs to purchase, develop and translate materials for participants. USIA reserves the rights to these materials for future use. 7. Room rentals, which generally should not exceed $250/day. 8. One working meal per project, for which per capita costs may not exceed $5&hyph;$8 for a lunch or $14&hyph;$20 for a dinner. The number of invited guests may not exceed the number of participants by more than a factor of two to one. 9. Return travel allowance: $70 for each participant which is to be used for incidental expenditures incurred during international travel. 10. Other costs necessary for the effective administration of the program, including salaries for grant organization employees, benefits, and other direct and indirect costs per detailed instructions in the application package. E/P encourages cost-sharing, which may be in the form of allowable direct or indirect costs. E/P would be especially interested in proposals which demonstrate a program vision which goes well beyond that which can be supported by the requested USIA grant and which would try to use a USIA grant to leverage additional funding from other sources to support elements of the broader program plan. The Recipient must maintain written records to support all allowable costs which are claimed as being its contribution to cost participation, as well as costs to be paid by the Federal government. Such records are subject to audit. The basis for determining the value of cash and in-kind contributions must be in accordance with OMB Circular A&hyph;110, Attachment E, ``Cost-sharing and Matching,'' and should be described in the proposal. In the event the Recipient does not meet the minimum amount of cost-sharing as stipulated in the Recipient's budget, the Agency's contribution will be reduced in proportion to the Recipient's contribution. Please note: All delegates will be covered under the terms of a USIA-sponsored health insurance policy. The premium is paid by USIA directly to the insurance company. Application Requirements Proposals must be structured in accordance with the instructions contained in the Application Package. Confirmation letters from U.S. and foreign co-sponsors noting their intention to participate in the program will enhance a proposal. Because this is a competitive solicitation, representatives of the Office of Citizen Exchanges can only respond to technical questions. Review Process USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines established herein and in the Application Package. Eligible proposals will be forwarded to panels of USIA officers for advisory review. Proposals will be reviewed by USIS posts and by USIA's Office of African Affairs. Proposals may also be reviewed by the Office of the General Counsel or other Agency offices. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for grant awards resides with USIA's contracting officer. The award of any grant is subject to availability of funds. The U.S. Government reserves the right to reject any or all applications received. USIA will not pay for design and development costs associated with submitting a proposal. Applications are submitted at the risk of the applicant; should circumstances prevent award of a grant, all preparation and submission costs are at the applicant's expense. USIA will not award funds for activities conducted prior to the actual grant award. Review Criteria USIA will consider proposals based on the following criteria: 1. Institutional Reputation and Ability Applicant institutions should demonstrate their potential for excellence in program design and implementation and/or provide documentation of successful programs. If an applicant is a previous USIA grant recipient, responsible fiscal management and full compliance with all reporting requirements for past Agency grants as determined by USIA's Office of Contracts will be considered. Relevant substantive evaluations of previous projects may also be considered in this assessment. 2. Project Personnel The thematic and logistical expertise of project personnel should be relevant to the proposed program. Resumes or C.V.s should be summaries which are relevant to the specific proposal and no longer than two pages each.
