FR940406-2-00006 FR940406-2-00001 In addition to changing premium rates as needed, FCIC proposes to take a number of additional actions to enhance the accuracy and adequacy of its actuarial activities. These include: • Develop computer software and other tools to enhance the quality of the data used to establish premium rates and perform actuarial analyses (``STATPLAN'' database, due for completion in October 1994). •Plans to contract with a major actuarial consulting firm to review all aspects of FCIC's actuarial methods. •Enhance staff skills by additional training in analytical methods for existing personnel and more emphasis on recruitment of actuarial trainees (ongoing) for appropriate functional units. • Continue to contract with external specialists such as the Economic Research Service, land grant universities, the Cooperative Extension Service, and others (ongoing). • Develop models to measure sources of change in premium volumes and track the effects of premium rate changes as isolated from changes induced by factors such as price elections, coverage level choices, insured crops, and other factors that are not controllable by the rate-making function (development to begin immediately). G. Improve Underwriting of Crop Insurance Contracts. Underwriting begins by establishing the basic terms and conditions of the coverage. These include defining conditions that result in a covered loss, measuring the amount of that loss, and defining the responsibilities of the insured and the insurer. Underwriting continues with proper classification of an insured risk. For example, planting crop B the year after crop A was grown on the same acreage may be riskier that if other crops were grown the previous year. Some land, such as flood plains, is more prone to losses. Quality of management also is important. A farmer who is organized, plans, performs preventive maintenance on equipment, and performs field operations in a timely manner may minimize losses. A comprehensive underwriting system requires effective risk management strategies and goals, standards, and documentation. Initiatives to improve underwriting that began in the early 1990's will be continued as part of the strategy detailed in this Blueprint. The following specific actions will be pursued: • Fully automate the actuarial documents to facilitate more comprehensive underwriting at the point of sale and to verify the classification of risk in an automated environment (completed by the 1996 crop year). • Develop standards and classification systems to assess and classify individual risk, including completion of research intended to develop a ``scoring model'' for risk that is based on measurable attributes of a person or situation similar to a credit rating model (for implementation by crop year 1996 if this model is feasible). • Continue to rewrite crop insurance policies to better describe the insurance coverage and limitations and to reduce vulnerabilities to actuarial soundness that exist due to imprecise, unclear, or omitted terms and conditions (ongoing, with major crops scheduled for the 1995 crop year). • Encourage development of supplemental or alternative insurance coverages authorized by section 508(b) of the Act so that coverage may be improved with most of the risk remaining in the commercial sector. Improved underwriting will improve program performance. However, meaningful measures to quantify possible benefits are not readily available. For this reason, FCIC cannot attribute a specific dollar amount to the benefits of improved actuarial systems and crop insurance policies. H. Emphasize Program Compliance The FCIC Compliance function is designed to confirm that the Federal crop insurance program is operated and delivered as intended. Through internal reviews based on generally accepted auditing principles, it assures that program controls are in place against excess losses due to waste, fraud and abuse. Compliance emphasis will focus on: 1. Program Delivery Beginning in 1987, the Compliance staff conducted reviews of program delivery to assess compliance with regulations, policy, and procedure. That year, according to GAO and OIG audits, errors in claims payment represented an estimated 15 percent of all losses paid equaling $55 million of taxpayer dollars. Since that time, Compliance efforts have reduced these errors to approximately 5 percent of indemnities but still need continued improvement. Losses due to claim payment errors are not included in underwriting calculations of risk, so this reduction in excess losses has a direct and immediate impact of lowering the program loss ratio without increasing program cost or premium rates. To further reduce claims overpayment the Compliance Staff will review the entire operations of each delivery company in coordinated nationwide reviews. The review methodology was recently revised to reflect generally accepted auditing principles and statistically projectable sampling techniques. Beginning with the 1995 crop year, Compliance requirements will be expanded to define specific quality control and performance measurement processes for each delivery company. Policy service error rates will be monitored. The performance of each company will then be compared to an established national standard. 2. Program Performance Compliance reviews for several years have shown that a proportion of the excess losses are attributable to features in program construction that produce unintended results. The Compliance Staff will conduct program performance reviews that assess regulations, policies and procedures designed to prevent waste, fraud, and abuse and that the program, policies, and procedures perform as intended. As an example, in 1989 GAO claims that construction of policy language in the California Safflower program alone resulted in approximately $20 million in excess losses. It is not possible to determine how much of FCIC losses may be attributable to unintended features of program construction. However, recent program performance pilot reviews of the peanut program and regional irrigated practices resulted in an estimated 4 to 10 percent reduction in losses for those areas that may otherwise have gone undetected. For the past several years Compliance has conducted ad hoc program reviews on topical issues. These reviews will be expanded to identify and target reviews for crop insurance programs with the greatest potential vulnerability. 3. Fraud Prevention The risk of fraud is particularly acute in the insurance industry. Estimates for property-casualty insurance indicate insurance fraud may represent as much as 15 percent of all losses paid. Recent efforts at crop insurance fraud detection and subsequent prosecution have been increasingly successful. However, after-the-fact controls on program abuse are not fully effective. Compliance will work with the delivery companies to focus on practical, cost efficient fraud prevention. Compliance operations, program performance, and complaint reviews will emphasize identifying systemic vulnerabilities and assessing program safeguards. Discrepancies noted in review findings will be evaluated to determine the underlying causes. Emphasis also will be placed on measures to control program abuse that include strict contract enforcement and pro-active policy analyses that identifies potential abuse and targets additional claims review. These measures will be coupled with the aggressive implementation of civil sanctions, agent/loss adjuster debarment, and designating producer ineligibility in finding related to program abuse.
