FR941007-2-00028 FR941007-2-00011 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Department of the Army Intent for Preparation of a Draft Environmental Impact Statement/Environmental Impact Report for Proposed Combined Forces Training Activities, New Equipment Utilization, and Range Modernization Program at Camp Roberts, CA AGENCY: Department of the Army, Department of Defense. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: This Notice of Intent is for the preparation of a Draft Environmental Impact Statement/Draft Environmental Impact Report (DEIS/DEIR) for proposed combined forces training activities, new equipment utilization, and range modernization program at Camp Roberts, California. The document will address the combined forces training scenario that includes a brigade directed exercise involving additional organizational and support personnel, the capability to support the new modern equipment, including the M2/M3 series of infantry fighting vehicle (known as the Bradley Fighting Vehicle), the M1A1/A2 family of Abrams tank, the AH64 Apache attack helicopters, and the multiple launch rocket systems (MLRS), along with the modernization of six ranges (small arms, hand grenade, tank gunnery). The DEIS/DEIR will address environmental considerations of the various alternatives for accomplishing the proposed action objectives. The document will analyze the direct and indirect environmental impacts that may be both beneficial and detrimental. Environmental issues to be addressed include effects on air quality, noise, land use, hazardous materials, water resources, biological and cultural resources, public health and safety, and social and economic resources. Various alternatives have been developed for consideration regarding the proposed projects at Camp Roberts. The following constitutes a list of those alternatives to be considered in the DEIS: (1) The use of Fort Hunter Liggett in Monterey County, California, for brigade directed training activities and utilization of new modern equipment. (2) The use of Fort Irwin in San Bernardino County, California, for brigade directed training activities and utilization of new modern equipment. (3) The No-Action Alternative (do not conduct brigade directed training exercises, modernize ranges, or utilize new equipment at Camp Roberts). Scoping : CARRNG Will conduct public scoping meetings relating to the proposed actions. Dates, times, and locations for the meetings will be announced through letters, public notices, display advertisements, and releases to newspapers of general circulation at least 15 days prior to the meetings. The purposes of the public scoping meetings are to: (1) Provide a description of the proposed action. (2) Discuss the role of the public in the development of the proposed action and DEIS/DEIR. (3) Identify potential impacts and issues that should be included in the DEIS/DEIR. (4) Identify and review process, coordination, or permit requirements associated with the proposal. Interested individuals, governmental agencies and private organizations are invited to submit information and comments on this proposed action for consideration by the National Guard Bureau. Information that would assist the National Guard Bureau in analyzing the potential significant environmental consequences are solicited. This includes information on other environmental studies planned or completed in the area of Camp Roberts, other alternatives, potential impacts associated with the proposed action, and recommended mitigation measures. Concerned individuals and agencies may express their views either by writing to the designated point of contact or participating in public scoping meetings to be held at convenient locations near Camp Roberts. Those wishing to provide information or data relevant to the environmental analysis of the proposed actions or alternatives are encouraged to do so at the public scoping meetings. Upon the completion, the DEIS/DEIR will be available to the public. The availability of these documents will be announced by means of public notices so that all interested parties may review and comment on the documents. ADDRESSES: Interested parties may provide comments or obtain additional information by contacting the EIS/EIR Project Officer, CPR Kelly Fisher, Director of Personnel & Community Activities (CACR-DPCA), Camp Roberts Training Site, Camp Roberts, CA 93451&hyph;5000. Verbal comments can be made by calling (805) 238&hyph;8202. Dated: September 30, 1994. Lewis D. Walker, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army (Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health) OASA (IL&E). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24928 Filed 10&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;08&hyph;M
