FR941202-2-00148 FR941202-2-00098 Article VII_Fees and Dues The annual Membership fees and the registration fees for the Annual Meeting are recommended by the Conference Management and Funding Committee and shall be approved (and may be revised) by a majority vote of the Board of Directors at any official meeting of that Committee. Article VIII_Amendments to the Constitution This Constitution may be amended, added to, or repealed at any Annual Meeting of the Membership under normal Conference procedures. Proposed changes must be included in the agenda of the Board of Directors for the Interim Meeting, published in the Recommendations of the Board of Directors in its Tentative Report, and discussed at the general session of the Board of Directors at the Annual Meeting at which said changes will be voted upon. Amendments to the Constitution must be approved by a minimum of a two-thirds vote in both the House of Representatives and the House of Delegates. Article IX_Bylaws Section 1_Supplementation of Constitution This Constitution shall be supplemented by Bylaws which shall detail the methods of operation of the Conference. Such Bylaws shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution. Section 2_Amendments and Repeals of the Bylaws The Bylaws may be amended or repealed in the same manner as prescribed for the Constitution (See Article VIII). Section 3_Renumbering The Executive Secretary is authorized to renumber the Articles and Sections of the Constitution or Bylaws to accommodate any changes made. Bylaws Article I_Application for Membership Section 1_Form of Application Each application for membership or contributorship shall be submitted to the Executive Secretary. The application shall be accompanied by the Membership or Contributor fee. The successful applicant's name will be added to the Conference mailing list. Confirmation of Member or Contributor status will be mailed. Article II_Fees, Membership Records Section 1_Fees The fees for annual Membership, Contributorship, as well as the registration fee for the Annual Meeting, are established by the Conference Management and Funding Committee and are subject to approval and revision by the Board of Directors. Section 2_Membership Year
