FR941013-2-00072 FR941013-2-00057 •Coordinates OMC involvement in outside audit activity (e.g. Office of Inspector General, the General Accounting Office). •Coordinates and tracks the Freedom of Information Act requests for OMC. •Coordinates the controlled correspondence, assignments, congressional, and public inquires related to OMC; coordinates preparation of replies for the signature of the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services, the Health Care Administration (HCFA) Administrator, OMC Director, and other senior officials. •Serves as liaison or provides OMC with support services such as supply; property management; work space; equipment utilization; purchase of computers, hardware, software, and supplies; and printing. Orders manual issuances, forms and records. •Directs, coordinates and tracks strategic and work planning efforts for OMC. •Serves as Project Officer for subject related contracts (e.g. consultant, training, evaluation, and program monitoring). •Develops, modifies, and implements procedures for the ongoing maintenance of official files for OMC including: serving as the control point for the receipt and initial processing of HMOs applications and financial, enforcement, and related documents for appropriate dissemination. Maintains the OMC library which serves as the primary focal point for distribution of information for the industry, the public and OMC staff. •Provides support to OMC's Program Policy and Improvement component (e.g. assistance with regulation and manual clearance). b. Medicaid Managed Care Team (FAD1) •Federal focal point for all Medicaid managed care activities including operations, policy, and technical assistance. •Provides oversight of, and assistance to, State Medicaid agencies on all Medicaid managed care issues, including managed care entity contracting activities. Provides technical assistance to State regulators and enforces Federal requirements. •Evaluates and makes recommendations on the access, quality, and cost effectiveness information on State freedom of choice waiver requests (including selective provider contracting requests), through review of state submittal, independent assessments, and regional compliance/validation reviews. •Evaluates and makes recommendations on managed care concerns specified in State health care reform proposals. •Provides concurrence on managed care issues involving Section 1115 waivers. •Formulates, evaluates, and prepares: policies, specifications for regulations, manual instructions, State plan preprints, procedures, and legislative proposals related to Medicaid managed care. •Develops guidelines, policies, and procedures for Regional Offices (ROs) when reviewing and approving State Medicaid agency contracts with managed care entities. Provides training to HCFA ROs for contract and waiver reviews. •Coordinates and tracks Medicaid Freedom of Choice waivers and state plan amendments. •Coordinates Medicaid managed care activities with the Medicaid Bureau and other HCFA components. •Participates in joint projects with other Federal agencies, States, and the managed care industry on program specific managed care initiatives including: areas related to rate setting; marketing; solvency; maternal and child health; Federally Qualified Health Centers; and Early and Periodic Screening, Diagnosis, and Treatment. •Supports and participates in Medicaid managed care workgroups with state Medicaid agencies, the managed care industry, and ROs. •Provides support to OMC's Program Policy and Improvement (e.g. external coordination and communications). c. Data Development and Support Team (FAD2) •Manages the HCFA national data systems for Medicare beneficiary managed care enrollment and disenrollment. Provides enrollment and disenrollment support to HMO which contract with independent organizations. •Develops instructions on procedures for obtaining data on Medicare managed care recipient enrollment and disenrollment. •Develops requirements/specifications for, and works with the Bureau of Data Management and Strategy to then develop and maintain operational information systems to support current programs (inventory collection, analysis, reporting improvements such as: Plan Information Control System (PICS), Beneficiary Information Tracking System (BITS), Automated Plan Payment System (APPS), Medicaid reports, and monthly Data Reporting Requirements (DRR) reports) for the use of HCFA staff. Develops and maintains instructions in manuals on PICS, BITS, APPS, the Reconsideration Tracking System, and the Group Health Plan System. Provides technical assistance to Central Office (CO) and the ROs on these systems. •Manages the Automated Plan Payment System and the National Data Reporting Requirements System. Collects and disseminates Medicare and Medicaid managed care data to the public (e.g., Medicaid enrollment reports).
