FR940825-1-00024 FR940825-1-00002 2. Emergency Evacuation Plan. (a) An emergency egress plan shall be developed and posted at each ATCT facility where it is available for employee review. (b) This plan shall include actions employers and employees must take to ensure safety from fire and other emergencies. The plan shall include, at a minimum the following: (1) emergency escape procedures and emergency escape route assignments; (2) procedures to be followed by employees who remain to perform critical ATCT operations before they evacuate; (3) procedures to account for all employees after emergency evacuation has been completed; (4) rescue and medical duties for those employees who are to perform them; and (5) names or job titles of persons or departments who can be contacted for further information or explanation of duties under the plan. (6) This plan shall be posted in a place readily available to employees. A diagram of designated emergency egress routes shall be posted along the path of egress. (c) Training. (1) Before implementing the emergency action plan, the employer shall designate and train a sufficient number of persons to assist in the safe and orderly emergency evacuation of employees. (2) The employer shall review the plan with each employee covered by the plan at the following times: A. initially when the plan is developed; B. whenever the employee's responsibilities or designated actions under the plan change; and C. whenever the plan is changed. D. The employer shall review with each employee upon initial assignment and annually thereafter those parts of the evacuation plan which the employee must know to protect the employee in the event of an emergency. (d) Fire drills shall be held periodically. Fire drills shall be held often enough to ensure that each employee participates in at least one drill annually. (e) Since all personnel may not be able to leave their positions during a fire drill, employees who were not able to participate shall be briefed on the emergency evacuation route and instructed to use this route the next time they leave the facility in order to familiarize themselves with the exit route. Supervisors shall document employee briefings in employee records. (f) Ladders shall not be used during evacuation drills as their use during drills poses unnecessary risk.
