FR940224-0-00030 FR940224-0-00002 §215.7 Extensions of credit outstanding on March 10, 1979. (a) Any extension of credit that was outstanding on March 10, 1979, and that would, if made on or after March 10, 1979, violate §215.4(c) of this part, shall be reduced in amount by March 10, 1980, to be in compliance with the lending limit in §215.4(c) of this part. Any renewal or extension of such an extension of credit on or after March 10, 1979, shall be made only on terms that will bring the extension of credit into compliance with the lending limit of §215.4(c) of this part by March 10, 1980. However, any extension of credit made before March 10, 1979, that bears a specific maturity date of March 10, 1980, or later, shall be repaid in accordance with its repayment schedule in existence on or before March 10, 1979. (b) If a member bank is unable to bring all extensions of credit outstanding on March 10, 1979, into compliance as required by paragraph (a) of this section, the member bank shall promptly report that fact to the Comptroller of the Currency, in the case of a national bank, or to the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank, in the case of a State member bank, and explain the reasons why all the extensions of credit cannot be brought into compliance. The Comptroller or the Reserve Bank, as the case may be, is authorized, on the basis of good cause shown, to extend the March 10, 1980, date for compliance for any extension of credit for not more than two additional one-year periods. §215.8 Records of member banks. (a) In general. Each member bank shall maintain records necessary for compliance with the requirements of this part. (b) Recordkeeping for insiders of the member bank. Any recordkeeping method adopted by a member bank shall: (1) Identify, through an annual survey, all insiders of the bank itself; and (2) Maintain records of all extensions of credit to insiders of the bank itself, including the amount and terms of each such extension of credit. (c) Recordkeeping for insiders of the member bank's affiliates. Any recordkeeping method adopted by a member bank shall maintain records of extensions of credit to insiders of the member bank's affiliates by: (1) Survey method. (i) Identifying, through an annual survey, each insider of the member bank's affiliates; and (ii) Maintaining records of the amount and terms of each extension of credit by the member bank to such insiders; or (2) Borrower inquiry method. (i) Requiring as part of each extension of credit that the borrower indicate whether the borrower is an insider of an affiliate of the member bank; and (ii) Maintaining records that identify the amount and terms of each extension of credit by the member bank to borrowers so identifying themselves. (3) Alternative recordkeeping methods for insiders of affiliates. A member bank may employ a recordkeeping method other than those identified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section if the appropriate Federal banking agency determines that the bank's method is at least as effective as the identified methods. (d) Special rule for non-commercial lenders. A member bank that is prohibited by law or by an express resolution of the board of directors of the bank from making an extension of credit to any company or other entity that is covered by this part as a company is not required to maintain any records of the related interests of the insiders of the bank or its affiliates or to inquire of borrowers whether they are related interests of the insiders of the bank or its affiliates. §215.9 Reports by executive officers. Each executive officer of a member bank who becomes indebted to any other bank or banks in an aggregate amount greater than the amount specified for a category of credit in §215.5(c) of this part, shall, within 10 days of the date the indebtedness reaches such a level, make a written report to the board of directors of the officer's bank. The report shall state the lender's name, the date and amount of each extension of credit, any security for it, and the purposes for which the proceeds have been or are to be used.
