FR940426-1-00067 FR940426-1-00007 (4) Emphasizing prompt command action to assist with the processing of involuntary allotment applications. ยง50.5 General policies. (a) Members of the Military Services are expected to pay their just financial obligations in a proper and timely manner. However, DoD Components have no legal authority, except as stated in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, to require members to pay a private debt or to divert any part of their pay for its satisfaction. (1) Legal process instituted in civil courts to enforce judgments against military personnel for the payment of alimony or child support will be acted upon in accordance with the provisions of Public Law 93&hyph;647, as amended, and part 7, chapter 7, section B. of DoD 7000.14&hyph;R, 4 , Volume 7. 4 See footnote 1 to ยง50.4(c). (2) Involuntary allotments pursuant to the provisions of Public Law 103&hyph;94 shall be established in accordance with the provisions of this part. (b) Whenever possible, indebtedness disputes should be resolved through amicable means. Claimants desiring to contact a military member concerning a claim of indebtedness may obtain the member's military address by writing to the locator service of the Military Department concerned, and enclosing the appropriate fee for the service, as provided under DoD Instruction 7230.7. 5 5 See footnote 1 to ยง50.4(c). (c) The following general policies apply to processing of debt complaints. (1) Creditors are encouraged to use the processing procedures for debt complaints described in appendix A to this part. Complaints meeting the requirements of this part will receive prompt processing assistance from commanders. (2) Assistance in indebtedness matters will not be extended to those creditors: (i) Who have not made a bona fide effort to collect the debt directly from the military member; (ii) Whose claims are patently false and misleading; (iii) Whose claims are obviously exorbitant; or (iv) Who are in an ``off-limits'' status, or who have been determined to be practicing unfair consumer or commercial practices detrimental to the morale and welfare of service members, pursuant to applicable directives of the military services, to include the Armed Forces Disciplinary Control Board and Off-Installation Liaison and Operations regulations. 6 6 See footnote 1 to ยง50.4(c). (3) Some States have enacted laws which prohibit creditors from contacting a debtor's employer with respect to indebtedness or communicating facts on indebtedness to an employer unless certain conditions are met. The conditions which must be met to remove this prohibition are generally such things as reduction of a debt to judgment and obtaining written permission of the debtor. (i) At DoD installations in States having such laws, the processing of debt complaints will not be extended to those creditors who are in violation of the State law. Commanders may advise creditors that this rule has been established because it is the general policy of the Military Services to comply with State law when that law does not infringe upon significant military interests. (ii) This policy will govern even though a creditor is not licensed to do business in the State where the debtor is located. A similar practice will be commenced in any State enacting a similar law with respect to debt collection. (4) Under the provisions of Public Law 95&hyph;109, contact by a debt collector with third parties, such as commanding officers, for the purpose of aiding debt collection is prohibited without a court order, or the debtor's prior consent, given directly to the debt collector. Creditors are generally exempt from Public Law 95&hyph;109, but only when they collect on their own behalf. (d) The following general policies apply to processing of involuntary allotments (except statutory allotments for child support or alimony).
