FR940429-0-00169 FR940429-0-00015 Section 668.15␣Factors of Financial Responsibility Sections 668.15(b) (1), (2), and (3) have been amended to clarify that, in order to be financially responsible, an institution must be providing the services described in its official publications and statements; providing the administrative resources necessary to comply with the requirements of subpart B; and meeting all if its financial obligations. This is a change from the proposed regulations that would have required an institution to demonstrate that it was able to provide and meet these requirements. The Secretary believes these changes more accurately reflect the intent of the regulations. In response to public comment, §668.15(b)(4) further defines the requirement that an institution be current in its debt payments. The Secretary considers an institution to be current in its long-term debt obligations if it is not in violation of existing loan agreements at the end of the institution's fiscal year. The Secretary considers an institution to not be current in all of its debt obligations whenever the institution is more than 120 days delinquent in making payments, and a legal claim has been initiated against the institution or a lien has been filed on its assets due to the non-payment of the obligation. The Secretary believes that an institution's non-payment of obligations is a serious concern because the possibility exists that legal actions brought by creditors may result in forfeiture of some or all of an institution's assets. Consistent with the determination that payment delinquencies place the institution at risk, the Secretary notes that such actions are also often precede an action by creditors to force a company into bankruptcy. In response to public comment, §668.15(b)(5) has been amended to require that the amount of an institution's required cash reserve shall be one-quarter of the amount the institution paid in refunds during its previous year, as shown in its audited financial statement. By using historical information specific to the individual institution, the Secretary provides for adequate reserves for all institutions, rather than establishing an across the board measure which would be inadequate for some and inappropriate for others. Also, in response to the comments, the regulations have been changed to require the cash reserve to be maintained as a cash deposit in a federally insured bank account or an investment in U.S. Treasury securities, with an original maturity of three months or less. Proposed §668.15(b)(6)(ii) that would have provided that an institution is financially responsible if the institution does not have a finding of unauthorized use of donor restricted net assets to meet current operating expenses, has been removed from these regulations. This change was made based upon general considerations that were presented in the public comments concerning the need to implement consistent standards for determining financial responsibility for for-profit and nonprofit institutions, and to simplify the administrative resources necessary to determine whether institutions were in compliance with the regulations. In response to numerous public comments, §668.15(b)(7)(i)(A) and (b)(8)(i)(B) have been amended to require that both for-profit institutions and nonprofit institutions must meet an acid test ratio of 1:1 to replace the proposed ratio requirements that differed for for-profit and nonprofit institutions. The acid test ratio is defined as the sum of cash and current accounts receivable, divided by current liabilities. The Secretary has kept the regulatory exclusions of unsecured or uncollateralized related party receivables because they represent capital outflows from an institution that do not contain provisions for repayment. The Secretary has allowed the inclusion of the institution's cash reserve requirement in the calculation of the acid test ratio. In response to public comment concerning the proper development of standards for nonprofit and for-profit institutions, §668.15(b)(7)(i)(B) has been amended to require that a for-profit institution may not have operating losses in one or both years exceeding ten percent of equity capital. The Secretary's intent is to determine whether a trend of continuing losses exists, or if a loss occurs in any one year that it's magnitude is such that it does not materially impact the equity of the institution. The Secretary has changed the reference year used in the calculation to be that of the beginning of the first year in the two year period rather than the most recently completed fiscal year. In response to public comment, §668.15(b)(7)(ii), (b)(8)(ii), and (b)(9)(v) have been added to provide that a for- profit institution, a nonprofit institution, or a public institution may demonstrate that it is financially responsible if it submits evidence of a superior bond rating as an alternative to having to meet the tests for financial responsibility. The Secretary considers an institution to be financially responsible if the institution has currently issued an outstanding debt obligations that are, without insurance, guarantee, or credit enhancement rated at or above the second highest level of rating given by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization. Section 668.15(b)(8)(i)(C)( 1 ) has been changed from the NPRM to incorporate the existing requirement that a nonprofit institution must have a positive unrestricted current fund balance or positive unrestricted net assets. This requirement is unchanged from the former requirement in effect for more than fourteen years that a nonprofit have a positive unrestricted current fund balance. Section 668.15(b)(8)(i)(C)( 2 ) has been amended to require that a nonprofit institution may not have excess current fund expenditures in either or both of two years that results in a decrease in the current unrestricted fund or a decrease in unrestricted net assets of greater than ten percent of the institution's unrestricted current fund balance or unrestricted net assets in the beginning of the first year of the two year period. The proposed regulation would have required that a nonprofit institution not have a decrease in total net assets of such significance that if continued would result in a current ratio of less than 1:1. As in the requirement for for-profit institutions, the Secretary's intent is to determine whether a trend of continuing excess expenditures exists, or if a significant excess expenditure in any one year is so great in magnitude that it materially affects the unrestricted current fund balance or the unrestricted net assets of the institution. In the NPRM the Secretary proposed that a public institution is financially responsible only if it has its liabilities backed by the full faith and credit of a state. In response to public comment, §668.15(b)(9) has been revised to add three alternatives that a public institution may employ to demonstrate that it is financially responsible: for institutions reporting under the Single Audit Act, a positive unrestricted current fund balance; a positive unrestricted current fund balance in a state's Higher Education Fund, as presented in the general purpose financial statements of the state; or the submission of a statement by the State Auditor General that the institution has sufficient resources to meet all of its financial obligations. In response to public comment, §668.15(d)(ii) has been amended to identify the circumstances where an institution that does not otherwise demonstrate financial responsibility can continue to participate fully by showing that it meets certain conditions to demonstrate that it has sufficient resources to ensure against its precipitous closure. In response to public comment, §668.15(e)(3) has been added to clarify that the submission of an audit performed in accordance with the Single Audit Act satisfies the requirement for a submission of an audited financial statement under §668.15(e)(1).
