FR941128-0-00045 FR941128-0-00012 (h)(1)(iv)/(f)(1)(iv) This criterion addresses the degree to which erosion and sediment control are present and functioning. Monitoring for damage caused by off-site sedimentation may need to be more frequent where there are extensive or critically located areas of loose soils that are not controlled by any or by non-functioning sediment controls. (h)(1)(v)(f)(1)(v) Another factor to be considered by the regulatory authority is the proximity of the abandoned site to urbanized areas, communities, occupied dwellings, schools, and other public or commercial buildings and facilities. This criterion will become either more or less important depending on the regulatory authority's findings under the other criteria. (h)(1)(vi)/(f)(1)(vi) This criterion concerns the extent of reclamation conducted prior to abandonment and the degree of stability of unreclaimed areas. Abandoned sites vary widely in this respect, ranging from no reclamation at all to various combinations of backfilling, grading, revegetation, and bond release. (h)(1)(vii)/(f)(1)(vii) This last criterion requires the regulatory authority to document the rate at which adverse environmental or public health and safety conditions have and can be expected to progressively deteriorate based on the record of complete and partial inspection reports during the last two consecutive years of inspections of the site. This snapshot through time can be useful in predicting whether adverse conditions can be expected in the future and their rate of acceleration, which may have an important bearing on justifying any reduction in inspection frequency. Final Sections 840.11(h)(2)/842.11(f)(2) In response to public comment, this section is being added to require the regulatory authority to advertise each proposed frequency reduction in the newspaper with the broadest circulation in the locality of the abandoned site. The public will be provided a 30 day period in which to submit written comments. Paragraph (h)(2)(ii)/(f)(2)(ii) specifies the nature of the information that at a minimum must be contained in the public notice. Nothing in this section precludes the regulatory authority from consolidating more than one permit into the same advertisement as long as all the information required reflects site-specific differences in the permits included. It is expected that the regulatory authority will give careful consideration to the comments it receives and work with the public to arrive at an inspection frequency acceptable to all parties with an interest. III. Procedural Matters Effect in Federal Program States and on Indian Lands These final rules will apply through cross-referencing in those States with Federal programs and on Indian lands. The programs with Federal programs are California, Georgia, Idaho, Massachusetts, Michigan, North Carolina, Oregon, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Tennessee, and Washington. The Federal programs for these States appear at 30 CFR parts 905, 910, 912, 921, 922, 933, 937, 939, 941, 942, and 947 respectively. The Indian lands program appears at 30 CFR part 750. Executive Order 12778 on Civil Justice Reform This rule has been reviewed under the applicable standards of Section 2(b)(2) of Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform (56 FR 55195). In general, the requirements of Section 2(b)(2) of Executive Order 12778 are covered by the preamble discussion of this rule. Additional remarks follow concerning individual elements of the Executive Order: A. What is the preemptive effect, if any, to be given to the regulation? The rule would not preempt State law or regulation. States would not be required to adopt similar provisions and could continue to inspect abandoned sites at the current frequency required by existing regulations if they so choose. B. What is the effect on existing Federal law or regulation, if any, including all provisions repealed or modified? The proposed rule modifies the implementation of the Act as described herein, and is not intended to modify the implementation of any other Federal statute. The preceding discussion of this rule specifies the only Federal regulatory provisions that are affected by this proposed rule. C. Does the rule provide a clear and certain legal standard for affected conduct rather than a general standard, while promoting simplification and burden reduction? The standards established by this rule are as clear and certain as practicable, given the complexity of the topics covered and the mandates of the Act. D. What is the retroactive effect, if any, to be given to the regulation?
