FR940110-1-00091 FR940110-1-00006 Subsidy means: (1) The direct cash payments of AHP funds provided by the Bank to the applicant; or (2) The amount of AHP funds necessary to compensate the Bank for the net present value of the difference between the cost of funds and the rate charged on the subsidized advance to the applicant over the term of the advance. Very low-income household means a household which has an income of 50 percent or less of the median income for the area, as adjusted and published by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, except that in areas where the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development adjusts this figure downward because of prevailing construction costs, low housing costs, or unusually high household incomes, then ``very low-income household'' means a household which has an income of 50 percent or less of the median income for the area, as published by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, with adjustment for household size, but without the adjustments made by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for prevailing construction costs, low housing costs, or unusually high household incomes. Subpart B_Establishment of AHP §960.2 Bank establishment of AHP and adoption of AHP implementation plan. (a) It is the policy of the Board and the Banks to promote decent and safe affordable housing and to address critical affordable housing needs through providing subsidized advances and direct subsidies to members pursuant to this part. (b) Each Bank's board of directors shall establish an AHP, which shall be funded pursuant to the requirements of §960.18. The Bank shall make subsidized advances to applicants pursuant to its AHP and shall operate its AHP in conformity with an annual AHP implementation plan and the requirements of this part. Direct subsidies provided by a Bank to applicants pursuant to its AHP shall be provided in conformity with the Bank's AHP implementation plan and the requirements of this part. Each Bank's AHP implementation plan shall be approved by the Board before it is effective. The Bank's AHP implementation plan shall meet the requirements of this part, and shall include: (1) The Bank's AHP funding cycle schedule, including application due dates, as required by §960.6(a)(1); (2) The Bank's priorities, and scoring criteria for applications, as required by §§960.8(a) and 960.10; (3) The Bank's procedures to ensure satisfaction of the long-term requirement, as required by §960.5 (a)(1) and (b); (4) The Bank's requirements for and verification procedures concerning: (i) The use of subsidized advances or direct subsidies within a reasonable period of time after approval of an AHP application, as required by §960.12(a); or (ii) The use of loans or grants within a reasonable period of time after repayment of such funds to a loan fund or loan consortium, as required by §960.17(c)(5); (5) The Bank's verification procedures upon initial disbursement of subsidized advances or direct subsidies, as required by §960.13; (6) The Bank's monitoring plan, as required by §960.14(b); (7) The Bank's reporting requirements for applicants during the construction or rehabilitation phase, as required by §960.15(b)(2); (8) An explanation of circumstances justifying undue hardship waivers by the Bank of imposition of remedial actions, as required by §960.16 (c)(1) and (d)(1); and (9) The Bank's determination regarding the number of persons that may serve on the Bank's Advisory Council and their terms, as required by §960.21(a) (1) and (4). (c) The Bank's proposed AHP implementation plan shall be submitted to its Advisory Council at least 45 calendar days before it is considered by the Bank's board of directors. The Advisory Council shall review the proposed AHP implementation plan and submit its recommendations to the Bank's board of directors at least seven calendar days before the Bank's board of directors is scheduled to vote on the AHP implementation plan. The Bank's board of directors shall vote on the proposed AHP implementation plan, and shall submit its approved plan to the Board for action. The Board shall approve or disapprove any proposed AHP implementation plan it receives within 60 calendar days of receipt. A Bank's AHP implementation plan must be effective at least 45 calendar days before the due date for AHP applications. Each Bank shall submit its AHP implementation plan to the Board for approval no later than 180 calendar days after [the publication of the final rule in the Federal Register ].
