FR940114-1-00075 FR940114-1-00017 Section 76.567_This new section incorporates the provisions of the current ยง75.567 and explains that the term ``other expenditures'' also includes some occupancy and space maintenance costs and costs related to chief executive officers and their offices. Section 76.568_This is a new section that defines what is meant by occupancy and space maintenance costs in the computation of restricted indirect cost rates. The section also describes the limited circumstances in which those costs can be charged directly. Section 76.569_This is a new section that revises the formula currently in ยง75.568 for computing indirect costs under a restricted rate program to clarify the base to which the rate is applied. Executive Order 12866 These proposed regulations have been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866. Under the terms of the order the Secretary has assessed the potential costs and benefits of this regulatory action. The potential costs associated with the proposed regulations are those resulting from statutory requirements and those determined by the Secretary to be necessary for administering this program effectively and efficiently. Burdens specifically associated with information collection requirements, if any, are identified and explained elsewhere in this preamble under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. In assessing the potential costs and benefits_both quantitative and qualitative_of these proposed regulations, the Secretary has determined that the benefits of the proposed regulations justify the costs. The Secretary has also determined that this regulatory action does not unduly interfere with State, local, and tribal governments in the exercise of their governmental functions. To assist the Department in complying with the specific requirements of Executive Order 12866, the Secretary invites comment on whether there may be further opportunities to reduce any potential costs or increase potential benefits resulting from these proposed regulations without impeding the effective and efficient administration of the program. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification The Secretary certifies that these proposed regulations would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. For the most part these revisions are proposed to provide additional information to grantees and to clarify existing departmental procedures or requirements. The proposed revisions will not result in major changes in departmental policy that might have significant economic impact on small entities. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 These proposed regulations have been examined under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 and have been found to contain no information collection requirements. Invitation to Comment Interested persons are invited to submit comments and recommendations regarding these proposed regulations. All comments submitted in response to these proposed regulations will be available for public inspection, during and after the comment period, in room 3636, Regional Office Building No. 3, Seventh and D Streets SW., Washington, DC, between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday of each week except Federal holidays. Assessment of Educational Impact The Secretary particularly requests comments on whether the proposed regulations in this document would require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. List of Subjects 34 CFR Part 75 Education Department, Grant programs_education, Grant administration, Incorporation by reference. 34 CFR Part 76 Education Department, Grant programs_education, Grant administration, Intergovernmental relations, State-administered programs. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number does not apply) Dated: January 10, 1994. Richard W. Riley, Secretary of Education.
