FR941020-2-00125 FR941020-2-00077 The CBOE believes that the proposed rule change will facilitate market making capacity in stock index options. Market makers in stock index options are subject to the risk that market prices will change before they can liquidate their positions, and hedge this risk by executing transactions in related commodity interests. 5 The CBOE believes that the proposed rule change will facilitate the ability of CBOE market makers in stock index options to execute hedging transactions by providing them with a more efficient means of effecting such transactions. 5 See Division of Market Regulation, Market Analysis of October 13 and 16, 1989 (December 1990) (``Division Report'') at 73&hyph;74. The CBOE believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act, in general, and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5), in particular, in that it will facilitate the ability of options market makers for which there are related commodity interests to reduce their exposure to market risk by providing them with a more efficient means of effecting hedging transactions in such commodity interests. The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of Section 6(b)(5), in that it is designed to facilitate transactions in securities and to protect investors and the public interest. 6 Specifically, the Commission notes, as it has stated in the past, that many CBOE index option market makers hedge their positions in index options by purchasing the corresponding futures contract. 7 Under the Exchange's current rules, a CBOE market maker who hedges his position with futures contracts must leave his trading post in order to place a futures order. The proposal will enable CBOE market makers to remain at their trading posts while placing their futures orders with the order service firm clerks located on the CBOE's floor. Thus, the proposal should provide the CBOE's index option market makers with an efficient, convenient, and effective means to place their futures orders, thereby facilitating the market makers' ability to reduce their risks through hedging transactions and, in turn, helping to maintain the depth and liquidity of the CBOE's market for index options. 6 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1982). 7 See Division Report, supra note 5.
