FR940902-0-00150 FR940902-0-00010 (2) The exceptions in paragraph (c)(1) of this section apply to Title II&hyph;A and II&hyph;B and are not applicable to Title II&hyph;C programs (see ยง628.804 (d) and (e)). (d) Determination of job search availability. For purposes of this section, a determination of the availability of the job search assistance activity will be made by the SDA, in consultation with the employment service and documented in the local job training plan. (e) Older individuals. For purposes of this section, when an individual aged 55 or older indicates in the assessment a preference for immediate job placement, job search assistance may be provided on a stand-alone basis. The individual's preference shall be recorded in the ISS. ยง628.540 Volunteer program. Pursuant to sections 204(c)(6) and 264(d)(7) of the Act, the SDA shall make opportunities available for individuals who have successfully participated in programs under this part to volunteer assistance, in the form of mentoring, tutoring, and other activities. ยง628.545 Linkages and coordination. (a) General requirements. (1) To the extent practicable, and as permitted by law and regulations, the Governor shall, at the State level, facilitate coordination among the programs set forth at section 205(a) and 265(b) of the Act, including, but not limited to, the establishment of State-level coordination agreements. The Governor may focus coordination through the SJTCC or the HRIC. (2) The SDA, in conducting programs under this part, shall establish appropriate linkages and coordination procedures with other Federal programs and appropriate State and local educational, social service, and public housing agencies, including with CBO's, business and labor organizations, volunteer groups and others, such as women and older worker organizations, and with appropriate education and training agencies, such as local JOBS programs, Employment Service offices which provide services for JTPA participants, and the local agencies on aging, to avoid duplication and to enhance the delivery of services, which shall be described in the SDA job training plan. Where a local agency declines to complete such a linkage with an SDA, the SDA shall reflect this information in its job training plan (section 104(b)). (b) SDA's are encouraged to facilitate effective ``one stop shop career centers'' and ``single point of contact'' delivery systems which may include: (1) The development of individual service strategy plans and of a common program application; and (2) A unified job development effort and comprehensive programmatic design (sections 104(b) (3) and (4), 205 (a) and (b) and 265). (c) Requirements for youth. For the youth programs under this part, formal agreements shall be established with appropriate local educational agencies which participate in JTPA programs which, at a minimum, shall specify: (1) The procedures for referring and serving in-school youth; (2) The methods of assessment of in-school youth; and (3) Procedures for notifying the SDA when a youth drops out of the school system. (d) Schoolwide projects. (1) In conducting a schoolwide project for low income individuals under sections 263(g) and 265(d) of the Act, the SDA shall establish a cooperative agreement with the appropriate local educational agency. (2) In addition to the requirements listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the cooperative agreement shall include: (i) A description of the ways in which the JTPA schoolwide project will supplement the educational program of the school; (ii) Identification of measurable goals to be achieved by the schoolwide project and a provision for assessing the extent to which such goals are met; (iii) A description of the ways in which the program will use available JTPA and other education program resources; (iv) A description of the number of individuals to be served by the schoolwide project; and (v) Assurances that JTPA resources shall be used in coordination with existing sources of funds to supplement and not supplant them (section 107(b)). (3) In areas where there is more than one local educational agency, cooperative agreements for schoolwide projects are required only with those local education agencies that will participate in programs under schoolwide projects (section 263(g)). ยง628.550 Transfer of funds. If described in the job training plan and approved by the Governor: (a) An amount up to 10 percent of the funds allocated to the SDA under section 202(b) of the Act for title II&hyph;A may be transferred to the program under title II&hyph;C of the Act; (b) An amount up to 20 percent of the funds allocated to the SDA under section 252(b) of the Act for title II&hyph;B may be transferred to the program under title II&hyph;C of the Act; and (c) An amount up to 10 percent of the funds allocated to the SDA under section 262(b) of the Act for title II&hyph;C may be transferred to the program under title II&hyph;A of the Act.
