FR940602-0-00005 FR940602-0-00001 (e) Duration of BIB loan program. No BIB loan will be obligated after September 30, 1994. (f) Administrative procedures. (1) A lender that wants a B&I application considered under BIB authorities should so indicate by notation on Form FmHA 449&hyph;1 or by letter submitted with the Form FmHA 449&hyph;1. (2) FmHA will identify a loan as a BIB loan by notation in the top margin of Form FmHA 449&hyph;29 and by the ``type of assistance'' code listed on Form FmHA 1940&hyph;3, in accordance with the Forms Manual Insert. (3) FmHA will set out the interest buydown provisions in accordance with this section in the Conditional Commitment for Guarantee. When the Loan Note Guarantee is issued, the lender and FmHA will execute Form FmHA 1980&hyph;48, ``Business and Industry Interest Rate Buydown Agreement.'' (4) The lender will request the interest payment from FmHA by submitting Form FmHA 1980&hyph;23, ``Request for Business and Industry Interest Buydown Payment,'' to the FmHA servicing office. Each request must cover exactly 1 year and be filed within 30 days after the anniversary date of the promissory note, except when interest buydown is terminated between anniversary dates. The FmHA servicing office will review each request for consistency with FmHA regulations and the Form FmHA 1980&hyph;48 and, if the claim is valid, will approve it and forward it to the Finance Office for issuance of the payment to the lender. (g) Termination of interest buydown. When FmHA purchases a portion of a loan, interest buydown will cease on the entire loan. Interest buydown will also cease upon termination of the Loan Note Guarantee or assumption/transfer of the loan. In the event of any action that causes the interest buydown to terminate, the lender will submit a claim on Form FmHA 1980&hyph;23 for interest buydown payments through the date of termination. (h) Loan purposes. (1) Refinancing. Section 1980.452 Administrative C.1. (d) of this subpart does not apply to BIB loans if refinancing is needed as a direct consequence of the disaster. In such cases, the lender may be allowed to bring previously unguaranteed exposure under the guarantee. No loan will be refinanced unless the current market value of the collateral is at least equal to the amount of the loan to be refinanced plus any new loan amount. (2) Agriculture. Section 1980.412 (e) of this subpart does not apply to BIB loans. BIB loans may be guaranteed for agriculture production, which means the cultivation, production (growing), and harvesting, either directly or through integrated operations, of agricultural products (crops, animals, birds, and marine life, either for fiber or food for human consumption), and disposal or marketing thereof, the raising, housing, feeding (including commercial custom feedlots), breeding, hatching, control and/or management of farm or domestic animals. (3) Other eligible businesses. Eligible types of businesses also include: (i) Commercial nurseries primarily engaged in the production of ornamental plants and trees and other nursery products such as bulbs, florists' greens, flowers, shrubbery, flower and vegetable seeds, sod, and the growing of vegetables from seed to the transplant stage. (ii) Forestry which includes establishments primarily engaged in the operation of timber tracts, tree farms, forest nurseries, and related activities such as reforestation. (iii) The growing of mushrooms or hydroponics. (4) Recreation and tourism. Loans may be guaranteed for tourist or recreation facilities except for hotels, motels, bed and breakfasts, race tracks, gambling, or golf courses.
