FR940712-1-00017 FR940712-1-00005 14 CFR Part 71 [Airspace Docket No. 94&hyph;AGL&hyph;21] Proposed Establishment of Class E Airspace; Muskegon, MI AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This document proposes to establish a Class E airspace area at Muskegon County Airport, Muskegon, MI. Presently, this area is designated as Class D airspace when the associated control tower is operational. However, controlled airspace to the surface is needed when the control tower located at this area is closed. The intended affect of this proposal is to provide adequate Class E airspace for instrument flight rule (IFR) operations when this control tower is closed. DATES: Comments must be received on or before August 30, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments on the proposal in triplicate to: Federal Aviation Administration, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, AGL&hyph;7, Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;AGL&hyph;21, 2300 East Devon Avenue, Des Plaines, Illinois 60018. The official docket may be examined in the Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Federal Aviation Administration, 2300 East Devon Avenue, Des Plaines, Illinois. An informal docket may also be examined during normal business hours at the Air Traffic Division, System Management Branch, Federal Aviation Administration, 2300 East Devon Avenue, Des Plaines, Illinois. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Angeline Perri, Air Traffic Division, System Management Branch, AGL&hyph;530, Federal Aviation Administration, 2300 East Devon Avenue, Des Plaines, Illinois 60018, telephone (708) 294&hyph;7571. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested parties are invited to participate in this proposed rulemaking by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Comments that provide the factual basis supporting the views and suggestions presented are particularly helpful in developing reasoned regulatory decisions on the proposal. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, aeronautical, economic, environmental, and energy-related aspects of the proposal. Communications should identify the airspace docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address listed above. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments on this notice must submit with those comments a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Airspace Docket No. 94&hyph;AGL&hyph;21.'' The postcard will be date/time stamped and returned to the commenter. All communications received on or before the specified closing date for comments will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposal contained in this notice may be changed in light of comments received. All comments submitted will be available for examination in the Rules Docket, FAA, Great Lakes Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, 2300 East Devon Avenue, Des Plaines, Illinois, both before and after the closing date for comments. A report summarizing each substantive public contact with FAA personnel concerned with this rulemaking will be filed in the docket.
