FR940916-1-00140 FR940916-1-00016 ยง232.103 Conventional locomotive air brake standards. (a) This section includes the locomotive air brake system standards previously contained in the Locomotive Safety Standards (49 CFR Part 229). (b) Emergency brake valve. (1) Each road locomotive shall be equipped with a brake pipe valve designed to actuate an emergency brake application. The emergency brake valve handle or handle extension shall be easily accessible to a crew member other than the engineer from that crew member's normal position in the cab. (2) On car body locomotives, a means to actuate an emergency brake application shall be provided adjacent to each end exit door. (3) All emergency brake actuating devices shall be legibly stenciled or marked with the words ``Emergency Brake Valve''. (c) Main reservoir system. The main air reservoir of each locomotive shall be equipped with at least one safety relief valve set to vent at a pressure no greater than 15 pounds per square inch (psi) above the maximum train air brake system working pressure determined by the chief mechanical officer of the railroad operating the locomotive. (d) Air compressors. (1) Each locomotive shall be equipped with an air compressor capable of supplying the pressure and volume of air required to meet the safety standards contained in this part. (2) Air compressors shall be equipped with a governor that: (i) Stops or unloads the compressor at a pressure no greater than the maximum working pressure set by the railroad. (ii) Starts or loads the compressor at a pressure no less than 10 psi below the maximum working pressure set by the railroad. (e) Air dryers. After January 1, 1996, all new and rebuilt locomotive brake air systems and all yard air sources shall be equipped with an air dryer capable of producing an air dew point depression of at least 30 degrees F. at an air flow rate of 100 cfm except new and rebuilt locomotives that power trains and yard air sources that service trains used exclusively in service that meets any of the following criteria: (1) The locomotive powers or the yard air source services only trains limited to speeds of 30 mph or less; (2) The locomotive powers or the yard air source services only trains of 20 or fewer cars; or (3) The locomotive powers or the yard air source services only trains not operated under cold weather conditions. (f) Air brake pressure gauges. (1) At a minimum, locomotives shall be equipped with pressure gauges to monitor main reservoir pressure, brake cylinder pressure, equalizing reservoir pressure, and brake pipe pressure. (2) All gauges used to brake the train shall be illuminated and located so as to be easy to read by the engineer seated at his/her normal location. (3) All pressure gauges shall be accurate to within # 3 psi. (g) Brake cylinder piston travel. (1) Minimum brake cylinder piston travel shall be sufficient to provide brake shoe/pad clearance when brakes are released. (2) The brake cylinder control pressure shall be no less than 30 psi. (3) When brakes are applied on a standing locomotive, the brake cylinder piston travel shall not exceed 80 percent of the total possible piston travel for that cylinder or as stencilled on the locomotive. The total possible piston travel shall be entered on Form FRA 6180&hyph;49A. (h) Foundation brake gear. (1) All brake foundation gear pins shall be secured in place with cotter pins, split keys, or nuts. (2) Brake shoes shall be fastened with a brake shoe key and aligned with tread to prevent localized thermal stress of the wheel. ยง232.105 Conventional train air brake standards. (a) This section applies to trains_except those propelled by MU locomotives_equipped with the conventional air brake technology that has long been the industry standard for American railroads. (b) The air brake system components that control brake application and release shall be adequately sealed to prevent contamination by foreign material. (c) Control valves. (1) The control valve shall be capable of reliably applying and releasing the brakes when intermingled with various types of air brake equipment. (2) The control valve shall be designed with adjustable brake cylinder control pressure to ensure compatibility with present and future train air brake systems. ยง232.107 Standards unique to passenger trains. (a) Passenger coaches shall be designed with a clearly marked emergency brake actuation device at each end of the coach.
