FR941110-0-00218 FR941110-0-00016 Response: Proposed ยง488.240, now incorporated into ยง488.426, stated that the State must arrange for the orderly transfer of residents when a facility is closed or its provider agreement is terminated. Further protection for residents is available in regulation. Section 489.55 provides that payment is available for up to 30 days after the effective date of termination for eligible residents and ยง441.11(a)(2) states that, in the case of continuation of FFP for Medicaid, the Medicaid agency must make reasonable efforts to transfer recipients to other facilities. The regulation clearly gives the responsibility for orderly transfer of residents to the State. Each case involving the transfer of residents could potentially be different. We are, therefore, leaving it up to the State to decide, on a case-by-case basis, what steps need to be taken to reduce the risk of transfer trauma, understanding that the State's responsibility is to minimize the period of time during which residents are receiving less than adequate care. Comment: One commenter stated that a finding of immediate jeopardy will result in the facility's emergency closure and transfer of the residents. This commenter asked where residents would be transferred if a county or particular area had too few available beds? Response: The finding of immediate jeopardy will not, in and of itself, require States to close a facility and transfer Medicare and Medicaid residents. In an emergency, the State could transfer Medicare and Medicaid residents to another facility or facilities. There could be situations, such as an earthquake or other natural disaster, where the State would temporarily transfer residents to another facility until the facility can adequately care for its residents. In this case, the facility did nothing wrong. However, in the case of immediate jeopardy, the facility failed to protect the health or safety of its residents. For immediate jeopardy situations, the statute at sections 1819(h)(4) and 1919(h)(5) of the Act provides for immediate termination if the jeopardy is not removed, but it does not require the State to close the facility. However, when a facility is terminated for immediate jeopardy, the State has up to 30 days to transfer the facility's Medicare and Medicaid residents. Most States have a relocation plan that outlines the circumstances under which the plan will be put into effect and the procedures to be followed. These plans usually provide for first attempting to place residents in the closest facility or facilities and then attempting placement at increasingly distant facilities until available beds are found. We believe it is unnecessary to mandate procedures for States to follow in cases of closure or transfer of residents, and that no greater procedural specificity is required in regulations. Comment: One commenter expressed concern that after coming to a nursing home with the expectation of living out the rest of one's life there, a resident may be forced to move to another location because of some technicality. Response: Termination and closure of a facility are among several remedies available to protect the health and safety of Medicare and Medicaid residents. Although it is possible that a noncompliant facility could be terminated for not submitting to a plan of correction, as is required for continuing participation in the Medicare or Medicaid program, it is not likely. Most nursing homes are interested in participating in the Medicare and Medicaid programs and will not risk termination based on such noncompliance. Comment: Several commenters requested that we place more requirements upon the States to assist residents, should a facility lose its Medicare or Medicaid certification. Two of the commenters, representing consumer organizations, believe proposed ยง488.240 is inadequate in terms of requirement specificity, and they provided a complete and detailed rewrite of the section. Their experience with closures and decertifications in the last 5 years has led them to believe that providers and regulators cannot be trusted to provide a ``safe and orderly'' transfer process. As a result, their rewrite focuses on the recommendation that HCFA mandate the States to develop plans that provide requirements for the ``safe and orderly'' transfer of all residents when the State closes a facility. Included in the rewrite are provisions that outline specific residents' rights in the transfer process such as, determining the location of the transfer, availability of counseling and support, and the transferring of residents' possessions and trust funds. The commenters also address requirements for the new admitting facility, as well as requirements for the coordination among appropriate agencies, organizations and ombudsmen involved in the transfer process.
