FR940921-0-00030 FR940921-0-00015 Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; 90-Day Finding on Petition To Add the Flatwoods Salamander to the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of recision of previous 90-day petition finding for the flatwoods salamander, and issuance of a new finding. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) rescinds the previous 90-day finding made on a petition to list the flatwoods salamander ( Ambystoma cingulatum ) as an endangered or threatened species pursuant to the Endangered Species Act (Act) of 1973, as amended. The previous finding, made on May 6, 1993, indicated that the petition did not present substantial information that the petitioned action may be warranted. The current finding, based upon recent changes to the Service's draft internal guidance for petition management, is that the petition presents substantial information that the requested action may be warranted. A formal review of the species' status is initiated pursuant to the current 90-day finding. DATES: The finding announced in this document was made on September 16, 1994. To be considered in the 12-month finding for this petition, information and comments should be submitted to the Service by November 21, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments and information concerning this petition should be sent to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 6578 Dogwood View Parkway, Suite A, Jackson, Mississippi 39213. The petition, finding and supporting data are available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Linda LaClaire at the above address. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 4(b)(3)(A) of the Act, as amended, requires that the Service make a finding on whether a petition to list, delist or reclassify a species presents substantial scientific or commercial information to demonstrate that the petitioned action may be warranted. To the maximum extent practicable, the finding shall be made within 90 days following receipt of the petition and promptly published in the Federal Register . The Service must also commence a timely status review of the petitioned species if its accompanying information results in a positive finding. Following a positive 90-day finding, Section 4(b)(3)(B) of the Act requires the Service to make a 12-month finding as to whether the petitioned action is: (1) Not warranted, (2) warranted; or (3) warranted but precluded by other listing activity. On May 18, 1992, the Service received a petition from the Biodiversity Legal Foundation and Ms. Elizabeth Carlton to list the flatwoods salamander as endangered or threatened and to designate critical habitat. The petition states that available evidence indicates the population of the flatwoods salamander has declined precipitously, that it is on the threshold of extirpation in many locations, that it has been extirpated from a large portion of its historic range, and that it has suffered rapid decline in National Forests. After a review of all available information, the Service made a 90-day petition finding on May 6, 1993, that the petition did not present substantial information that the petitioned action may be warranted; the finding was announced in the Federal Register of May 12, 1993 (58 FR 27986). The primary basis for the finding was that the petitioners did not present any information not already in possession of the Service, and a status review of the species was already in progress through the inclusion of the species as a category 2 candidate in the Service's comprehensive notice of review for animal candidates. Category 2 candidates are taxa for which information in the possession of the Service indicates that proposing to list as endangered or threatened is possibly appropriate, but for which conclusive data on biological vulnerability and threat are not currently available to support proposed rules. On August 12, 1993, the Biodiversity Legal Foundation and Elizabeth Carlton notified the Service of intent to file a lawsuit challenging the 90-day finding, and on April 25, 1994, suit was filed. In response to the agreed settlement, and based upon the Service's current draft guidance relating to petitions for listing category 2 candidate species, the 90-day finding made on May 6, 1993, is rescinded, and it is replaced by a finding indicating that the petitioners have presented substantial information that the requested action may be warranted. The Endangered Species Act does not indicate that designation of critical habitat is a petitionable action, but the Service will consider such designation in the event that the flatwoods salamander is proposed for listing. A status review of the flatwoods salamander is currently in progress in connection with the Service's notice of review for animal candidates. Additionally, the Service hereby announces its formal review of the species' status pursuant to this 90-day petition finding. Public comments regarding population trends, biological vulnerability and threats to this species should be sent to the office specified in the ADDRESSES section.
