FR941116-0-00155 FR941116-0-00022 (2) The producer shall pay a fee for such request, as specified in part 718 of this title. (3) The crop may not be hayed or grazed, even if haying or grazing is approved for ACR and CU for payment. (4) The crop must be destroyed mechanically or by natural deterioration, so no benefit can be derived from the grain. (5) The crop must be destroyed by the date established by the State committee, and such date shall be no earlier than the beginning date for soil preparation for the succeeding year's crop. (6) Destruction of the crop, either mechanically or by natural deterioration, must be sufficient to prevent the crop from being harvested or grazed and must leave sufficient residue and stubble to prevent wind and water erosion. (c) Producers may plant designated minor oilseeds and soybeans on 50 percent of the designated ACR acreage; (1) If such designated crops are planted on ACR acreage, the amount of program deficiency payments that are otherwise entitled to be earned shall be reduced for each acre (or portion thereof) that is planted to the designated crop, by an amount equal to the program deficiency payment that would be made with respect to a determined number of acres of the crop. (2) If producers are participating in an ARP for more than one crop, the amount of the payment reduction shall be determined by prorating such reduction based on the acreage of ACR reduced for such program crops. (d) Acreage designated as ACR under the 1994 wheat, feed grain, upland cotton and rice programs may be planted to IOC's. ยง1413.65 Locally approved cover crops and practices for ACR and CU for payment acreage. (a) Cover crops and practices that will protect the ACR and CU for payment acreage from wind and water erosion throughout the calendar year may be approved on a State or local basis as follows: (1) The county committee, in consultation with the district conservationist of the SCS, may recommend the cover crop or practice. (2) State committees shall approve such cover crops or practices after consulting with the State Soil Conservationist of the SCS, or, if applicable, the technical committee, to ensure that the practices shall sufficiently protect the land from wind and water erosion. State committee approval of such cover crops and practices shall include the conditions that the producer must meet in order for approval to be granted. (b)(1) Practices installed in the current year or the two previous years that may be on ACR acreage include: (i) Shrubs planted for any purpose; (ii) Trees, if planted in the current year or two previous years; (iii) Water storage developed for any purpose, including fish or wildlife habitat; (iv) Permanent terraces, sod waterways, and filter strips used to reduce siltation in a stream or ditch, which may be installed at any time. (2) For 1992 through 1995, the practices in subparagraph (b)(1) of this section are eligible for CU for payment acreage if installed in the current year or during the fall of the preceding year. (3) The State committee shall establish and assess a fee as specified in part 718 of this title to cover the cost of a representative's farm visit to verify that the installed practice has been maintained. (c) The cover crops or practices recommended shall not include: (1) The growing of soybeans, and upland and ELS cotton. (2) Fruits and vegetables for uses other than green manure, haying and grazing. (3) The growing of wheat, feed grains, upland cotton, and rice, except such crops that meet the requirements of either paragraph (c) or (d) of this section. (4) Control measures which are more costly to the producer than other similar alternatives normally accepted for the area.
