FR940902-1-00020 FR940902-1-00002 Investments in debt securities that are not classified as held-to-maturity and equity securities that have readily determinable fair values are classified as either trading securities or available-for-sale securities and are measured at fair value in the balance sheet. Trading securities are those securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near future. Trading generally reflects active and frequent buying and selling and trading securities are generally used with the objective of generating profits on short-term differences in prices. Available-for-sale securities are those investments not classified as either trading securities or held-to-maturity securities. Statement No. 115 requires unrealized holding gains and losses for trading securities to be included in earnings in the current period. Unrealized holding gains and losses for available-for-sale securities are excluded from earnings; however, they are reported as a net amount in a separate component of shareholders' equity until realized. For individual securities classified as either available-for-sale or held-to-maturity, an entity must determine whether a decline in the security's fair value below the amortized cost is other than temporary. If the decline in fair value is determined to be permanent, that is, it is probable that the entity will not be able to collect all amounts due under the contractual terms of the security, the realized loss is accounted for in earnings of the current period. The new cost basis is not adjusted upward for subsequent recoveries in the fair value. Subsequent increases in the fair value of available-for-sale securities are included in the separate component of equity. Subsequent decreases are also included in the separate component of equity. All trading securities are reported as current assets in the balance sheet and individual held-to-maturity and available-for-sale securities are classified as either current or noncurrent, as appropriate. Cash flows from the purchase, sale, or maturity of available-for-sale securities and held-to-maturity securities are classified in the statement of cash flows as cash flows from investing activities and reported gross for each security classification. Accounting Requirements All REA borrowers must adopt the accounting, reporting, and disclosure requirements set forth in Statement No. 115 as of the statement's implementation date. Unrealized holding gains or losses for trading securities shall be recorded in either Account 421, Miscellaneous Nonoperating Income, or Account 426.5, Other Deductions, as appropriate. Unrealized holding gains or losses for available-for-sale securities are recognized as a component of stockholder's equity in Account 215.1, Unrealized Gains and Losses_Debt and Equity Securities. A contra account of the investment account shall be debited or credited accordingly. Effective Date and Implementation Statement No. 115 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1993. At the beginning of the entity's fiscal year, the entity must classify its debt and equity securities on the basis of the entity's current intent. This statement may not be applied retroactively to prior years' financial statements. For fiscal years beginning prior to December 16, 1993, reporting entities are permitted to apply Statement No. 115 as of the end of a fiscal year for which annual financial statements have not previously been issued. Dated: August 16, 1994. Bob J. Nash, Under Secretary, Small Community and Rural Development. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21638 Filed 9&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;15&hyph;P
