FR940627-2-00090 FR940627-2-00041 Decision and Availability of the Record of Decision (ROD) Document on the Proposed South Tongue Point Land Exchange and Marine Industrial Park Development Project AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service (lead agency); General Services Administration, Army Corps of Engineers, and Oregon Division of State Lands (cooperating agencies). ACTION: Notice of Availability. SUMMARY: This notice advises the public that a decision on the proposed South Tongue Point Land Exchange and Marine Industrial Part Development Project has been made and that the Record of Decision Document is available. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Benjamin Harrison, South Tongue Point EIS Team Leader, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Eastside Federal Complex, 911 NE 11th Avenue, Portland, Oregon 97232&hyph;4181 or David Blum, South Tongue Point Project Coordinator, Oregon Division of State Lands, 775 Summer Street NE., Salem, Oregon 97310. Individuals wishing copies of this ROD should contact the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's (Service) Portland Regional Office. Copies of the ROD have been sent to all agencies and individuals who previously received copies of the Draft and Final Environmental Impact Statements and to all others who have already requested copies. DECISION: The Service's decision is to implement the Preferred Alternative, Alternative A, as it is described in the Final EIS for the South Tongue Point Land Exchange and Marine Industrial Development Project. This decision is based on a thorough review of the alternatives and their environmental consequences. Other Agency Decisions A record of Decision will be produced by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps). The responsible officials at the Corps will adopt the Final EIS as part of the permit process required by Section 404 of the Clean Water Act. A Record of Decision will be produced by the General Services Administration (GSA). The responsible officials at GSA will adopt the EIS in order to comply with National Environmental Policy Act requirements for the disposal and exchange of Federal properties. RATIONALE FOR DECISION: The Preferred alternative has been selected for implementation based on consideration of a number of environmental and social factors. Alternative A has been selected as the preferred alternative because: (1) The land exchange provides the most durable means for protecting wildlife habitats and exchange wildlife populations; (2) the development component avoids significant adverse environmental impacts; and (3) the project will result in significant economic benefits in a economically depressed area. Alternative A was selected because it balances resources protection with water dependent development. The preferred alternative provides a net benefit for wildlife and benefits for the local economy. The land exchange is the most practical means available to secure and protect additional lands from incompatible uses within the administrative boundary of the Refuge. Migratory bird and resident wildlife populations will benefit from additional secure habitat and be enhanced through wildlife management programs which could not be implemented without fee title ownership. The development component has been carefully designed to minimize adverse environmental effects. Wintering bald eagles will benefit from compensatory measures designed to enhance foraging opportunities. A net gain in wetlands will be realized through successful implementation of mitigation measures. Implementation of the Preferred Alternative extends the protection of the environmental resources and maintenance of environmental quality beyond what would be achieved under either of the other two alternatives. Alternative B was not selected as the preferred alternative due to the significant impacts expected to resident bald eagles. Alternative C, the No Action Alternative, was not selected as the preferred alternative because it would not result in the Service increasing habitat protection within the Refuge. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. Background In 1979, the U.S. Government declared the property known as South Tongue Point near Astoria, Oregon, to be excess to the Federal inventory. In 1981, the State of Oregon contacted the Federal Government regarding a possible exchange of property involving South Tongue Point and State-owned islands in the Columbia River. In May 1989, the U.S. Navy contacted the Oregon Division of State Lands (Division) in regard to the possibility of homeporting mine hunter coastal vessels at South Tongue Point. At the time, the Division was studying the feasibility of acquiring South Tongue Point and developing the site as a marine industrial part in conjunction with the Federal Government's proposal to exchange property with the State of Oregon. The Navy's interest led to the development of a master plan for the marine industrial part at South Tongue Point, with the Navy as the first proposed tenant. The GSA is proposing to convey approximately 130 acres of land at South Tongue Point near Astoria, Oregon (Section 12, T.8N., R.9W.), administered by the Corps to the State of Oregon. In exchange for the Federal land, the Division is proposing to convey approximately 3,930 acres of State-owned land within the administrative boundary of Lewis and Clark National Wildlife Refuge (Refuge), to GSA which will in turn transfer those lands to the Service. An additional 950 acres of State-owned land within the Refuge is proposed for Service management under a long-term cooperative agreement. The State is proposing to develop a multitenant shallow draft marine industrial park moorage facility for a variety of water-dependent and general industrial uses. Water-dependent uses would have water access by means of pile-supported piers. General industrial uses would be located in upland areas without water access.
