FR940302-1-00024 FR940302-1-00010 B. Kansas Kansas promulgated its first UST regulations in 1981 under the authority of the water pollution control statutes. With the enactment of the Kansas Storage Tank Act, K.S.A. 65&hyph;34,101 through 65&hyph;34,124, promulgated on May 18, 1989, the Kansas Department of Health and Environment now has specific authority to regulate underground storage tanks and enforce compliance of these regulations. Over the years the regulations have undergone a series of revisions which now are consistent with and no less stringent than the Federal program. The program includes standards for: new tanks, upgrading existing tanks, general operating requirements, release detection, release reporting, corrective action, tank closure, financial responsibility and notification requirements. These regulations have been in effect since November 26, 1990. On September 1, 1993, Kansas submitted an official application for ``complete'' program approval which includes regulation of both petroleum and hazardous substance tanks. Kansas also regulates heating oil tanks with the exception of tanks used to store heating oil for consumptive use on a single family residence. However, this part of the Kansas program is broader in scope than the Federal program and is not included in this tentative approval. Prior to its submission, Kansas provided an opportunity for public notice and comment in the development of its underground storage tank program as required under 40 CFR 281.50(b). EPA has reviewed Kansas' application and has tentatively determined that the State's program meets all of the necessary requirements to qualify for final approval. Consequently, EPA intends to grant Kansas final approval to Kansas to operate its program in lieu of the Federal program. The public may submit comments regarding EPA's tentative determination as provided in the ``Submission of Comments'' section of this notice. Compliance With Executive Order 12866 The Office of Management and Budget has exempted this rule from the requirements of section 6 of Executive Order 12866. Certification Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act Pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 605(b), I hereby certify that this approval will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The approval effectively suspends the applicability of certain Federal regulations in favor of Kansas' program, thereby eliminating duplicative requirements for owners and operators of underground storage tanks in the State. It does not impose any new burdens on small entities. This rule, therefore, does not require a regulatory flexibility analysis. Submission of Comments The public may submit written comments on EPA's tentative determination until April 1, 1994. EPA will consider all public comments on its tentative determination received during the public comment period or which may be received at the public hearing. Issues raised by those comments may be the basis for a decision to deny final approval to Kansas. EPA expects to make a final decision on whether or not to approve Kansas' program by May 31, 1994 and will give notice of it in the Federal Register . The notice will include a summary of the reasons for the final determination and a response to all major comments. A public hearing will be held only if significant public interest on substantive issues is shown. Any request for a hearing and all comments on Kansas' final approval application must be received at the EPA Region 7 office by the close of business on April 1, 1994. If a public hearing is held, all those making comments or requesting a hearing will be notified by EPA of the place and time. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 281 Environmental protection, Administrative Practice and Procedure, Hazardous Materials, State Program Approval, and Underground Storage Tanks. Authority: This notice is issued under the authority of section 9004 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6991c. Dennis Grams, Regional Administrator . [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4544 Filed 3&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
