FR940224-2-00085 FR940224-2-00046 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Administration for Children and Families [Program Announcement No. 93631&hyph;93&hyph;03] Developmental Disabilities; Request for Public Comments on Proposed Developmental Disabilities Funding Priorities for Projects of National Significance for Fiscal Year 1994 AGENCY: Administration on Developmental Disabilities (ADD), Administration for Children and Families (ACF). ACTION: Notice of request for public comments on developmental disabilities funding priorities for Projects of National Significance for Fiscal Year 1994. SUMMARY: The Administration on Developmental Disabilities (ADD), Administration for Children and Families (ACF), announces that public comments are being requested on funding priorities for Fiscal Year 1994 Projects of National Significance. We welcome specific comments and suggestions on these proposed funding priorities as well as recommendations for additional priority areas which will assist in bringing about the increased independence, productivity, and integration into the community of people with developmental disabilities. DATES: Closing date for receipt of public comments is April 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be sent to: Bob Williams, Commissioner, Administration on Developmental Disabilities, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services, room 329&hyph;D, HHH Building, 200 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20201. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Vern Evans, Program Development Division, Administration on Developmental Disabilities, (202) 690&hyph;5980. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Part I. Background A. Goals of the Administration on Developmental Disabilities The Administration on Developmental Disabilities (ADD) is located within the Administration for Children and Families (ACF), Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS). Although different from the other ACF program administrations in the specific constituency it serves, ADD shares a common set of goals that promote the economic and social well-being of families, children, individuals and communities. Through national leadership we see: •Families and individuals empowered to increase their own economic independence and productivity; •Strong, healthy, supportive communities having a positive impact on the quality of life and the development of children; •Partnerships with individuals, front-line service providers, communities, states and Congress that enable solutions which transcend traditional agency boundaries; •Services planned and integrated to improve client access; •A strong commitment to working with Native Americans, persons with developmental disabilities, refugees and migrants to address their needs, strengths and abilities. Emphasis on these goals and progress towards them will help more people with developmental disabilities to live productive and independent lives integrated into their communities. The Projects of National Significance program is one means through which ADD promotes the achievement of these goals. Two issues are of particular concern with these projects. First, there is a pressing need for networking and cooperation among specialized and categorical programs, particularly at the service delivery level, to ensure continuation of coordinated services to people with developmental disabilities. Second, project findings and successful innovative models of projects need to be made available nationally to policy makers as well as to direct service providers. B. Purpose of the Administration on Developmental Disabilities The Administration on Developmental Disabilities (ADD) is the lead agency within ACF and DHHS responsible for planning and administering programs which promote the self-sufficiency and protect the rights of people with developmental disabilities. The Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act (42 U.S.C. 6000 et seq. ) (the Act) supports and provides assistance to States and public and private nonprofit agencies and organizations to assure that all people with developmental disabilities receive the services, assistance and opportunities necessary to enable them to achieve their maximum potential through increased independence, productivity and integration into the community. The Act stresses that individuals with developmental disabilities typically: •Experience significant functional limitations due to physical or mental, or a combination of physical and mental, impairments; and is manifested before the person attains age 22 (as described in the Act, section 102(5)). •Possess significant abilities of which employers are generally unaware; •Have wants and needs; •Remain unserved or underserved;
