FR940627-0-00232 FR940627-0-00019 (N) The statement, prepared and signed by the quality assurance unit, as described in §79.60(b)(4)(i)(G). (ii) The final report shall be signed and dated by the study director. (iii) Corrections or additions to a final report shall be in the form of an amendment by the study director. The amendment shall clearly identify that part of the final report that is being added to or corrected and the reasons for the correction or addition, and shall be signed and dated by the person responsible. Modification of a final report to comply with the submission requirements of EPA does not constitute a correction, addition, or amendment to a final report. (iv) A copy of the final report and of any amendment to it shall be maintained by the sponsor and the test facility. (2) Storage and retrieval of records and data. (i) All raw data, documentation, records, protocols, specimens, and final reports generated as a result of a study shall be retained. Specimens obtained from mutagenicity tests, wet specimens of blood, urine, feces, and biological fluids, do not need to be retained after quality assurance verification. Correspondence and other documents relating to interpretation and evaluation of data, other than those documents contained in the final report, also shall be retained. (ii) All raw data, documentation, protocols, specimens, and interim and final reports shall be archived for orderly storage and expedient retrieval. Conditions of storage shall minimize deterioration of the documents or specimens in accordance with the requirements for the time period of their retention and the nature of the documents of specimens. A testing facility may contract with commercial archives to provide a repository for all material to be retained. Raw data and specimens may be retained elsewhere provided that the archives have specific reference to those other locations. (iii) An individual shall be identified as responsible for the archiving of records. (iv) Access to archived material shall require authorization and documentation. (v) Archived material shall be indexed to permit expedient retrieval. (3) Retention of records. (i) Record retention requirements set forth in this section do not supersede the record retention requirements of any other regulations in this subchapter. (ii) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(3)(iii) of this section, documentation records, raw data, and specimens pertaining to a study and required to be retained by this part shall be archived for a period of at least ten years following the completion of the study. (iii) Wet specimens, samples of test fuel, additive/base fuel mixtures, or reference substances, and specially prepared material which are relatively fragile and differ markedly in stability and quality during storage, shall be retained only as long as the quality of the preparation affords evaluation. Specimens obtained from mutagenicity tests, wet specimens of blood, urine, feces, biological fluids, do not need to be retained after quality assurance verification. In no case shall retention be required for a longer period than that set forth in paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section. (iv) The master schedule sheet, copies of protocols, and records of quality assurance inspections, as required by § 79.60(b)(4)(iii) shall be maintained by the quality assurance unit as an easily accessible system of records for the period of time specified in paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section. (v) Summaries of training and experience and job descriptions required to be maintained by §79.60(b)(1)(ii) may be retained along with all other testing facility employment records for the length of time specified in paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section. (vi) Records and reports of the maintenance and calibration and inspection of equipment, as required by §79.60(d)(2) (ii) and (iii), shall be retained for the length of time specified in paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section. (vii) If a facility conducting testing or an archive contracting facility goes out of business, all raw data, documentation, and other material specified in this section shall be transferred to the sponsor of the study for archival. (viii) Records required by this section may be retained either as original records or as true copies such as photocopies, microfilm, microfiche, or other accurate reproductions of the original records. §79.61. Vehicle emissions inhalation exposure guideline. (a) Purpose. This guideline provides additional information on methodologies required to conduct health effects tests involving inhalation exposures to vehicle combustion emissions from fuels or fuel/additive mixtures. Where this guideline and the other health effects testing guidelines in 40 CFR 79.62 through 79.68 specify differing values for the same test parameter, the specifications in the individual health test guideline shall prevail for that health effect endpoint. (b) Definitions. For the purposes of this section the following definitions apply.
