FR940826-2-00138 FR940826-2-00070 Long-Term Index Options In addition to Index options on the full-value of the Index, the Exchange also proposes to list long-term Index option series (``LEAPS'') as provided in CBOE Rule 24.9, and reduced-value Index LEAPS of which the underlying value would be computed at one-tenth (1/10 th ) of the value of the Index. The current and closing Index value of any such reduced-value Index LEAPS will, after such initial computation, be rounded to the nearest one-hundredth. Other than the reduced value, all other specifications and calculations for the reduced-value Index LEAPS will remain the same. Exercise and Settlement Index options will have European-style exercise and will be ``A.M.-settled index options'' within the meaning of the rules in Chapter XXIV of the Exchange's rules. 7 The CBOE proposes to amend Rule 24.9 to refer specifically to Emerging Asian Markets Index options. The Exchange states that the proposed Index options would expire on the Saturday following the third Friday of the expiration month. Thus, the last day for trading in a expiring series will be the second business day (ordinarily a Thursday) preceding the expiration date. 7 Under CBOE Rule 24.9, A.M.-settled index options are settled based on an index value derived from opening prices on the last day of trading prior to expiration. Exchange Rules Applicable Except as modified in the proposal, the Rules in Chapter XXIV of the Exchange's Rules regarding narrow-based index will be applicable to Index options. 8 Pursuant to Exchange rule 24.4A, Index option contracts based on the Emerging Asian Markets Index will be subject to position limits of 10,500 contracts. 9 For purposes of position and exercise limits, Index LEAPS will be aggregated with Index options on a one for one basis. Under the proposal, ten reduced-value Index LEAP contracts will equal one full-value Index option or Index LEAP for purposes of aggregating positions. The Exchange represents that it has the necessary systems capacity to support new options series that would result from the introduction of Index options and Index LEAPS. 8 See Amendment No. 1, Supra note 3. 9 Id. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6 of the Act, in general, and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) of the Act, 10 in particular, in that it will provide investors with an opportunity to invest in options based upon the Emerging Asian Markets Index pursuant to rules designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, promote just and equitable principles of trade, foster cooperation and coordination with persons facilitating transactions in securities, remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market, and protect investors and the public interest. 10 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Written comments on the proposed rule change were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the Exchange consents, the Commission will: (a) By order approve such proposed rule change, or (b) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the CBOE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;20 and should be submitted by September 16, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 11 11 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21006 Filed 8&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
