FR940727-2-00007 FR940727-2-00004 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration [Docket No. 940682&hyph;4182; I.D. 050694M] RIN 0648&hyph;ZAO8 Financial Assistance for Research and Development Projects to Provide Information for the Full and Wise Use and Enhancement of Fishery Resources in the Gulf of Mexico and off the U.S. South Atlantic Coastal States (MARFIN) AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: Subject to the availability of funds, NMFS issues this notice describing funding to assist persons in carrying out research and development projects that optimize the use of U.S. Gulf of Mexico and South Atlantic (North Carolina to Florida) fisheries involving the U.S. fishing industry (recreational and commercial), including fishery biology, resource assessment, socio-economic assessment, management and conservation, selected harvesting methods, and fish handling and processing. NMFS issues this notice describing the conditions under which applications will be accepted and how NMFS will determine which applications will be selected for funding. Areas of this Marine Fisheries Initiative (MARFIN) emphasis for FY 1995 were formulated from recommendations received from non-Federal scientific and technical experts, and NMFS research and operations officials. DATES: Applications for funding under this program will be accepted between July 27, 1994 and 5 p.m. eastern daylight time on September 26, 1994. Applications received after that time will not be considered for funding. No facsimile applications will be accepted. Applications may be inspected at the NMFS Southeast Regional Office (see ADDRESSES ) from September 30, 1994 through October 3, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send applications to: Ellie Roche, Competitive Programs Manager, Cooperative Programs Division, Southeast Regional Office, National Marine Fisheries Service, 9721 Executive Center Drive, St. Petersburg, FL 33702. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ellie Roche, 813&hyph;893&hyph;3720. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Authority. The Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) is authorized under 15 U.S.C. 713c&hyph;3(d) to enter into cooperative agreements for research and development addressed to all aspects of U.S. fisheries. II. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA). This program is described in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under program number 11.433, Marine Fisheries Initiative. III. Program Description. MARFIN is a competitive Federal grant program that promotes and endorses programs that seek to optimize economic and social benefits from marine fishery resources through cooperative efforts that involve the best research and management talents to accomplish priority activities. Preference is given to selecting and funding applications for project grants that provide an opportunity for cooperative NMFS/applicant efforts and for multiple cooperating applicants/NMFS efforts with up to 3-year time horizons. Projects funded under MARFIN are focused into cooperative efforts that provide clear answers for fishery needs covered by the NMFS Strategic Plan, available from the Southeast Regional Office (see ADDRESSES ), particularly those goals relating to rebuilding overfished marine fisheries, maintaining currently productive fisheries, and integrating conservation of protected species and fisheries management. Applications from multiple cooperating applicants that address conservation and management needs over a wide range of a fishery or fishery organism are encouraged. Emphasis will be placed upon funding projects that have the greatest probability of recovering, maintaining, improving, or developing fisheries; improving the understanding of factors affecting recruitment success; and/or generating increased values and recreational opportunities from fisheries. Projects will be evaluated as to the likelihood of achieving these benefits through both short-term and long-term research efforts, with consideration of the magnitude of the eventual economic or social benefits that may be realized. Short-term projects that may yield more immediate benefits, and projects yielding longer-term benefits will receive equal consideration. IV. Funding Availability. This solicitation announces that funding of approximately $1.25 million may be available in FY 1995 pending Congressional appropriation. MARFIN financial assistance started in FY 1986, and for FY 1986 through FY 1994, awards totaled about $15.5 million for financial assistance to conduct research for fishery resources in the Gulf of Mexico and off the South Atlantic states of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia and Florida. There is no guarantee that sufficient funds will be available to make awards for all approved projects. Project proposals accepted for funding for a project period over 1 year that include multiple project components or severable tasks to be funded each budget period will not compete for funding in subsequent budget periods within the approved project period. However, funding for subsequent project components is contingent upon the availability of funds from Congress and satisfactory performance, and will be at the sole discretion of the agency. Publication of this notice does not obligate NMFS to award any specific cooperative agreement or to obligate all or any parts of the available funds. V. Matching Requirements. Applications must reflect the total budget necessary to accomplish the project, including contributions and/or donations. Cost-sharing is not required for the MARFIN program. However, cost-sharing is encouraged, and in case of a tie in considering proposals for funding, cost-sharing may affect the final decision. The appropriateness of all cost-sharing will be determined on the basis of guidance provided in applicable Federal cost principles. If an applicant chooses to cost-share, and if that application is selected for funding, the applicant will be bound by the percentage of the cost share reflected in the cooperative agreement award. The non-Federal share may include funds received from private sources or from state or local governments, or the value of in-kind contributions by the applicant or third parties. Federal funds may not be used to meet the non-Federal share of matching funds, except as provided by Federal statute. In-kind contributions may be in the form of, but are not limited to, personal services rendered in carrying out functions related to the project, and use of real or personal property owned by others (for which consideration is not required) in carrying out the projects. The total cost of a project begins on the effective date of a cooperative agreement between the applicant and the NOAA Grants Officer and ends on the date specified in the award. Accordingly, time expended and costs incurred in either the development of a project or the financial assistance application, or in any subsequent discussions or negotiations prior to the award, are neither reimbursable nor recognizable as part of the recipient's cost share. VI. Type of Funding Instrument. The cooperative agreement has been determined to be the appropriate funding instrument. NMFS is substantially involved in developing program research priorities, conducting cooperative activities with recipients, and evaluating the performance of recipients for effectiveness in meeting national and regional goals for fishery research in the southeastern United States. VII. Eligibility Criteria. 1. Applications for cooperative agreements for MARFIN projects may be made, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this notice, by: a. Any individual who is a citizen or national of the United States; b. Any corporation, partnership, or other entity, non-profit or otherwise, if such entity is a citizen of the United States within the meaning of section 2 of the Shipping Act, 1916, as amended (46 app. U.S.C. 802). c. Colleges and universities, and game and fish departments of the several states. 2. NOAA employees, including full-time, part-time, and intermittent personnel (or their immediate families), and NOAA offices or centers are not eligible to submit an application under this solicitation, or aid in the preparation of an application during the 60-day solicitation period, except to provide information about the MARFIN program and the priorities and procedures included in this solicitation. However, NOAA employees are permitted to provide information about ongoing and planned NOAA programs and activities that may have implication for an application. Potential applicants are encouraged to contact Ms. Ellie Roche at the NMFS Southeast Regional Office (see ADDRESSES ) for information on NOAA programs. Documents available from that office that may be useful to the applicant include: a. A Cooperative Reef Fish Research Program for the Gulf of Mexico. b. A Cooperative Bycatch Research Plan for the Southeast Region. c. Strategic Plan of the National Marine Fisheries Service. d. National Status of Stocks Report. e. Various fishery management plans and plan amendments produced by the Councils and the Commissions. f. Report of a Workshop on Grouper Reproduction, November 1993. VIII. Award Period. The award period for the project may be made for more than one year consisting of one, two, or three budget periods which correspond to the funding for the proposed project components. The award period will depend upon the duration of funding requested by the applicant in the Application for Federal Assistance, the decision of the NMFS selecting official on the amount of funding, the results of post-selection negotiations between the applicant and NOAA officials, and preaward review of the application by NOAA and Department of Commerce (DOC) officials. Normally, each project budget period may be no more than 18 months in duration. NOAA policy limits the total duration of a project to about 3 years. IX. Indirect Costs. The total dollar amount of the indirect costs proposed in an application under this program must not exceed the indirect cost rate negotiated and approved by a cognizant Federal agency prior to the proposed effective date of the award, or 25 percent of the total proposed direct costs dollar amount in the application, whichever is less. Institutions with indirect cost rates above 25 percent may use the amount above the 25&hyph;percent level as part of the non-Federal share. A copy of the current, approved, negotiated Indirect Cost Agreement with the Federal government must be included with the application. X. Profit or Fees. Profit or management fees paid to for-profit or commercial organization grantees are allowable at the discretion of NOAA. However, they shall not exceed 7 percent of the total estimated direct costs. There must be no profit or fees to the recipient in any overhead charge. Payment of fees or profit is based on successful completion of project objectives. XI. Application Forms and Kit. Before submitting an application under this program, applicants should contact the NMFS Southeast Regional Office for a copy of this solicitation's MARFIN Application Package (see ADDRESSES ). Applications for project funding under this program must be complete and be in accordance with instructions in the MARFIN Application Package. They must identify the principal participants and include copies of any agreements describing the specific tasks to be performed by participants. Project applications should give a clear presentation of the proposed work, the methods for carrying out the project, its relevance to managing and enhancing the use of Gulf of Mexico and/or South Atlantic fishery resources, and cost estimates as they relate to specific aspects of the project. Budgets must include a detailed breakdown, by category of expenditures, with appropriate justification for both the Federal and non-Federal shares. Applicants should not assume prior knowledge on the part of NMFS as to the relative merits of the project described in the application. Applications are not to be bound in any manner and should be one-sided. All incomplete applications will be returned to the applicant. Three copies (one original and two copies) of each application are required, and should be submitted to the NMFS Southeast Regional Office, Cooperative Programs Division (see ADDRESSES ). XII. Project Funding Priorities. A. Proposals for FY 1995 should exhibit familiarity with related work that is completed or ongoing. Where appropriate, proposals should be multidisciplinary. Coordinated efforts involving multiple institutions or persons are encouraged. The areas of special emphasis are listed below, but proposals in other areas will be considered on a funds-available basis. In addition to referencing specific area(s) of special interest as listed below, proposals should state whether the research will apply to the Gulf of Mexico only, the South Atlantic only, or to both areas. Successful applicants may be required to collect and manage data in accordance with standardized procedures and formats approved by NMFS, and to participate with NMFS in specific cooperative activities that will be determined by consultations between NMFS and successful applicants before project grants are awarded. Recipients of financial assistance for projects with multiple project periods must include funding in their applications for travel expenses for the principal investigator to participate in one annual project review and evaluation meeting in St. Petersburg, FL. All recipients of financial assistance under this program shall include funding in their applications for the principal investigator to participate in an annual MARFIN Conference at the completion of the project. Research needs identified in fishery management plans (FMPs) and amendments prepared by the Gulf and South Atlantic Fishery Management Councils (Councils) and the Gulf and Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commissions (Commissions) are included. For availability of these documents, contact the NMFS Southeast Regional Office (see ADDRESSES ). Areas of special emphasis for FY 1995 include: 1. Shrimp Trawler Bycatch . Studies are needed to contribute to the regional shrimp trawler bycatch program being conducted by NMFS in cooperation with state fishery management agencies, commercial and recreational fishing organizations and interests, environmental organizations, universities, Councils, and Commissions. Specific guidance and research requirements are contained in the Regional Bycatch Plan prepared through the Gulf and South Atlantic Fisheries Development Foundation. In particular, the studies should address: a. Data collection and analyses to expand and update current bycatch estimates temporally and spatially from offshore, nearshore, and inshore waters, emphasizing areas of greatest shrimping impact. Sampling effort should include estimates of numbers, weight, and age structure of the associated bycatch complex. b. Assessments of the status and condition of fish stocks significantly impacted by shrimp trawler bycatch, with emphasis given to overfished species under the jurisdiction of the Councils. c. Identification, development, and evaluation of gear, non- gear and tactical fishing options to reduce bycatch. d. Improved methods for communicating with and improving technology and information transfer to the shrimp industry. e. Social and economic impacts of management options to reduce shrimp fishery bycatch. 2. Highly Migratory Pelagic Fisheries . a. Longline Fisheries, Including Bycatch . A number of pelagic longline fisheries exist in the Gulf and South Atlantic, targeting highly migratory species such as tunas, some sharks, and swordfish. These fisheries have evolved rapidly over the last decade, with increases in fishing effort and changes in fishing gear and tactics. These changes need to be characterized and their effects quantified. High priority areas include: (1) Characterization of specific longline fisheries, including targeted species, stock identification, catch-per-unit-effort of bycatch, and biological parameters (e.g., sex ratios and reproductive state) by gear type, area and season. (2) Evaluation of vessel log data for monitoring the fisheries. (3) Development and evaluation of gear and fishing tactics to minimize bycatch of undersized and unwanted species, including sea turtles and marine mammals. (4) Assessment of the impact of longline bycatch on related fisheries, including biological, social, and economic factors and effects. (5) Dependence of vessels and persons engaged in pelagic longlining on other fisheries. Particular emphasis should be placed on the extent to which the capital and/or labor engages in other fisheries at particular times of the year and reasons for this switching behavior. b. Sharks . A Secretarial FMP for sharks has been developed that identifies a number of research needs, including: (1) Characterization of the commercial and recreational fisheries from historical and current databases. Emphasis should be on species composition, bycatch, stock identification, size, sex ratios and catch-per-unit-effort by season, area, and gear type. (2) Collection and analysis of basic biological data on movements, habitats, growth rates, mortality rates, age structure and reproduction parameters. These data are of particular importance for blacktip and sandbar sharks. Information on the relationship of sandbar sharks to water depth and determination of the southern boundary of its range are specifically needed. (3) Determination of baseline cost and returns for commercial fisheries that land sharks, and estimation of demand curves for shark products and recreational shark fisheries. (4) Development of species profiles and stock assessments for sharks taken in significant quantities by commercial and recreational fishers, and as bycatch in other fisheries. Assessments can be species-specific or for species groups, following those identified in the Atlantic Sharks FMP. (5) Identification of coastal sharks, using laboratory methodologies. (6) Development of a more precise and accurate estimate of the recreational shark fishery. Proposals in this area must demonstrate a knowledge of the Marine Recreational Fishery Statistical Survey (MRFSS), and should indicate a willingness to participate directly in the MRFSS through add-on surveys or enhancement of current surveys. (7) Development of fishery-independent abundance indices. 3. Reef Fish . A number of species within the reef fish complex are showing signs of being overfished, either by directed efforts or as bycatch in other fisheries. The ecology of reef fish makes them vulnerable to overfishing because they tend to concentrate over specific types of habitats with patchy distribution. This behavior pattern can make traditional fishery statistics misleading. Priority research areas include: a. Collection of basic biological data for species in commercially and recreationally important fisheries. (1) Age and growth of reef fish. (a) Description of age and growth patterns (especially red snapper, gray triggerfish and red porgy in the Gulf of Mexico and greater amberjack in the Gulf and South Atlantic). (b) Development of annual age-length keys for vermilion snapper in the northern Gulf and west coast central Florida, and for red grouper in the Gulf, along with new growth models for red grouper that include possible density-dependent effects, as well as environmental effects. (2) Reproduction studies of reef fish. (a) Maturity schedules and fecundity of commercially and recreationally important reef fish (especially gray triggerfish and red porgy in the Gulf of Mexico). (b) Detailed histological studies of red snapper to characterize the actual reproductive contribution of females, by age. (c) Identification and characterization of spawning aggregations by species, areas, and seasons. Information is especially needed on changes in sex ratios for gag grouper caused by fishing on spawning aggregations. (d) Reproductive studies covering extensive geographic distributions along the southeastern U.S. coast (North Carolina through the Florida Keys). Samples should be obtained from recreational (private and headboats) and commercial vessels. (e) Reproductive biology of gag, red grouper and other grouper species. Of particular importance are evaluation of sperm limitation, determination of the proximal causes of sex change (whether behavioral or developmental), determination of the annual periodicity of sex-change induction and age-specific spawning frequency, and other research identified in the recommendations of the workshop on grouper reproduction held in Panama City, FL, in November 1993. (3) Recruitment of reef fish. (a) Source of recruitment in Gulf of Mexico and South Atlantic waters (especially amberjack and vermilion snapper), and possible Caribbean source for Florida Keys snapper and grouper. (b) Annual estimation of the absolute or relative recruitment of juvenile gag to the seagrass beds off the west coast of Florida and to similar estuarine nursery habitats along the South Atlantic Bight; development of an index of juvenile gag recruitment for the South Atlantic based on historical databases and/or field studies. (c) Evaluation of the contribution of live-bottom habitat to reef fish recruitment (4) Stock structure of reef fish. (a) Movement and migration patterns of commercially and recreationally valuable reef fish species (especially gag and greater amberjack in the South Atlantic). (b) Techniques to allow field separation of lesser amberjack, almaco jack, and banded rudderfish from greater amberjack to facilitate accurate reporting of catch. (c) Stock structure of gag and wreckfish in the South Atlantic, and greater amberjack in the Gulf and South Atlantic. (d) Use of parasitological surveys in species such as wreckfish and white grunt to determine stock structure. b. Behavioral studies of reef fish. (1) Description of the behavior of age&hyph;0 and age&hyph;1 red snapper. (2) Effects of fishing on reproductive behavior, in formation of aggregations and disruption of existing aggregations. c. Population assessment of reef fish. (1) Effect of reproductive mode and sex change (protogynous hermaphroditism) on population size and characteristics, with reference to sizes of fish exploited in the fisheries and the significance to proper management. (2) Design of sampling routines to provide a production-style aging program representative of the reef fish fishery. Effective dock-side sampling programs, especially for groupers, are needed over a wide geographic range to collect information on reproductive state, size, age, and sex. These research needs are discussed in the report of the workshop on grouper reproduction held in Panama City, FL, in November 1993. (3) Source and quantification of natural and human-induced mortalities. (4) Determination of the habitat and limiting factors for important reef fish resources (such as snappers in the Gulf of Mexico). Information is also needed on the importance of human-created and natural channels for controlling stock sizes and growth rates of snappers and groupers. (5) Description of habitat and fish populations in the deep reef community and the prey distributions supporting the community. (6) Evaluation of the effect of misidentifying gag as black grouper on landing statistics and stock assessments. (7) Development of statistically valid indices of abundance for important reef fish species in the South Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico (especially red grouper), including spatial and temporal variations in size distribution. (8) Assessment of tag performance on reef fish species, mainly snappers and groupers. Characteristics examined should include shedding rate, effects on growth and survival, and effects of these characteristics on estimations of vital population parameters. (9) Stock assessments to establish the status of major recreational and commercial species. Innovative methods are needed for stock assessments of aggregate species, including the effect of fishing on genetic structure and the incorporation of sex change for protogynous hermaphrodites into stock assessment models. (10) Fishery-independent assessments of spawning aggregations of gag, scamp, yellowedge and other groupers, using hydroacoustic and underwater video technology. d. Management of reef fish. (1) Research in direct support of management, including catch-and-release mortalities by gear and depth, the value of limiting longlines to specific water depths (e.g., outside the 50&hyph;fathom (91.4&hyph;m) curve), and modifications (gear, techniques) to minimize bycatch. (2) Evaluation of the use of reef fish marine reserves as an alternative or supplement to current fishery management measures and practices, especially in the South Atlantic. Of particular interest is Oculina Banks off the Atlantic Coast of Florida. (3) Characterization and evaluation of the social and economic behavior of commercial and recreational fishermen, and how these characteristics change in response to management measures. (4) Characterization and quantification of the biological, economic, and social impacts of the longline fishery for reef fish along the west coast of Florida. This should include the following: (a) Catch-per-unit-effort of target and bycatch species, and biological parameters (e.g., size, sex, and reproductive state) by gear type, area, and season. (b) Evaluation of vessel log data for monitoring the fishery. (c) Development and evaluation of gear and fishing tactics to minimize the bycatch of undersized and unwanted species, including sea turtles and marine mammals. (d) Assessment of the impact of longline bycatch on related fisheries. 4. Coastal Herrings . Preliminary studies indicate that substantial stocks of coastal herrings occur in the Gulf and South Atlantic. Most of the available data are generated from fishery-independent surveys conducted by NMFS and state fishery management agencies. Because of the size of these stocks, their importance as prey, and in some instances as predator species, their potential for development as commercial and recreational fisheries must be understood. General research needs include: a. Collection, collation, and analysis of available fishery-independent and fishery-dependent data from state and Federal surveys, with emphasis on species and size composition, seasonal distribution patterns, biomass, bycatch, and environmental relationships. Emphasis should be given to species such as Spanish sardine that are important as prey to gamefish. b. Description and quantification of predator-prey relationships between coastal herring species and carnivores such as mackerels, tunas, swordfish, billfish, sharks, bluefish, and others in high demand by commercial and recreational fisheries. c. Design of innovative economic and social management approaches for the purse seine menhaden fishery, including, but not limited to, limited entry. 5. Coastal Migratory Pelagic Fisheries . The commercial and recreational demand for migratory coastal pelagics has led to overfishing for certain species, including king and Spanish mackerel. Additionally, some are transboundary with Mexico and other countries and ultimately will demand international management attention. Current high priorities include: a. Recruitment indices for king and Spanish mackerel, cobia, dolphin, and bluefish, primarily from fishery-independent data sources. b. Assessment and management models for coastal pelagic resources that are dominated by single year classes, such as Spanish mackerel, dolphin, and bluefish. c. Fishery-independent methods of assessing stock abundance of king and Spanish mackerel. d. Improved catch statistics for all species in Mexican waters, with special emphasis on king mackerel; needed especially is length-frequency, life history and genetic information. e. Information on populations of coastal pelagics overwintering off North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia, especially population size, age and movement patterns. f. Basic biostatistical information on cobia and dolphin to develop age-length keys and maturation schedules for stock assessments. g. Impact of bag limits on total catch and landings of king and Spanish mackerel. h. Demand and supply functions for recreational and commercial fisheries for king mackerel in the South Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico. Emphasis should be on changes in marginal values of producer and consumer surpluses, since the studies would be used in allocation frameworks where total values are not necessarily required. 6. Groundfish and Estuarine Fishes Substantial stocks of groundfish and estuarine species occur in the Gulf and South Atlantic. Most of the database for assessments comes from studies conducted by NMFS and state fishery management agencies. Because of the historic and current size of these fish stocks, their importance as predator and prey species, and their current or potential use as commercial and recreational fisheries, more information on their biology and conservation is needed. General research needs are: a. Red drum. (1) Effects of sportfishing on red drum populations in the Gulf of Mexico and South Atlantic. A specific need in the South Atlantic is increased sampling of nighttime fishing for red drum on the Outer Banks of North Carolina. (2) Size and age-structure of the offshore adult red drum stock in the Gulf of Mexico. (3) Immigration and escapement of red drum from state waters into the Exclusive Economic Zone in the Gulf of Mexico and the South Atlantic. (4) Life history parameters and stock structure for the Gulf of Mexico and the South Atlantic. Research should include migratory patterns, long-term changes in abundance, growth rates and age structure, and comparisons of the inshore and offshore components of recreational and/or commercial fisheries. Specific research needs for Atlantic red drum are fecundity estimates, as a function of length and weight, and improved coastwide coverage for age-length keys. (5) Catch-and-release mortality rates from inshore and nearshore waters, and fishing mortality rates in state territorial waters of the Gulf of Mexico. b. Life history and stock structure for weakfish, menhaden, spot and croaker in the Gulf of Mexico and the South Atlantic. Research should include migratory patterns, long-term changes in abundance, growth rates and age structure, and comparisons of the inshore and offshore components of recreational and/or commercial fisheries. c. Improved catch and effort statistics from recreational and commercial fisheries, including size and age structure of the catch, to develop production models. d. Quantification and qualification of the bycatch in finfish trawl fisheries, such as the flounder and fly-net fisheries in the South Atlantic. e. Determination of catch-and-release mortality rates for spotted seatrout from inshore and nearshore waters. 7. Crabs and Lobsters . a. Monitoring of fecundity and sex/size frequencies for examination of spawning potential in relation to overfishing criteria for stone crab and spiny lobster. b. Development of recruitment indices, and population assessment and management models for stone crab and spiny lobster. c. Determination of the relationship between the reproductive cycle characteristics of spiny lobster in Florida and the Caribbean. 8. Sea Turtle Conservation. The conservation of endangered and threatened sea turtles in the Southeast Region continues to be a high priority. Specific needs include: a. Distribution, abundance and size composition of sea turtles in inshore waters, especially where these turtles may be affected by inshore fisheries. b. Turtle excluder device (TED) modifications or designs to exclude adult leatherback sea turtles. The area of special concern is off South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. c. TED designs and modifications for use in small inshore shrimp trawls. Especially needed is research on shrimp retention and on the effectiveness of TEDs operating in areas with debris. d. Sea turtle incidental catch in fisheries other than the shrimp fishery. e. Evaluation of the utility of turtle stranding data as an indication of fishery-caused mortality. 9. General . There are many areas of research that need to be addressed for improved understanding and management of fishery resources. These include methods for data collection, management, analysis, and for better conservation. Examples of high priority research needs include: a. Design and critical analysis of a data collection system that may involve permits, logbooks, trip interviews, dealer reporting or other innovative methods. The system design should be applicable across the entire range of species that may be pursued throughout the Gulf and South Atlantic, and should address economic, biological and social data needs. b. Assessment of the changes in recreational and commercial values that have resulted from past management practices for red drum, shrimp, mackerels and reef fish. c. Development of improved methods and procedures for technology transfer, and education of constituency groups on fishery management and conservation programs. Of special importance are programs concerned with controlled access and introduction of conservation gear. d. Compilation of baseline socio-demographic data for describing the social and cultural framework of managed fisheries. B. Priority in program emphasis will be placed upon funding projects that have the greatest probability of recovering, maintaining, improving, or developing fisheries; improving the understanding of factors affecting recruitment success; and generating increased values and recreational opportunities from fisheries. Projects will be evaluated as to the likelihood of achieving these benefits through short- and long-term research efforts, with consideration given to the magnitude of the eventual economic benefits that may be realized. C. Further information on current Federal programs that address the above-listed priorities may be obtained from the NMFS Southeast Regional Office (see ADDRESSES ). XIII. Evaluation Criteria. Successful applicants generally will be recommended within 210 days from the date of publication of this notice. The earliest start date of awards will be about 90 days after each project is selected and after all NMFS/applicant negotiations of cooperative activities have been completed (The earliest start date of awards will be about 300 days after the date of publication of this notice). Applicants should consider this selection and processing time in developing requested start dates for their applications. Proposed projects will be evaluated and ranked as follows: 1. Cooperatively developed applications that propose activities of two or more qualified applicants to address important fishery conservation and management issues or problems identified in the Areas of Emphasis for this solicitation may be evaluated as a group by NMFS. If selected for funding, individual cooperative awards may be made to each individual applicant. Application procedures for this type of proposal are also included in the FY 1995 MARFIN Application Package. 2. Unless otherwise specified by statute, in reviewing applications for cooperative agreements, including those that include consultants and contracts, NOAA will make a determination regarding the following: a. Is the involvement of the applicant necessary to the conduct of the project and the accomplishment of its goals and objectives? b. Is the proposed allocation of the applicant's time reasonable and commensurate with the applicant's involvement in the project? c. Are the proposed costs for the applicant's involvement in the project reasonable and commensurate with the benefits to be derived from the applicant's participation? d. Is the project proposal substantial in character and design? 3. Applications meeting the above requirements will be forwarded for technical evaluation. Applicants submitting applications not meeting the above requirements will be notified. Evaluations normally will involve experts from non-NOAA, as well as NOAA organizations. All comments submitted to NMFS will be taken into consideration in the technical evaluation of projects. NMFS will provide point scores on proposals, based on the following evaluation criteria: a. Does the proposal have a clearly stated goal(s) with associated objectives that meet the needs outlined in the Project Narrative? (30 points) b. Does the proposal clearly identify and describe, in the Project Outline and Statement of Work, scientifically valid methodologies and analytical procedures that will adequately address project goals and objectives? (30 points) c. Do the principal investigators provide a scientifically realistic timetable to enable full accomplishment of all aspects of the Statements of Work? (20 points) d. Do the principal investigators define how they will maintain stewardship of the project performance, finances, cooperative relationships and reporting requirements for the proposal? (10 points) e. Are the proposed costs appropriate for the scope of work proposed? (10 points) XIV. Selection Procedures. All applications will be ranked by a NMFS scientific panel into two groups: (a) Recommended, and (b) Not Recommended. Proposals ranked as Not Recommended will not be given further consideration for selection and funding. All rankings will be presented to a panel of non-NOAA fishery experts, who will individually consider the significance of the problem addressed in each project proposal, the technical evaluation, and need for funding. These panel members will provide individual recommendations to NMFS on each proposal classified as Recommended or Not Recommended. The non-NOAA panel members' individual comments, recommendations and evaluations, and recommendations of the NMFS scientific panel and NMFS Southeast Program Officer will be considered by the Director, Southeast Region, NMFS (Regional Director). The Regional Director, in consultation with the NOAA Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, will: (a) Determine which projects do not substantially duplicate other projects that are currently funded by NOAA or are approved for funding by other Federal offices, and recommend the projects to be funded. The exact amount of funds awarded, the final scope of activities, the project duration, and specific NMFS cooperative involvement with the activities of each project will be determined in pre-award negotiations between the applicant, the NOAA Grants Office, and the NMFS Program Staff. Projects must not be initiated by recipients until a signed award is received from the NOAA Grants Office. For project periods of more than 1 year, funds for subsequent budget periods may be provided if initial project tasks are satisfactorily completed and after NMFS has received MARFIN funds for subsequent periods. NMFS will make project applications available for review as follows: A. Public Review and Comment Applications may be inspected at the NMFS Southeast Regional Office (see ADDRESSES and DATES ). B. Consultation with Members of the Fishing Industry, Management Agencies, Environmental Organizations, and Academic Institutions NMFS shall, at its discretion, request comments from members of the fishing and associated industries, groups, organizations and institutions who have knowledge in the subject matter of a project or who would be affected by a project. C. Consultation with Government Agencies Applications will be reviewed by the NMFS Southeast Region Program Office in consultation with the NMFS Southeast Fisheries Science Center and Southeast Operations Directors, including appropriate operations and laboratory personnel, the NOAA Grants Officer and, as appropriate, DOC bureaus and other Federal agencies. XV. Other Requirements. A. Federal Policies and Procedures . Recipients and subrecipients are subject to all Federal laws and Federal and DOC policies, regulations, and procedures applicable to Federal financial assistance awards. Women and minority individuals and groups are encouraged to submit applications under this program. B. Past Performance . Any first-time applicant for Federal grant funds is subject to a pre-award accounting survey prior to execution of the award. Unsatisfactory performance under prior Federal awards may result in an application not being considered for funding. C. Preaward Activities . If applicants incur any costs prior to an award being made, they do so solely at their own risk of not being reimbursed by the government. Notwithstanding any verbal or written assurance that they may have received, there is no obligation on the part of DOC to cover preaward costs. D. No Obligation of Future Funding . If an application is selected for funding, DOC has no obligation to provide any additional future funding in connection with the award. Renewal of an award to increase funding or extend the period of performance is at the total discretion of DOC. E. Delinquent Federal Debts . No award of Federal funds shall be made to an applicant who has any outstanding delinquent Federal debt until either: 1. The delinquent account is paid in full; 2. A negotiated repayment schedule is established and at least one payment is received; or 3. Other arrangements satisfactory to DOC are made. F. Name Check Review . All non-profit and for-profit applicants are subject to a name check review process. Name checks are intended to reveal if any key individuals associated with the applicant have been convicted of or are presently facing, criminal charges such as fraud, theft, perjury, or other matters that significantly reflect on the applicant's management honesty or financial integrity. Potential non-profit and for-profit recipients may also be subject to reviews of Dun and Bradstreet data or other similar credit checks. G. Primary Applicant Certifications . All primary applicants must submit a completed Form CD&hyph;511, ``Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters; Drug-Free Workplace Requirements and Lobbying,'' and the following explanations are hereby provided: 1. Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension . Prospective participants (as defined at 15 CFR 26.105) are subject to 15 CFR part 26, ``Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension'' and the related section of the certification form prescribed above applies; 2. Drug-Free Workplace . Grantees (as defined at 15 CFR part 26, Section 605) are subject to 15 CFR part 26, Subpart F, ``Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants)'' and the related section of the certification form prescribed above applies; 3. Anti-Lobbying . Persons (as defined at 15 CFR Part 28, Section 105) are subject to the lobbying provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1352, ``Limitation on use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracting and financial transactions,'' and the lobbying section of the certification form prescribed above applies to applications/bids for grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts for more than $100,000, and loans and loan guarantees for more than $150,000, or the single family maximum mortgage limit for affected programs, whichever is greater; and 4. Anti-Lobbying Disclosures . Any applicant that has paid or will pay for lobbying using any funds must submit a Form SL-LLL, ``Disclosure of Lobbying Activities,'' as required under 15 CFR part 28, appendix B. H. Lower Tier Certifications . Recipients shall require applicants/bidders for subgrants, contracts, subcontracts, or other lower tier covered transactions at any tier under the award to submit, if applicable, a completed Form CD&hyph;512, ``Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion-Lower Tier Covered Transactions and Lobbying'' and disclosure form, SF-LLL, ``Disclosure of Lobbying Activities.'' Form CD&hyph;512 is intended for the use of recipients and should not be transmitted to DOC. SF-LLL submitted by any tier recipient or subrecipient should be submitted to DOC in accordance with the instructions contained in the award document. I. False Statements. A false statement on the application is grounds for denial or termination of funds and grounds for possible punishment by a fine or imprisonment as provided in 18 U.S.C. 1001. J. Intergovernmental Review . Applications under this program are subject to the provisions of E.O. 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs''. K. Requirement to Buy American-Made Equipment and Products . Applicants are hereby notified that they are encouraged, to the extent feasible, to purchase American-made equipment and products with funding provided under this program in accordance with Congressional intent as set forth in the resolution contained in Pub. L. 103&hyph;121, Sections 606(a) and (b). Classification Prior notice and an opportunity for public comments are not required by the Administrative Procedure Act or any other law for this notice concerning grants, benefits, and contracts. Therefore, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required for purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. This action has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. Cooperative agreements awarded pursuant to pertinent statutes shall be in accordance with the Fisheries Research Plan (comprehensive program of fisheries research) in effect on the date of the award. Federal participation under the MARFIN Program may include the assignment of DOC scientific personnel and equipment. Reasonable, negotiated financial compensation will be provided under awards for the work of eligible grantee workers. Information-collection requirements contained in this notice have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB Clearance No. 0648&hyph;0175) under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act. Public reporting burden for agency-specific collection-of-information elements, exclusive of requirements specified under applicable OMB circulars, is estimated to average 4 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Authority: 15 U.S.C. 713c&hyph;3(d) Dated: July 21, 1994. Nancy Foster, Ph.D., Deputy Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, National Marine Fisheries Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18232 Filed 7&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;F
