FR940505-1-00186 FR940505-1-00012 b. Overview of Rule Requirements. There are three sections of the rule that together establish the NSR requirements for the FIP areas. The first, 40 CFR 52.3000, describes which sources are required to obtain a pre- construction permit, and sets out most of the procedural requirements involved in permitting. The second section, 40 CFR 52.3001, contains the substantive requirements related to New Source Review, including control technology determinations and offset requirements. The third section, 40 CFR 52.3002, describes the procedure EPA will use to determine the amount of creditable reductions available and authorize them for use as offsets. In general, the rule is designed to meet each of the severe area NSR requirements mandated by the Act, meet each applicable requirement for State and local NSR rules as set forth in 40 CFR 51.165, as well as be consistent with EPA's policies for permitting. The rule requires that any source 98 owner proposing to construct an emitting piece of equipment obtain a permit prior to construction of that equipment. A permit applicant must provide EPA all information necessary to process the permit. Once all such information is received by EPA, the application is administratively complete and EPA will begin the process of analysis and permit preparation, and will then issue or deny the permit. Except for certain small sources, EPA will present a draft permit for public notice and provide an opportunity for comment. 98 Source is generally defined as all emitting equipment at one location. This document uses the same definition as 40 CFR 51.165. The substantive requirements that may apply to construction or modification of certain larger emission units include: Best Available Control Technology (BACT), offsets, statewide compliance, and alternative siting analysis, and are discussed below. (1) Lowest Achievable Emission Rate (LAER). LAER is required for any emission unit construction or modification where the potential emissions of that unit exceed ten pounds per day. This requirement is consistent with the Clean Air Act and is based on the requirements of the Districts' rules. The applicable Clean Air Act control technology requirement is Lowest Achievable Emissions Rate (LAER) (CAA section 173(a)(2)). The District rules use the term Best Available Control Technology, but define it to meet the LAER requirement. Therefore, as used in today's rule, the term ``BACT'' satisfies CAA section 173(a)(2). (2) Offsets. Today's rule implements the offset requirement mandated by the Act for severe areas by adding a 1.3:1 offset ratio to the base District rule. The rule triggers the offset requirement once the potential to emit of the source exceeds 7,500 pounds per quarter (approximately 15 tons per year). Once the source exceeds the offset trigger, all subsequent emissions increases are required to be offset at this ratio. (3) Statewide Compliance. The owner or operator of all major new sources and modifications is required to demonstrate that all major sources under his or her ownership or control within the state are in compliance or on a schedule for compliance with all Clean Air Act requirements. This requirement has been in effect since the 1977 Clean Air Act amendments, and is already part of all of the District rules. (4) Alternative Siting Analysis. The requirement for an alternative siting analysis is found in section 173(a)(5) of the Clean Air Act. An applicant for a major new source or modification is required to perform an analysis of alternative sites, sizes, production processes and environmental control techniques and demonstrate that the benefits of the source significantly outweigh the environmental and social costs of construction of the source at that location. Today's rule implements the alternative siting analysis requirement at 40 CFR 52.3001 (c)(7). c. Existing NSR Rules. The five Districts affected by today's Rule are all within the same air basin and Metropolitan Statistical Area. While each District adopts NSR rules independently, all but one of the Districts' rules are similar in structure and substance. Feather River Air Quality Management District's rules have similar definitions and substantially similar requirements as the other Disticts, but differ in minor structural and other respects. Today's rule is similar to the existing rules in Sacramento Metropolitan Air Quality Management District, Placer Air Pollution Control District, Yolo-Solano Air Pollution Control District and El Dorado Air Pollution Control District. 99 However, today's rule is numbered differently and is written to address only ozone precursors. 99 The rules related to New Source Review in each of the Districts are as follows: Sacramento Metroplitan AQMD Rules 201, 202, and 204; Placer APCD Rules 501, 502, and 504; El Dorado APCD Rules 501, 523, and 524 (board adoption expected April 1994); Yolo-Solano APCD Rules 501, 502, and 504; Feather River APCD Rules 4.0, 10.1 and 10.2. None of the District NSR rules in the State Implementation Plan currently meet all the requirements of the 1990 CAAA. On January 15, 1993, EPA found that Feather River AQMD, El Dorado APCD, Placer APCD, and Yolo-Solano APCD failed to submit NSR rules meeting certain requirements mandated by the CAAA. However, Feather River AQMD, Placer APCD, and Yolo-Solano APCD have since submitted rules for inclusion into the State Implementation Plan. EPA expects submittals from El Dorado APCD and Sacramento Metropolitan AQMD in the next year. Because all of these rules were written to only meet the requirements for serious nonattainment areas, they do not meet the requirements for severe nonattainment areas. d. Changes From Original APCD Rules. (1) Changes to Address Severe Area Requirements. In order to satisfy the provisions required by the Clean Air Act for severe areas, EPA has included several requirements in today's rule which differ from those of the current Districts' rules. The changes include the addition of a more stringent major source threshold and a more stringent offset ratio. These requirements are in accordance with Section 182(e) of the CAA. The minimum size threshold for a major source is 25 tons per year and the lowest acceptable offset ratio is 1.3 to 1.
