FR940804-1-00050 FR940804-1-00014 Several large wet meadows in the Laguna Mountains of the Cleveland National Forest support Limnanthes gracilis ssp. parishii . However, the creation of two shallow reservoirs in these meadows have resulted in year round inundation of potential L.g. ssp. parishii habitat (Winter 1991). Traffic from off-road vehicles, horses, and hikers in the Laguna Mountain meadows indirectly impacts Limnanthes gracilis ssp. parishii by altering the composition of the plant community over time. Such damage frequently occurs in spring when the soils are saturated and subject to compaction (Winter 1991). Loss and modification of L. gracilis ssp. parishii habitat has been documented as a result of trampling, erosion, and alteration of hydrology at most of the locations occupied by this species (Bauder 1992). L. gracilis ssp. parishii may be more subject to trampling than Downingia concolor var. brevior because it grows around the drier periphery of meadows. Some equestrian camps in Laguna Mountain meadows have displaced habitat of L. g. ssp. parishii , and its proximity to other camps has resulted in trampling (Bauder 1992). B. Overutilization for Commercial, Recreational, Scientific, or Educational Purposes Overutilization is not known to be a threat to the two plant taxa under consideration in this proposed rule. Vandalism or collection are not known to threaten these species. C. Disease or Predation Disease is not known to be a factor affecting the taxa under consideration in this rule. Consumption of individual plants by grazing animals has been known to impact the reproduction of these annual plants and has had other affects, such as trampling, erosion (see Factor A) and the introduction of non-native species (see Factor E). Grazing was discontinued on Helix Water District-owned lands at Cuyamaca Lake in 1986 when Downingia concolor var. brevior was believed to be extinct as a result of grazing (David Hogan, San Diego Biodiversity Project, in litt ., 1990; Joseph Young, Helix Water District, pers. comm., 1993). The plant re-established itself the following season (Bauder 1992). Livestock grazing was terminated in Cuyamaca State Park in 1956, with the exception of a 16 ha (40 ac) parcel that was grazed until 1980 when it was acquired by the State Park. Grazing still continues on privately owned pastures east of the reservoir. The Cleveland National Forest still allows grazing in these sensitive meadows but recently adopted late season grazing regimes to avoid loss of individual plants due to actual consumption (Volgarino, pers. comm., 1993). D. The Inadequacy of Existing Regulatory Mechanisms Existing regulatory mechanisms that could provide some protection for these species include: (1) listing under the California Endangered Species Act (CESA); (2) the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA); (3) conservation provisions under section 404 of the Federal Clean Water Act (CWA) and section 1603 of the California Fish and Game Code, (4) occurrence with other species protected by the Federal Endangered Species Act; (5) land acquisition and management by Federal, State, or local agencies, or by private groups and organizations, and (6) local laws and regulations. The California Fish and Game Commission has listed Downingia concolor var. brevior and Limnanthes gracilis ssp. parishii as endangered under the Native Plant Protection Act (NPPA) (Div. 2, chapter 10, section 1900 et seq. of the California Fish and Game Code) and the California Endangered Species Act (CESA) (Div. 3, chapter 1.5 section 2050 et seq .). After the California Department of Fish and Game notifies a landowner that a State-listed plant occurs on his or her property, the Fish and Game Code requires only that the landowner notify the agency ``at least 10 days in advance of changing the land use to allow salvage of such plant'' (Chapter 10, section 1913, California Fish and Game Code). Therefore, although NPPA and CESA both prohibit the ``take'' of State-listed plants (Chapter 10, sections 1908 and Chapter 1.5, section 2080, California Fish and Game Code), these statutes are not adequate to protect the taking of such plants via habitat modification or land use change by the landowner.
