FR941003-1-00087 FR941003-1-00006 (4) Council initiation of review. The Council may review any Agency Official finding made under this part on its own initiative. Such review shall proceed as though a request to the Council has been made. (5) Effect of the Council's determination. In accordance with Section 211 of the Act, the Council's determination on the finding shall be conclusive for the purposes of Section 106 and this part. (b) Foreclosure of the Council's opportunity to comment._ (1) Notice to Agency Official. The Council membership may inform the head of an agency that an Agency Official has taken an action that has precluded the Agency Official from completing the requirements of Section 106 in accordance with this part and thereby foreclosed the Council's opportunity to comment. The Council shall notify the Agency Official that it is considering a finding of foreclosure and afford the Agency Official 30 days to provide information for the Council's consideration as to whether the agency has foreclosed the Council's opportunity to comment. (2) Consideration of foreclosure. After providing notice to the Agency Official, the Council membership shall make a final determination as to foreclosure. If the Council membership determines that the Agency Official has foreclosed the Council's opportunity to comment, the Council shall transmit its determination to the head of the agency as a Notice of Violation. (c) Anticipatory demolition. Section 110(k) of the Act specifies that an agency shall not grant a loan, loan guarantee, permit, license, or other assistance to an applicant who, with intent to avoid the requirements of Section 106, has intentionally significantly adversely affected a historic property to which the grant would relate, or to an applicant who allowed such significant adverse effect to occur and had the legal power to prevent its occurrence. If, after consultation with the Council, the agency determines that circumstances justify granting such assistance, despite the adverse effect created or permitted by the applicant, the agency may allow the grant. (1) Information for the Council. If the Council is apprised of or has reason to believe that anticipatory demolition has occurred, it shall request information from the Agency Official regarding the applicant's action, including, but not limited to: (i) The actual effect on historic properties, evaluated in the context of the Criteria of Adverse Effect set forth in ยง800.9(a)(1); (ii) Any actions, if any, taken by the Agency Official with respect to the applicant, the undertaking, or the historic properties; (iii) Any notification given to the applicant regarding the Section 106 process and any other information relating to the applicant's knowledge of the requirements of Section 106 and this part; (iv) The degree of control of the applicant over the action causing adverse effects; (v) Any other information bearing on the applicant's intent regarding the action causing the adverse effects; and (vi) Any comments provided by the State Historic Preservation Officer and any interested parties. (2) Council views on anticipatory demolition. Based on the information provided by the Agency Official and any other information provided to the Council, the Council shall advise the Agency Official of its views regarding whether the applicant has engaged in anticipatory demolition. (3) Agency determination. The Agency Official shall consider the views of the Council in reaching its determination regarding anticipatory demolition. The Agency Official may independently determine that anticipatory demolition has occurred, without seeking the views of the Council. (4) Denial of assistance. If the Agency Official determines that anticipatory demolition has occurred, the Agency Official shall not grant a loan, loan guarantee, permit, license, or other assistance to the applicant, unless after consultation with the Council, the Agency Official determines that circumstances justify granting such assistance despite the adverse effect created or permitted by the applicant. In that case, the Agency Official may grant the assistance. (5) Consideration of circumstances justifying granting assistance. When consulting with the Council regarding circumstances that would justify granting the assistance, the Agency Official shall provide the Council with: (i) The basis for its determination that anticipatory demolition had occurred; (ii) The Agency Official's assessment of the severity of the damage to historic properties, the significance of the historic properties, the opportunities for mitigation, and the availability of other remedial actions;
