FR940110-1-00057 FR940110-1-00006 Proposed ยง960.5(a)(1) implements section 10(j)(2)(B) of the Act, which provides that Bank members may use subsidized advances received from the Banks to finance the purchase, construction, or rehabilitation of rental housing, at least 20 percent of the units of which will be occupied by and affordable for very low-income households for the remaining useful life of such housing or the mortgage term. 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(2)(B). Proposed ยง960.5(a)(1) provides that the applicant and project sponsor shall state in the AHP application their commitment regarding satisfaction of the long-term income-eligibility, affordability and income-targeting requirements. In addition, an applicant may commit to maintain additional units as affordable for and occupied by low- or moderate-income households, which commitment shall be a minimum period of 30 years or, at the election of the sponsor, the remaining useful life of such units. (1) Long-term requirement. Section 10(j) of the Act does not define ``remaining useful life'' as used in section 10(j)(2)(B) of the Act. See 12 U.S.C. 1430(j). However, the legislative history of section 21A(c) of the Act regarding residential properties sold by the Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC), which was enacted as part of the same legislation that enacted section 10(j), states that the remaining useful life of such RTC property is intended to cover the property as long as it is habitable and assumes good faith efforts by the purchaser to maintain the property and to rehabilitate it as necessary. See Joint Explanatory Statement of the Committee of the Conference, H.R. Conf. Rep. No. 101&hyph;222, 101st Cong., 1st Sess., 419 (1989) (FIRREA Conference Report); 12 U.S.C. 1441a(c). The RTC has in fact adopted a specific uniform period of useful life for all buildings instead of a period of useful life based on physical habitability. See 12 CFR 1609.2(kk). The legislative history of a recently enacted affordable housing statute, the Low Income Housing Preservation and Residential Homeownership Act (LIHPRHA), provides further support for a definition of ``remaining useful life'' based on the period of physical habitability of a property by explicitly rejecting the RTC's regulatory definition. Accordingly, ยง960.1 of the proposed rule defines ``remaining useful life'' as the period during which the housing remains in a condition suitable for occupancy, assuming normal maintenance and repairs are made and major systems and capital components are replaced or repaired as becomes necessary. Section 10(j) of the Act does not define ``mortgage term'' as used in section 10(j)(2)(B) of the Act. See 12 U.S.C. 1430(j). The legislative history of section 10(j) states that the conferees expect that the Board will encourage the use of the longest practicable mortgage term in order to aid in making the housing affordable for very low-income households. See FIRREA Conference Report at 431. Accordingly, the Board believes that ``mortgage term'' should be defined as the mortgage term only of long-term mortgage loans and believes that 30 years is consistent with Congress' intent in section 10(j)(2)(B) of the Act to ensure that AHP-assisted rental housing projects remain occupied by and affordable for income-eligible households for a long-term period. (2) Definitions of ``low- or moderate-income household'' and ``very low-income household''. The definitions of ``low- or moderate-income household'' and ``very low-income household'' discussed above for AHP-assisted owner-occupied housing projects apply for AHP-assisted rental housing projects as well. With respect to the definition of ``income,'' rental housing projects typically have multiple providers of financing, each of which may specify the eligible sources of income, which sometimes conflict with each other. However, as with AHP-assisted owner-occupied housing projects, the Board has determined that the proposed rule should not specify the eligible sources of income for rental housing projects, but rather that applicants should be permitted to follow their usual underwriting guidelines, or may follow those of the predominant source of financing in the project.
