FR941103-0-00043 FR941103-0-00007 Note: This Appendix will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations Appendix A_Summary of Comments on the Inquiry Concerning the Commission's Pricing Policy for Transmission Services in Docket No. RM93&hyph;19&hyph;000 The request for comments for the inquiry concerning the Commission's pricing policy for transmission services in Docket No. RM93&hyph;19&hyph;000 was issued on June 30, 1993. The date for filing responses was extended to November 8, 1993 and reply comments to January 24, 1994. Technical conferences were held on April 8 and 15, 1994. The first day of the conference covered current policy issues. The second day was devoted to advanced pricing concepts and implementation issues. Comments were received from 165 individual commenters. Five categories of commenters are investor-owned utilities (IOUs, 67 commenters), municipal and cooperative utilities (Muni/Coop, 39 commenters), non-utility generators and independent power producers (NUGs/IPPs, 15 commenters), Regulatory/Government entities (25 commenters), and Others (19 commenters). A list of the commenters is at the end of this appendix; it shows the categories under which their comments are summarized and the acronyms used in this appendix. A summary of the comments is provided here. The summary is organized in the same manner as the two-day conference (current policy and advanced pricing concepts). The current policy issues are subdivided into eight comment areas and advanced pricing into four comment areas as follows: Current Policy Issues (1) General Criteria for Transmission Service Pricing (2) ``And'' Versus ``Or'' Pricing and Related Incentives (3) Incremental Pricing (4) Network Service (5) Ancillary Services (6) Direction Aspects of Power Flows (7) Non-Firm Transmission Pricing (8) Regional Transmission Groups Advanced Pricing Concepts/Implementation Issues (1) Alternative Pricing Concepts (2) Distance/Flow-Based Rates (3) Contract Path versus Measured Power Flows (4) Spot Market Pricing The Commission also received comments on stranded costs in the course of this Inquiry, but these are not addressed in this Pricing Policy Statement because stranded cost is the subject of a proposed rule. 41 41 Docket No. RM94&hyph;7&hyph;000, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, June 29, 1994. Current Policy Issues 1. General Criteria for Transmission Service Pricing The first comment area deals with the proposed criteria for assessing transmission pricing reform. Commenters generally find the criteria proposed in Staff's Discussion Paper 42 acceptable. However, certain criteria are more readily agreed upon than others. Most commenters uniformly agree that the proposed criteria should: (1) Be simple to carry out and to administer; (2) promote efficient use of and investment in the transmission grid; (3) provide appropriate price signals to transmission customers; and (4) ensure equity and fairness during and beyond the transition period. 42 Staff appendix to Inquiry Concerning the Commission's Pricing Policy for Transmission Service Provided by Public Utilities Under the Federal Power Act, FERC States. & Regs. ¶35,024 (1993). Other proposed criteria by commenters include that transmission pricing policy should: •Ensure system reliability; •Be flexible ( i.e., no ``one size fits all'' pricing methodology) and specifically recognize regional differences; •Encourage the formation of Regional Transmission Groups (RTGs) and give substantial deference to pricing methodologies developed by RTGs; •Provide for coordination between state and Federal pricing policies and encourage collaborative policy development; •Provide for grandfathering of existing contracts and arrangements when implementing any new policies; •Promote competition in generation; •Unbundle rates for transmission services; •Ensure nondiscriminatory rates, terms, and conditions;
