FR940426-0-00016 FR940426-0-00003 (7) Use of nonstandard specifications, drawings, materials and equipment. (8) Negotiation in lieu of competitive bidding of borrowers' contracts. (9) Award of contracts for construction or purchase of materials and equipment with fewer than three bids. (10) Amendments to power supply contracts or agreements including extensions of time to existing contracts; the addition of new delivery points; and modification of existing delivery points, except where facilities are subject to a power survey or certification by REA. (11) Contracts for construction and right-of-way clearing and for the purchase of substation sites with clear title and special types of equipment requiring REA approval. (12) Long-range engineering plans. (13) Borrower environmental reports. (14) Interchange agreements and similar agreements where no construction is required. (15) Interconnection agreements where no construction is required. (16) Construction Work Plan (CWP) approval for G&T borrowers (b) The following matters pertaining to the generation facilities of distribution borrowers: (1) Selection by a borrower of an engineer or architect; plans and specifications, work orders, preliminary design data, plans, and contracts for architectural and all engineering services for facilities requiring REA approval, and final inventory documents and payments to contractors and architects. (2) Borrowers' selection of method of construction. (3) Final statements of engineering fees. (4) Purchase of generating plant sites. (5) Technical engineering studies for generation facilities. (6) Contracts for the construction and purchase of materials and equipment for generation facilities. (7) Use of nonstandard specifications, drawings, materials and equipment. (8) Negotiation in lieu of competitive bidding of borrowers' contracts. (9) Award of contracts for construction or purchase of materials and equipment with fewer than three bids. (10) The borrower's generation portion of the CWP. ยง1700.130 General Field Representatives_Electric. The General Field Representatives_Electric in conformance with applicable regulations and REA policy are delegated authority to approve or execute for the electric program: (a) Cost estimates and facilities for distribution borrowers' large power applications. (b) Use of armless or narrow profile construction for distribution in scenic areas or where right-of-way is restricted. (c) Certificates of completion for distribution and transmission contract construction. (d) Power requirements and irrigation studies for distribution borrowers: (1) Without generation facilities; (2) With an ownership or lease interest in REA financed generation facilities of less than 40 MW nameplate rating as set forth in ``REA Financed Generating Plants,'' Information Publication (IP) 200&hyph;2, or its equivalent. This publication is available from Publications and Directives Management Branch, Administrative Services Division, Rural Electrification Administration, room 0180, South Building, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;1500; (3) With an ownership or lease interest in REA financed generation facilities of 40 MW or more, provided the borrower has not received REA financial assistance for generation capacity of 40 MW or more within 15 years of the borrower's request for REA approval of its Power Requirements Study; or (4) That are members of a power supply borrower when the member study is not prepared as part of the power supply borrower's Power Requirements Study. (e) Amendments to or revisions of previously approved power requirements or irrigation studies for distribution borrowers which are members of a power supply borrower when the amendment or revision is for support of a new loan application to be submitted by the member prior to REA's approval of a new power-supply Power Requirements Study. (f) Distribution facilities in construction work plans including amendments and voltage drop, sectionalizing and power factor studies solely for distribution borrowers.
