FR940721-2-00077 FR940721-2-00038 •Housing quality standards; •Reasonable accommodations; and •Portability/mobility. Chapter 7_Support Services This chapter examines the intersection of housing and services and makes recommendations to Congress, HUD and the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) about improving coordination, access, and delivery of services in an independent housing context. Many people who live in federally subsidized housing need, want and are eligible for services that have some form of federal subsidy or some form of federal mandate or encouragement. Services could help maintain tenancies and independence, promote economic and educations opportunity, and generally enhance the lives and opportunities of those who live in federally subsidized housing. The Task Force believes that one major problem is that the housing and service systems often do not understand one another or work in a coordinated way to help the same individual. Because issues of coordination can be addressed only if HUD and HHS work together, this chapter makes recommendations to HHS even though the Task Force was created to advise Congress about HUD matters. Part A of this chapter covers general services and housing issues and recommendations to ensure the provision of services to residents. Part B reviews the planning and funding complexities of federal, state and local programs, including recommendations to HUD and HHS. Part C discusses collaborative agreements between housing and services providers. Chapter 8_Clearinghouse In a number of discussions, the Task Force addressed the problems associated with the lack of effective coordination among housing providers, supportive service providers, tenant representatives and advocates. We were also troubled by the general unavailability of adequate, reliable, technical assistance on reasonable accommodation procedures and substance. The Task Force concluded that one way of addressing both problems was to recommend that Congress require that each state receiving federal housing assistance establish a model clearinghouse program, to be funded by the HOME and CDBG programs. This chapter discusses the scope and purposes of such clearinghouses. Chapter 9_Confidentiality Because every housing file contains personal information about applicants and residents, privacy and confidentiality and persistent concerns. The civil rights and housing program laws and regulations all address some aspects of privacy and confidentiality, but they leave many questions unanswered. Thus, the Task Force recommends that HUD research the variety of questions and issues that the chapter lists, consult with interested parties, and issue prompt and responsive guidance. The questions include issues relating to law enforcement, reasonable accommodations, resident screening and eviction committees, state and local laws, and service coordinator and provider responsibilities. Chapter 10_NIMBY NIMBY, the Not In My Back Yard syndrome, both contributes to and is a form of housing discrimination. Like all forms of discrimination, NIMBY has ripple effects on subsidized housing providers. When a neighborhood association successfully prevents people with disabilities, people with low incomes, and people with no homes from moving in, it not only exacerbates the pressure on subsidized housing providers to house these groups, but it reinforces the stereotype that subsidized housing exists for the purpose of keeping ``the undesirables'' out of ``decent'' neighborhoods. NIMBY, like the dearth of affordable housing, has permeated the Task Force's deliberations. Thus, the purpose of this chapter is two-fold. It describes how community perceptions and stereotypes can limit housing opportunities for individuals and families with low- and very low-incomes; while emphasizing that every individual and family should have an opportunity to choose from a variety of housing options, including private, public, federally-assisted, scattered site and supportive housing. Second, this chapter offers a number of specific recommendations to Congress and the Executive Agencies with regard to housing discrimination. This chapter is not an enforcement of one type of housing option over others but rather an enforcement of individual choice and empowerment. The Task Force was unanimous in its identification of discrimination as a major problem for everyone involved in the housing industry. Closing Note on Recommendations to HUD Most of the Task Force's recommendations for HUD action suggest that HUD develop ``guidance'' for housing providers. The term ``guidance'' means examples, models, and samples, of letters, forms, procedures, systems, etc., designed to help housing providers without imposing new requirements on them. The Task Force recommendations for guidance should not be interpreted by HUD as creating new requirements. Dated: June 23, 1994. Roberta Achtenberg, Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17703 Filed 7&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;28&hyph;P
