FR940428-1-00042 FR940428-1-00008 §222.8 Waivers and escrow waivers. (a) Waiver of term permits. Holders of term grazing permits may waive their permits to the United States in favor of another entity and the waiver may be confirmed by an authorized officer as follows: (1) A holder of a term grazing permit for National Forest System lands in the Western States may waive a permit to the United States in favor of an applicant who has purchased the permitted livestock or base property if there is no escrow waiver in effect for that portion of the permit. An authorized officer may confirm the waiver and issue a new term grazing permit if the purchaser meets the requirements of §222.7. (2) On National Forest System lands in the Eastern States, a holder of a term grazing permit issued under the noncompetitive procedures of §222.53 may waive the permit to the United States in favor of a spouse or child who acquires title to base property or permitted livestock. An authorized officer may confirm the waiver and issue a new term grazing permit if the spouse or child meets the applicable requirements of §222.7. (3) A holder of a term grazing permit issued under the competitive bidding procedure in Subpart C-Grazing Fees of this part, may not waive the permit to the United States in favor of another entity. (b) Escrow waivers. Authorized officers may accept an escrow waiver executed by the holder of a term grazing permit for National Forest System lands in the Western States. The lender in whose name the United States holds the grazing privileges in escrow shall receive copies of all correspondence by the Forest Service related to actions under §222.10 of this subpart to cancel, suspend, or modify the grazing permit that is the subject of the escrow waiver. The authorized officer may release an escrow waiver only upon the satisfaction of the mortgage or upon the lender's written notification to the Forest Service that it does not require such an arrangement to adequately protect its interest. Authorized officers may issue term grazing permits to the lender named on the escrow waiver, if the lender has acquired the mortgaged base property or livestock and otherwise meets the requirements of §222.7. §222.9 Renewal of term grazing permits. (a) To qualify for renewal of a term permit, current permit holders must meet the requirements of §222.7. (b) Current permit holders on National Forest System lands in the Western States have priority for receiving a new term grazing permit when the current term grazing permit expires. (c) If the agency must cancel an existing permit and issue a new permit to respond to changing law, executive order, regulation, or resource condition, the new permit shall be issued to the current permit holder. (d) Procedures for renewal of term grazing permits for National Forest System Lands in the Eastern States are set forth in subpart C of this part. (e) The duration of a term grazing permit renewed under this section is determined in accordance with §222.5(b). §222.10 Cancellation, suspension, and modification of grazing permits. (a) An authorized officer may cancel grazing permits, in whole or in part, under the following circumstances: (1) If the lands grazed under the permit are to be disposed of or devoted to another public purpose. In these cases, except in an emergency, the authorized officer must give the permittee two-years advance notice of the intent to cancel. (2) If a permittee does one or more of the following: (i) Fails to meet the requirements in §222.7. (ii) Waives the permit to the United States. (iii) Fails to resume livestock grazing after exhausting the maximum permitted time for nonuse. (3) If a grazing association or district fails to comply with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and regulations promulgated thereunder (7 CFR part 15). (4) If it is necessary to update the grazing permit terms and conditions. In this case, issuance of a new permit is preceded by a rangeland project decision and NEPA disclosure and the duration of the permit is determined in accordance with §222.5(b). (b) An authorized officer may cancel, suspend, or modify a permit, in whole or in part, to correct documented resource damage, or if a permittee: (1) Fails to pay grazing fees, service charges or unauthorized use charges within the established time limit; (2) Fails to comply with terms and conditions in the grazing permit;
