FR940810-0-00196 FR940810-0-00021 (A) Having a completed inspection conducted pursuant to the requirements of AHERA (40 CFR 763, Subpart E) which demonstrates that no asbestos is present in the material; (B) Performing tests of the material containing PACM which demonstrate that no asbestos is present in the material. Such tests shall include analysis of 3 bulk samples of each homogeneous area of PACM collected in a randomly distributed manner. The tests, evaluation and sample collection shall be conducted by an accredited inspector or by a CIH. Analysis of samples shall be performed by persons or laboratories with proficiency demonstrated by current successful participation in a nationally recognized testing program such as the National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program (NVLAP) of the National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST) of the Round Robin for bulk samples administered by the American Industrial Hygiene Association (AIHA) or an equivalent nationally-recognized round robin testing program. (iii) The employer and/or building owner may demonstrate that flooring material including associated mastic and backing does not contain asbestos, by a determination of an industrial hygienist based upon recognized analytical techniques showing that the material is asbestos free. (k) Housekeeping. (1) All surfaces shall be maintained as free as practicable of accumulations of dusts and waste containing asbestos. (2) All spills and sudden releases of material containing asbestos shall be cleaned up as soon as possible. (3) Surfaces contaminated with asbestos may not be cleaned by the use of compressed air. (4) Vacuuming. HEPA-filtered vacuuming equipment shall be used for vacuuming. The equipment shall be used and emptied in a manner which minimizes the reentry of asbestos into the workplace. (5) Shoveling, dry sweeping and dry clean-up of asbestos may be used only where vacuuming and/or wet cleaning are not feasible. (6) Waste disposal. Waste, scrap, debris, bags, containers, equipment, and clothing contaminated with asbestos consigned for disposal, shall be collected, recycled and disposed of in sealed impermeable bags, or other closed, impermeable containers. (7) Care of asbestos-containing flooring material. (i) Sanding of asbestos-containing floor material is prohibited. (ii) Stripping of finishes shall be conducted using low abrasion pads at speed lower than 300 rpm and wet methods. (iii) Burnishing or dry buffing may be performed only on asbestos-containing flooring which has sufficient finish so that the pad cannot contact the asbestos-containing material. (iv) Dust and debris in an area containing TSI or surfacing ACM/PACM or visibly deteriorated ACM, shall not be dusted or swept dry, or vacuumed without using a HEPA filter. (1) Medical surveillance_(1) General_(i) Employees covered. The employer shall institute a medical surveillance program for all employees who are or will be exposed to airborne concentrations of fibers of asbestos at or above the TWA and/or excursion limit. (ii) Examination by a physician. (A) The employer shall ensure that all medical examinations and procedures are performed by or under the supervision of a licensed physician, and shall be provided without cost to the employee and at a reasonable time and place. (B) Persons other than licensed physicians, who administer the pulmonary function testing required by this section, shall complete a training course in spirometry sponsored by an appropriate academic or professional institution. (2) Pre-placement examinations. (i) Before an employee is assigned to an occupation exposed to airborne concentrations of asbestos fibers at or above the TWA and/or excursion limit, a pre-placement medical examination shall be provided or made available by the employer. (ii) Such examination shall include, as a minimum, a medical and work history; a complete physical examination of all systems with emphasis on the respiratory system, the cardiovascular system and digestive tract; completion of the respiratory disease standardized questionnaire in Appendix D, Part 1; a chest roentgenogram (posterior-anterior 14×17 inches); pulmonary function tests to include forced vital capacity (FVC) and forced expiratory volume at 1 second (FEV(1.0)); and any additional tests deemed appropriate by the examining physician. Interpretation and classification of chest roentgenogram shall be conducted in accordance with Appendix E to this section. (3) Periodic examinations. (i) Periodic medical examinations shall be made available annually. (ii) The scope of the medical examination shall be in conformance with the protocol established in paragraph (l)(2)(ii) of this section, except that the frequency of chest roentgenogram shall be conducted in accordance with Table 2, and the abbreviated standardized questionnaire contained in, Part 2 of Appendix D to this section shall be administered to the employee.
