FR940304-1-00053 FR940304-1-00011 BSC submitted a signed certification stating that, based on the current annual generation rate of dewatered (unstabilized) filter cake, the maximum annual generation rate of stabilized filter cake will be 1,476 wet tons (approximately 1100 cubic yards, based on a bulk density of 1.34 tons per cubic yard). The Agency reviews a petitioner's estimates and, on occasion, has requested a petitioner to re-evaluate estimated waste generation rate. EPA accepts BSC's certified estimate of 1100 cubic yards per year of stabilized filter cake. EPA does not generally verify submitted test data before proposing delisting decisions. The sworn affidavit submitted with this petition binds the petitioner to present truthful and accurate results. The Agency, however, has maintained a spot-check sampling and analysis program to verify the representative nature of the data for some percentage of the submitted petitions. A spot-check visit to a selected facility may be initiated before finalizing a delisting petition or after granting a final exclusion. The Agency was present at BSC's Sparrow Point facility to observe the collection of dewatered (unstabilized) filter cake samples on January 23, 1992. D. Agency Evaluation The Agency considered the appropriateness of alternative waste management scenarios for BSC's chemically stabilized filter cake and decided, based on the information provided in the petition, that disposal in a municipal solid waste landfill is the most reasonable, worst-case scenario for this waste. Under a landfill disposal scenario, the major exposure route of concern for any hazardous constituents would be ingestion of contaminated ground water. The Agency, therefore, evaluated BSC's petitioned waste using the modified EPA Composite Model for Landfills (EPACML) which predicts the potential for ground-water contamination from wastes that are landfilled. See 56 FR 32993 (July 18, 1991), 56 FR 67197 (December 30, 1991), and the RCRA public docket for these notices for a detailed description of the EPACML model, the disposal assumptions, and the modifications made for delisting. This model, which includes both unsaturated and saturated zone transport modules, was used to predict reasonable worst-case contaminant levels in ground water at a compliance point ( i.e. , a receptor well serving as a drinking-water supply). Specifically, the model estimated the dilution/attenuation factor (DAF) resulting from subsurface processes such as three-dimensional dispersion and dilution from ground-water recharge for a specific volume of waste. The Agency requests comments on the use of the EPACML as applied to the evaluation of BSC's petitioned waste. For the evaluation of BSC's petitioned waste, the Agency used the EPACML to evaluate the mobility of the hazardous inorganic constituents detected in the extract from BSC's stabilized filter cake. The Agency's evaluation, using a maximum annual waste volume estimate of 1100 cubic yards per year and the maximum reported or calculated EP, TCLP, or MEP leachate concentrations (see Tables 2 and 3), yielded compliance-point concentrations (see Table 4) that are orders of magnitude below the health-based levels used in delisting decision-making. Maximum leachable levels from both uncured and cured stabilized waste were below levels of concern.
