FR941205-2-00163 FR941205-2-00074 Discussion: The Secretary believes that the term ``community rehabilitation programs'' is inclusive of organizations serving individuals with mental illness. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter suggested that the training under this priority be restricted to State vocational rehabilitation personnel. Discussion: State vocational rehabilitation personnel are but one resource for individuals with disabilities. Other significant resources include services and personnel provided by community rehabilitation programs. On-going post-employment training targeted to these programs is necessary to achieve improved employment outcomes for persons with disabilities. In addition, the Rehabilitation Act requires that a large portion of the training program allocation be used solely for State agency personnel training. The purpose of this priority is to target funds specifically toward a population of personnel that does not receive specific funding. Changes: None. Rehabilitation Short-Term Training Program Priority 1_Personnel Specifically Trained To Deliver Services in Client Assistance Programs Comments: One commenter indicated that the priority would be enhanced by inclusion of training in systemic advocacy. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that systemic advocacy is an important component of Client Assistance Programs and believes that the priority as written allows for this type of training under this priority. Changes: None. Priority 2_Training Rehabilitation and Mental Health Personnel To Provide Improved Rehabilitation Services to Individuals With Mental Illness Comments: One commenter indicated that the use of a strong peer-counseling role in the provision of support to consumers and their families has been beneficial and should be a component of the proposed priority. Discussion: Training on the use of demonstrated beneficial strategies such as peer-counseling is authorized under the priority. Changes: None. Priority 3_Training Members of American Indian Tribes, State Vocational Rehabilitation Staff, and Rehabilitation Educators on Services for American Indians With Disabilities Comments: One commenter expressed concern that the priority restricts training to States having high American Indian populations when the needs of American Indians living in States with low populations are just as great. In addition, the commenter indicated that, since the needs of these two groups are different, it will be difficult for States with low American Indian populations to successfully replicate the training models developed. For these reasons, the commenter recommended that the priority be opened to all States.
