FR940505-1-00345 FR940505-1-00012 (viii) If VOC standards are lowered for a product category through any subsequent rulemaking, all innovative product exemptions granted for products in the product category, except as provided in this paragraph, shall have no force and effect as of the effective date of the modified VOC standard. This paragraph shall not apply to those innovative products which have VOC emissions less than the appropriate lowered VOC standard and for which a written notification of the product's emissions status versus the lowered VOC standard has been submitted to and approved by the Administrator at least 60 days before the effective date of such standard. (ix) If the Administrator believes that a consumer product for which an exemption has been granted no longer meets the criteria for an innovative product specified in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section, the Administrator may modify or revoke the exemption as necessary to assure that the product will meet these criteria. (6) Administrative Requirements. No later than three months after the effective date of this section, each manufacturer of an antiperspirant or deodorant subject to this article shall clearly display on each container of antiperspirant or deodorant, the date on which the product was manufactured, or a code indicating such date. If a manufacturer uses a code indicating the date of manufacture, an explanation of the code must be filed with the Administrator in advance of the code's use by the manufacturer. (7) Test Methods. (i) Testing to determine the volatile organic compound content of an antiperspirant or deodorant, or to determine compliance with the requirements of this article, shall be performed using one or more of the following methods which are incorporated by reference herein: (A) Method 24&hyph;24A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A; (B) Method 18, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A; (C) Method 1400, NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods, Volume 1, February 1984; or (D) Environmental Protection Agency Method 8240 ``GC/MS Method for Volatile Organics,'' September 1986. (E) Alternative methods which are shown to accurately determine the concentration of VOCs in a subject product or its emissions may be used upon written approval by the Administrator. (ii) Testing to determine compliance with the requirements of this article may also be demonstrated through calculation of the volatile organic compound content from records of the amounts of constituents used to make the product. Compliance determination based on these records may not be used unless the manufacturer of a consumer product keeps accurate records for each day of production of the amount and chemical composition of the individual product constituents. These records must be kept for at least five years. In the event of a conflict between EPA and a manufacturer over the results of compliance testing, EPA's results shall be used as the determinant result. ยง52.2958 Aerosol coating products. (a) Applicability. The provisions of paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section shall apply to any person who sells, supplies, offers for sale, applies, or manufactures aerosol coating products for use in the state of California. (b) Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in ยง52.2950. Adhesive means a product used to bond one surface to another. Aerosol coating product means a pressurized coating product containing pigments or resins that dispenses product ingredients by means of a propellant, and is packaged in a disposable can for hand-held application, or for use in specialized equipment for ground traffic/marking applications. Anti-static spray means a product used to prevent or inhibit the accumulation of static electricity. Art fixative or sealant means a clear coating, including art varnish, workable art fixative, and ceramic coating, which is designed and labeled exclusively for application to paintings, pencil, chalk, or pastel drawings, ceramic art pieces, or other closely related art uses, in order to provide a final protective coating or to fix preliminary stages of artwork while providing a workable surface for subsequent revisions. ASTM means the American Society for Testing and Materials. Auto body primer means a heavily pigmented automotive primer or primer surfacer coating labeled exclusively as such and applied directly to an uncoated vehicle body substrate or on top of a precoat for the purposes of corrosion resistance and building a repair area to a condition in which, after drying, it can be sanded to a smooth surface. Automotive bumper and trim products means products, including adhesion promoters and chip sealants, formulated and labeled exclusively as such which are used to repair and refinish automotive bumpers and plastic trim parts. Automotive underbody coating means a flexible coating which contains asphalt or rubber and is labeled exclusively for use on the underbody of motor vehicles to resist rust, abrasion and vibration, and to deaden sound. Aviation or marine zinc primer means a zinc chromate or zinc oxide coating labeled exclusively as such and formulated to meet federal specification TT&hyph;P&hyph;1757. Aviation propeller coating means a coating formulated and labeled exclusively as such which provides abrasion resistance and corrosion protection for aircraft propellers. Belt dressing means a product applied on auto fan belts, water pump belting, power transmission belting, and industrial and farm machinery belting to prevent slipping, and to extend belt life. Clear coating means a coating which is colorless, containing binders but no pigment, except flatting agents, and which is formulated to form a transparent or translucent solid film.
