FR940922-1-00019 FR940922-1-00006 (2) Testing the vehicle on the appropriate type of cycle, (3) Testing at other driver activated control settings, if appropriate, and (4) Estimating annual fuel economy, emissions, and electric energy consumption. The overview stated above is from SAE's first rough draft of the procedure for HEV testing, and it does not specify when the final procedure will be published. To aid the agency in relating the data on driving range for dual fueled electric vehicles to the unique characteristics of dual fueled passenger automobiles, NHTSA is posing a number of questions in the following areas on the use of dual fueled electric passenger automobiles, as well as any other relevant areas such as: (a) Consumer acceptability, (b) Economic practicability, (c) Technology, (d) Environmental impact, (e) Safety, (f) Driveability, and (g) Performance. Information on other factors is also welcome. The data provided in response to these questions will be considered by NHTSA in developing a proposed minimum driving range for dual fueled electric passenger automobiles. The data will also aid the agency in making preliminary judgments about such fundamental matters as the extent to which manufacturers would seek to achieve the selected range in designing dual fueled electric passenger automobiles, the production volumes or schedules for those vehicles, the cost and other implications of different ranges, and the likely consumer acceptability of different driving ranges. For easy reference, the questions are numbered consecutively throughout the document. In providing a comment on a particular matter or in responding to a particular question, interested persons are requested to provide any relevant factual information to support their conclusions or opinions, including but not limited to test data, statistical and cost data, and the source of such information. The agency is particularly interested in quantitative evaluations of anticipated environmental impacts and energy conservation impacts. NHTSA requests information and comments on the following questions: 1. How should minimum driving ranges for dual fuel electric passenger automobiles be determined? Is there any trend toward increased or decreased driving ranges? 2. Can the vehicle operate solely on electricity or must the auxiliary power source be activated in order to follow the EPA driving cycle? How would you compute driving range on electricity if the auxiliary power source is activated during the driving cycle? What if the other power source is also alternative fueled? 3. Can the SAE procedure be adapted for use with the EPA urban and highway cycles for determining driving range? Why or why not? Is there some other test procedure that will be suitable for dual fueled electric vehicle? 4. Would dual fueled electric vehicles be generally utilized by consumers residing in urban areas and by fleets where it would be practical to provide for recharging at centralized facilities as opposed to consumers in rural areas? Also, where would it be practical to recharge the battery? 5. What driving range does the consumer expect from the passenger cars that he/she operates on electricity? Does the range vary with the size or typical use of the car; e.g., a subcompact car as compared to a large station wagon, or a car typically used for city commuting compared to one used primarily for urban and intercity driving? Does the expected driving range vary with the economic or social profile of the car operator; e.g., are younger drivers satisfied with smaller ranges or do high-income drivers demand greater driving ranges? Would the consumer be willing to accept a lower driving range in a vehicle with the added flexibility of dual fuel capability or with more recharging points and shorter waiting times? What is the minimum driving range acceptable to consumers? 6. Do vehicle manufacturers consider availability of fuel distribution or recharging points in establishing driving ranges?
