FR940325-1-00018 FR940325-1-00007 The Coast Guard will consider all comments received during the comment period. This proposal may change in view of the comments. The Coast Guard plans no public hearing. Persons may request a public hearing by writing to the Marine Safety Council at the address under ADDRESSES . If it determines that the opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will hold a public hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register . Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this document are Mr. Gary W. Chappell, Project Manager, and Mr. Patrick J. Murray, Project Counsel, Office of Chief Counsel. Background and Purpose The vulnerability to terrorism of passenger vessels and associated passenger terminals has been a major national and international concern since the death of a citizen of the United States (U.S.) during the hijacking of the Achille Lauro in 1985. To address this threat, the President signed into law the ``Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act'' in 1986. That act amended the Ports and Waterways Safety Act, providing the Coast Guard authority to ``carry out or require measures, including inspections, port and harbor patrols, the establishment of security and safety zones, and the development of contingency plans and procedures, to prevent or respond to acts of terrorism.'' The IMO adopted and published ``Measures to Prevent Unlawful Acts Against Passengers and Crews on Board Ships'', also in 1986. Those measures, which are guidelines, apply to passenger ships engaged on international voyages of 24 hours or more and to the port facilities that serve them. The Coast Guard published a notice in the Federal Register listing these measures as ``guidelines'' and encouraging voluntary compliance [52 FR 11587, (April 9, 1987)]. Within the U.S., the Coast Guard has relied upon voluntary compliance with the IMO's measures and with its own guidelines based on them. Coast Guard encouragement to implement these guidelines has brought about varying degrees of acceptance. The initial response was promising, as many passenger vessels and associated passenger terminals operating in the U.S. began implementing these measures. However, most of those vessels and terminals implemented the measures only partly. Many of them cited cost as the main reason for not implementing the measures fully. Progress toward implementation of the measures has slowed significantly over the last three years. Some passenger vessels and passenger terminals still do not maintain and administer appropriate security measures. The lack of voluntary compliance with the guidelines, on some passenger vessels and at some passenger terminals, indicates that mandatory compliance with rules enforced by penalties is necessary to attain ``effective security measures'' on passenger vessels making voyages on the high seas of 24 hours or more and at all passenger terminals associated with those vessels. Consequently, the Coast Guard is proposing rules that will specify appropriate equipment standards, performance standards, and procedures for security. The Coast Guard has modeled the proposed rules after the IMO's measures. Discussion of Proposed Amendments 1. The Coast Guard would implement standards for security on passenger vessels and at passenger terminals by adding two parts to Chapter I of title 33 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR). Part 120, ``Passenger Vessel Security'', would go into Subchapter K, which would become ``Security of Vessels.'' Part 128, ``Passenger Terminal Security'', would go into Subchapter L, which already governs ``Waterfront Facilities.'' 2. Proposed §120.100 would limit the applicability of the rules for passenger vessels. Passenger vessels that embark or disembark passengers in the U.S. fall under U.S. jurisdiction and are of interest since many of the passengers involved are U.S. citizens. The rules proposed here concern vessels of over 100 gross tons carrying more than 12 passengers for hire, making voyages any part of which is on the high seas, lasting 24 hours or more. Unlawful acts are likelier to occur on longer voyages. A segmented voyage with multiple stops is considered a single voyage for determining applicability under this rule. Passenger vessels commonly make voyages with port calls less than 24 hours apart although the passengers return to the ship after each port call to continue their voyage, which lasts over 24 hours. Generally, vessels over 100 gross tons are over 65 feet long and carry more than 12 passengers. The Coast Guard considered other levels of gross tonnage, but the number of vessels that would be affected by changing the threshold of gross tonnage did not justify the variation in applicability between the safety and security regulations. Only 8 vessels under 1600 gross tons, only 5 of which are under 500 gross tons, would be subject to these rules. The high seas was selected as a limitation to applicability to passenger vessels because it is a well defined jurisdictional area. These limits accord with the IMO's guidelines. 3. Proposed §120.110 would clarify the meanings of terms used in Part 120. Most are identical to definitions in other parts of Chapter I of Title 33. The term ``passenger terminal'' here includes waterfront facilities, as defined in the Ports and Waterways Safety Act, that receive passenger vessels subject to this rulemaking. 4. Proposed §120.120 would incorporate standards of American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) for X-ray screening systems. 5. Proposed §120.130 would let the Commandant (G&hyph;MPS) approve alternative procedures that provide a level of security equivalent to that provided by the rules proposed here. Alternative measures provide flexibility to allow for situations where compliance is economically or physically impracticable. They also allow for the use of better or cheaper equipment, performance, and procedures as these are developed. 6. Proposed §120.200 would set out the performance standards for a security program on each covered passenger vessel.
