FR941230-1-00046 FR941230-1-00004 (ii) Additional security. The equal basis requirement is not violated as a result of one benefitted party acquiring a guaranty of a third party to pay debt service on bonds if it is not reasonably expected that payments will be made because of the additional assurances that otherwise not have been made and the guarantor's recourse is limited to the assessments and the benefitted property. (6) Coordination with private business tests. See §§1.141&hyph;3 and 1.141&hyph;4 for rules for determining whether tax assessment loans cause the bonds financing those loans to be private activity bonds under the private business use and the private security or payment tests. (d) Nonpurpose investment exception. Any loan that is a nonpurpose investment is not treated as a loan for purposes of this section. Thus, for example, proceeds invested in loans such as obligations of the United States during any available temporary period, as part of a reasonably required reserve or replacement fund, as part of a refunding escrow, or as part of a minor portion (as each of those terms is defined under §1.148&hyph;1(b)) are not loans for purposes of this section. This paragraph (d) does not apply to any nonpurpose investment acquired pursuant to a plan to avoid the limitations of section 141(c) and this section. (e) Examples. The following examples illustrate the application of this section: Example 1. State agency Z and federal agency H will each contribute to rehabilitate a project owned by Z. H can only provide its funds through a contribution to Z to be used to acquire the rehabilitated project on a turnkey basis from an approved developer. Under H's turnkey program, the developer must own the project while it is rehabilitated. Z issues its notes to provide funds for construction. A portion of the notes will be retired using the H contribution, and the balance of the notes will be retired through the issuance by Z of long-term bonds. Z lends the proceeds of its note to Developer B as construction financing and transfers title to B for a nominal amount. The conveyance is made on condition that B rehabilitate the property and reconvey it upon completion, with Z retaining the right to force reconveyance if these conditions are not satisfied. B must name Z as an additional insured on all insurance. Upon completion, B must transfer title to the project back to Z at a set price, which price reflects B's costs and profit, not fair market value. Further, this price is adjusted downward to reflect any cost-underruns. For purposes of section 141(c), this transaction does not involve a private loan. Example 2. Assessment district U issues bonds the proceeds of which are used to construct water and sewer improvements in the district. At the time that the bonds are issued, all of the property in the district is owned by several developers, each of which is in the trade or business of developing the property in the district for residential use. In accordance with the procedures required by applicable State law, U imposes assessments on each parcel in the district. U requires that, at the time that a developer sells a residential parcel, the developer must prepay the remaining amount of the assessment. The assessments do not satisfy the equal basis requirement, because the payment terms are not the same for all assessed persons. §1.141&hyph;6 Allocation and accounting rules. (a) Allocation of proceeds to expenditures generally. For purposes of §§1.141&hyph;1 through 1.141&hyph;16, the provisions of §1.148&hyph;6(d) apply for purposes of allocating proceeds to expenditures, except that §1.148&hyph;6(d)(6) does not apply. Thus, allocations generally may be made using any reasonable, consistently applied accounting method, and allocations under section 141 and section 148 must be consistent with each other. (b) Special rules for mixed use facilities _(1) Allocation of expenditures to mixed use facilities. Proceeds may be specifically allocated to the expenditures comprising a discrete portion of a mixed use facility. To approximate the actual expenditures, a percentage of actual costs based on rental values or usable space may be used if reasonable based on all the facts and circumstances. (2) Mixed use facility defined _(i) Discrete portions. A mixed use facility is a facility containing two or more discrete portions. A discrete portion of a mixed use facility is a portion of a facility that consists of_ (A) Any separate and discrete portion of a facility (for example, a floor of a building, a portion of a building separated by walls, partitions, or other physical barriers) to which use is limited (other than common area use); or (B) An undivided ownership interest in an output facility, sewage facility, water collection, storage, or distribution facilities, or any similar utility system (for example, railroads or fiber optic networks, but not airports or stadiums) or a portion of such a facility that, if owned by a person other than the actual owner, would constitute an undivided ownership interest.
