FR940105-0-00055 FR940105-0-00010 Topography and Elevation The vineyards in the viticultural area are located at an elevation of 800&hyph;900 feet along south and southwest facing slopes of 10&hyph;40 percent gradient. This combination of elevation, aspect, and relief contributes to the well-drained quality of the vineyard soils, the free circulation of air in summer and winter, and the locally longer growing season. Outside the viticultural area to the north and west, higher elevations of 900&hyph;1,200 feet increase the risk of wind damage to grapevines, or the soils become too shallow for successful grape cultivation where bedrock is nearer the surface or exposed. Outside the viticultural area to the east, elevations between 720 feet (Wisconsin River level) and 800 feet are generally less well drained or are saturated during periods of rainfall or snowmelt. Climate The Lake Wisconsin viticultural area benefits from the microclimate effects of the lower Wisconsin River valley. The river moderates winter temperatures in the viticultural area several degrees higher than areas north and west of the river or further south. Air circulation within the river valley helps prevent cold air accumulation and frost pockets from forming in the vineyards. In summer, the river valley and limestone bluffs along the river's edge serve to channel air currents and increase localized air circulation, protecting the vineyards from mildew and rot in hot, humid weather. The viticultural area has a mean precipitation of twenty-nine inches, one inch less than the average rainfall in the area north and east, three inches less than the average rainfall in the area to the west, and two inches less than the State average. The petitioner describes the viticultural area as an ``island'' of locally below-average rainfall and drier soils conducive to the grapevines concentrating their vigor in ripening fruit. The viticultural area has a growing season of 140&hyph;160 days, ten to twenty days longer than across the river to the west and to the north. The additional frost-free period allows the grapes to reach maturity before the onset of winter cold. Soil The Wisconsin River forms an approximate dividing line between the glaciated and unglaciated regions of south-central Wisconsin. Soils primarily of glacial till and outwash material are found east of the river valley and characterize the soils in the viticultural area. The unglaciated ``driftless'' soils west of the valley result from significant differences in soil parent materials, microrelief, and drainage. The soils that support viticulture within the viticultural area are Typic Hapludalfs of mixed mineral material and silty or loamy texture. All are underlain by gravelly or sandy loam glacial till or by dolomitic bedrock. The soils are typically well drained and about 36&hyph;60 inches deep on slopes and rolling areas of 2&hyph;45 percent gradient. The soils outside the viticultural area to the north and west are predominately unglaciated, and so are not underlain by glacial till and contain less outwash material. The soils outside the area to the south and east, although glacially derived, are found on topography of rolling upland with fewer limestone outcrops and no outwash plains. The soils there have formed on slightly higher elevations over discontinuous end and ground moraines. Viticultural Area Boundary The boundary of the Lake Wisconsin viticultural area may be found on two United States Geological Survey (U.S.G.S.) maps with a scale of 1:24,000. The boundary is described in ยง9.146. Executive Order 12866 It has been determined that this rule is not a significant regulatory action, because (1) It will not have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in Executive Order 12866. Regulatory Flexibility Act It is hereby certified that this regulation will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The establishment of a viticultural area is neither an endorsement nor approval by ATF of the quality of wine produced in the area, but rather an identification of an area that is distinct from surrounding areas. This process merely allows wineries to more accurately describe the origin of their wines to the consumers, and helps consumers identify the wines they purchase. Designation of a viticultural area itself has no significant economic impact because any commercial advantage can come only from consumer acceptance of wines made from grapes grown within the area. In addition, no new recordkeeping or reporting requirements are imposed. Accordingly, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required. Paperwork Reduction Act The provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, Public Law 96&hyph;511, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35, and its implementing regulations, 5 CFR Part 1320, do not apply to this final rule because no requirement to collect information is imposed. Drafting Information The principal author of this document is Robert White, Wine and Beer Branch, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. List of Subjects in 27 CFR Part 9 Administrative practice and procedure, Consumer protection, Viticultural areas, and Wine. Authority and Issuance Accordingly, Title 27, Code of Federal Regulations, part 9, American Viticultural Areas, is amended as follows: PART 9_AMERICAN VITICULTURAL AREAS Paragraph 1. The authority citation for part 9 continues to read as follows: Authority: 27 U.S.C. 205. Par. 2. Subpart C is amended by adding ยง9.146 to read as follows:
