FR941216-0-00006 FR941216-0-00001 (3) Student participants in the Harry S. Truman Foundation Scholarship Program under the provision of Public Law 93&hyph;842 are eligible for appointments under the student career experience program, Schedule B, 213.3202(b). (b) Requirements for Both Components of the Student Educational Employment Program : (1) Definition of student : The definition of student is an individual who is enrolled or accepted for enrollment as a degree (diploma, certificate, etc.) seeking student and is taking at least a half-time academic/vocational/ or technical course load in an accredited high school, technical or vocational school, 2 year or 4 year college or university, graduate or professional school. The definition of half-time is the definition provided by the school in which the student is enrolled. An individual who needs to complete less than the equivalent of half an academic/vocational or technical courseload in the class enrollment period immediately prior to graduating is still considered a student for purposes of this program. (2) Schedules : Both components of the Student Educational Employment Program are year-round programs and appointments may be made at any time during the year, including summer. Students may work full-time or part-time schedules. There are no limitations on the number of hours a student can work per week, but the student's work schedule should not interfere with the student's academic schedule. (3) Breaks in program : It is expected that students accepted into the Student Educational Employment Program will at all times either be working at the agency, enrolled in classes or both. However, agencies may use their discretion in either approving or denying a break in program . A break in program is defined as a period of time when a program participant is neither attending classes nor working at the agency. The best interests of the student and the agency must be balanced in making these decisions. (4) Employment of minors : Participation in this program must be in conformance with Federal, State, or local laws and standards governing the employment of minors. (5) Citizenship requirements : Agencies may appoint non-citizens to the Student Temporary Employment Program or to the Student Career Experience Program provided that: (i) The student is lawfully admitted to the United States as a permanent resident or otherwise authorized to be employed; (ii) The agency is authorized to pay aliens under the annual appropriations act ban and any agency specific enabling and appropriation statutes. (iii) All students in the Student Career Experience Program must be U.S. citizens at the time they are non competitively converted to a career conditional appointment. (6) Employment of relatives : In accordance with 5 CFR part 310, a student may work in the same agency with a relative when there is no direct reporting relationship and the relative is not in a position to influence or control the student's appointment, employment, promotion or advancement within the agency. (7) Financial need : There is no requirement for students to meet any specific economic/income criteria to be eligible for either component of the Student Educational Employment Program. However, agencies have the option to establish and use financial need as a criteria to select students for either or both components of the Program, if they wish. OPM will no longer develop or distribute annual economic guidelines for use in determining financial need. An agency wishing to continue use of the Department of Health and Human Services poverty guidelines may call the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation on (202) 690&hyph;6141. (8) Training expenses : Agencies may use their training authority in 5 U.S.C. Chapter 41 and 5 CFR part 410 to pay all or part of the students training expenses. (9) Student volunteers : Student volunteers are covered by title 5, CFR, part 308, Volunteer Service, and may not be treated as employees under this section. (c) Student Temporary Employment Program : (1) The Student Temporary Employment Program provides maximum flexibility to both the student and the agency. (2) Students are appointed in the excepted service under Schedule B 213.3202(a). This is the appointment authority regardless of the academic program being pursued. (3) Students are appointed to a position not to exceed 1 year. Appointments under this authority may be extended in 1-year increments as long as the individual meets the definition of a student. Agencies may establish minimum academic requirements and on the job performance requirements for continuation in the program. Students under this appointment authority are excepted from the limitations under 5 CFR 213.104. (4) The nature of the duties does not have to be related to the student's academic/career goals. (5) Students are not eligible for non-competitive conversion to a career or career-conditional appointment under this authority. (6) There is no mandatory requirement for students to document financial need in order to be eligible for this program. Agencies may set their own criteria if they wish. (7) Classification : Classification of students appointed under this program is based on the occupational series for which they are hired. Grade level is to be set according to the criteria in the appropriate GS or WG classification standard. (8) Qualifications : Students under the Student Temporary Employment Program may be evaluated either by agency developed standards or by the OPM qualification requirements for the position to which appointed. Students are eligible for promotions. Promotions should be documented as a conversion to another excepted appointment, citing the same authority as was used for the original appointment and maintaining the original NTE date. (9) Benefits : Students under this program: (i) Are eligible for annual and sick leave. (ii) Are generally ineligible for retirement coverage. Refer to 5 CFR 831.201 and 842.105. (iii) For rules on health and life insurance coverage refer to 5 CFR 870.202, 890.102 and 890.502.
