FR940118-0-00003 FR940118-0-00001 Interested persons were again afforded an opportunity to comment on the proposed action. Due consideration has been given to the five comments received. Two commenters concur with the proposed rule as written. Another commenter (Collins) states that there are two errors in the part numbers referenced in the proposed AD: (1) part number (P/N) 622&hyph;4540&hyph;022 was referenced as P/N 622&hyph;4540&hyph;22 in the Applicability section of the AD; and (2) in the chart in paragraph (c) of the proposed AD, the sentence that consists of the following words: ``All applicable DME&hyph;700 Units, Converts &hyph;022, &hyph;021, or &hyph;022 to &hyph;023.'' should be changed to ``All applicable DME&hyph;700 Units, Converts &hyph;020, &hyph;021, or &hyph;022 to &hyph;023.'' The FAA concurs and has changed the proposed AD accordingly. One commenter reports that the Airbus Model A330 airplane is not yet certificated, and should not be included in the list of affected airplane models. The FAA concurs that this airplane is not certificated and has deleted it from the list of possible affected airplanes. However, the Applicability section of the proposed AD is worded as ``DME equipment that is installed on, but not limited to, the following model airplanes (all serial numbers), certificated in any category:''. If this airplane would become certificated for operation with the Collins DME&hyph;700 equipment, then this action would apply to these airplanes. Another commenter states that these DME units were never certificated on Boeing Model B757 airplanes, and should therefore be removed from the applicability of the proposed AD. The FAA concurs and has revised the proposed AD accordingly. This same commenter suggests several minor editorial revisions and corrections to increase the understanding of the proposed AD. The FAA concurs that these changes would improve clarity and has revised the proposed AD accordingly. After careful review of all available information including the comments noted above, the FAA has determined that air safety and the public interest require the adoption of the rule as proposed except for the changes referenced above and minor editorial corrections. The FAA has determined that these changes and corrections will not change the meaning of the AD nor add any additional burden upon the public than was already proposed. The condition specified by the required action is not caused by actual hours time-in-service (TIS) of the airplane that the equipment is installed in. There is no correlation between improper operation of the equipment and the age or number of times the equipment is utilized. Based on this, the compliance time of this AD is presented in calendar time instead of hours TIS. The FAA estimates that 518 DME&hyph;700 units installed on airplanes in the U.S. registry will be affected by this AD, that it will take approximately 7 workhours per unit to accomplish the required action, and that the average labor rate is approximately $55 an hour. Parts will be provided by the manufacturer at no cost to the owner/operator. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of this AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $199,430. This cost figure is based on the assumption that none of the affected airplane owners/operators have accomplished the required action. The regulations adopted herein will not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this final rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. For the reasons discussed above, I certify that this action (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979); and (3) will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A copy of the final evaluation prepared for this action is contained in the Rules Docket. A copy of it may be obtained by contacting the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption `` ADDRESSES ''. List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Incorporation by reference, Safety. Adoption of the Amendment Accordingly, pursuant to the authority delegated to me by the Administrator, the Federal Aviation Administration amends 14 CFR part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations as follows:
