FR940921-2-00079 FR940921-2-00067 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration [Docket No. 27905] Recurrent and Transition Training AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Request for comments. SUMMARY: This notice requests public comment to identify acceptable industry standards for transition and recurrent flight training for civil aviation pilots other than those engaged in commercial air transportation. This notice asks each commenter to provide subjects and standards for transition and recurrent flight training that may be incorporated into one or more new or revised Advisory Circulars (AC). This information will help the FAA develop effective advisory material in partnership with the aviation community. DATES: Comments should be submitted on or before January 19, 1995. ADDRESSES: Comments should be in triplicate to: Federal Aviation Administration, Office of the Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket (AGC&hyph;10), Docket No. 27905, 800 Independence Ave., SW., Washington, DC 20591. Comments delivered must be marked Docket No. 27905. Comments may be examined in the Rules Docket, room 915&hyph;G, weekdays between 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m., except Federal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Thomas Glista, AFS&hyph;850, Flight Standards Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591; telephone (202) 267&hyph;8150. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: With this notice the FAA is announcing an evaluation of transition and recurrent flight training for civil aviation pilots other than those engaged in commercial air transportation. One of the goals of the 1994 General Aviation Action Plan (GAAP) calls for increasing the effectiveness of the pilot and aircraft maintenance technician training infrastructure (flight instructors, schools, practical test standards, knowledge testing publications), and transition training and recurrent training programs. Additionally, the GAAP states that FAA efforts will include programs to solicit customer (the aviation community) feedback and other input on our services. Consequently, the FAA is requesting information on industry standards for transition and recurrent flight training. Currently, there are several ACs that address various transition and recurrent flight training subject areas. Some of these are: AC 61&hyph;9B, Pilot Transition Courses for Complex Single Engine and Light Twin-Engine Airplanes; AC 61&hyph;10A, Private and Commercial Pilot Refresher Courses; AC 61&hyph;66 Annual Pilot in Command Proficiency Checks; AC 61&hyph;89A, Pilot Certificates: Aircraft Type Ratings; AC 61&hyph;98A, Currency and Additional Qualification Requirements for Certificated Pilots; AC 61&hyph;103, Announcement of Availability: Industry-Developed Transition Training Guidelines for High Performance Aircraft; and AC 61&hyph;107, Operations of Aircraft at Altitudes Above 25,000 Feet MSL and/or MACH numbers (Mmo) Greater Than .75. The FAA is considering combining these ACs into one or two ACs. Often a pilot will transition from basic training aircraft to faster and more complicated aircraft. The FAA is seeking information on whether a pilot should receive transition training with some or all of these changes of aircraft and, if so, what training. Especially with the development and certification of pressurized single engine and light twin engine aircraft with complex systems not requiring a type rating, transition training has become more critical. The FAA believes that it should publish information on the recommended training to transition from aircraft to aircraft. The FAA recognizes that many civil aviation pilots desire, and may obtain, an airline transport pilot (ATP) certificate, although that certificate is not required for civil aviation operations which are not air carrier operations. The FAA believes that many corporate flight departments, for their own reasons, require their pilots to hold an ATP certificate. Insurance company requirements may influence pilots to gain an ATP certificate even though it is not required for the operations performed by those pilots. Commenters should feel free to address transition and recurrent flight training subjects that they believe to be applicable to the ATP certificate as well as the recreational, private, and commercial certificates. Additionally, the FAA believes that appropriate recurrent training can be very effective in reducing accidents and incidents. Regression analysis of the general aviation fatal accident rate data indicates that following the implementation of the biennial flight review requirement (November 1, 1974) there was a one-time 10 percent decrease in fatal accident rates beyond the existing long-term declining trend in accident rates. The FAA also believes that the more appropriate the recurrent flight training, the greater the reduction in accidents. Consequently, the FAA is requesting that the public identify subjects and standards for transition and recurrent flight training, if the current ACs should be modified and if so, how they should be modified, and the content of the ACs. The FAA is especially seeking comments from flight instructors, manufacturers, industry groups, aircraft specific type clubs and societies, and insurance underwriters. Issued in Washington, DC on September 14, 1994. Louis C. Cusimano, Acting Manager, General Aviation and Commercial Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23260 Filed 9&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
