FR941221-2-00061 FR941221-2-00050 Under each of these four categories, situations are described to assist Service employees and ensure consistency in the determination of 90-day and 12-month petition findings. Ultimately, the Services intend to ensure that the petition process serves its function by calling appropriate attention to situations affecting the welfare of species or of any other change in biological status of species that would justify rulemaking under section 4 of the Act. In this manner, the petition process will operate consistent with the Services' own listing priority system for species already identified as candidates for listing under the Act. Although the procedures and definitions in the Handbook are supported by both Services, not all are applicable to the National Marine Fisheries Service due to organizational differences between the two Services, as well as the differences in the special character of species under the jurisdiction of each Service. Further guidance clarifying National Marine Fisheries Service specific organizational requirements will be included in the final guidance. Public Comments Solicited The Services intend that a final decision on the draft Petition Management Guidance take advantage of information and recommendations from all interested parties. Therefore, comments or suggestions from the public, other concerned governmental agencies, the scientific community, industry, or any other interested party concerning this draft guidance are hereby solicited. All comments and materials received will be considered prior to the approval of a final document. Author/Editor: The editors of this document are Sandra L. MacPherson and Susan M. Lawrence, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Division of Endangered Species (see ADDRESSES section). Authority The authority for this action is the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) Dated: July 11, 1994. Mollie H. Beattie, Director, Fish and Wildlife Service. Dated: November 9, 1994. Charles Karnella, Acting Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31368 Filed 12&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
