FR940114-1-00041 FR940114-1-00008 Proper selection and use of bicyclist helmets Skills training for bicyclists Proper use of bicycle equipment Sharing the road The State should enlist the support of a variety of media, including mass media, to improve public awareness of pedestrian and bicyclist crash problems and programs directed at preventing them. VII. Outreach Program Each State should encourage extensive community involvement in pedestrian and bicycle safety education by involving individuals and organizations outside the traditional highway safety community. Community involvement broadens public support for the State's programs and can increase a State's ability to deliver highway safety education programs. To encourage community involvement, States should: Establish a coalition or task force of individuals and organizations to actively promote safe pedestrian and bicycle safety practices (see Program Management Component); Create an effective communications network among coalition members to keep members informed; and Provide materials and resources necessary to promote pedestrian and bicycle safety education programs. VIII. School-Based Program Each State should incorporate pedestrian and bicycle safety education into school curricula. Safe walking and bicycle-riding practices to and from school and school-related events are good health habits and, like other health habits, must be taught at an early age and reinforced until the habit is well established. The State Department of Education and the State Highway Safety Agency should: Ensure that highway safety in general, and pedestrian and bicycle safety in particular, are included in the State-approved K&hyph;12 health and safety education curricula and textbooks; Establish and enforce written policies requiring safe walking and bicycling practices to and from school, including use of bicycle helmets on school property; and Encourage active promotion of safe walking and bicycling practices (including helmet usage) through classroom and extra-curricular activities. IX. Driver Education and Licensing Each State should address pedestrian and bicycle issues in State driver education and licensing programs. Pedestrian and bicycle safety principles and rules should be included in all driver training and licensing examinations. X. Evaluation Program Both evaluation and problem identification require good record keeping by the State and its political subdivisions. The State should identify the types and frequency of pedestrian and bicyclist crash problems in terms that are relevant to both the selection and evaluation of appropriate countermeasure programs. The State should promote effective evaluation of programs by: Supporting the continuing analysis of police accident reports (PARs) of pedestrian and bicyclist crashes for both problem identification and program evaluation activities; Encouraging, supporting, and training localities in impact and process evaluations of local programs; Conducting and publicizing statewide surveys of public knowledge and attitudes about pedestrian and bicyclist safety; Maintaining awareness of trends in pedestrian and bicyclist crashes at the national level and how this might influence activities statewide; Evaluating the use of program resources and the effectiveness of existing general public and target population countermeasure programs. Ensuring that evaluation results are an integral part of new program planning and problem identification.
