FR941103-2-00129 FR941103-2-00072 The Commission believes that the NYSE's proposal to amend the Policy to discontinue the practice of distributing a summary of reasons for each allocation decision to Exchange floor members provides for more efficient resource allocation and reduces unnecessary paperwork. At the same time, the Commission emphasizes, however, that the Exchange will make such information available to those who are interested by continuing to publish 15 allocation decisions for its membership and listing companies. 15 The term ``publish'' in this context refers to: (1) a posting on a bulletin board on the floor of the Exchange giving notice to all floor members of each allocation; and (2) a notification to the issuer whose security was allocated. The Commission believes that the Exchange's proposal to permit all current Committee members, including outgoing members, to vote for an incoming Committee Chairman is reasonable in that outgoing Committee members have gained valuable experience with candidates with whom they have been serving. Therefore, the Commission believes that outgoing members' input should broaden the scope of the election of the NYSE's Committee Chairman, and help to ensure the selection of the best qualified Chairman of the Committee. 16 16 The Commission believes that the NYSE's proposal to standardize the agenda used to educate Committee Chairmen and members should encourage Committee Chairmen and members to maintain quality performance in their allocation responsibilities. The Commission believes that the proposed amendments to the allocation application procedure to require information about a specialist unit's contacts with listed companies and NYSE member organizations should help to facilitate compliance with NYSE Rule 106. NYSE Rule 106(c) requires each specialist to report to the Exchange semi-annually, a record of their contacts with senior officials of their listed companies, their off-floor contacts with representatives of each of the 15 largest Exchange member organizations, their off-floor contacts with each other member organization that is a significant customer of the specialist unit, and their off-floor contacts with any other member organization that requests such contact. Because the revised application would specify the Exchange's current specialist contact requirement, the proposal should assist specialists in their responsibilities under the rules of the Exchange. Finally, the Commission believes that it is appropriate for the NYSE to implement the revised Policy on a permanent basis. The Commission believes that the pilot period has provided the Exchange and the Commission with an opportunity to study the effects of the revised Policy on the NYSE's allocation process. During the pilot period, the Exchange has monitored carefully the effects of the revised Policy and has reported its findings to the Commission. The Commission has reviewed and analyzed the reports submitted by the Exchange and on that basis, and for the reasons discussed above, believes that the revised Policy is consistent with the Act and furthers the objectives of the Exchange to develop an efficient and reliable allocation procedure. It Is Therefore Ordered , pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 17 that the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;30) is approved. 17 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 18 18 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1991). Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27229 Filed 11&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
