FR940323-2-00043 FR940323-2-00030 Issuance of Decisions and Orders by the Office of Hearings and Appeals; Week of January 31 Through February 4, 1994 During the week of January 31 through February 4, 1994 the decisions and orders summarized below were issued with respect to applications for exception or other relief filed with the Office of Hearings and Appeals of the Department of Energy. The following summary also contains a list of submissions that were dismissed by the Office of Hearings and Appeals. Applications for Exception Bollmann Oil Inc., 02/03/94; LEE&hyph;0061 Bollmann Oil Inc. (Bollmann) filed an Application for Exception from the provisions of the Energy Information Administration (EIA) reporting requirements in which the firm sought relief from filing Form EIA&hyph;782B, entitled ``Resellers'/Retailers' Monthly Petroleum Product Sales Report.'' In considering the request, the DOE found that Bollmann was not adversely affected by the reporting burden in a way that is significantly different from the burden borne by similar reporting firms. Therefore, it could not be granted relief from filing. Accordingly, exception relief was denied. Van Dyke Gas Co., 02/03/94; LEE&hyph;0058 Van Dyke Gas Company (Van Dyke) filed an Application for Exception from the provisions of the Energy Information Administration (EIA) reporting requirements in which the firm sought relief from filing Form EIA&hyph;782B, entitled ``Resellers'/Retailers' Monthly Petroleum Product Sales Report.'' The DOE determined that Van Dyke did not meet the standards for exception relief because it was not experiencing a serious hardship or gross inequity as a result of the reporting requirements. Accordingly, exception relief was denied. Walker Sims Oil Co., Inc., 02/03/94; LEE&hyph;0057 Walker Sims Oil Co., Inc. (Walker Sims), filed an Application for Exception from the provisions of the Energy Information Administration (EIA) reporting requirements in which the firm sought relief from filing Form EIA&hyph;782B, entitled ``Resellers'/Retailers' Monthly Petroleum Product Sales Report.'' In considering the request, the DOE found that the firm was not adversely affected by the reporting burden in a way that is significantly different from the burden borne by similar reporting firms. Therefore, it could not be granted relief from filing. Accordingly, exception relief was denied.
