FR940405-0-00060 FR940405-0-00009 This rulemaking document was not reviewed under E.O. 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and Review.'' The agency has considered the impacts of this rulemaking action and has determined that this action is not ``significant'' within the meaning of the Department of Transportation's regulatory policies and procedures. NHTSA has further determined that the effects of this rulemaking are so minimal that preparation of a full preliminary regulatory evaluation is not warranted. The agency believes that manufacturers will be minimally affected by this rulemaking because it simply permits new designs in infant restraints and does not require any design change or impose additional costs on manufacturers. Manufacturers that do not want to manufacture an infant restraint that can change adjustment positions will not be affected. Regulatory Flexibility Act NHTSA has considered the effects of this rulemaking action under the Regulatory Flexibility Act. I hereby certify that it will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The agency knows of fourteen manufacturers of child restraints, seven of which NHTSA considers to be small businesses (including Kolcraft, which with an estimated 500 employees, is on the borderline of being a small business). These businesses do not comprise a substantial number of small entities that are affected by this rule. Regardless of the number of small businesses, this rule will not have a significant economic impact on these entities. The rule will affect manufacturers only if they choose to manufacture an infant restraint that can change adjustment positions in Standard 213's dynamic test. The amendment may benefit manufacturers by allowing them to manufacture and sell a new product. However, based on manufacturers' responses to the NPRM, it does not appear that manufacturers other than Century will manufacture and sell such a product. The amendment may provide benefits to apnea-prone children by allowing manufacturers to produce an infant restraint that can position these children in a manner more appropriate for their condition. However, the agency does not have information to estimate those possible benefits. Small organizations and governmental jurisdictions procure infant restraints for programs such as loaner programs. NHTSA does not believe the costs of infant restraints will be increased by this rule. Thus, these entities will not be significantly affected by this rule. Executive Order 12612 (Federalism) This rule has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and the agency has determined that this rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. National Environmental Policy Act NHTSA has analyzed this rulemaking action for the purposes of the National Environmental Policy Act. The agency has determined that implementation of this action will not have any significant impact on the quality of the human environment. Executive Order 12778 (Civil Justice Reform) This rule does not have any retroactive effect. Under section 103(d) of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act (Safety Act; 15 U.S.C. 1392(d)), whenever a Federal motor vehicle safety standard is in effect, a state may not adopt or maintain a safety standard applicable to the same aspect of performance which is not identical to the Federal standard, except to the extent that the state requirement imposes a higher level of performance and applies only to vehicles procured for the State's use. Section 105 of the Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 1394) sets forth a procedure for judicial review of final rules establishing, amending or revoking Federal motor vehicle safety standards. That section does not require submission of a petition for reconsideration or other administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court. List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 571 Imports, Motor vehicle safety, Motor vehicles. PART 571_[AMENDED] In consideration of the foregoing, NHTSA amends 49 CFR part 571 as set forth below. 1. The authority citation for part 571 continues to read as follows:
