FR941216-1-00033 FR941216-1-00010 The proposed regulations provide that all holders of a contingent payment debt instrument are bound by the issuer's projected payment schedule and that an issuer must provide the schedule to the holders. A holder may vary from the projected payment schedule provided by the issuer only if the projected payment schedule is unreasonable. If an issuer does not create a projected payment schedule as required or the issuer's schedule is unreasonable, a holder must apply the projected payment schedule rules to determine a reasonable projected payment schedule. If a holder is not using the issuer's projected payment schedule, the holder must explicitly disclose this fact on its timely filed federal income tax return and must explain why it is not using the issuer's schedule. Because the proposed regulations allow considerable flexibility, taxpayers may attempt to create uneconomic accruals by intentionally overstating or understating the projected amounts of the contingent payments. Taxpayers must use actual prices in setting the payment schedule and are given flexibility only within the range of reasonable prices. For example, the prices of an issuer's or a holder's hedges may be used to determine reasonableness. Under the rules of section 6001, taxpayers must maintain adequate contemporaneous records to support the projected payment schedule. In addition, the rules of ยง1.1275&hyph;2T(g) (the OID anti-abuse rule) apply to transactions subject to the proposed regulations, including transactions in which the taxpayer attempts to create payment schedules that cause uneconomic accruals. Attempts to overstate or understate the amounts of the projected payments will give rise to adjustments of tax liability, and, if appropriate, penalties. 2. Adjustments. Under the noncontingent bond method, if the actual amount of a contingent payment differs from the projected amount of the payment, the difference results in either a positive or negative adjustment that must be taken into account by the taxpayer. The purpose of the adjustments is to correct the interest accruals that have occurred to date on the debt instrument. Therefore, the adjustments generally increase or decrease the amount of interest on a contingent payment debt instrument. If the actual amount of a contingent payment is greater than the projected amount of the payment, the difference is a positive adjustment. If the projected amount of a contingent payment is greater than the actual amount of the payment, the difference is a negative adjustment. Positive and negative adjustments for a taxable year are netted for each taxable year. A net positive adjustment for a taxable year is treated by the taxpayer as additional interest for the year. A net negative adjustment for a taxable year is taken into account as follows. First, a net negative adjustment for a taxable year offsets the interest that accrued on the debt instrument for the year based on the projected payment schedule. Second, if the net negative adjustment exceeds the amount of interest that accrued on the debt instrument for the taxable year, the excess is treated as an ordinary loss by the holder or as ordinary income by the issuer. However, the amount treated as ordinary loss by the holder is limited to the amount by which the holder's total prior interest inclusions on the debt instrument (including all net positive adjustments) exceed the total net negative adjustments on the debt instrument previously treated as ordinary loss by the holder. Similarly, the amount treated as ordinary income by the issuer is limited to the amount by which the issuer's total prior interest deductions on the debt instrument (including all net positive adjustments) exceed the total net negative adjustments on the debt instrument previously treated as ordinary income by the issuer. Third, because a negative adjustment adjusts interest accruals, if the net negative adjustment exceeds the sum of the amount of interest that accrued on the debt instrument for the taxable year and the amount treated as ordinary loss (or income) for the taxable year, the excess is treated as a negative adjustment that occurs on the first day of the succeeding taxable year. As a result, the excess offsets interest accruals on the debt instrument in future taxable years. Fourth, any unused net negative adjustment reduces the amount realized by the holder on the sale, exchange, or retirement of a contingent payment debt instrument. Similarly, any unused net negative adjustment is taken into account by the issuer on retirement of a contingent payment debt instrument as income from the discharge of indebtedness. The IRS and Treasury request comments on whether the regulations should provide specific rules governing the treatment of net negative adjustments determined on the occurrence of other events. The IRS and Treasury chose this method for taking adjustments into account because it provided a relatively simple method for adjusting the yield. However, the method may produce inappropriate results, for example, if there are large adjustments in the early years of a debt instrument. Other methods, such as a method that spreads adjustments over the term of the debt instrument, would produce more accurate results but would be more complex. The IRS and Treasury request comments on whether another method should be used for taking adjustments into account. 3. Adjusted issue price, basis, and retirement. Under the noncontingent bond method, the adjusted issue price of a contingent payment debt instrument, adjustments to the holder's basis in the debt instrument, and the amount of any contingent payment treated as made on the scheduled retirement of the debt instrument are determined using the projected payment schedule rather than actual contingent payments. This rule is appropriate because positive or negative adjustments are used to take into account the difference between actual amounts and projected amounts of contingent payments. This difference would be counted twice if adjusted issue price, adjusted basis, and the amount deemed paid on retirement were based on the actual amounts of contingent payments rather than the projected amounts. 4. Character on sale, exchange, or retirement. Under the noncontingent bond method, any gain recognized by a holder on the sale, exchange, or retirement of a contingent payment debt instrument is treated as interest income. Similarly, any loss recognized by a holder on the sale, exchange, or retirement of a contingent payment debt instrument is treated as ordinary loss to the extent of the holder's prior interest inclusions (reduced by prior ordinary losses attributable to net negative adjustments) on the instrument. Although this rule is inconsistent with the treatment of noncontingent debt instruments, the rule is necessary because of the treatment of net positive and net negative adjustments. The rule prevents a taxpayer who sells a contingent payment debt instrument immediately before a positive adjustment occurs from converting the interest income from the adjustment into capital gain or from converting the amount by which a negative adjustment would reduce interest income into capital loss. Consistent with the rule's purpose, the rule does not apply to a sale, exchange, or retirement that occurs when there are no outstanding contingent payments due on a debt instrument.
