FR941117-0-00186 FR941117-0-00013 Commenters across a broad range of market participants supported the goal of improved secondary market disclosure for the municipal securities market, but emphasized that flexibility is necessary, given the diversity that exists in the municipal securities market. 18 As adopted, the amendments to Rule 15c2&hyph;12 will further that goal by prohibiting underwritings unless there are commitments to provide ongoing disclosure, while, at the same time, providing issuers with significant flexibility to determine the appropriate nature of that disclosure. The amendments retain the requirement that a Participating Underwriter ascertain that an issuer or obligated person has undertaken to provide secondary market disclosure, including notices of material events, to information repositories, but rely on the parties to the transaction to establish who will provide secondary market disclosure, and what information is material to an understanding of the security being offered. 18 See, e.g., Joint Response; Letter of Chapman and Cutler; Letter of Florida Division of Bond Finance of the State Board of Administration; Letter of J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc.; Letter of National Association of Bond Lawyers (``NABL''); Letter of Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe (``Orrick Herrington''); Letter of Public Securities Association (``PSA''). The amendments build upon and reinforce current market practices that have provided, as a general matter, good quality disclosure in official statements, and extend those practices to the secondary market. As is currently the practice, under the amendments, the participants in an underwriting would continue to determine which persons are material to an understanding of the Offering. Information concerning those persons would be included in the final official statement. Financial information and operating data that is material to an offering at the outset generally remains material throughout the life of the securities. Under the amendments, that information would be provided on an annual basis. Put simply, the amendments reflect the belief that purchasers in the secondary market need the same level of financial information and operating data in making investment decisions as purchasers in the underwritten offering. The Proposed Amendments would have prohibited a broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer from recommending the purchase or sale of a municipal security, unless it had reviewed the annual and event information provided pursuant to the undertaking. Commenters anticipated that such a prohibition would have a considerable negative impact on secondary market liquidity. Furthermore, brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers considered the proposed recommendation prohibition to be problematic from a compliance perspective. The Commission has modified this provision to require instead that brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers recommending municipal securities in the secondary market have procedures to obtain material event notices. Because under existing law brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers are required to use information disseminated into the marketplace in forming a reasonable basis for recommending securities to investors, the rule does not impose mechanical review requirements on a trade-by-trade basis. The amendments contain an exemption to minimize the effect on small issuers. Offerings in which neither the issuer nor any obligor is obligated with respect to more than $10 million dollars in municipal securities outstanding following an offering will be exempt from the amendments, on the condition that there is a limited undertaking to provide upon request, or annually to a state information depository, at least the financial information or operating data they customarily prepare, and that is publicly available. In addition, the undertaking must meet the amendment's requirement regarding notices of material events. II. Description of Amendments To Rule 15c2&hyph;12 A. Amendments With Respect to the Underwriting of Municipal Securities Under the amendments to Rule 15c2&hyph;12, a broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer (``Participating Underwriter'') 19 will be prohibited, subject to certain exemptions, from purchasing or selling municipal securities in connection with a primary offering of municipal securities with an aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000 or more (``Offering''), 20 unless the Participating Underwriter has made certain determinations. 21 Specifically, the Participating Underwriter must reasonably determine that an issuer of municipal securities or an obligated person, either individually or in combination with other issuers of such municipal securities or other obligated persons, 22 has undertaken in a written agreement or contract for the benefit of holders of such securities, to provide, either directly or indirectly through an indenture trustee or a designated agent, certain annual financial information and event notices to various information repositories. 23 19 See Rule 15c2&hyph;12(a). 20 The amendments also include an exemption for small and infrequent issuers. See Section II.D.1., infra . 21 Rule 15c2&hyph;12(b)(5)(i). 22 These concepts are discussed in Section II.A.1.b., infra . 23 Information repositories are discussed in Section II.C., infra . The ``reasonable determination'' required by the amendments to Rule 15c2&hyph;12 must be made by the Participating Underwriter prior to its purchasing or selling municipal securities in connection with an Offering. A Participating Underwriter would, therefore, need to receive assurances from the issuer or obligated persons that such undertakings would be made before agreeing to act as an underwriter. A dealer could look to provisions in the underwriting agreement or bond purchase agreement that describe the undertakings for the benefit of bondholders made elsewhere, such as in a trust indenture, bond resolution, or separate written agreement. 24 In a competitively bid offering, such assurances also might be found in a notice of sale. Of course, representations concerning commitments to provide secondary market disclosure, like any other key representations by an issuer, are subject to specific verification, such that a Participating Underwriter has a reasonable basis to believe that such representations are true and accurate. Thus, investigation of an issuer's or obligated person's undertakings to provide secondary market disclosure would be an element of the Participating Underwriter's professional review of offering documents. 25 24 See Letter of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith (``Merrill Lynch''). 25 As noted in the 1988 Release, the obligations of managing underwriters and underwriters participating in an offering differ. An underwriter participating in an offering need not duplicate the efforts of the managing underwriter, but must satisfy itself that the managing underwriter reviewed the accuracy of the information in the official statement in a professional manner and therefore had a reasonable basis for its recommendation. Underwriters participating in offerings, however, have a duty to notify the managing underwriter of any factors that suggest inaccuracies in disclosure, or signal the need for additional investigation. See 1988 Release at n. 87. Because the amendments prohibit Participating Underwriters from purchasing or selling securities in the absence of undertakings in a written agreement or contract, such agreement or contract would have to be in place at the time the issuer delivers the securities to the Participating Underwriter. 26 As discussed below, in conditioning the closing of an Offering on the existence of an agreement or contract, this provision of the amendments permits flexibility as to where undertakings for continuing disclosure are memorialized. 27 26 See Letter of Kutak Rock; Letter of Section of Urban, State and Local Government Law, American Bar Association (``ABA Urban Law Section''); Letter of Colorado Municipal Bond Supervisory Board. 27 In contrast to the requirement in Rule 15c2&hyph;12(b)(5) that Participating Underwriters reasonably determine that issuers or obligated persons have undertaken to provide secondary market disclosure prior to the time they ``purchase or sell'' municipal securities, Rule 15c2&hyph;12(b)(1) requires Participating Underwriters to obtain and review an official statement deemed final by the issuer (``DFOS'') prior to the time they ``bid for, purchase, offer, or sell'' securities. Thus, under Rule 15c2&hyph;12(b)(1), in a competitive underwriting, a Participating Underwriter must obtain and review the DFOS prior to placing a bid on an issue of municipal securities. Because the term ``offer'' encompasses the distribution of a preliminary official statement, as well as oral solicitations of indications of interest, in a negotiated underwriting, a Participating Underwriter is required to obtain and review the DFOS prior to the time it distributes the preliminary official statement to potential investors. If no offers are made, the Participating Underwriter is required to obtain and review the DFOS by the earlier of the time it agrees (whether in principle or by signing the bond purchase agreement) to purchase the bonds, or the first sale of bonds. See Mudge Rose Guthrie Alexander & Ferdon (April 4, 1990); Interpretive Release at Section III.C.6. The amendments to the definition of final official statement will affect the obligations of Participating Underwriters under Rule 15c2&hyph;12. Rule 15c2&hyph;12(b)(1) requires that a Participating Underwriter, prior to bidding for, purchasing, offering, or selling municipal securities, obtain and review a DFOS. 28 The Commission expects that Participating Underwriters will review the DFOS with a view to ascertaining that it contains information satisfying the definition of final official statement in Rule 15c2&hyph;12. 29 The Commission further expects that the quality of disclosure in the DFOS will improve in a manner that is commensurate with the changes in final official statement disclosure. 30 28 Information regarding the offering price, interest rate, selling compensation, aggregate principal amount, principal amount per maturity, delivery dates, any other terms or provisions required by an issuer of such securities to be specified in a competitive bid, ratings, other terms of the securities depending on such matters, and the identity of the underwriters, may be omitted from the official statement reviewed by the Participating Underwriter for purposes of Rule 15c2&hyph;12(b)(1). 29 Whether information is in fact known or not reasonably ascertainable at the time the Participating Underwriter must obtain and review the DFOS pursuant to the rule is best determined in the context of each offering by the issuer, the Participating Underwriter, and their respective counsel. See Public Securities Association (May 29, 1992) 30 As a practical matter, the DFOS and the preliminary official statement (``POS'') are often the same document. See Mudge Rose Guthrie Alexander & Ferdon (April 4, 1990). Rule 15c2&hyph;12(b)(2) requires, for all except competitively bid offerings, from the time a Participating Underwriter has reached an understanding with an issuer of municipal securities that it will act as a Participating Underwriter, until the final official statement is available, that the Participating Underwriter send, to any potential customer, no later than the next business day, a copy of the most recent POS, if any. The Commission expects that the Participating Underwriters' obligations with respect to dissemination of the POS will not change. 1. Determining the Required Scope of the Undertaking to Provide Secondary Market Disclosure Under the amendments as adopted, the financial information and operational data to be provided on an annual basis pursuant to the undertaking will mirror the financial information and operating data contained in the final official statement with respect to both the issuers and obligated persons that will be the subject of the ongoing disclosure, and the type of information provided. The amendments govern the core financial and operational data to be provided. It does not address the textual disclosure typically provided in annual reports, leaving the scope of that disclosure to market practice. 31 To clarify the intended quantitative focus of the rule, as adopted, the rule uses the term ``financial information and operating data.'' 31 See Association of Local Housing Finance Agencies, Guidelines for Information Disclosure to the Secondary Market (1992); Government Finance Officers Association, Disclosure Guidelines for State and Local Government Securities (Jan. 1991); Healthcare Financial Management Association, Principles and Practices Board, Statement Number 18_Public Disclosure of Financial and Operating Information by Healthcare Providers (May 1994); National Council of State Housing Agencies, Quarterly Reporting Format for State Housing Finance Agency Single Family Housing Bonds (1989) and Multi-family Disclosure Format (1991); National Federation of Municipal Analysts, Disclosure Handbook for Municipal Securities 1992 Update (Nov. 1992).
