FR940128-1-00024 FR940128-1-00006 At the same time, the United States is the world's largest exporter of fishery products. In 1991, the United States exported more than $3 billion worth of seafood, making a significant positive contribution to this country's balance of payments as well as to the many coastal State economies in which these products are produced (Refs. 42 and 43). Our largest market is Japan, followed by the European Community (EC) and Canada. Both Canada and the EC have implemented or are in the process of implementing mandatory HACCP-based seafood inspection systems (Refs. 32 and 44). Given the significance of both international and domestic trade, ongoing efforts to harmonize or make equivalent country inspection systems and requirements takes on great significance. The current multilateral round of trade negotiations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) has resulted in further focus on this area. The draft text on sanitary and phytosanitary measures acknowledges the desire of the contracting parties, including the United States, to support ``the use of harmonized sanitary and phytosanitary measures between contracting parties, on the basis of international standards, guidelines, and recommendations developed by the relevant international organizations including the Codex Alimentarious Commission *␣*␣*'' (Ref. 45, p. L.35). This move toward harmonization, coupled with the current recommendations of the Codex Committee on Food Hygiene encouraging the international use of the HACCP system (Ref. 46), clearly argue for the adoption of this approach in the United States for seafood. Failure by the United States to adopt a mandatory, HACCP-based inspection system may ultimately undermine its export success, with considerable economic consequences. For example, in addition to the EC, Canada, Iceland, Australia, and many other fishing nations have moved to a mandatory HACCP approach that could affect United States competitiveness in the major seafood markets. The EC is the United States' second largest export market, purchasing $441 million worth of U.S. products in 1991. On July 22, 1991, EC Council Directive 91/493 was issued to set out the conditions for the production and placing on the EC market fish and fishery products (Ref. 44). This Directive requires, as of January 1, 1993, that both member States and third countries: *␣*␣* take all necessary measures so that, at all stages of the production of fishery products *␣*␣* persons responsible must carry out their own checks based on the following principles: _Identification of critical control points in their establishments on the basis of the manufacturing processes used; _establishment and implementation of methods for monitoring and checking such critical control points; *␣*␣* _keeping a written record *␣*␣* with a view to submitting them to the competent authority *␣*␣*. While the directive provides some flexibility in terms of equivalence, it is clear that the EC is looking for a mandatory HACCP system along the lines proposed in this regulation. Maintaining and expanding this export market is likely to be facilitated if this proposal is adopted. Similarly, ongoing discussions with Canada under the terms of section 708 of the U.S./Canada Free Trade Agreement (FTA) to harmonize or make equivalent the two nations' respective inspection systems and standards have made it clear that this proposed HACCP regulation will significantly facilitate the process (Ref. 47). Canada has recently completed implementation of a mandatory, HACCP-based seafood inspection program. Because Canada is the United States' third largest export market and largest supplier of imported seafood, adoption of an equivalent system would not only achieve the objectives of the FTA but potentially would save resources currently devoted to monitoring shipments between our two countries. Similar potential benefits could be expected under the proposed North American FTA, particularly at this formative stage in that process. Thus, facilitation of international trade is a fourth factor supporting the appropriateness, and thus providing a rational basis, for FDA's proposed course of action.
