FR941122-1-00026 FR941122-1-00002 2. In §273.9: a. the sixth and seventh sentences of paragraph (d)(5)(i) are removed, and one new sentence is added in its place; b. paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(C) and paragraph (d)(6) are revised; and c. the fourth sentence of paragraph (d)(8)(i) is amended by removing the word ``thereafter,'' and adding the words ``thereafter through October 1, 1993,'' in its place and by adding three sentences at the end of the paragraph. The additions and revision read as follows: §273.9 Income and deductions. * * * * * (d) Income deductions.␣*␣*␣* (5) Shelter costs. (i) Homeless households .␣*␣*␣*␣The Department will revise the homeless shelter expense estimate each October 1 to reflect changes in the shelter, fuel, and utilities components of housing costs in the CPI&hyph;U for the 12 months ending the preceding June 30 and will notify State agencies of the adjusted amount. * * * (ii) Household shelter deduction . * * * (C) The cost of heating and cooking fuel, cooling (verifiable expenses relating to the operation of air conditioning systems or room air conditioners), electricity, water, sewerage, garbage and trash collection, the basic service fee for one telephone (including tax on the basic fee), and fees charged by the utility provider for initial installation of the utility. One-time deposits shall not be included as shelter costs. * * * * * (6) Standard utility allowances _(i) Developing and updating standard utility allowances. A State agency may develop the following standard utility allowances (standards) to be used in place of actual costs in determining a household's excess shelter deduction: a separate standard for each type of utility expense; a single standard for all utilities that includes heating or cooling costs; a telephone standard; and a combined standard that includes electricity, water, sewerage, and garbage or trash collection that is available only to households that incur the costs of electricity and either water or sewerage. The State agency shall submit proposed standards to FCS for approval. The State agency shall update the standards annually and submit revised amounts to FCS for approval. State agencies shall submit methodologies used in developing and updating standards to FCS for review every 3 years, when there is a change in the methodology, and upon a request from FCS. State agencies may use a heating or cooling standard, a combined standard, and individual standards. However, they shall not allow households the use of two standards that include the same expense. The State agency may elect to use seasonal standards that include heating or cooling costs or an annual standard that does not have to be adjusted seasonally. The State agency may vary the allowance by factors such as household size or geographical area. Only utility costs identified in paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section shall be used in developing standards. The State agency shall not use a reduced standard for households that receive assistance under the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act (LIHEAA) of 1981. Households shall be allowed to use standards that include heating or cooling costs in accordance with paragraphs (d)(6)(ii), (d)(6)(iii) and (d)(6)(iv) of this section. Households whose only utility expense is for a telephone are entitled to only the separate telephone standard if one has been developed by the State agency.
