FR940620-0-00060 FR940620-0-00021 If a timely reply to the appeal is not filed, the presiding officer shall refer the appeal to the Judicial Officer, who may find that the General Counsel is in default. Whenever the General Counsel has been deemed to be in default, the Judicial Officer shall take whatever action on the appeal he deems appropriate. If an oral evidentiary hearing is to be held, the appellant may appear at the hearing in person or by counsel. If either party fails to appear at the hearing, the presiding officer shall receive the evidence of the party appearing and render a decision. §953.8 Location of hearing. Unless otherwise ordered by the presiding officer, the hearing shall be held at Postal Service headquarters, 475 L'Enfant Plaza, SW., Washington, DC, on the date set in the notice. §953.9 Change of place of hearing. (a) Not later than the date fixed for the filing of the reply, a party may file a motion that the scheduled hearing be held at a place other than that designated in the notice. The motion shall include a supporting statement outlining: (1) The evidence to be offered in such place; (2) The names and addresses of the witnesses who will testify; and (3) The reasons why such evidence cannot be presented in Washington, DC. (b) In ruling on the motion, the presiding officer shall consider the convenience and necessity of the parties and the relevancy of the evidence to be offered. §953.10 Presiding officers. The presiding officer at any hearing shall be an Administrative Law Judge qualified in accordance with law (5 U.S.C. 3105) and assigned by the Judicial Officer (39 U.S.C. 204), or the Judicial Officer, may at his discretion, elect to preside at the reception of evidence. The Judicial Officer shall assign cases to Administrative Law Judges upon rotation if practicable. §953.11 Proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. Proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law shall be submitted orally or in writing at the conclusion of the hearing, or otherwise, as ordered by the presiding officer. §953.12 Initial decision. Unless given orally at the conclusion of the hearing, the Administrative Law Judge shall render an initial decision as expeditiously as practicable after the conclusion of the hearing and the receipt of the proposed findings and conclusions, if any. The initial decision shall become the decision of the Postal Service if an appeal is not perfected. When the Judicial Officer presides at the hearing, his powers shall include those of an Administrative Law Judge, but the Judicial Officer may render either an initial or final decision. Exceptions may be filed to an initial decision rendered by the Judicial Officer in accordance with §953.13. §953.13 Appeal from initial decision. Either party may file exceptions in a brief on appeal to the Judicial Officer within 5 days after receipt of the initial decision unless additional time is granted. A reply brief may be filed within 5 days after the receipt of the appeal brief by the opposing party. §953.14 Final Agency decision. The Judicial Officer shall render a final Agency decision. The decision shall be served upon the parties and the postal official having custody of any mail detained pursuant to the determination or ruling. §953.15 Expedition. For the purpose of further expedition, either party may move to have the hearing held at an earlier date than that specified in the notice. Either party may also move to have the initial decision (if an Administrative Law Judge or the Judicial Officer is presiding) or the final Agency decision (if the Judicial Officer is presiding) rendered orally at the conclusion of the hearing. The presiding officer may grant or deny any such motion. The parties may, with the concurrence of the Judicial Officer, agree to waive any of the procedures established in these rules. §953.16 Disposition. Mail matter found to be nonmailable shall be held at the post office where detained for a period of 15 days from the date of the Postal Service decision, unless that period is extended by the Judicial Officer. During this holding period, the appellant may apply for the withdrawal of the matter. If any such application is made, the General Counsel shall be given notice and the opportunity to oppose the application. Upon the expiration of the holding period with no application having been made, the Judicial Officer shall order that the matter be disposed of in accordance with 39 U.S.C. 3001(b). If a timely application is made, the Judicial Officer shall consider the application and any reasons advanced by the General Counsel for denying the application. The Judicial Officer shall thereafter order either that the matter be returned to the applicant or that it be disposed of in accordance with 39 U.S.C. 3001(b). §953.17 Ex parte communications. The provisions of 5 U.S.C. 551(14), 556(d), and 557(d) prohibiting ex parte communications are made applicable to proceedings under these rules of practice. Stanley F. Mires, Chief Counsel, Legislative. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14927 Filed 6&hyph;15&hyph;94; 4:38 pm] BILLING CODE 7710&hyph;12&hyph;P
