FR941003-0-00038 FR941003-0-00013 1. Two comments objected to the provision regarding use patents (patents that claim a use for the patented invention) under proposed §314.50(i). The comments explained that the provision would permit applicants to decide whether a use would infringe a patent and whether the patent owner should be notified. Both comments asked FDA to require applicants to send a certification of invalidity or noninfringement to all patent owners whose patents claim the active ingredient involved in the proposed drug product. One comment would also revise the provision to withhold approval of an application if the patent owner disagreed with the patent certification in order to give the patent owner an opportunity to initiate a lawsuit. The regulation corresponds to the statutory language at section 505(b)(2)(B) of the act. The statute does not require a patent certification with respect to a use patent if the applicant is seeking approval for a drug product that does not claim a use protected by the patent. FDA also declines to revise the provision to have FDA withhold approval of an application under these circumstances. The statute provides express and specific grounds for delaying an effective date of approval (see section 505(c)(3) of the act). These do not include any express authority to delay an effective date of approval based on an inadequate notice, and the agency is not prepared to infer such authority. NDA holders are advised, however, to notify FDA of the patented uses that appear in the approved labeling for their products; this will enable the agency to provide some guidance to applicants required to submit either a patent certification under section 505(b)(2)(A) or (j)(2)(A) of the act, or a statement under section 505(b)(2)(B) or (j)(2)(A)(viii) of the act. These uses will be listed in the Orange Book. 2. One comment noted that ``United States Office of Patent and Trademark'' in proposed §314.50(i)(1)(i) should be ``United States Patent and Trademark Office.'' FDA agrees and has revised the provision accordingly. 3. One comment asked FDA to give examples of patent certifications under proposed §314.50(i)(1)(i)(A)( 1 ) to (i)(1)(i)(A)( 3 ). As proposed, these provisions would require an applicant to certify that: (1) No patent information had been submitted to FDA, (2) the patent has expired, or (3) the patent would expire on a specific date. Generally, most applicants making paragraph I, II, or III patent certifications simply paraphrase the language used in §314.50(i)(1)(i)(A)( 1 ) to (i)(1)(i)(A)( 3 ) for each patent. 4. The agency, on its own initiative, has amended §314.50(i)(1)(i)(A) to replace the reference to a patent that claims ``the drug or drugs'' with a patent that claims ``a drug (the drug product or drug substance that is a component of the drug product).'' The agency has made this amendment to clarify the types of patents for which a certification should be made. 5. The agency, on its own initiative, has also amended §314.50(i)(1)(i)(A)( 4 ) and §314.94(a)(12)(i)(A)( 4 ) (21 CFR 314.94(a)(12)(i)(A)( 4 )) to include a reference to unenforceable patents. As proposed, these provisions would have required applicants to certify that a patent is invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use, or sale of the drug product that is the subject of the application. The agency has revised these certification statements to clarify how an applicant challenging a patent as unenforceable should word its paragraph IV certification. Although the agency realizes that courts have, in patent cases, distinguished invalid patents from unenforceable patents, the only court addressing the issue of unenforceable patents in the context of the provisions of section 505 of the act interpreted the phrase ``invalid or not infringed'' to include an unenforceable patent. (See Merck v. Danbury Pharmacal, Inc., 694 F.Supp. 1 (D. Del. 1988), aff'd, 873 F.2d 1418 (Fed. Cir. 1989) (applying section 505(j)(4)(B)(iii) of the act).) The agency agrees with the court's construction of the act. The alternative interpretation, precluding applicants challenging patents as unenforceable from filing certifications under paragraph IV, would be contrary to Congress' obvious intent in allowing patent challenges under section 505 of the act and would lead to absurd results. Subsequent to the Merck decision, the agency has accepted paragraph IV certifications from applicants challenging patents as unenforceable.
