FR940106-0-00160 FR940106-0-00022 (4) Procedure. Any determination under paragraph (a)(2) or paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall be a determination to which §§617.50 and 617.51 apply, including the requirement that any written notice furnished to an individual shall include notice of the individual's appeal rights as is provided in §617.50(e). (b) Reasons for issuing a waiver. (1) For the purposes of paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section, a waiver of the participation in training requirement shall be issued to an individual only upon a supported finding that approval of a §617.22(a) training program for that individual is not feasible or is not appropriate at that time. (i) Feasible and appropriate. For the purposes of this section: (A) Feasible. The term feasible means: ( 1 ) training is available at that time which meets all the criteria of §617.22(a); ( 2 ) the individual is so situated as to be able to take full advantage of the training opportunity and complete the training; and ( 3 ) funding is available to pay the full costs of the training and any transportation and subsistence expenses which are compensable. The funding referred to in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A)( 3 ) of this section includes not only TAA program funds but also all other funds available under any of the provisions of the Job Training Partnership Act (including Title III) or any other Federal, State or private source that may be utilized for training approvable under §617.22(a). Further, the individual's situation in respect to undertaking training (as referred to in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A)( 2 ) of this section) shall include taking into account personal circumstances that preclude the individual from being able to participate in and complete the training program, such as the availability of transportation, the ability to make arrangements for necessary child care, and adequate financial resources if the weeks of training exceeds the duration of UI and TRA payments. (B) Appropriate. The term appropriate means being suitable or compatible, fitting, or proper. Appropriate, therefore, refers to suitability of the training for the worker (including whether there is a reasonable prospect which is reasonably foreseeable that the individual will be reemployed by the firm from which separated), and compatibility of the training for the purposes of the TAA Program. In these respects, suitability of training for the individual is encompassed within the several criteria in §617.22 (a), and compatibility with the program is covered by the various provisions of subpart C of this part which describe the types of training approvable under §617.22(a) and the limitations thereon. (ii) Basis for application. Whether training is feasible or appropriate at any given time is determined by finding whether, at that time, training suitable for the worker is available, the training is approvable under subpart C of this part including the criteria in §617.22(a), the worker is so situated as to be able to take full advantage of the training and satisfactorily complete the training, full funding for the training is available from one or more sources in accordance with §§617.24 and 617.25, the worker has the financial resources to complete the training when the duration of the training program exceeds the worker's eligibility for TRA, and the training will commence within 30 days of approval. (2) Particular applications. The reasons for any determination that training is not feasible or is not appropriate shall be in accord with the following: (i) Not feasible because_ (A) The beginning date of approved training is beyond 30 days, as required by the definition for ``Enrolled in training'' in §617.11(a)(2)(vii)(D), (B) Training is not reasonably available to the individual, (C) Training is not available at a reasonable cost, (D) Funds are not available to pay the total costs of training, or (E) Personal circumstances such as health or financial resources, preclude participation in training or satisfactory completion of training, (F) Other (explain). (ii) Not appropriate because_ (A)( 1 ) The firm from which the individual was separated plans to recall the individual within the reasonably foreseeable future (State agencies must verify planned recalls with the employer),
