FR940711-2-00011 FR940711-2-00005 _The level indicator, clause, statement or header that directly contains the nonconforming or obsolete syntax. (For the purpose of this requirement the definitions of level indicator, clause, statement and header contained in American National Standard COBOL, ANSI X3.23&hyph;1985, Section III, Glossary, and the definition of syntax contained in American National Dictionary for Information Processing Systems, (ANDIS), ANSI X3.172&hyph;1990, apply.) _The source program line and an indication of the beginning location within the line of the level indicator, clause, statement or header which contains the nonconforming or obsolete syntax. _The syntax as ``nonconforming standard'' if the nonconforming syntax is included in the processor but is not within the user selected FIPS COBOL subset or optional modules unless monitoring is selected for the obsolete category; in that case obsolete language elements are only flagged as ``obsolete''. _The syntax as ``nonconforming nonstandard'' if the nonconforming syntax is a nonstandard extension included in the processor. _The syntax as ``obsolete'' if the syntax identified is in the obsolete category within a FIPS COBOL subset or optional module included in the processor. 11. Implementation. The implementation of FIPS COBOL involves three areas of consideration: acquisition of COBOL processors, interpretation of FIPS COBOL, and validation of COBOL processors. 11.1␣ Acquisition of COBOL Processors. This publication is effective [insert a date 90 days after the approval date]. COBOL processors acquired for Federal use after this date should implement at least one of the required subsets of FIPS COBOL. If the functionality of one or more of the optional modules meets programmatic requirements, then those optional modules also should be acquired. Each optional module that is needed to meet programmatic requirements should be explicitly cited as a requirement in the order for the processor. Conformance to FIPS COBOL should be considered whether COBOL processors are developed internally, acquired as part of an ADP system procurement, acquired by separate procurement, used under an ADP leasing arrangement, or specified for use in contracts for programming services. A transition period provides time for industry to produce COBOL processors conforming to the standard. The transition period begins on the effective date and continues for one (1) year thereafter. The following apply during the transition period: a. The provisions of FIPS PUB 21&hyph;3 apply to processors ordered before the effective date but delivered subsequent to the effective date. b. The provisions of this publication apply to orders placed after the effective date; however, a processor conforming to FIPS PUB 21&hyph;4, if available, may be acquired for use prior to the effective date. If a conforming processor is not available, a processor conforming to FIPS PUB 21&hyph;3 may be acquired for interim use during the transition period. 11.2␣ Interpretation of FIPS COBOL. NIST provides for the resolution of questions regarding FIPS COBOL specifications and requirements, and issues official interpretations as needed. All questions about the interpretation of FIPS COBOL should be addressed to: National Institute of Standards and Technology, Attn: COBOL Interpretation, Technology Building, Room B&hyph;154, Gaithersburg, MD 20899. 11.3␣ Validation of COBOL Processors. NIST provides a service for the purpose of validating the conformance to this standard of processors offered for Federal procurement. The validation system reports the nature of any deviations that are detected. This service is offered on a reimbursable basis. Further information about the validation service can be obtained from the Software Standards Validation Group, COBOL Validation, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD 20899 (301) 975&hyph;3247. 12. Waivers. Under certain exceptional circumstances, the heads of Federal departments and agencies may approve waivers to Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS). The head of such agency may redelegate such authority only to a senior official designated pursuant to section 3506(b) of Title 44, United States Code. Waivers shall be granted only when: a. Compliance with a standard would adversely affect the accomplishment of the mission of an operator of a Federal computer system, or b. Cause a major adverse financial impact on the operator which is not offset by Government-wide savings. Agency heads may act upon a written waiver request containing the information detailed above. Agency heads may also act without a written waiver request when they determine that conditions for meeting the standard cannot be met. Agency heads may approve waivers only by a written decision which explains the basis on which the agency head made the required finding(s). A copy of each such decision, with procurement-sensitive or classified portions clearly identified, shall be sent to: National Institute of Standards and Technology; ATTN: FIPS Waiver Decisions, Technology Building, Room B&hyph;154; Gaithersburg, MD 20899. In addition notice of each waiver granted and each delegation of authority to approve waivers shall be sent promptly to the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate and shall be published promptly in the Federal Register . When the determination on a waiver applies to the procurement of equipment and/or services, a notice of the waiver determination must be published in the Commerce Business Daily as a part of the notice of solicitation for offers of an acquisition or, if the waiver determination is made after that notice is published, by amendment to such notice. A copy of the waiver, any supporting documents, the document approving the waiver and any supporting and accompanying documents, with such deletions as the agency is authorized and decides to make under 5 U.S.C. Sec. 552(b), shall be part of the procurement documentation and retained by the agency. 13. Where to Obtain Copies. Copies of this publication are for sale by the National Technical Information Service, U.S. Department of Commerce, Springfield, VA 22161. (Sale of the included specifications document is by arrangement with the American National Standards Institute.) When ordering, refer to Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 21&hyph;4 (FIPSPUB21&hyph;4), and title. Payment may be made by check, money order, or deposit account. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16665 Filed 7&hyph;8&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;CN&hyph;M
