FR940720-2-00129 FR940720-2-00073 Finally, the Commission stated that it would evaluate trading under the one-year pilot and at the end of the pilot period would determine what further action to take. Because of the potentially significant market structure implications of this new policy, the Commission decided to proceed cautiously by establishing a one-year pilot program under which each exchange requesting UTP would be permitted to trade, on an unlisted basis, up to 25 OTC securities designated as NMS Securities pursuant to Rule 11Aa2&hyph;1 under the Act. The Commission stated that it considered this one-year pilot a first step in granting UTP on NMS Securities and that granting UTP on additional NMS Securities might be appropriate if no adverse consequences resulted from the trading of securities under the pilot program. In 1986, because of protracted negotiations to develop a joint industry plan, the Chx entered into an interim transaction reporting plan (``Interim Plan'') with the NASD that was significantly more limited than the Joint Industry Plan. On April 29, 1987, the Commission approved the Chx's application for UTP in 25 NMS securities quoted on the Nasdaq system (generally, ``Nasdaq/National Market securities'') 9 and simultaneously approved the Interim Plan submitted by the Chx and the NASD. 9 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 24407 (April 29, 1987), 52 FR 17349. As discussed more fully below, in 1990, the Commission approved the Plan and the ability for Participants to effect transactions pursuant to the Plan on a one-year pilot basis, to begin when certain enhancements were made to the Nasdaq system and transaction reporting pursuant to the Plan commenced. The Commission also expanded the maximum number of Nasdaq/National Market securities to which a Participant could extend UTP from 25 to 100. In 1992, the Phlx, prior to the initiation of the Plan pilot, filed with the Commission a proposed rule change to initiate a pilot program to provide for transactions on the Phlx floor in OTC securities pursuant to UTP. The Commission initially approved this pilot program and the accompanying rules for a temporary period ending on December 31, 1993. 10 Thereafter, the Commission extended the Phlx pilot program and the effectiveness of the accompanying Phlx rules through December 31, 1994. 11 10 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 31672 (December 30, 1992), 58 FR 3054 (``1992 Phlx Pilot Order''). 11 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33408 (December 30, 1992), 59 FR 1045 (``1993 Phlx Pilot Extension Order''). The Chx Interim Plan continued in effect, subject to the 100 security limitation, through July 12, 1993, when trading pursuant to the Plan commenced, thereby superseding the Interim Plan. The Phlx and the Chx, as Participants to the Plan, continue to be limited to extending UTP to a maximum of 100 Nasdaq/National Market securities. The Phlx currently effects transactions in Nasdaq/National Market securities pursuant to the Plan and the Phlx pilot program ( i.e. , while using the Plan Processor and pursuant to Phlx rules established under the Phlx pilot program). The Plan provides for the collection from Plan Participants and the consolidation and dissemination to vendors, subscribers and others of quotation and transaction information in ``eligible securities,'' i.e. , NMS Securities traded on an exchange on a listed or UTP basis. The Plan contains various provisions concerning the operation of the Plan, which include: Implementation of the Plan; Manner of Collecting, Processing, Sequencing, Making Available, and Disseminating Last Sale Information; Reporting Requirements (including hours of operation); Standards and Methods of Ensuring Promptness, Accuracy, and Completeness of Transaction Reports; Terms and Conditions of Acess (including the 1985 OTC/UTP Order requirement to ensure direct telephone access between dealers and specialists); Description of Operation of Facility Contemplated by the Plan; the Method and Frequency of Processor Evaluation (providing that the Processor's performance is subject to review by an Operating Committee during the fifth year of the Processor's operation); Written Understandings of Agreements Relating to Interpretation of, or Participation in, the Plan; Calculation of the BBO; Dispute Resolution; Method of Determination and Imposition, and Amount of, Fees and Charges. The provisions affected by the present submission to the Commission, including proposed Amendment No. 1 to the Plan, and the Participants' request for extensions of exemptive relief granted by the Commission in our 1990 Plan Approval Order, are discussed in more detail below.
