FR940922-2-00019 FR940922-2-00006 DOC Position We disagree. The Department verified this grower's costs in New Zealand and found the methodology of allocating costs based on land area to be appropriate. The methodology suggested by petitioners does not necessarily provide a more accurate estimate of orchard costs. Therefore, we have accepted this grower's allocation methodology. Comment 38 Petitioners argue that respondent deducted picking and packing expenses from total orchard working expenses. Furthermore, according to petitioners, respondent deducted the imputed labor and management costs when calculating the kiwifruit COM. Petitioners request that the Department recalculate the G&A expenses for this grower by adding packing and imputed labor expense in the calculation of ratio for G&A expenses. DOC Position We agree, in part, with petitioners that respondent's methodology for calculating G&A expenses is inappropriate because it excludes the imputed labor expense. This imputed labor expense is a part of COM and should be included in the calculation of G&A ratio. Accordingly, we have made adjustment to this grower's G&A expense. However, we disagree with petitioners regarding the inclusion of packing expense. (See our position under Comment 16.) Grower 11 Comment 39 Petitioners maintain that this grower bought packed kiwifruit from another farm and resold it to NZKMB and that this grower included, in its cost information, payment it made to the owner of the other farm. Petitioners argue that this is a faulty methodology because it mixes costs and prices. Furthermore, petitioners contend that, in an investigation into whether sales have been made at prices below COP, price should not substituted for some of the costs. Petitioners insist that the Department remove the cost and the quantity of the purchased kiwifruit from the grower's COP. DOC Position We agree with petitioners that in determining whether sales have been made at less than the COP, prices should not be substituted for some of the costs. Accordingly, we have disregarded the purchased kiwifruit's costs and the quantity from the COP analysis. Comment 40 Petitioners argue that this grower deducted a portion of contracted labor income from the reported imputed labor amount. Petitioners maintain that contracted labor income does not offset non-contracted labor for the grower's kiwifruit operation and, therefore, the Department should remove this offset from the calculation. DOC Position We agree with petitioners that the grower's contracted labor income does not offset non-contracted labor for the grower's kiwifruit operation. The contracting income is unrelated to kiwifruit operations. We have made the appropriate adjustment to this grower's calculations for the final results. Comment 41 Petitioners argue that respondent's approach in calculating interest expense for this grower is questionable because it appears to be based on a subjective valuation of the assets. Petitioners argue that the interest expense should be recomputed to ensure that all interest related to kiwifruit is included in the COP. DOC Position We agree with petitioners that, where possible, it is preferable to use actual cost in reporting expenses. This grower's financial statement shows the actual cost of assets. Therefore, it is appropriate to use the actual asset value to calculate the interest expense. We have revised the interest expense for this grower in the final results. Grower 12 Comment 42 Petitioners note that, although the Department's preliminary analysis memorandum discusses a recalculation of this grower's rates expense, the Department used in its calculations the expense as reported. Petitioners urge the Department to use the amount calculated in the preliminary analysis memorandum, since this figure more accurately captures the rates expense. DOC Position Because respondent's figure understated the actual rates expense, we intended to recalculate this expense by allocating it over correct orchard area. For these final results, we have used our revised figure. Comment 43 Petitioners argue that since this grower raised orchids as well as kiwifruit, certain labor costs for this grower were included in direct materials and should be recalculated. DOC Position We disagree with petitioners that certain costs should be recalculated because the labor costs in question were included in direct materials. For the reasons explained in our response to Comment 14, we have accepted respondent's classification of these expenses. Grower 13 Comment 44 Petitioners argue that the Department should reject respondent's deductions for rent received and sale of sundries from set-up costs. DOC Position We disagree with petitioners. For the reasons explained in response to Comment 11, we have accepted respondent's deduction for rent received from the orchard set-up costs. With regard to sundry income, the amount in question is inconsequential for our analysis. Therefore, we have not made an adjustment for this amount in these final results. Grower 14 Comment 45 Petitioners argue that the Department should reject the contracted labor income offset claimed in the labor expense category by this grower because respondent has not demonstrated that contracted income was derived from actual labor performed. In addition, petitioners argue that any adjustment should be limited to the actual labor performed. Petitioners also argue that the Department should reject respondent's adjustment to labor expense for contracting income. Petitioners maintain that the income should be adjusted for overhead and profit, or, alternatively, that the actual labor expense identifiable to the contracting income be deducted. DOC Position We agree with petitioners in part. As a result of verification in New Zealand, the Department has determined that the contracted income was an appropriate offset against grower's labor costs because contract income included an element of labor cost which was also included in the grower's total labor costs. The disallowance of this offset would result in the inclusion of labor costs unrelated to this grower's production costs of its own kiwifruit crop. However, we agree with petitioners that the contracted labor income should be adjusted for overhead and profit. Accordingly, we have adjusted the labor expense for this grower in the final results. Comment 46 Petitioners argue that respondent improperly omitted an amount of interest expense. Petitioners maintain that this amount should be added to the interest calculated for the parent company.
