FR941003-2-00052 FR941003-2-00033 Weighted Indicators Criterion 1: Potential Effectiveness of the Proposed Project in Carrying Out the Training Purposes of Sections 747 and 748 of the PHS Act Indicator 1_Institutional Environment_20 points Proposal describes the actions taken by the institution (i.e., department, medical school, or other sponsoring health care delivery institution) that demonstrate a high level of support for and promotion of generalist training and practice in community-based settings within underserved urban and rural communities and populations. Examples include organizational mission statements describing support for training and graduating generalists in the primary care disciplines, institutional financial support for such programs, institutional support for rural practices such as locum tenens, 1&hyph;800 numbers for consultations, visiting faculty status for rural practitioners, complementary institutional and other resources to support such programs, and adequate representation of generalist faculty on key academic committees such as Admissions, Selection, Tenure, and Faculty Recruitment. Indicator 2_Strategic Outcomes_20 Points Proposal describes a strategy for the institution's training program that will lead to or sustain a high level of graduates entering generalist residencies and/or practice. Indicator 3_Generalist Faculty_10 points Proposal includes strong, clinically-oriented generalist faculty who practice in community-based settings that include underserved populations. Indicator 4_Promotion of Workforce Diversity_20 Points Proposal includes a strategy and plan for recruiting and retaining underrepresented minority and disadvantaged faculty, students, trainees and/or residents. Proposal describes the current and projected levels of participation of these underrepresented groups in the program. Applicants are expected to reflect the diversity of the populations within their states. Indicator 5_Critical Training Emphasis_10 Points Proposal includes reference to a curriculum that incorporates Healthy People 2000 objectives in one or more of the following content areas: HIV/AIDS epidemiology, prevention, diagnosis and treatment; substance abuse; or clinical preventive services. Wherever necessary, curriculum is appropriate to the needs of the patient population (culturally competent regarding ethnicity, gender, and sexual orientation) whether that population is urban, rural or underserved. Indicator 6_Interdisciplinary Training_10 Points Except for Faculty Development projects, proposal provides for interdisciplinary clinical training opportunities, i.e., a training environment in which students, interns and/or residents learn to work in teams including varied health care professionals and/or primary care disciplines. The environment is such that the important contributions by each member of the health care team are recognized and utilized in the primary care setting. Indicator 7_Clinical Training Settings_10 Points Except for Faculty Development projects, proposal provides for clinical training in community-based settings within underserved areas or populations. Indicator 8_Primary Care Preceptorship_10 Points For Departments of Family Medicine and Predoctoral Training Programs Only: Training includes a primary care preceptorship that: 1) occurs in the first or second year and is at least four weeks in duration; or 2) is a longitudinal experience of at least five days per semester in both the first and second years. Indicator 9_Third-Year Clerkship_20 Points For Departments of Family Medicine and Predoctoral Training Programs Only: Training includes a required third-year clerkship in family medicine of at least four-weeks duration. Indicator 10_Faculty Expertise_30 Points For Faculty Development Programs Only: Proposal includes adequate balance in faculty expertise to teach the proposed curriculum, e.g., teaching skills, administrative and management skills, or primary care research. Indicator 11_Generalism Outcomes/Continuity of Care_30 Points For General Internal Medicine and/or General Pediatrics Residency Training Program Only: Competing continuation General Internal Medicine and/or General Pediatrics program demonstrates a consecutive 3-year track record of 80% or more graduates entering primary care careers. IN ADDITION, by the beginning of the second year of grant support the competing continuation OR NEW General Internal Medicine and/or General Pediatrics program will provide ALL PGY&hyph;1 residents (primary care and traditional) entering the Internal Medicine and/or Pediatrics residency with continuity of care training experience comprising a total of 20% (average) over the 3-year training period, scheduled in at least 9 months of each year of training.
