FR941107-0-00017 FR941107-0-00008 The purpose of the RFA is to fit regulatory actions to the scale of business subject to such actions in order that small businesses will not be unduly or disproportionately burdened. Marketing orders issued pursuant to the Act, and rules issued thereunder, are unique in that they are brought about through group action of essentially small entities acting on their own behalf. Thus, both statutes have small entity orientation and compatibility. Import regulations issued under the Act are based on those established under Federal marketing orders. There are 5 handlers of olives regulated under the order, and approximately 1,350 producers in the regulated area. In addition, there are approximately 25 importers of olives subject to the requirements of the olive import regulation. Small agricultural producers have been defined by the Small Business Administration [13 CFR 121.601] as those having annual receipts of less than $500,000, and small agricultural service firms, which include olive handlers and importers, are defined as those whose annual receipts are less than $5,000,000. The majority of the olive producers and importers may be classified as small entities. None of the olive handlers may be so classified. The interim final rule was issued on July 21, 1994, and published in the Federal Register [59 FR 38104, July 27, 1994], with an effective date of July 27, 1994. That rule amended §§932.152, and 932.401 of regulations in effect under the order. That rule provided a 30-day comment period which ended August 26, 1994. No comments were received. The California Olive Committee (committee), the agency responsible for local administration of the order, met on December 14, 1993, and unanimously recommended revising outgoing inspection procedures to permit handlers to establish a QAP in lieu of maintaining continuous in-line outgoing inspection of processed olives. Outgoing inspection is the assignment of a final grade to the product after processing is completed, according to the requirements of the U.S. Standards for Grades of Canned Ripe Olives (Standards) [7 CFR 52.3751 to 52.3764]. The committee also recommended that handlers be allowed to size whole pitted olives by diameter after pitting, as an alternative to the requirement that such olives be sized by weight prior to pitting. Prior to the interim final rule, §932.52 of the order and §932.152 of the regulations required handlers to maintain continuous in-line outgoing inspection for the handling of processed olives. Also, pursuant to §932.53, such outgoing inspection is performed by the Processed Products Branch (PPB) of the Department. Continuous in-line outgoing inspection consists of inspection and grading services in an approved plant whereby one or more PPB inspector(s) are present at all times the plant is in operation to make in-process checks on the preparation, processing, packing, and warehousing of all products and to assure compliance with sanitary requirements. However, costs for continuous in-line outgoing inspection have increased in recent years. Thus, the PPB is prepared to develop QAP inspection procedures which will provide quality assurance certification for California olive handlers, thereby reducing handlers' inspection costs. Currently, most handlers employ their own quality-control personnel. The PPB is prepared to establish QAPs with individual handlers as provided in the ``Regulations Governing Inspection and Certification of Processed Fruits and Vegetables and Related Products'' [7 CFR Part 52.2]. As established, handlers will be permitted to use a QAP inspection procedure rather than continuous in-line outgoing inspection. Under a QAP, the PPB provides training for the handler's quality-control personnel. The handler's quality- control personnel will be trained in the same procedures currently used by the PPB inspectors. Once the handler's quality-control personnel are trained to properly perform the same duties and responsibilities as a PPB inspector, a period of evaluation of the reliability of the handler's quality control responsibilities begins. This is the reliability evaluation period. At such time as the handler's quality-control personnel successfully complete the reliability evaluation period, a QAP will begin operation with oversight provided by the PPB. The PPB inspectors will continue to issue certificates of inspection. Certificates of inspection will be based on outgoing inspection records maintained by the handler's QAP personnel. These will be verified through spot-checks and sample regrading by PPB inspectors. A QAP will continue to assure safe, wholesome, and uniformly high-quality processed products.
