FR941027-1-00005 FR941027-1-00001 Response: In the interim rule, all references to provision of 150 Mb/sec service were non-binding ``objectives'', see paragraph 2a. REA focused on the requirement in RELRA that telephone lines be capable of carrying at least 1,000,000 bits per second. REA adjusted this to the standard North American rate of 1.544 Mb/sec. Such a rate allows for both the transmission of at least 1 million bits per second and for the transmission of modest quality, highly compressed video. A higher rate is not required by the proposed rule. 3. Comment Summary: Many radio based services such as cellular and BETRS will be unable to meet REA bandwidth requirements. Response: REA interprets the Modernization Plan requirements of RELRA to apply to service provided by telephone lines, i.e., ``Wireline Service'', the basic service most Americans receive. This interpretation has been clarified in the proposed rule. 4. Comment Summary: REA has not defined ``Public Switched Network'' or ``Telecommunications Providers''. Response: REA has defined these terms in the proposed regulation. 5. Comment Summary: The interim rule violates section 202 of the RE Act which states that nothing in the RE Act shall be construed to deprive any State commission of jurisdiction to regulate telephone service, including the rates for such service. Response: REA believes there is no conflict between RELRA and section 202 of the RE Act. The PUC is neither required to develop a Modernization Plan nor to approve REA loans that are consistent with a Modernization Plan whoever is the Plan Developer. Therefore the PUC's jurisdiction to regulate telephone service is not impaired. No change has been made to the regulation based on this comment. 6. Comment Summary: REA has not considered how the proposed services can be offered at affordable rates. The regulation could result in an REA Borrower-developed Modernization Plan which requires investments that a PUC would not approve. Response: The requirements included in the proposed regulation apply almost entirely to new construction. New construction has to be economically justified to receive either REA financing or PUC approval for inclusion in the rate base. REA believes strongly in universal service and would not issue a regulation which it believed to be an impediment to that goal. No change has been made to the regulation based on these comments. 7. Comment Summary: REA should include a requirement that other interested parties be notified of intent to develop a Modernization Plan. Response: REA concurs with this comment and has changed the wording on notification to include other interested parties. See ยง1751.102 (b) and (c)(2). 8. Comment Summary: A Modernization Plan should cover only REA Borrowers or should cover all Telecommunications Providers only if developed by the PUC or a State Legislature. Response: As redrafted, the Modernization Plan must apply only to REA Borrowers unless a PUC or a State Legislature decides, at its option, to apply the Modernization Plan to non-REA Borrower Telecommunications Providers. The REA does, however, encourage the PUCs and State Legislatures to apply the Modernization Plans to all Telecommunications Providers in the State. 9. Comment Summary: REA requires integration of PCS when it doesn't exist. Response: REA intended that a Modernization Plan should encourage integration of new technologies into the network. REA has substituted ``emerging technologies'' for PCS and clarified its intent. See ยง1751.106(d). 10. Comment Summary: Modernization Plans should be based on market principles. Response: The modern telecommunications system envisioned by RELRA and the Modernization Plan requirements can succeed only if it is supported by market demand. REA's electric and telecommunications programs have repeatedly demonstrated how quickly rural America takes advantage of new utility services. RELRA and the Modernization Plans lead the way for today's nonrural and rural subscribers to receive the modern telecommunications services they want and need. REA believes that the Modernization Plan requirements of this regulation rest on a sound economic basis. True to its statutory mandate, REA will finance projects only if it believes there is adequate security and the loan will be repaid within the time agreed. 11. Comment Summary: It is untimely for REA to develop a rule when other laws concerning telecommunications have been introduced in Congress. It is inappropriate for REA to develop rules for telecommunications. That should be the responsibility of the FCC. Response: REA, as the agency responsible for promoting rural telecommunications, has long experience in setting the engineering and technical standards for service in rural areas and is ideally suited for the responsibility it was given by Congress. REA is working to ensure that Modernization Plan requirements and the Proposed Rule governing their preparation are flexible enough to accommodate evolving national policies promoting the National Information Infrastructure. REA will revise, within our statutory constraints, these regulations and approve amendments to Modernization Plans if the National Information Infrastructure develops along lines not presently envisioned. However, the legislative imperative of RELRA and rural America's urgent need for modern telecommunications services require that the regulations not be delayed.
