FR940727-1-00003 FR940727-1-00001 To permit domestic manufacturers of anhydrous milkfat and butteroil to compete on equal terms with manufacturers from other exporting countries, and to amend the General Specifications to more closely align U.S. requirements with international standards, USDA is proposing changes to Part 58, subpart B, of the grading and inspection regulations concerning dairy products, as follows: 1. Amend Ingredient Requirements to Permit Butter To Be Used as an Ingredient in Anhydrous Milkfat The General Specifications were established in 1975 and permit only cream to be used as an ingredient in anhydrous milkfat. The International Dairy Federation and the Codex Alimentarius Commission have both developed internationally recognized standards that allow the use of butter in making anhydrous milkfat. Revision of the General Specifications is being proposed to align USDA requirements with internationally recognized standards and allow butter as an ingredient in anhydrous milkfat. 2. Allow the Addition of Antioxidants to Butteroil The General Specifications do not provide for the addition of antioxidants to butteroil. International dairy standards permit the addition of antioxidants to assist in preserving the flavor characteristics of this product. Revision of the General Specifications is being proposed to align USDA requirements with international standards and to allow the addition of antioxidants to butteroil, provided the antioxidant used is permitted by standards developed by the Codex Alimentarius Commission and authorized for use by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The Standards developed by the Commission may be found in the ``Standard A&hyph;2 for Milkfat Products.'' 1 Antioxidants which are permitted by the Commission and which may be added to butteroil and the maximum levels allowed are as follows: 1 ``Standards A&hyph;2 for Milkfat Products'', Joint FAO/WHO Food Standards Program, Codex Committee on Milk and Milk Products. Copies of the Standard may be obtained from the Dairy Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, United States Department of Agriculture, P.O. Box 96456, Washington, DC 20090&hyph;6456. ␣ 1Antioxidant 1Maximum level Propyl gallate 100 mg/kg. Butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT)* ␣75 mg/kg. Butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA) 200 mg/kg. Any combination of propyl gallate, BHA, or BHT* 200 mg/kg, but individual limits above not to be exceeded. Natural and synthetic tocopherols 500 mg/kg. Ascorbyl palmitate 500 mg/kg individually or in combination. Ascorbyl stearate Dilauryl thiodipropionate 200 mg/kg. Antioxidant synergists: Citric acid Limit by Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP). Sodium citrate Limit by GMP. Isopropyl citrate mixture 100 mg/kg individually or in combination. Phosphoric acid Monoglyceride citrate *Temporarily endorsed by the Codex Alimentarius Commission. FDA provisions relevant to those antioxidants permitted by the Commission are found in 21 CFR Parts 172, 182 or 184. The antioxidants permitted by FDA would be the ones proposed to be allowed by these regulations. The antioxidants and levels permitted by FDA are as follows: ␣ 1Antioxidant 1Maximum level Propyl gallate 0.02% of fat. Butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) 0.02% of fat. Butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA) 0.02% of fat. Tocopherols Limit by GMP. Ascorbyl palmitate Limit by GMP. Dilauryl thiodipropionate 0.02% of fat. Antioxidant synergists: Citric acid Limit by GMP. Sodium citrate Limit by GMP. Isopropyl citrate 0.02% of food. Phosphoric acid Limit by GMP. Monoglyceride citrate 200 ppm of fat. 3. Reduce the Amount of Moisture Permitted in Anhydrous Milkfat The General Specifications allow a maximum moisture content of 0.15 percent in anhydrous milkfat. International standards developed by the International Dairy Federation and the Codex Alimentarius Commission allow a maximum moisture content of 0.1 percent. Revision of the General Specifications is being proposed to align USDA requirements with international standards by reducing the maximum allowable moisture content to 0.1 percent.
