FR940826-1-00037 FR940826-1-00007 In its Proposed Rule, EPA proposed salmon smolt survival index criteria to protect certain of the designated uses. The survival index quantifies and predicts the survival of salmon migrating through the Delta. These survival indices are based on models developed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), and are based in large part on experiments measuring and comparing smolt survival under a number of different physical conditions of varying migration pathways, water temperatures, flow rates, and rates of exports from the Delta. The actual criteria in the Proposed Rule consisted of target salmon smolt survival index values for the Sacramento and San Joaquin River systems, varying according to the type of water year (critically dry, dry, below normal, above normal, and wet). Success in attaining the target values was to be predicted by using the USFWS models. II. Alternative Formulation EPA continues to believe that the USFWS models represent the best available tools to analyze the success of migration of salmon through the Delta, and provide an adequate scientific basis for establishing water quality criteria that will protect the Fish Migration and Cold Fresh-Water Habitat uses. However, as a result of its review of comments on the Proposed Rule and its consideration of the discussions at the scientific workshops described above, EPA is proposing an alternative formulation of the salmon smolt survival index criteria. Continuous function. The first major conceptual change in the alternative formulation of the salmon smolt survival index criteria is the use of continuous functions to describe the target index values. The proposed rule had different target values for each of the five water year types. This meant that, for example, all critically dry years would have the same target index value, even though the hydrological conditions within a critically dry year category could vary substantially. A ``continuous function'' or ``sliding scale'' approach would recognize this intra-category variability by providing a target index value that changes simultaneously with changes within underlying hydrological conditions. For example, the target index value in a ``wet'' critically dry year would be higher than the value for a ``dry'' critically dry year. EPA received comment on both the proposed estuarine habitat standard and the salmon smolt survival index criteria to the effect that a continuous function relating the target values to a given condition was more flexible than the use of five water year categories, while still protecting the designated uses of the waterbodies. Accordingly, the salmon smolt survival index criteria for both the Sacramento River system and the San Joaquin River system have been restated as continuous functions. On the Sacramento River system, the target index values have been correlated to water temperature. On the San Joaquin River system, the target index values have been correlated to unimpaired water flow. Performance standard. The second major proposed change in the alternative formulation of the salmon smolt survival index criteria is to move away from using the model to predict attainment, and instead to measure attainment of the criteria using actual experimental data. In the Proposed Rule, the criteria included the actual USFWS models for the two river systems. Attainment of the criteria would be predicted by evaluating the variables included in the model itself. That is, the state could attain the criteria only by manipulating the variables contained in the model equations such that target index values were obtained. Although EPA believes the model contains the substantial majority of the factors necessary for migrating smolt survival, EPA has restated the criteria to be a true performance standard. The proposed alternative formulation states an index value as the target criteria (correlated, as indicated above, to either temperature or unimpaired river flow). Attainment with the criteria, however, would no longer be determined by manipulating the variables contained in the model, but instead be based on real-time field monitoring to determine whether a given set of implementation measures have actually attained the target values in the criteria. This reformulation gives the state maximum latitude to develop implementation measures that attain the target index value. Further, the reformulation minimizes any statistical deficiencies that may exist in the model by measuring actual measured success in meeting the target, rather than modeled or predicted success. EPA believes that the model will continue to be critically important to the standards process, in that it is the best mechanism for developing and evaluating potential implementation measures. However, by not formally including the model itself as a part of the criteria, the alternative formulation gives those implementing the standard maximum latitude to develop implementation approaches that achieve the target index values. More detailed discussion of the conceptual basis for the proposed changes is found in the workshop summary entitled ``Setting Goals for Salmon Smolt Survival in the Delta''. The specific proposed criteria developed by EPA are contained and described in the document entitled ``Alternative Formulation of the Salmon Smolt Survival Index Criteria.'' III. Public Participation EPA desires full public participation in arriving at its final decisions, and therefore solicits comments on all aspects of this notice from all interested parties. However, EPA requests that comments be limited to the specific issues raised by the two documents about the salmon smolt survival index criteria. EPA does not intend to respond to late comments submitted at this time which concern other aspects of the Proposed Rule. Ample opportunity for such comment was already provided at the public hearings and during the comment period that followed publication of the Proposed Rule, and EPA is committed to signing a final rule by December 15th, 1994. For those submitting comments, whenever applicable, full supporting rationale, data, and detailed analysis should be submitted to allow EPA to make maximum use of the comments. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 131 Environmental protection. Water pollution control. Water quality standards. Water quality criteria. Dated: August 18, 1994. Robert Perciasepe, Assistant Administrator for Water. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20953 Filed 8&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
