FR940228-1-00078 FR940228-1-00010 An institution in these categories could only be provisionally certified if, in addition to meeting whatever conditions the Secretary might reasonably require of a provisionally certified institution, the institution satisfied one of the following conditions. First, the institution, or one or more persons or entities that the Secretary determines to exercise substantial control over the institution, or both, would have to submit to the Secretary financial guarantees in an amount determined by the Secretary to be sufficient to satisfy the institution's potential liabilities arising from the institution's participation in the Title IV, HEA programs. Second, one or more persons or entities that the Secretary determines to exercise substantial control over the institution would have to agree to be jointly or severally liable for any liabilities arising from the institution's participation in the Title IV, HEA programs and any civil and criminal monetary penalties authorized under Title IV of the HEA. The law permits the Secretary to impose these conditions on these institutions; the Secretary is announcing that he would always impose them, because these circumstances are indicative that extra protection is needed for the institution and their students to be permitted to benefit from the use of Title IV, HEA program funds. Generally, provisional certification may be granted for a period of no longer than three award years. In accordance with section 498(h) of the HEA, an institution that is applying for initial participation may be provisionally certified for a period of no longer than one award year. A participating institution that was accredited or preaccredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency on the day before the Secretary withdrew the Secretary's recognition of that agency may be provisionally certified for no longer than 18 months after the date that the Secretary withdrew that recognition. The Secretary has the authority to specify a shorter period of provisional certification, as necessary. In accordance with section 498(h) of the HEA, the Secretary may revoke an institution's participation in the Title IV, HEA programs, at any time before the end of a period of provisional certification, if the Secretary determines that the institution is unable to meet its responsibilities under its program participation agreement. If the Secretary makes that determination, the Secretary would notify the institution of the determination by mail, unless the Secretary chooses more expeditious means, and revocation would take effect on date that notice is mailed. The institution would have to adhere to the requirements of proposed §668.26 which describes the consequences of revocation. Under the terms of the provisional certification, the institution does not have the right to a formal appeal under subpart G of this part before the revocation takes effect. However, the Secretary proposes to allow the institution to submit a written request to reconsider the revocation within 20 days of the institution's receipt of the Secretary's notice, after the revocation takes effect. The institution's request for reconsideration would have to include written evidence that the revocation is unwarranted. If the Secretary decides that the revocation is unwarranted, the institution's provisional certification would be reinstated in accordance with the time, terms, and conditions set out in the institution's original provisional certification. If, after consideration of the institution's submission, the Secretary denies the institution's request, the institution would not be permitted to reapply for participation in the Title IV, HEA programs before at least 18 months after the revocation or the expiration of any debarment or suspension of the institution, whichever is later. Generally, an institution whose participation has been terminated because the institution's provisional certification was revoked would be able to apply for reinstatement after 18 months. However, a debarment or suspension under E.O. 12549 or the FAR can last 3 or more years. This change would eliminate any doubt that a debarred or suspended institution may apply for reinstatement of the institution's participation during the period of a debarment or suspension. The Secretary will not accept any application by a debarred or suspended institution until the debarment or suspension has expired or been removed. Section 668.14␣Program Participation Agreement. The Secretary proposes to redesignate §668.12 as §668.14. This section includes provisions dealing with third-party servicers that were proposed in the NPRM published on February 17, 1994 (in part II). The Secretary will not repeat the discussion of those provisions here.
