FR940722-0-00090 FR940722-0-00018 (f) Each State shall develop, establish, and implement a management process that ensures effective use of available FHWA planning and research funds for RD&T activities on a statewide basis. Each State is permitted to tailor its management process to meet State or local needs; however, the process must comply with the minimum requirements and conditions of this subpart. (g) States are encouraged to make effective use of the FHWA Division, Regional, and Headquarters office expertise in developing and carrying out their RD&T activities. Participation of the FHWA on advisory panels and in program review meetings is encouraged. §420.207 Conditions for grant approval. (a) As a condition for approval of FHWA planning and research funds for RD&T activities, a State shall implement a program of RD&T activities for planning, design, construction, and maintenance of highways, public transportation, and intermodal transportation systems. Not less than 25 percent of the State's apportioned SPR funds shall be spent on such activities, unless waived by the FHWA, in accordance with the provisions of §420.107. In addition the State shall develop, establish, and implement a management process that identifies and implements RD&T activities expected to address highest priority transportation issues, and includes: (1) An interactive process for identification and prioritization of RD&T activities for inclusion in an RD&T work program; (2) Utilization, to the maximum extent possible, of all FHWA planning and research funds set aside for RD&T activities either internally or for participation in national, regional pooled, or cooperatively funded studies; (3) Procedures for tracking program activities, schedules, accomplishments, and fiscal commitments; (4) Support and use of the TRIS database for program development, reporting of active RD&T activities, and input of the final report information; (5) Procedures to determine the effectiveness of the State's management process in implementing the RD&T program, to determine the utilization of the State's RD&T outputs, and to facilitate peer reviews of its RD&T Program on a periodic basis and; (6) Procedures for documenting RD&T activities through the preparation of final reports. As a minimum, the documentation shall include the data collected, analyses performed, conclusions, and recommendations. The State shall actively implement appropriate research findings and should document benefits. (b) Each State shall conduct peer reviews of its RD&T program and should participate in the review of other States' programs on a periodic basis. To assist peer reviewers in completing a quality and performance effectiveness review, the State shall disclose to them information and documentation required to be collected and maintained under this subpart. Travel and other costs associated with peer reviews of the State's program may be identified as a line item in the State work program and will be eligible for 100 percent Federal funding. At least two members of the peer review team shall be selected from the FHWA list of qualified peer reviewers. The peer review team shall provide a written report of its findings to the State. The State shall forward a copy of the report to the FHWA Division Administrator with a written response to the peer review findings. (c) Documentation that describes the management process and the procedures for selecting and implementing RD&T activities shall be developed and maintained by the State. The documentation shall be submitted by the State to the FHWA Division office for FHWA approval. Significant changes in the management process also shall be submitted by the State for FHWA approval. The State shall make the documentation available, as necessary, to facilitate peer reviews. §420.209 RD&T work program. (a) The State's RD&T work program shall, as a minimum, consist of an annual or biennial description of activities and individual RD&T activities to be accomplished during the program period, estimated costs for each eligible activity, and a description of any cooperatively funded activities that are part of a national or regional pooled study including the NCHRP contribution. The State's work program should include a list of the major items with a cost estimate for each item. (b) The State's RD&T work program shall include financial summaries showing the funding levels and share (Federal, State, and other sources) for RD&T activities for the program year. States are encouraged to include any activity funded 100 percent with State or other funds. (c) Approval and authorization procedures in §420.115 are applicable to the State's RD&T work program. §420.211 Eligibility of costs. (a) Unless otherwise specified in this section, the eligible costs for Federal participation in §420.113 are applicable to this part. (b) Costs for implementation of RD&T activities in conformity with the requirements and conditions set forth in this subpart are eligible for Federal participation. (c) Indirect costs of a State transportation agency RD&T unit are allowable to the extent specified in §420.113(b).
