FR941130-1-00022 FR941130-1-00004 1. Relocating the slide's elastic cord ``bungee strap'' attachment point and shortening the elastic cord. This will prevent the main restraint strap of the slide from being ingested into the turbo fan. 2. Modifying and making other changes to the regulator assembly, such as modifying the regulator cartridge engagement sleeve by the addition of drilled holes to prevent the potential for pressure differentials that could cause the regulator to shut down; installing a revised burst disk to prevent galling when tightening the cartridge assembly; changing the type of lubricant to reduce friction forces; and installing a new regulator release pin with a baked-on lubricant to provide a consistent release force. 3. Replacing the turbo fan flapper retaining roll pins. This will prevent breakage of the pins, thereby preventing the possibility of the flapper falling out. 4. Replacing the original bottle relief valve assembly (P/N 5A2644&hyph;4) with a safety plug assembly (P/N 3A3259&hyph;3); and adding a charge fitting on the reservoir safety plug assembly to allow for bottle charging after the modifications described above have been accomplished. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other products of this same type design, the proposed AD would require modifying the stretched upper deck evacuation slide by relocating the elastic cord ``bungee strap'' attachment point and shortening the elastic cord; modifying the regulator assembly; and replacing the turbo fan flapper retaining roll pins. The actions would be required to be accomplished in accordance with the service bulletin described previously. Operators should note that this proposed AD is applicable to the manufacturer of the airplane model on which the evacuation slides are installed, rather than to the manufacturer of the slide. The FAA's general policy is that, when an unsafe condition results from the installation of an appliance or other item that is installed in only one particular make and model of aircraft, the AD is issued so that it is applicable to the aircraft, rather than the item. The reason for this is simple: Making the AD applicable to the airplane model on which the item is installed ensures that operators of those airplanes will be notified directly of the unsafe condition and the action required to correct it. While it is assumed that an operator will know the models of airplanes that it operates, there is a potential that the operator will not know or be aware of specific items that are installed on its airplanes. Therefore, calling out the airplane model as the subject of the AD prevents ``unknowing non-compliance'' on the part of the operator. (The FAA recognizes that there are situations when an unsafe condition exists in an item that is installed in many different aircraft. In those cases, the FAA considers it impractical to issue AD's against each aircraft; in fact, many times, the exact models and numbers of aircraft on which the item is installed may not be known. Therefore, in those situations, the AD is issued so that it is applicable to the item; furthermore, those AD's usually indicate that the item is known to be installed on, but not limited to, various aircraft models.) There are approximately 900 BFGoodrich stretched upper deck evacuation slides of the affected design installed on Boeing Model 747 series airplanes worldwide. The FAA estimates that 100 of these slides are installed on airplanes of U.S. registry that would be affected by this proposed AD. It would take approximately 4.5 work hours per slide to accomplish the proposed actions, and that the average labor rate is $60 per work hour. Required parts would cost approximately $1,402 per slide assembly. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the proposed AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $167,200, or $1,672 per slide. The total cost impact figure discussed above is based on assumptions that no operator has yet accomplished any of the proposed requirements of this AD action, and that no operator would accomplish those actions in the future if this AD were not adopted. The regulations proposed herein would not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this proposal would not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. For the reasons discussed above, I certify that this proposed regulation (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under the DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979); and (3) if promulgated, will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A copy of the draft regulatory evaluation prepared for this action is contained in the Rules Docket. A copy of it may be obtained by contacting the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES . List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Safety. The Proposed Amendment Accordingly, pursuant to the authority delegated to me by the Administrator, the Federal Aviation Administration proposes to amend part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 39) as follows: PART 39_AIRWORTHINESS DIRECTIVES 1. The authority citation for part 39 continues to read as follows: Authority: 49 U.S.C. App. 1354(a), 1421 and 1423; 49 U.S.C. 106(g); and 14 CFR 11.89. §39.13 [Amended] 2. Section 39.13 is amended by adding the following new airworthiness directive: Boeing: Docket 94&hyph;NM&hyph;153&hyph;AD. Applicability: Model 747&hyph;300 and &hyph;400 series airplanes equipped with BFGoodrich stretched upper deck evacuation slides, part number (P/N) 7A1323&hyph;1, &hyph;2, &hyph;3, &hyph;4, &hyph;105, &hyph;106, &hyph;107, &hyph;108, &hyph;109, or &hyph;110; certificated in any category. Compliance: Required as indicated, unless accomplished previously. To prevent loss of air pressure or non-inflation of the inflation tubes of an evacuation slide, which could impede the evacuation of passengers from the airplane during an emergency, accomplish the following: (a) Within 36 months after the effective date of this AD, modify the BFGoodrich stretched upper deck evacuation slide, P/N 7A1323&hyph;(␣), in accordance with the Accomplishment Instructions of BFGoodrich Service Bulletin 7A1323&hyph;25&hyph;266, Revision 1, dated September 30, 1994. Note 1: Installation of the ``product improvements,'' specified in paragraph 2.J. of the Accomplishment Instructions of the service bulletin, is not required by this AD. (b) An alternative method of compliance or adjustment of the compliance time that provides an acceptable level of safety may be used if approved by the Manager, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office (ACO), FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate. Operators shall submit their requests through an appropriate FAA Principal Maintenance Inspector, who may add comments and then send it to the Manager, Los Angeles ACO. Note 2: Information concerning the existence of approved alternative methods of compliance with this AD, if any, may be obtained from the Los Angeles ACO. (c) Special flight permits may be issued in accordance with §§21.197 and 21.199 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 21.197 and 21.199) to operate the airplane to a location where the requirements of this AD can be accomplished. Issued in Renton, Washington, on November 23, 1994. Darrell M. Pederson, Acting Manager, Transport Airplane Directorate, Aircraft Certification Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29438 Filed 11&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;U
