FR941110-2-00125 FR941110-2-00076 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34939; File No. SR&hyph;DGOC&hyph;94&hyph;05] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Delta Government Options Corp.; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change Relating to the Over-the-Counter Options Trading System Procedures for Emergency Contingencies and Disaster Recovery November 3, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on September 9, 1994, the Delta Government Options Corp. (``Delta'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which items have been primarily prepared by the self-regulatory organization. On September 23, 1994, Delta filed an amendment to the proposed rule change. 2 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. ยง78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 The amendment modified certain sections of the proposed rule change to correct typographical errors and to specify which members of Delta's senior management will have authority under the proposed rule change. Letter from Barry E. Silverman, President, Delta, to Jerry W. Carpenter, Assistant Director, Securities Processing Regulation, Division of Market Regulation, Commission (September 22, 1994). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change will modify Delta's Over-The-Counter Options Trading System Procedures (``Procedures'') relating to emergency contingencies and disaster recovery. In particular, Delta is adopting provisions governing (1) the waiver or suspension of Delta's procedures; (2) action by Delta's management on behalf of Delta; and (3) interpretation of Delta's rules. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, Delta included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. Delta has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change (a) The proposed rule change will add a new Article XIX to Delta's Procedures. Article XIX contains Section 1901, ``Waiver or Suspension of Procedures,'' Section 1902, ``Action by Delta,'' and Section 1903, ``Interpretation of Rules.'' These new provisions codify Delta's existing policies regarding emergency contingencies and disaster recovery. Section 1901 will permit Delta's Board of Directors, Chairman of the Board, President, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary, or Controller (1) to extend the time fixed by any provision of Delta's Procedures or any regulations issued by Delta for the doing of any act or acts or (2) to waive or to suspend any provision of Delta's Procedures or any regulations issued by Delta if they judge such extension, waiver, or suspension to be necessary or expedient. The extension, waiver, or suspension may remain in effect only for sixty days unless approved by Delta's Board of Directors. Section 1901 will require that a written report of the extension, waiver, or suspension be filed with Delta and shall be available for inspection by any participant. The written report will set forth the pertinent facts, the identity of the person who authorized the extension, waiver, or suspension, and the reason the extension, waiver, or suspension was deemed necessary or expedient. No written report will be required for extensions of time of less than eight hours. Section 1902 will permit Delta's Board of Directors, Chairman of the Board, President, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary, Controller, or other persons designated by Delta's Board of Directors to act on behalf of Delta except where Delta's Procedures require action by the Board of Directors. Section 1903 will authorize Delta's Board of Directors, Chairman of the Board, President, any committee of the Board of Directors, or any designee of the Board of Directors to interpret Delta's Procedures. (b) The proposed rule change will enable Delta to establish contingency planning and disaster recovery procedures that can be used in the event of an emergency, market disruption, or other unanticipated event and will permit Delta to maintain continuous operations while safeguarding the assets under its custodianship. Delta believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of Section 17A of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder and in particular with Section 17A(b)(3)(F) of the Act which requires that a clearing agency be organized and its rules be designed to promote the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions and to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a national system for the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions. Delta believes the proposed rule change will greatly reduce the possibility of market disruption and insure the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of transactions in Delta's system in the event of an emergency or other unanticipated event. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition Delta does not believe that the proposed rule change will have an impact or impose a burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Comments have neither been solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within thirty-five days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to ninety days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) by order approve such proposed rule change or (B) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with provisions of 5 U.S.C. ยง552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-mentioned self-regulatory organization. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;DGOC&hyph;94&hyph;5 and should be submitted by December 1, 1994. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27810 Filed 11&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
