FR941227-0-00106 FR941227-0-00020 (i) The population of that eligible unit of general local government and the population of all eligible units of general local government in the nonentitlement areas of the State; (ii) The extent of poverty in that eligible unit of general local government and the extent of poverty in all the eligible units of general local government in the nonentitled areas of the State; and (iii) The extent of housing overcrowding in that eligible unit of general local government and the extent of housing overcrowding in all the eligible units of general local government in the nonentitled areas of the State. (2) In determining the average of the ratios under this paragraph (c), the ratio involving the extent of poverty shall be counted twice and each of the other ratios shall be counted once. (0.25 + 0.50 + 0.25 = 1.00). (d) Adjustments to grants. Grant amounts under this section may be adjusted where an applicant's performance is judged inadequate, considering: (1) Capacity to utilize the grant amount effectively and efficiently; (2) Compliance with the requirements of §570.902(a) for timely expenditure of funds beginning with grants made in FY 1996. In making this calculation, all outstanding grants will be considered. For the FY 1995 grant the requirement is substantial compliance with the applicant's schedule or schedules submitted in each previously funded application; (3) Compliance with other program requirements based on monitoring visits and audits. (e) Reallocation. (1) Any amounts that become available as a result of adjustments under paragraph (d) of this section, or any reductions under subpart O of this part, shall be reallocated in the same fiscal year to any remaining eligible applicants on a pro rata basis. (2) Any formula grant amounts reserved for an applicant that chooses not to submit an application shall be reallocated to any remaining eligible applicants on a pro rata basis. (3) No amounts shall be reallocated under paragraph (e) of this section in any fiscal year to any applicant whose grant amount was adjusted under paragraph (d) of this section or reduced under subpart O of this part. (f) Applications. (1) Presubmission. The applicant will follow the requirements of §570.301(a) and (c), as well as the requirements of this section. (2) Submission. (i) HUD will require all applicants to submit an application for the amount established under paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section by a date established by HUD, and to follow the requirements of §570.302(a)(1) and (2). (ii) Certifications. Certifications shall be submitted in a form prescribed by HUD. If the application contains any housing activities, the applicant shall certify that the proposed housing activities are consistent with its Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy as described at 24 CFR part 91. (g) Application Approval. HUD will approve the application and certifications unless it is determined that one or more of the following requirements have not been met. (1) Completeness. The submission shall include all of the components required in paragraph (f) of this section. (2) Timeliness. The submission must be received within the time period established in paragraph (f) of this section. (3) Certifications. The certifications made by the grantee will be satisfactory to the Secretary if made in conformance with the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section, unless the Secretary has determined pursuant to subpart O of this part that the grantee has not complied with the requirements of this part or has failed to carry out its Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy in a timely manner, or determined that there is evidence, not directly involving the grantee's past performance under this program, which tends to challenge in a substantial manner the grantee's certification of future performance. If the Secretary makes any such determination, however, further assurances may be required to be submitted by the grantee as the Secretary may deem warranted or necessary to find the grantee's certification satisfactory. (h) Grant agreement. The grant will be made by means of a grant agreement executed by both HUD and the grantee. (i) Conditional grant. The Secretary may make a conditional grant in which case the obligation and use of grant funds for activities may be restricted. Conditional grants may be made where there is substantial evidence that there has been, or there will be, a failure to meet the performance requirements or criteria described in subpart O of this part. In such case, the conditional grant will be made by means of a grant agreement, executed by HUD, which includes the terms of the condition specifying the reason for the conditional grant, the actions necessary to remove the condition and the deadline for taking those actions. The grantee shall execute and return such an agreement to HUD within 60 days of the date of its transmittal. Failure of the grantee to execute and return the grant agreement within 60 days may be deemed by HUD to constitute rejection of the grant by the grantee and shall be cause for HUD to determine that the funds provided in the grant agreement are available for reallocation in accordance with section 106(c) of the Act. Failure to satisfy the condition may result in a reduction in the grant amount pursuant to §570.911. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2506&hyph;0060) §570.430 Hawaii program operation requirements. (a) Limitation on planning and administrative costs. For grants made with allocations prior to FY 1995, no more than 20 percent of the sum of the grant plus program income received during the grant period shall be expended for planning and program administrative costs. For grants received from allocations in FY 1995 and thereafter, a grantee will be considered to be in conformance with the requirements of §570.200(g) if expenditures for planning and administration during the most recently completed program year do not exceed 20 percent of the sum of the grant made for that program year and the program income received from post FY 1994 grants during that program year. (b) Performance and evaluation reports. Grantees will follow the requirements of §570.507(a) for entitlement grant recipients for all grants received in FY 1995 and thereafter. Grantees will continue following the requirements of §570.507(a) for HUD-administered small cities grants for grants received prior to FY 1995 until those grants are closed out. (c) Grant closeouts. Grants received prior to FY 1995 shall be closed out in accordance with the procedures in §570.509. Grants received in FY 1995 and thereafter shall not be closed out individually. A grantee's entire program shall be closed upon program completion if a grantee ceases its participation in the Small Cities Program. (d) Public Services. Starting with the FY 1996 grant, grantees may follow the provisions of §570.201(e)(1) that refer to entitlement grantees, allowing grantees to use 15 percent of the program income received in the previous program year in addition to 15 percent of the grant amount for public services. (e) Compliance with the primary objective. Starting with the FY 1995 grant, grantees may select a time period of one, two or three program years in which to meet the requirement that not less than 70 percent of the aggregate of CDBG fund expenditures be for activities benefitting low- and moderate-income persons. Grants made from allocations prior to FY 1995 will be considered individually for meeting the primary objective, and expenditures for grants from pre FY 1995 allocations made during and after FY 1995 will not be considered in determining whether the primary objective has been met for post 1994 allocations. If the State of Hawaii decides to administer the Community Development Block Grant Program for non-entitled units of general local government in Hawaii, the State will be bound by the time period for meeting the primary objective that was chosen by each non-entitled grantee within the State until those time periods have expired.
