FR940919-2-00052 FR940919-2-00032 The groundwater reporting requirements for the parameters: TOC, pH, the Total Recoverable Metals which include Mercury, Cadmium, Copper, Lead, Zinc, Chromium (Hexavalent), Benzene and Naphthalene, to determine if contamination exists from other sources are based on Section 308(a) of the Clean Water Act. The screening values for TOC, Benzene, and Naphthalene are based on the final August 29, 1991, modification (56 FR 42739) and the standards for total recoverable metals are based on the most current Florida Water Quality Standards for total recoverable metals at FAC Section 17&hyph;302.530 [4&hyph;25&hyph;93]. As with any petroleum fuel, other aromatic compounds will be present once testing has occurred. Other volatiles will be present in untreated groundwater in greater concentrations than benzene. Past experience in treatment design has shown that these organics can be effectively treated before discharging to surface waters. According to the ``Toxicant Profile for the ALKYL BENZENES,'' (Ethylbenzene, Isopropylbenzene, Toluene, Xylene) prepared for Florida's DEP by the Center of Biomedical and Toxicological Research at Florida State University, levels for these ALKYL BENZENES of 100&hyph;200 m g/l were recommended for the protection of aquatic organisms and human health. These recommendations are below EPA's ``Ambient Water Quality Criteria'' documents recommendation for human health which suggest levels of 1400 m g/l to 14300 m g/l for Ethylbenzene and Toluene. The recommended treatment technology of air stripping and, when necessary, carbon adsorption, will reduce the benzene concentration to below 1.0 m g/l. Therefore, EPA will not impose specific limits on the other pollutants which may occur since meeting the limits set in this permit should reduce the other pollutants well below those levels allowable based on Florida's water quality standards. Also, the effluent shall not be lethal to more than 50% of appropriate fish or invertebrate test organism in a 96-hour static renewal test. Whole Effluent Toxicity (WET) monitoring tests performed by six (6) facilities between May 8, 1991 thru March, 1994 indicated that these effluents were toxic and, therefore, have the reasonable potential to violate Florida's water quality standards at FAC Section 17&hyph;4.244(3)(a). Because previous 48-hour static WET monitoring tests have revealed that these effluents have the potential of being toxic, toxicity testing requirements as authorized and required by 40 CFR Section 122.44(d)(1)(iv), and contained in Part I, A.1 and A.2 and in Part V have been included to ensure that the effluent from these facilities conforms with the FAC. An LC 50 of 100% or less in a test of 96 hours duration or less will constitute a violation of FAC (February 2, 1994) Section 17&hyph;4.244(3)(a) and the terms of this permit. Since the recovery wells in most instances are placed in areas of highest contamination, it is reasonable to conclude that the greatest potential for toxicity should occur during the initial startup stages of operation. Therefore, an initial frequency of once every month for three (3) months is included in these requirements to indicate toxicity and determine treatment performance of these facilities immediately after commencement of discharge. If no toxicity is confirmed, the frequency is then reduced to yearly since the permittee will be required to meet effluent limitations and the potential for toxicity is at a minimum. Failure to demonstrate compliance with the acute toxicity requirement will constitute a violation of the terms of the permit. The sample type for all biomonitoring is ``Grab'' in accordance with Part V of this general permit. The permittee is required to develop and implement a Best Management Practices (BMPs) plan in conjunction with development of the Remedial Action Plan required by FDEP. BMPs are actions or procedures to prevent or minimize the potential for the release of toxic pollutants or hazardous substances in significant amounts to surface waters. Additionally, for long term cleanups, the permittee shall develop a Pollution Prevention Plan which considers alternatives for preventing and reducing impacts to surface waters in accordance with Part IV. A.2 of this permit. 6. Treatment Technology According to EPA's publication entitled ``Treatment of Volatile Organic Compounds in Drinking Water,'' a drinking water research experiment was conducted on spiked water using one organic volatile and then by combining two volatiles. The experiment used aeration as the treatment process. It was discovered that no difference was observed in treatment efficiency when applying aeration to one organic chemical or a combination of volatiles. In this particular experiment an overall efficiency of 92% was obtained. Most petroleum fuels consist of a combination of volatiles and aromatics, each different, based on additives included during refining of the fuel. In case studies revealed in the Environmental Science and Engineering's document ESE No. 84&hyph;912&hyph;0300, packed tower aeration utilizing different packing materials, varying flow paths and air-to-water ratios have been proven effective in removing over 99% of the volatiles. Some particular compounds are not as easily air-stripped as others which would necessitate the need for a combination treatment design used in conjunction with aeration. Carbon adsorption has been proven effective in removing organics from water until the influent concentration is in equilibrium with the effluent and the organics no longer adhere to the carbon surface. Adsorption has been used successfully in removing less volatile compounds of higher molecular weight. Other remediation techniques currently being deployed include vapor recovery systems and bioremediation which enhances biological activity. According to (EPA 570/9&hyph;84&hyph;005) entitled ``Adsorption Techniques in Drinking Water Treatment'' the efficiency of carbon adsorption was proven effective during a case study in Hialeah, Florida at the Preston water treatment plant. In this study, groundwater from a drinking water aquifer was spiked with higher molecular weight extractables before treating the water with granular activated carbon. It was found that more than 90% removal of the spiked compounds was obtained. The combination of air-stripping with adsorption usually extends the adsorptive life of the activated carbon and leads to more efficient treatment, but is not always required or recommended in every situation. 7. Other Legal Requirements A. Executive Order 12291 The Office of Management and Budget has exempted this action from the review requirements of Executive Order 12291 pursuant to Section 8[b] of that order.
