FR940725-1-00085 FR940725-1-00010 (e) Maneuvers. The following authorized maneuvers, appropriate airspeed limitations, and unauthorized maneuvers, as prescribed in this section. (1) Normal category airplanes. No acrobatic maneuvers, including spins, are authorized. (2) Utility category airplanes. A list of authorized maneuvers demonstrated in the type flight tests, together with recommended entry speeds and any other associated limitations. No other maneuver is authorized. (3) Acrobatic category airplanes. A list of approved flight maneuvers demonstrated in the type flight tests, together with recommended entry speeds and any other associated limitations. (4) Acrobatic category airplanes and utility category airplanes approved for spinning. Spin recovery procedure established to show compliance with §23.221(c). (5) Commuter category airplanes. Maneuvers are limited to any maneuver incident to normal flying, stalls (except whip stalls) and steep turns in which the angle of bank is not more than 60 degrees. (f) Maneuver load factor. The positive limit load factors in g's, and, in addition, the negative limit load factor for acrobatic category airplanes. (g) Minimum flight crew. The number and functions of the minimum flight crew determined under §23.1523. * * * * * (i) Maximum operating altitude. The maximum altitude established under §23.1527. (j) Maximum passenger seating configuration. The maximum passenger seating configuration. (k) Allowable lateral fuel loading. The maximum allowable lateral fuel loading differential, if less than the maximum possible. (l) Baggage and cargo loading. The following information for each baggage and cargo compartment or zone_ (1) The maximum allowable load; and (2) The maximum intensity of loading. (m) Systems. Any limitations on the use of airplane systems and equipment. (n) Ambient temperatures. Where appropriate, maximum and minimum ambient air temperatures for operation. (o) Smoking. Any restrictions on smoking in the airplane. (p) Types of surface. A statement of the types of surface on which operations may be conducted. (See §23.45(g) and §23.1587(a)(4), (c)(2), and (d)(4)). 55. Section 23.1585 is revised to read as follows: §23.1585 Operating procedures. (a) For all airplanes, information concerning normal, abnormal (if applicable), and emergency procedures and other pertinent information necessary for safe operation and the achievement of the scheduled performance must be furnished, including_ (1) An explanation of significant or unusual flight or ground handling characteristics; (2) The maximum demonstrated values of crosswind for takeoff and landing, and procedures and information pertinent to operations in crosswinds; (3) A recommended speed for flight in rough air. This speed must be chosen to protect against the occurrence, as a result of gusts, of structural damage to the airplane and loss of control (for example, stalling); (4) Procedures for restarting any turbine engine in flight, including the effects of altitude; and (5) Procedures, speeds, and configuration(s) for making a normal approach and landing, in accordance with §§23.73 and 23.75, and a transition to the balked landing condition. (6) For seaplanes and amphibians, water handling procedures and the demonstrated wave height. (b) In addition to paragraph (a) of this section, for all single-engine airplanes, the procedures, speeds, and configuration(s) for a glide following engine failure, in accordance with §23.71 and the subsequent forced landing, must be furnished. (c) In addition to paragraph (a) of this section, for all multiengine airplanes, the following information must be furnished:
