FR941005-2-00068 FR941005-2-00043 3. Work Plan. A work plan describes the applicant's proposed project. Work plans must be no more than 5 pages total. One page is one side of a single-spaced typed page. The pages must be letter size (81/2×11), with normal type size (10 or 12 cpi) and at least 1'' margins. The only appendices and letters of support that EPA will accept are a detailed budget, resumes of key personnel, and commitment letters. (85%-delineated below) Work plans must be submitted in the format described below. I. A concise introduction of no more than one page that states the nature of the organization, how the organization has been successful in the past, purpose of the project, objective, method, project completion plans, target audience, and expected results. (10%) II. A clear and concise project description of no more than four pages which describes how the applicant plans to accomplish one or more of the four objectives outlined in Question B. (60%) A. Identify necessary improvements in communication and coordination *␣*␣* Facilitate communication, information exchange *␣*␣*. B. Motivate the general public to be more conscious of environmental justice issues *␣*␣* C. Develop and demonstrate environmental justice practice, method, or technique *␣*␣* D. Teach about risk reduction and pollution prevention *␣*␣* III. A conclusion of no more than one page discussing how the applicant will evaluate the success of the project, in terms of the anticipated strengths and challenges in implementing the project. (10%) IV. An appendix with no more than two pages of resumes of up to three key personnel. (5%) V. An appendix with one page letters of commitment from other organizations with a significant role in the project. Letters of endorsement are not acceptable. 4. Certification/Assurances: The Federal government requires all grantees to certify and assure that they will comply with a variety of federal laws, regulations and requirements. There are two certifications/assurances forms which must be signed and included in the application. (5%) H. When and Where Must Pre-Applications Be Submitted? The original plus one copy of the pre-application must be mailed to EPA postmarked no later than Saturday, February 4, 1995. Pre-applications must be submitted to the EPA regional office for the region where the applicant is located. A list of the addresses of the EPA Regional Offices (with the names of the regional contacts) and a list of the states which these offices support are included at the end of this notice. Review and Selection Process I. How Will Pre-Applications Be Reviewed? EPA Regional Offices will review, evaluate, and make selections. Pre-applications will be screened to ensure they meet all eligible activities described in Questions A, B, C, D, E, F, G, and H. Applications will be disqualified if they do not meet EPA's basic criteria. J. How Will the Final Selections Be Made? After the individual projects are reviewed and ranked as described in Question I, EPA officials in the regions will compare the best pre-applications and make final selections. Factors EPA will take into account include geographic and socioeconomic balance, project diversity, cost, and projects whose benefits can be sustained after the grant is completed. Regional Administrators will select the grants with concurrence from the Director of the Office of Environmental Justice at EPA Headquarters. K. How Will Applicants Be Notified? After all pre-applications are received, EPA will mail acknowledgements to each applicant. Once pre-applications have been recommended for funding, EPA will notify the finalists and request any additional information necessary to complete the award process. The EPA Regional Environmental Justice Coordinators will notify those applicants whose projects were not funded.
