FR940630-1-00056 FR940630-1-00012 (viii) Training. (ix) Administrative time. (x) Travel for indirect work. (2) b = leave usage (total leave hours divided by total hours available for work). This is computed by using OMB guidelines of 280 average annual hours leave hours and 1,800 average annual hours available for work for computer manpower requirements. (g) The hourly inspector cost, when multiplied by the indirect work factor, yields the hourly inspector billing rate and ensures full cost recovery by incorporating the total amount of FAA paid hours needed to produce one hour of direct billable inspector time. (h) Certifications and approvals for which there are fixed times, such as a airmen tests, are determined by multiplying the time used in the Flight Standards Staffing Standard or airman test guidelines by the inspector hourly billing rate. (i) Certifications and approvals for which there are no fixed work rates, such as airman, and repair station facilities (air agencies), are billed at the hourly inspector billing rate. (j) Actual transportation and subsistence expenses incurred in certification or approval actions will be billed in addition to the hourly inspector billing rate, where such expenses are incurred. (k) In no event will the fees exceed the actual costs of providing certification or approval services. (l) The methodology for computing user fees is published in 14 CFR part 187, Appendix A. The User fee schedule will be published in an FAA Advisory Circular entitled ``Flight Standards Service Schedule of Charges Outside the United States.'' (m) Fees will be reviewed every year, at the beginning of the fiscal year, and adjusted either upward or downward in order to reflect the current costs of performing tests authorizations, certifications, permits, or ratings. (1) Notice of any changes to the user fee schedule will be published in the Federal Register . (2) Notice of any changes to the methodology for computing the user fees will be published in the Federal Register . Issued in Washington, DC on June 24, 1994. William J. White, Acting Director, Flight Standards Service.
