FR940110-2-00101 FR940110-2-00075 Do not substitute your own cover for the SF 424. Please include one extra, loose copy of the SF 424 for use by the Application Control Center. Please number all pages. The Application Narrative should be organized to follow the exact sequence of the components in the selection criteria in this notice. Q. Can project funds be used to cover travel expenses? A. Travel associated with carrying out the project can be funded using program funds if necessary and reasonable. The Secretary anticipates that the project director, one business or labor representative, and the evaluator will attend three developmental staff meetings over the course of the project (one start-up conference, one mid-point conference, and one close-out conference). Therefore, you may wish to include the costs of nine trips to Washington, D.C. in the travel budget. Q. How can I ensure that my application is filed on behalf of a validly formed partnership? A. The requirements for forming a partnership and filing an application on its behalf are explained in ยง472.2 of the program regulations. A partnership requires a signed agreement between at least one entity described in ยง472.2(a)(1) and at least one entity described in ยง472.2(a)(2). Note that State and local governments_like any other entities_may not qualify as partners unless they fall within these descriptions. For example, under the regulations, a State or local educational agency or a municipal employment and training agency is an eligible partner, but a State or city government is not an eligible partner. No agency of the Federal government is an eligible partner. Federal employees including members of the armed services are not eligible for training. If you are not sure whether a particular entity is an eligible partner, please call the program officers listed as information contacts in the application notice. Q. Can entities that are not eligible partners be involved in a workplace literacy project? A. Yes. They could potentially be involved as ``contractors,'' ``helping organizations,'' or ``sites,'' as defined in ยง472.5 of the regulations. Note that entities that are ``helpers'' or ``sites'' may not receive funds from the grant. Q. Must the signed partnership agreement be submitted with the application? A. Yes. The agreement is required both to establish the partnership's legal eligibility and to ensure each partner's continuing commitment during the workplace literacy project. Prior to submitting an application, partners should ensure that each partner clearly understands its role and responsibilities in the project. The Department interprets even a single reference in the application to an organization as a partner to mean that it is a bona fide partner in the partnership and, thus, is required to sign the partnership agreement. The applicant should be careful to designate partners, helpers, contractors, etc. in the same way wherever they are mentioned throughout the application. Because partnership requirements are established by law, the Department reviews each agreement form to be certain that it meets the terms of the law requiring all entities named as partners to sign the agreement. The Department wishes to underscore that if any of the entities named as partners in the application have not signed the agreement form, the application will be returned to the applicant without further consideration for funding. Q. How does the Department define ``small business''? A. In 34 CFR 472.5, the Department defines ``small business'' as a business entity that_ (1) Is organized for profit, with a place of business located in the United States and that makes a significant contribution to the U.S. economy through payment of taxes or use of American products, materials, or labor, or both; and (2) May be in the legal form of an individual proprietorship, partnership, corporation, joint venture, association, trust or a cooperative, except that where the form is a joint venture there can be no more than 49 percent participation by foreign business entities in the joint venture; and
