FR940930-0-00028 FR940930-0-00005 PART 234_AIRLINE SERVICE QUALITY PERFORMANCE REPORTS_[AMENDED] 1. The authority for Part 234 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 49 U.S.C. 40101, 40114, 41702, 41708 and 41712; 5 U.S.C. 553(e) and 14 CFR 302.38. 2. Section 234.2 Definitions is amended by revising the definitions of reportable flight and reporting carrier ; removing the definitions of mechanical delay and mechanical cancellation ; and adding new definitions in alphabetical order as follows: ยง234.2 Definitions. For the purpose of this part: Cancelled flight means a flight operation that was not operated, but was listed in a carrier's computer reservation system within seven calendar days of the scheduled departure. Discontinued flight means a flight dropped from a carrier's computer reservation system more than seven calendar days before its scheduled departure. Diverted Flight means a flight which is operated from the scheduled origin point to a point other than the scheduled destination point in the carrier's published schedule. For example, a carrier has a published schedule for a flight from A to B to C. If the carrier were to actually fly an A to C operation, the A to B segment is a diverted flight, and the B to C segment is a cancelled flight. Extra-section flight means a flight conducted as an integral part of scheduled passenger service, that has not been provided for in published schedules and is required for transportation of traffic that cannot be accommodated on the regularly scheduled flight. * * * * * Reportable flight means any nonstop flight, including a mechanically delayed flight, to or from any airport within the contiguous 48 states that accounts for at least 1 percent of domestic scheduled-passenger enplanements in the previous calendar year, as reported to the Department pursuant to Part 241 of this title. Qualifying airports will be specified periodically in accounting and reporting directives issued by the Office of Airline Statistics. Reporting carrier means an air carrier certificated under section 401 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 that accounted for at least 1 percent of domestic scheduled-passenger revenues in the 12 months ending March 31 of each year, as reported to the Department pursuant to Part 241 of this title. Reporting carriers will be identified periodically in accounting and reporting directives issued by the Office of Airline Statistics. Wet-leased flight means a flight operated with a leased aircraft and crew. 3. Section 234.4 is amended by revising paragraphs (a) and (b), redesignating paragraphs (c) and (d) as (e) and (f), respectively, and adding new paragraphs (c) and (d) to read as follows: ยง234.4 Reporting of on-time performance. (a) Each reporting carrier shall file RSPA Form 234 ``On-Time Flight Performance Report'' with the Office of Airline Statistics on a monthly basis, setting forth the information for each of its reportable flights held out in the Official Airline Guide (OAG), in the computer reservations systems (CRS), or in other schedule publications. The reportable flights include, but are not limited to, cancelled flights, mechanically cancelled flights, diverted flights, new flights and wet-leased flights. The report shall be made in the form and manner set forth in accounting and reporting directives issued by the Director, Office of Airline Statistics, and shall contain the following information: (1) Carrier and flight number. (2) Aircraft tail number.
