FR940606-0-00064 FR940606-0-00019 (h) Definition of initiation of negotiations. For purposes of determining the formula for computing the replacement housing assistance to be provided to a residential tenant displaced as a direct result of private-owner rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition of the real property, the term initiation of negotiations means the Owner's execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition. (Approved by Office of Management and Budget under OMB Control Number 2506&hyph;0121) PART 900_SECTION 23 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM_ NEW CONSTRUCTION AND SUBSTANTIAL REHABILITATION 29. The authority citation for part 900 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 1410(b) and 3535(d). 30. A new ยง900.105 is added, to read as follows: ยง900.105 Displacement, relocation, and acquisition. (a) Minimizing displacement. Consistent with the other goals and objectives of this part, Local Housing Authorities and Owners shall assure that they have taken all reasonable steps to minimize the displacement of persons (households, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms) as a result of a project assisted under this part. (b) Temporary relocation. The following policies cover residential tenants who will not be required to move permanently but who must relocate temporarily for the project. Such tenants must be provided: (1) Reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporary housing, any increase in monthly rent/utility costs and incidental expenses. (2) Appropriate advisory services, including reasonable advance written notice of: (i) The date and approximate duration of the temporary relocation; (ii) The location of the suitable, decent, safe and sanitary dwelling to be made available for the temporary period; (iii) The terms and conditions under which the tenant may lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the building/complex upon completion of the project; and (iv) The provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section. (c) Relocation assistance for displaced persons. A ``displaced person'' (defined in paragraph (g) of this section) must be provided relocation assistance at the levels described in, and in accordance with the requirements of, the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended (URA) (42 U.S.C. 4601&hyph;4655) and implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24. A ``displaced person'' shall be advised of his/her rights under the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601&hyph;19), and, if the representative comparable replacement dwelling used to establish the amount of the replacement housing payment to be provided to a minority person is located in an area of minority concentration, such person also shall be given, if possible, referrals to comparable and suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary replacement dwellings not located in such areas. (d) Real property acquisition requirements. The acquisition of real property for a project is subject to the URA and the requirements of 49 CFR part 24, subpart B. (e) Appeals. A person who disagrees with the Local Housing Authority's (LHA's) determination concerning whether the person qualifies as a ``displaced person,'' or the amount of relocation assistance for which the person eligible, may file a written appeal of that determination with the LHA. A person who is dissatisfied with the LHA's determination on his or her appeal may submit a written request for review of that determination to the HUD Field Office. (f) Responsibility of LHA. (1) The Local Housing Authority (LHA) shall certify that it will comply (i.e., provide assurance of compliance as required by 49 CFR part 24) with the URA, the regulations at 49 CFR part 24, and the requirements of this section, and shall ensure such compliance notwithstanding any third party's contractual obligation to the LHA to comply with these provisions. (2) The cost of required assistance is an eligible project cost in the same manner and to the same extent as other project costs. Such costs also may be paid for with funds available from other sources. (3) The LHA shall maintain records in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this section and include data indicating the race, ethnic, gender, and disability status of displaced persons. (g) Definition of displaced person. (1) For purposes of this section, the term displaced person means a person (household, business, nonprofit organization, or farm) that moves from real property, or moves personal property from real property, permanently, as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for a project assisted under this part. The term ``displaced person'' includes, but may not be limited to: (i) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling unit who moves from the building/complex, permanently, after the Owner's execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition, if the move occurs before the tenant is provided written notice offering him or her the opportunity to lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the same building/complex, under reasonable terms and conditions, upon completion of the project. Such reasonable terms and conditions include a monthly rent and estimated average monthly utility costs that do not exceed the greater of: (A) The tenant's monthly rent before execution of the agreement and estimated average monthly utility costs; or (B) 30 percent of gross household income; or
