FR940816-2-00072 FR940816-2-00056 Dr. Anil Mukherjee, an investigator in the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD), is interested in determining whether endotracheal administration of aerosolized recombinant human uteroglobin (UG) or antiflammins derived from the sequence of this protein in combination with surfactant prevents the development of the inflammatory lung disease bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) in (a) non-human primate models of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) and (b) human neonatal RDS in a multi-center study, provided the non-human primate study results show no toxicity and considerable improvement as a result of combination therapy with surfactant plus human uteroglobin. CRADA aims include the rapid publication of research results and the timely exploitation of commercial opportunities. The CRADA partner(s) will enjoy rights of first negotiation for licensing Government rights to any inventions arising under the agreement and will be expected to advance funds payable upon signing the CRADA to help defray Government expenses for patenting such inventions and other CRADA-related costs. The role of the NEI, NIAMS, and NICHD in these CRADAs will be as follows: 1. Provide the Collaborator(s) with samples of the subject compounds for pharmaceutical evaluation. 2. Continue the detailed physicochemical characterization of the test compounds as well as research on their mechanism of biological action, and publish these results and provide all data to the Collaborator as soon as they become available. 3. Conduct controlled clinical trials of antiflammin formulations that have been determined to have therapeutic potential in ocular, skin and respiratory inflammatory diseases. The role of the Collaborator(s) will be to: 1. Perform an exhaustive evaluation of these compounds with respect to their biological activities and to develop appropriate vehicles for drug delivery for disease processes covered under the CRADA. The Collaborator(s) will supply data to the NEI, NIAMS, and/or NICHD in a timely fashion. 2. Synthesize and formulate structural variants of these subject compounds to optimize desired effects. 3. Expand the basic toxicological data as needed in preparation for additional clinical studies. 4. Conduct basic studies designed to better understand the potential for antiflammins in the treatment of inflammatory diseases, bioavailability and how to best administer these agents.
