FR940512-0-00042 FR940512-0-00018 Discussion: If a State, as part of its early intervention program under §693.11, requires a student to sign an agreement that includes academic milestones, the Secretary agrees that the State should be able to require that a student meet these milestones as one of the student eligibility requirements for a scholarship. However, if a student has participated in the early intervention program, the student should be eligible for scholarship consideration since income level is not necessarily the basis for determining scholarship eligibility in the NEISP Program under section 404D(d) of the HEA. Changes: The Secretary is amending §693.40 to provide that if a State includes academic milestones in a written agreement signed by a student under §693.11(a)(3), it may include meeting these milestones as a scholarship eligibility requirement. Comment: One commenter believed that under proposed §693.40(e) (1) and (2) the Secretary should not limit scholarship eligibility to those students who participated in the NEISP Program or a Federal Upward Bound Program. The commenter believed that accepting early intervention programs comparable to those described in section 404C of the program statute as meeting the requirement would allow States the flexibility to identify additional students as eligible to receive scholarships. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenter and further notes that section 404D(d)(4) of the HEA clearly provides for such an option since it does not require that the early intervention program establishing student eligibility for a scholarship be funded under the NEISP Program as is required in the case of the Federal Upward Bound Program in section 404D(e)(2) of the HEA. Changes: The Secretary is amending §693.40 to add §693.40(g)(3) which provides the option to a State to consider other comparable early intervention programs as also meeting this student eligibility requirement. Section 693.52␣What requirements must a State meet in preparing and submitting an evaluation report? Comment: One commenter believed that, due to the comprehensive nature of the biennial evaluation report under §693.50(b), it would not be reasonable to estimate one hour to complete the report. In the commenter's opinion, the report could not be designed and implemented in less than two staff months. Discussion: The Secretary agrees and is amending the burden hour estimate to reflect two staff months. The Secretary encourages each State to work with the Departmental program staff to streamline its evaluation study while still providing relevant policy information. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter recommended that under §693.52(b) the Secretary should not require that a State's biennial evaluation report include all the listed items and, instead, should require only that a State address the listed items to the extent possible. Discussion: The Secretary believes that, in order to have a comprehensive evaluation of the early intervention program, States must include at a minimum the types of information listed in §693.53(b). The Secretary recognizes a State's evaluation report may place varying emphasis on the different items listed. Changes: None. Executive Order 12866 These final regulations have been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866. Under the terms of the order the Secretary has assessed the potential costs and benefits of this regulatory action. The potential costs associated with the final regulations are those resulting from statutory requirements and those determined by the Secretary to be necessary for administering this program effectively and efficiently. In assessing the potential costs and benefits_both quantitative and qualitative_of these final regulations, the Secretary has determined that the benefits of the final regulations justify the costs. The Secretary has also determined that this regulatory action does not unduly interfere with State, local, and tribal governments in the exercise of their governmental functions. Assessment of Educational Impact In the notice of proposed rulemaking, the Secretary requested comments on whether the proposed regulations would require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. Based on the response to the proposed rules and on its own review, the Department has determined that the regulations in this document do not require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. List of Subjects 34 CFR Part 75 Education Department, Grant programs_education, Grant administration. 34 CFR Part 693 Grant programs_education, Postsecondary education, State administered_education, Student Aid_education, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: May 2, 1994. Richard W. Riley, Secretary of Education. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.272, National Early Intervention Scholarship and Partnership Program)
