FR940317-1-00083 FR940317-1-00013 (1) Written report by the attending physician or dentist setting forth the_ (i) Nature and extent of injury. (ii) Nature and extent of treatment. (iii) Degree of temporary or permanent disability. (iv) Prognosis. (v) Period of hospitalization. (vi) Diminished earning capacity. (2) Itemized bills or receipts for medical, dental, and hospital expenses. (3) If the prognosis includes future treatment, a statement of expected expenses for such treatment. (4) If the claim includes lost time from employment, a statement by the employer showing the actual time lost and wages and/or salary lost. (5) If the claim includes lost income by a self-employed claimant, documentary evidence of such loss. §536.58 Measure of damages in injury or death claims arising in foreign countries. (a) Where a claim for an injury, or injury resulting in death, arises outside of the United States or its possessions, the elements of damages payable under this subpart will be the same as those payable in a similar claim arising under the law of the District of Columbia applicable to torts committed in and having their operative effect in the District of Columbia. The amount paid will be based on generally accepted economic principles. All awards for future payments of economic damages will be discounted to present value. Awards under this chapter will be reduced by any benefits which have been or are reasonably likely to be paid, if the benefit or payment is from the general revenues of the United States and the claimant did not contribute to or purchase the benefit. In death cases, taxes and personal consumption will be deducted from any award for lost economic contribution or lost earnings. Punitive or exemplary damages, including damages considered punitive in nature under 28 U.S.C. 2674, and interest on any settlement are not payable. (b) The information listed in §536.57 (b) or (c), as appropriate, will be submitted by the claimant to substantiate a claim. (c) A claimant who alleges a serious personal injury resulting in temporary or permanent disability should be examined by an independent physician or other medical specialist. The purpose of the examination is not just to confirm the impairment but also to help assess its extent, prognosis and treatment. See §536.27 for independent medical examination procedures. §536.59 Failure to substantiate a claim. (a) The Government is not obligated to take final action on a claim until it has been supported by the claimant with specific facts substantiated by appropriate documentary evidence, reports of investigation, medical records, or witness statements. As the burden of proof is on the claimant, the failure to substantiate a claim within a reasonable time can be the basis for denial of the claim. Upon request, the claimant must_ (1) Provide the documentation required by sections §§536.56 through 536.58. (2) Undergo necessary medical examinations. (3) Permit questioning of the claimant, his or her witnesses, and treating medical personnel. (4) Submit an expert opinion in a professional negligence action. (b) Failure to comply with these requirements may provide a basis for denial of a claim, in full or in part. §536.60 Structured settlement. (a) The use of the structured settlement device by approval and settlement authorities is encouraged in all appropriate cases. A structured settlement should not be used when contrary to the desires of the claimant. (b) Notwithstanding the above, the Commander, USARCS may require or recommend to higher authority that an acceptable structured settlement be made a condition of award notwithstanding objection by the claimant or his or her representative where_ (1) Necessary to ensure adequate and secure care and compensation to a minor or otherwise incompetent claimant over a period of years; (2) Where a trust device is necessary to ensure the long-term availability of funds for anticipated further medical care; (3) Where the injured party's life expectancy cannot be reasonably determined. §536.61 Settlement authority.
