FR940223-2-00177 FR940223-2-00098 North American Free Trade Agreement Rules of Procedure for Article 1904 Extraordinary Challenge Committees Contents Preamble Rule 1. Short Title 2. Statement of General Intent 3. Interpretation Part I_General 8. Internal Functioning of Committees 10. Computation of Time 12. Counsel of Record 13. Costs 14. Proprietary Information and Privileged Information 22. Violation of Code of Conduct 23. Pleadings and Simultaneous Translation of Extraordinary Challenge Proceedings in Canada Part II_Written Proceedings 28. Filing, Service and Communications 36. Form and Content of Pleadings 37. Requests for an Extraordinary Challenge Committee 40. Notices of Appearance 42. Filing and Content of Briefs and Appendices 44. Motions Part III_Conduct of Oral Proceedings 48. Oral Proceedings in Camera Part IV_Responsibilities of the Secretary Part V_Orders and Decisions Part VI_Completion of Extraordinary Challenges Preamble The Parties, Having regard to Chapter Nineteen of the North American Free Trade Agreement between Canada, the United Mexican States and the United States of America; Acting pursuant to paragraph 2 of Annex 1904.13 to Chapter Nineteen of the Agreement; Adopted the Rules of Procedure, which shall come into force on the same day as the Agreement enters into force and from that day shall govern all extraordinary challenge committee proceedings conducted pursuant to Article 1904 of the Agreement. Short Title 1. These rules may be cited as the NAFTA Extraordinary Challenge Committee Rules. Statement of General Intent 2. These rules are intended to give effect to the provisions of Chapter Nineteen of the Agreement with respect to extraordinary challenges conducted pursuant to Article 1904 of the Agreement and are designed to result in decisions within 90 days after the establishment of the committee. Where a procedural question arises that is not covered by these rules, a committee may adopt an appropriate procedure that is not inconsistent with the Agreement. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of these Rules and the Agreement, the Agreement shall prevail. Interpretation 3. In these rules, ``Agreement'' means the North American Free Trade Agreement; ``Code of Conduct'' means the code of conduct established by the Parties pursuant to Article 1909 of the Agreement; ``committee'' means an extraordinary challenge committee established pursuant to Annex 1904.13 to Chapter Nineteen of the Agreement; ``counsel'' means (a) with respect to an extraordinary challenge of a panel review of a final determination made in Canada, a person entitled to appear as counsel before the Federal Court of Canada, (b) with respect to an extraordinary challenge of a panel review of a final determination made in Mexico, a person entitled to appear as counsel before the Tribunal Fiscal de la Federación, and (c) with respect to an extraordinary challenge of a panel review of a final determination made in the United States, a person entitled to appear as counsel before a federal court in the United States;
