FR940407-2-00076 FR940407-2-00038 •The Cover Page (included in the Kit) should be the first page of an application, followed by the one-page abstract. •The Approach page (Section B of the ANA Program Narrative) for each Objective Work Plan proposed should be of sufficient detail to become a monthly staff guide for project responsibilities if the applicant is funded. •The applicant should specify the entire project period length on the first page of the Form 424, Block 13, not the length of the first budget period. If the application narrative and Form 424 propose different project periods, ANA will consider the project period specified on the Form 424 as governing. •Line 15a of the 424 should specify the Federal funds requested for the first Budget Period, not the entire project period. •Applicants proposing multi-year projects must fully describe each year's project objectives and activities. Separate Objective Work Plans (OWPs) must be presented for each project year and a separate itemized budget of the Federal and non-Federal costs of the project for each budget period must be included. •Applicants for multi-year projects must justify the entire time-frame of the project (i.e., why the project needs funding for more than one year) and clearly describe the results to be achieved for each objective by the end of each budget period of the total project period. 3. Projects or Activities That Generally Will Not Meet the Purposes of This Announcement •Projects in which a grantee would provide training and/or technical assistance (T/TA) to other tribes or Native American organizations (``third party T/TA''). However, the purchase of T/TA by a grantee for its own use or for its members' use (as in the case of a consortium), where T/TA is necessary to carry out project objectives, is acceptable. •Projects that request funds for feasibility studies, plans, or written materials, such as manuals, that are not an essential part of the applicant's environmental regulatory enhancement strategy. The Administration for Native Americans is not interested in funding `wish lists.' The Administration for Native Americans expects written evidence of the solid investment of time and consideration on the part of the applicant with regard to proposed projects.
