FR940627-2-00046 FR940627-2-00026 C. Evaluation Criteria A panel of at least three reviewers (primarily experts from outside the Federal government) will review the applications. Applicants should ensure that they address each minimum requirement in the priority area description under the appropriate section of the Program Narrative Statement. Reviewers will determine the strengths and weaknesses of each application in terms of the evaluation criteria listed below, provide comments and assign numerical scores. The point value following each criterion heading indicates the maximum numerical weight that each section may be given in the review process. Applications under all priority areas will be evaluated against the following criteria. 1. Objective and Need for Assistance (20 points) The extent to which the application pinpoints any relevant physical, economic, social, financial, institutional or other problems requiring a solution; demonstrates the need for the assistance; states the principal and subordinate objectives of the project; provides supporting documentation or other testimonies from concerned interests other than the applicant; and includes and/or references relevant data. 2. Results or Benefits Expected (20 points). The extent to which the application identifies the results and benefits to be derived, the extent to which they are consistent with the objectives of the proposal, and the extent to which the application indicates the anticipated contributions to policy, practice, theory and/or research. The extent to which the proposed project costs are reasonable in view of the expected results. 3. Approach (35 points). The extent to which the application outlines a sound and workable plan of action pertaining to the scope of the project, and details how the proposed work will be accomplished; cites factors which might accelerate or decelerate the work, giving acceptable reasons for taking the proposed approach as opposed to others; describes and supports any unusual features of the project, such as design or technological innovations, reductions in cost or time, or extraordinary social and community involvements; provides for projections of the accomplishments to be achieved; and lists the activities to be carried out in chronological order, showing a reasonable schedule of accomplishments and target dates. The extent to which, when applicable, the application identifies the kinds of data to be collected and maintained, and discusses the criteria to be used to evaluate the results and successes of the project. The extent to which the application describes the evaluation methodology that will be used to determine if the needs identified and discussed are being met and if the results and benefits identified are being achieved. The extent to which the application identifies each organization, agency, consultant, or other key individuals or groups who will work on the project, along with a description of the activities each will undertake and the nature of their effort or contribution. 4. Staff Background and Organization's Experience (25 points). The extent to which the background of the project director/principal investigator and key project staff (including name, address, training, educational background and other qualifying experience) and the experience of the organization demonstrate the applicant's ability to effectively and efficiently administer the project. The extent to which the application describes the relationship between the proposed project and other relevant work planned, anticipated or underway by the applicant. Part IV_Instructions for the Development and Submission of Applications This Part contains information and instructions for submitting applications in response to this announcement. Application forms are provided along with a checklist for assembling an application package. Please copy and use these forms in submitting an application. Potential applicants should read this section carefully in conjunction with the information contained within the specific priority area under which the application is to be submitted. The priority area descriptions are in Part II. A. Required Notification of the State Single Point of Contact
