FR940711-2-00096 FR940711-2-00040 (4) Shelters for battered women to reduce prevalence of physical abuse. (5) Victim identification and referral protocols in hospital emergency rooms, STD clinics, prenatal care clinics, and family planning clinics. (6) Behavior motivation programs for men. (7) Rape crisis centers to help in prevention recurrence of sexual assault by someone the victim knows. (8) Hotlines as tools to provide crisis intervention counseling. i. Develop, implement, and evaluate multi-faceted programs to prevent violence against women (Year-03 and beyond). j. Develop and produce replication guidelines describing all aspects of the violence against women program. This includes processes, lessons, results, and products (Year-03 and beyond). k. Perform related injury demonstration projects. These may be related by population at risk, nature of the injury, causal chain, or surveillance or intervention methodology. 6. For Alcohol-Related Injury Prevention Program a. Provide a full-time director/coordinator and staff who have authority, responsibility, and expertise to carry out the program. b. Develop or improve an alcohol-related injury surveillance system to identify alcohol-related injuries treated in inpatient or outpatient departments of acute care hospitals. This includes a definition of the nature and extent of the alcohol-related injury problem. These data include alcohol-related injury rates of various age groups, description of the population at risk, types of injury, and acute care costs. c. Develop and implement community-based programs located in acute care hospitals which will improve identification of persons at risk for alcohol-related injuries, reduce alcohol consumption in a target group, achieve referrals to specialized alcohol treatment, and assure continuity of care of drinkers with alcohol related injuries. d. Evaluate the effectiveness of new or enhanced acute care hospital prevention services provided to patients with alcohol-related injuries. e. Collaborate with community and voluntary organizations, State alcohol and drug abuse treatment agencies, treatment providers and other mental health providers, professional organizations, insurance companies, and others interested in clinical prevention services to coordinate and support alcohol-related injury prevention activities. f. Perform related injury demonstration projects. These may be related by population at risk, nature of the injury, causal chain, or surveillance or intervention methodology. B. CDC Activities 1. Collaborate in the design of all phases of the program. Provide consultation on data collection instruments and procedures, and provide coordination and a standardized approach to research, evaluation, and intervention activities between and among the sites for each program topic area. 2. Provide consultation and assistance in problem assessment and target population identification, the evaluation of coverage, cost, and impact of current and potential interventions, and design of scientific protocols. 3. Provide evaluation guidelines for State injury control programs in bicycle-related head injuries, fire-related burn injuries, and motor vehicle occupant protection, and provide violence against women surveillance definition and guidelines. 4. Provide consultation on selection of interventions and future demonstration projects and surveillance systems for State implementation, and an implementing intervention activities and disseminating results. 5. Collaborate in the analysis and dissemination of surveillance data. 6. Provide up-to-date scientific information about injury prevention and coordinate with related activities in CDC's national injury prevention program. 7. Assist in the transfer of information and methods developed in these programs to other prevention programs.
