FR940217-1-00059 FR940217-1-00013 Of the six creeks providing recharge to Barton Springs, Barton Creek has received the most intense development. The TWC has identified nutrients, fecal coliform bacteria, sediment, oil, and grease in Barton Creek, originating from rangeland, golf course runoff, highway construction, and highway runoff (Barbara Britton, TWC, in litt., 1992). Increases in fecal coliform bacteria, nutrients (nitrogen and phosphorus), turbidity, and algal growth have been documented along Barton Creek between Highway 71 and Loop 360 and are primarily due to sewage effluent irrigation and construction activities in this area (City of Austin 1991; Librach, in litt., 1990). Changes in the aquatic invertebrate community along this portion of Barton Creek have also been attributed to golf course runoff (Librach, in litt., 1990) and insecticide use (Dr. Chris Durden, Texas Memorial Museum, in litt., 1991). These reported changes are significant because water quality at Barton Springs responds rapidly to changes in the quality of water contributed by Barton Creek. Groundwater originating from Barton Creek remains in the aquifer for short periods before discharging at the springs. Thus, there is little time for dilution or chemical breakdown of pollutants before discharging at Barton Springs (Slade et al. 1986). Existing land use in the recharge and contributing zones has resulted in recurring fecal-group bacteria contamination and high turbidity (a measure of suspended solids or sediment) at Barton Springs (Slade et al. 1986). Data suggest that bacteria and turbidity at Barton Springs increase significantly during storm events. Stormwater runoff has been identified as the major source of fecal coliform pollution at Barton Springs (City of Austin 1991). The level of nitrates at Barton Springs has also increased slightly from about 1.0 mg/l (measured as nitrate nitrogen) prior to 1955 to the current level of about 1.5 mg/l (Slade et al. 1986). Increased nutrients may promote the growth of bacteria, algae, and nuisance aquatic plants (Slade et al. 1986), which could reduce the dissolved oxygen available to the salamander. In Barton Springs Pool, the routine cleaning procedure necessary to remove algal growth may itself adversely impact the salamander and its habitat (see further discussion later in this section). High turbidity at Barton Springs has been attributed to construction activity in the Barton Springs segment (Slade et al. 1986, City of Austin 1991). Sources of turbidity are believed to be ``primarily limited to 126 square miles [326 square kilometers] of the Barton Creek and immediately adjacent watersheds in the recharge zone'' (City of Austin 1991). Sediments have been observed emanating directly from the spring outlets in Barton Springs Pool (Doyle Mosier, LCRA; Debbie Dorsey, City of Austin Parks and Recreation Department; pers. comms., 1993). Potential problems resulting from increased sediment loads include (1) reduction of the salamander's habitat by covering substrates on which salamanders, their prey, and/or certain aquatic plants occur; (2) clogging of the salamander's gills, causing asphyxiation (Garton 1977), and smothering of eggs; (3) filling and blocking of underground conduits, restricting groundwater availability and movement; and (4) exposure of aquatic life to certain heavy metals and other toxins that readily bind to sediments. Contaminants that adsorb to the surface of sediments may be transported through the aquifer and later be released back into the water column. Aside from high levels of fecal-group bacteria and turbidity immediately following storm events, the water quality at Barton Springs is considered to be very good (Slade et al. 1986, City of Austin 1991). However, only about 3 to 4 percent of the recharge and contributing zones is currently developed (USGS 1992), and both of these areas are under increasing pressure from urbanization (City of Austin 1988, Veenhuis and Slade 1990). The City of Austin has projected that the Austin metropolitan area will support a population of about 1.9 million by the year 2020, up from 577,000 in 1982 (City of Austin Planning Department, in Veenhuis and Slade 1990). Further development or urbanization in the recharge and contributing zones of the Barton Springs segment is likely to increase the chance of a major pollution event as well as chronic water quality decline in this area and thus increase the levels of pollutants reaching Barton Creek, other creeks serving as recharge paths, and Barton Springs (see also discussion under Factor D). The USGS (1992) has stated that ``much development is projected for the source area of Barton Springs *␣*␣*. [Thus] changes in water quality of Barton Springs *␣*␣* [are] possible in the near future.'' Water quality is highly variable throughout the Barton Springs segment and waters flowing from Barton Springs represent a mixture of these waters, originating primarily from the six streams crossing the recharge zone. Although much development has occurred along Barton Creek near Barton Springs, these waters are diluted by recharge waters from less developed watersheds, such as Onion Creek. Little development has occurred along Onion Creek, which, although farthest from the springs, contributes about 34 percent of the recharge waters (Slade et al. 1986). According to the Capital Area Planning Council (CAPCO), Hays County experienced ``tremendous growth'' in the 1980's and has the second highest growth rate in the 10-county CAPCO region. Dripping Springs, which is located in the contributing zone between Onion Creek and Barton Creek, ``will likely continue to experience a high rate of growth as development continues along U.S. 290 from the Oak Hill area westward'' (CAPCO 1990). As development across these watersheds increases, the ability of the aquifer to dilute pollutants will continue to decrease. This decreased ability will likely be further compounded by increased pumping and/or drought conditions.
