FR940414-2-00119 FR940414-2-00077 [Release No. 35&hyph;26022] Filings Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (``Act'') April 8, 1994. Notice is hereby given that the following filing(s) has/have been made with the Commission pursuant to provisions of the Act and rules promulgated thereunder. All interested persons are referred to the application(s) and/or declaration(s) for complete statements of the proposed transaction(s) summarized below. The application(s) and/or declarant(s) and any amendments thereto is/are available for public inspection through the Commission's Office of Public Reference. Interested persons wishing to comment or request a hearing on the application(s) and/or declaration(s) should submit their views in writing by May 2, 1994 to the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, DC 20549, and serve a copy on the relevant applicant(s) and/or declarant(s) at the address(es) specified below. Proof of service (by affidavit or, in case of an attorney at law, by certificate) should be filed with the request. Any request for hearing shall identify specifically the issues of fact or law that are disputed. A person who so requests will be notified of any hearing, if ordered, and will receive a copy of any notice or order issued in the matter. After said date, the application(s) and/or declaration(s), as filed or as amended, may be granted and/or permitted to become effective. The Southern Company (70&hyph;8399) Notice of Proposal To Issue and Sell Common Stock in Connection With the Adoption of an Outside Directors Stock Plan; Order Authorizing Proxy Solicitation The Southern Company (``Southern''), 64 Perimeter Center East, Atlanta, Georgia 30346, a registered holding company, has filed a declaration pursuant to sections 6(a), 7 and 12(e) of the Act and Rules 50(a)(5), 62 and 65 thereunder. Southern proposes to adopt, subject to shareholder approval at the 1994 annual meeting of shareholders to be held on May 25, 1994 (``1994 Annual Meeting''), The Southern Company Outside Directors Stock Plan (``Plan''). Under the Plan, Southern proposes to issue, from time-to-time through December 31, 2004, up to one million shares of common stock, par value of $5 (``Common Stock''). Southern states that the purpose of the Plan is to provide a mechanism for non-employee directors to automatically increase their ownership of Southern Common Stock and thereby further align their interests with those of the shareholders of Southern. Common Stock which may be issued under the Plan will be newly issued shares which have been authorized but unissued shares or shares that will be acquired on the open market pursuant to a prior authorization. The Plan provides that any member of the board of directors who is not otherwise actively employed by Southern or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates shall receive a portion of the annual retainer fee (currently $30,000) equal to $5,000 in unrestricted Common Stock, with the remainder of to be payable in increments elected by the director, in cash or in Common Stock. Southern requests an exception from the competitive bidding requirements of Rule 50 under the Act pursuant to subsection (a)(5) in connection with any issuance or sale of Common Stock under the Plan. In addition, Southern requests authorization to solicit proxies from its shareholders for approval of the Plan, among other things, at its 1994 Annual Meeting. Southern requests that the effectiveness of its declaration with respect to the solicitation of proxies for voting by its shareholders on the Plan be permitted to become effective as provided in Rule 62(d). It appearing to the Commission that the declaration regarding the proposed solicitation of proxies should be permitted to become effective forthwith, pursuant to Rule 62: It is ordered, that the declaration regarding the proposed solicitation of proxies, be, and it hereby is, permitted to become effective forthwith, under Rule 62 and subject to the terms and conditions prescribed in Rule 24 under the Act. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9016 Filed 4&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
