FR940118-1-00050 FR940118-1-00008 Changes To Decrease Repetitive Testing Some of the required tests are repetitive and increase the cost of producing hybrid PFD's. Elimination of repetitious testing should reduce manufacturing costs which may in turn encourage increased production. With the intent to encourage greater production through lower production costs the following changes are proposed. Section 160.077&hyph;23␣Manufacturer (b)(1)(i) Situations have occurred where extremely small lots (less than 50) of hybrid PFD's have been manufactured. Requirements for testing each lot by both the manufacturer and laboratory inspector increase the individual cost of hybrid PFD's produced in such small numbers. Reduction of repetitive testing is proposed by revising this paragraph to combine the manufacturer's and laboratory inspector's tests when five consecutive lots do not exceed a total of 250 devices. This revision would reduce repetitive testing and decrease production costs without compromising the safety of approved devices. Section 160.077&hyph;23␣Independent Laboratory (b)(2)(ii) Historically the number of hybrid PFD's produced has been nominal. In some calendar quarters very small lots have been produced. The requirement for an independent laboratory inspection every quarter increases production costs when small lots are produced. Reduction of independent laboratory inspections is proposed by changing this paragraph to require one inspection annually when not more than five lots, with no more than 1000 devices per lot, are produced per calendar year. (b)(2)(iv) This paragraph will be revised to show reference to paragraph (b)(2)(v) which provides an exception to the number of required records examinations, and test performance observations when not more than five lots are produced during any calendar year. (b)(2)(v) For the same reasons stated in the proposed changes to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, this paragraph will be added to clarify that the number of required records examinations and test performance observations will be changed to one annually when not more than five lots are produced per calendar year. Section 160.077&hyph;23␣Samples (d)(4) As per the reasons stated in proposed changes to paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, this paragraph will be revised to indicate that when the total production for any five consecutive lots does not exceed 250, the manufacturer's and inspector's testing and inspection, can be combined. (d)(5) Lots containing small numbers of hybrid PFD's are often produced. Requirements for individual tests and inspections by both the manufacturer and the independent laboratory increase production costs when small lots are produced. Reduction of repetitive test and inspections is proposed by authorizing the manufacturer's and inspector's tests to be run on the same sample at the same time when the total production for any five consecutive lots does not exceed 250.TABLE 160.077&hyph;23B, Inspector's Sampling. Footnote 2. Field use of hybrid PFD's had proven the devices to be reliable and there have been no complaints concerning failures. To lower production costs the frequency of this test will be reduced from quarterly to annually. Footnote 3. There have been no reports of the required marking becoming illegible on hybrid PFD's. To reduce production costs the frequency of this test will be reduced from quarterly to two annually. Section 160.077&hyph;23␣Calibration (g)(2) Manufacturers have not exposed problems during equipment calibrations. Because equipment calibration had proven reliable the Coast Guard proposes reducing the test equipment calibration interval to once annually. Changes To Improve Reliability Section 160.077&hyph;15␣Construction and Performance_Recreational Hybrid PFD (b)(14) This paragraph will be added to reaction to the changes to the Scope in §160.077&hyph;1(b) and Type discussed in §160.077&hyph;7, under Changes to make use of hybrids more attractive.'' To compensate for removing the REQUIRED TO BE WORN statement the Coast Guard is proposing to add additional inherent buoyancy for recreational Type I, II, and III hybrid PFD's. Deliberations from the 1991 and 1992 Underwriters Laboratories Industry Advisory Council meeting and the 1991 National Boating Safety Advisory Council concerning the amount of additional buoyancy to add to adult hybrid PFD's were considered. The options considered and discussed at those meetings included increasing the additional buoyancy to 40 N (9 lb) or 45 N (10 lb) in Type V hybrid for adults, weighing over 40 kg (90 lb). The design variations of either are not significant in affecting wear and comfort. The Coast Guard proposes the 45 N (10 lb) option in order to provide a minimum buoyancy closer to the International Standards Organization (ISO) proposed minimum standard of 50 N. In this paragraph the Coast Guard is also proposing buoyancy specifications for recreational hybrid PFD's for persons weighing 14&hyph;23 kg (30&hyph;50 lb) and 23&hyph;40 kg (50&hyph;90 lb). The USCG is not proposing to approve recreational hybrid inflatable PFD's for infants, weighing less than 14 kg (30 lb).
