FR940525-2-00103 FR940525-2-00064 2. Create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The proposed changes would not alter the operating conditions of the plant systems, and would not reduce the reliability of any plant safety equipment. Therefore, this change does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. 3. Involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The proposed changes would not affect the setpoints, capacities, or operating limits for any equipment. Therefore, the proposed changes do not involve a significant reduction of a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request, as revised, involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Van Wylen Library, Hope College, Holland, Michigan 49423. Attorney for licensee: Judd L. Bacon, Esquire, Consumers Power Company, 212 West Michigan Avenue, Jackson, Michigan 49201. NRC Project Director: Ledyard B. Marsh. Consumers Power Company, Docket No. 50&hyph;255, Palisades Plant, Van Buren County, Michigan Date of amendment request: April 7, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment would change certain Technical Specifications (TS) to relocate fuel cycle-specific parameter limits that can generally change with core reloads to a Core Operating Limits Report (COLR) in accordance with the guidance of Generic Letter 88&hyph;16, ``Removal of Cycle-Specific Parameter Limits from Technical Specifications.'' Several of the TS bases would also be revised to refer to limits relocated to the COLR. In each case where TS limits would be relocated to the COLR, the limits placed in the COLR would be unchanged and the appropriate bases would be revised accordingly. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: The following evaluation supports the finding that operation of the facility in accordance with the proposed TS would not: 1. Involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The proposed changes to the TS simply move the values and parameters for fuel cycle-specific limits from the TS to a Core Operating Limits Report (COLR). The requirements to maintain the plant within appropriate bounds are retained in the TS. The values of the cycle-specific parameter limits in the COLR are determined using an NRC-approved methodology and remain consistent with all applicable limits of the plant safety analyses that are addressed in the Final Safety Analysis Report (FSAR). A requirements for the COLR and identification of the approved methodology documents are added to the TS. There are no associated changes in plant operation. Therefore, operation of the facility in accordance with the proposed TS would not result in a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. Create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated. As discussed above, the proposed changes do not remove or alleviate any requirements to maintain the plant within the appropriate bounds. There are no associated changes in plant operation. Therefore, operation of the facility in accordance with the proposed TS would not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated. 3. Involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The proposed changes to the TS simply move the values and parameters for cycle-specific limits from the Specifications to a Core Operating Limits Report (COLR). The requirements to maintain the plant within appropriate bounds are retained in the TS. The values of the cycle-specific parameter limits in the COLR are determined using an NRC-approved methodology and remain consistent with all applicable limits of the plant safety analyses that are addressed in the Final Safety Analysis Report (FSAR). A requirement for the COLR and identification of the approved methodology documents are added to the TS. There are no associated changes in plant operation. Therefore, operation of the facility in accordance with the proposed TS would not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Van Wylen Library, Hope College, Holland, Michigan 49423. Attorney for licensee: Judd L. Bacon, Esquire, Consumers Power Company, 212 West Michigan Avenue, Jackson, Michigan 49201. NRC Project Director: Ledyard B. Marsh. Detroit Edison Company, Docket No. 50&hyph;341, Fermi-2, Monroe County, Michigan Date of amendment request: March 29, 1994, as corrected April 26, 1994. Date of amendment request: March 29, 1994, as corrected April 26, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment would modify the surveillance requirements for scram discharge volume vent and drain valves and isolation actuation instrumentation and modify the required actions and surveillance requirements for the emergency diesel generators to reduce testing during power operation. These changes are in accordance with guidance contained in Generic Letter (GL) 93&hyph;05 ``Line-Item Technical Specifications Improvements to Reduce Surveillance Requirements for Testing During Power Operation,'' dated September 27, 1993. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. The proposed changes do not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The proposed changes to the frequency of testing for these components will reduce the probability of failure due to wear and eliminate the possibility of initiating transients during testing of these components. Therefore, the proposed changes will result in a decrease in the probability of previously evaluated accidents. Further, the proposed changes do not alter the design, function, or operation of the components involved and therefore, do not affect the consequences of any previously evaluated accident. 2. The proposed changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. As stated above, the proposed changes do not alter the design, function, or operation of the components involved and therefore, no new accident scenarios are created. 3. The proposed changes do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. As developed in Reference 3 [NUREG&hyph;1366, ``Improvement to Technical Specification Surveillance Requirements,'' dated December 1992] and endorsed in Reference 2 [GL 93&hyph;05], the proposed changes to the testing frequency will increase the margin of safety through reduced equipment wear and elimination of opportunities to induce transients. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Monroe County Library System, 3700 South Custer Road, Monroe, Michigan 48161. Attorney for licensee: John Flynn, Esq., Detroit Edison Company, 2000 Second Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48226. NRC Project Director: Ledyard B. Marsh. Detroit Edison Company, Docket No. 50&hyph;341, Fermi-2, Monroe County, Michigan
