FR940128-1-00113 FR940128-1-00006 ยง1240.3 General definitions. * * * * * (p) Molluscan shellfish. Any edible species of fresh or frozen oysters, clams, mussels, and scallops or edible portions thereof, except when the scallop or scallop product consists entirely of the shucked adductor muscle. 4. Section 1240.60 is amended by revising the section heading; by designating the existing text as paragraph (a) and adding the word ``molluscan'' before the word ``shellfish'' the two times that it appears; and by adding new paragraphs (b) and (c) to read as follows: ยง1240.60 Molluscan shellfish. * * * * * (b) All unshucked raw molluscan shellfish, that is all unshucked molluscan shellfish that has not been subject to a treatment sufficient to kill pathogens of public health significance, shall bear a tag that discloses the date and place they were harvested, type and quantity of shellfish, and by whom they were harvested, including the number assigned to the harvester by the shellfish control authority. Any raw molluscan shellfish that are found by FDA in interstate commerce without such a tag or label, or with a tag or label that does not bear all the required information, will be subject to seizure and destruction. (c) Shucked molluscan shellfish shall be subject to the same requirements as apply to molluscan shellfish that has not been shucked as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, except that, in lieu of a tag, the body of the container of shucked molluscan shellfish, shall bear a label that identifies the name, address, and certification number of the processor of the molluscan shellfish. Dated: January 21, 1994. David A. Kessler, Commissioner of Food and Drugs. Donna E. Shalala, Secretary of Health and Human Services. Note: The following appendix will not appear in the annual Code of Federal Regulations. Appendix 1_FDA Fish Fishery Products Hazard and Controls Guide Including Guidance on Smoked Fish FDA is in the process of developing guidance to, among other things, assist the seafood industry develop and implement HACCP systems. The guidance will be titled the ``FDA Fish and Fishery Products Hazard and Controls Guide.'' When a draft of the entire Guide is completed in the near future, FDA will publish a notice of availability in the Federal Register and invite public comment. FDA will revise the draft as warranted and then issue the first edition of the Guide. I. The Information Presented The selected portions of the draft Guide that are provided below are: Example 1. The Table of Contents. Example 2. One page each from the ``Vertebrate'' and ``Invertebrate Hazard and Control Lists.'' Together, these lists contain about 350 species of commercially marketed fish. Each list is in the form of a chart that directs the reader to one or more of the 10 numbered hazard and control descriptions elsewhere in the Guide for species-related hazards. For purposes of the Guide, species-related hazards are those that can occur in the environment or during harvest. Processors should find in the appropriate list the species they handle, then turn to those numbered hazard and control descriptions that are relevant to that species. Example 3. A sample of a species-related hazard and control description (Species-related Hazard and Control # 1 (Chemical Contamination)). Each description explains a hazard and the measures available to control it, with an emphasis on HACCP controls such as critical control points, critical limits, monitoring procedures and frequencies, recordkeeping, and corrective actions. Some descriptions contain several control options.
