FR941004-1-00099 FR941004-1-00018 Paragraph (g) on administrative costs reflects the requirement in section 432 (a)(4) of the Act that States using funds for services may not use more than ten percent of total Federal and State funds under title IV&hyph;B, subpart 2, for administrative costs. We received many recommendations on how administrative costs should be defined, e.g., providing a complete list of all items considered ``administrative'' or allowing States to use their own definition of administrative costs. In paragraph (g) we have proposed what we believe is a reasonable yet flexible approach by defining administrative costs as those costs allocable to title IV&hyph;B, subpart 2, in a State's cost allocation plan for auxiliary functions to support development and implementation of the Child and Family Services Plan and Annual Progress and Services Report. These auxiliary functions (e.g., costs incurred for a common or joint purpose) may include but are not limited to such items as procurement; payroll; management, maintenance, and operation of space and property; and indirect costs. As the funds a State will receive under subpart 2 are not large, we believe most States easily will be able to identify such costs equal to ten percent of their allotment, based on their cost allocation plans. (Administrative costs over and above the ten percent limit must be funded from other non-Federal sources of funds.) Also we have added a clarification in paragraph (g)(3) to explain that costs directly associated with implementing the CFSP are not considered administrative costs, e.g., service delivery, ongoing planning activities, training, supervision. Finally, paragraph (g) also proposes that, for the purpose of computing the 10 percent limitation, the administrative costs of State subrecipients must also be taken into account. The State, therefore, must calculate what it will spend on administrative costs, and what will be available for subrecipients and obtain assurances from the subrecipients to ensure that the total for administrative costs does not exceed the 10 percent limitation. We look forward to receiving alternate recommendations if this approach to defining administrative costs is viewed as not workable. Additional Issue for Public Comment: Permitting In-Kind Matching Funds We are requesting public comment on an issue about which we did not propose a change in current policy. In revised fiscal sections ยง1357.30 and ยง1357.40, and proposed new fiscal sections ยง1357.32 and ยง1357.50 for States and Indian tribes we have continued the current requirement that matching funds must be cash or donated funds. We are interested in public comment, however, on whether we should permit States and Indian tribes to use in-kind funds to meet the match requirement under the title IV&hyph;B programs. On the one hand, allowing in-kind funds to be used to meet the match requirement provides additional flexibility to States and Indian tribes in providing the match; it may also encourage participation in the services program among community-based organizations. On the other hand, there has been some concern in other programs where in-kind match has been permitted that the provision may be used inappropriately and may not ensure that the full matching resources are new resources directed to the purpose of the legislation. We would welcome the views particularly of States, Indian tribes, nonprofit and community-based agencies and organizations, and advocacy organizations on this issue. We especially would appreciate not only a statement of position but also the reasons for the position and how allowing (or not allowing) in-kind match would (or would not) benefit the title IV&hyph;B programs.
