FR940725-1-00041 FR940725-1-00009 * * * * * 10. Section 31.303 is amended by revising paragraph (c)(4) to read as follows: §31.303 DSO Compliance. (c) *␣*␣* (4) Those States which, based upon the most recently submitted monitoring report, have been found to be in full compliance with section 223(a)(12)(A) may, in lieu of addressing paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section, provide an assurance that adequate plans and resources are available to maintain full compliance. * * * * * 11. Section 31.303 is amended by revising paragraphs (d)(1) (i) and (ii) to read as follows: Section §31.303␣Separation (d) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* (i) Describe its plan and procedure, covering the three-year planning cycle, for assuring that the requirements of this section are met. The term ``contact'' is defined to include any sight and sound contact between juveniles in a secure custody status and incarcerated adults, including inmate trustees. Sound contact is further defined to mean that no conversation is possible. Separation must be accomplished in all secure areas of the facility which include, but are not limited to: sallyports within the secure perimeter of the facility, other entry areas, all passageways (hallways), admissions, sleeping, toilet and shower, dining, recreational, educational, vocational, health care, and other areas as appropriate. (ii) In those instances where accused juvenile criminal-type offenders are authorized to be temporarily detained in facilities where adults are confined, the State must set forth the procedures for assuring no sight or sound contact between such juveniles and confined adults. * * * * * 12. Paragraph (d)(2) of §31.303 is amended by adding a period ``.'' after the word ``State'' and removing the remainder of paragraph (d)(2). 13. Paragraph (e)(3) in §31.303 is revised to read as follows: §31.303 Collocated Facilities. (e) *␣*␣* (3)(i) Determine whether or not a facility in which juveniles are detained or confined is an adult jail or lockup. In circumstances where juveniles are detained or confined in a separate building within a justice center or building complex which includes both juvenile and adult facilities (same grounds) or in a separate juvenile area (floor, wing, or side) of a building which includes an adult jail or lockup (same building), the separate building or area in which juveniles are detained or confined may qualify as a juvenile detention facility. However, except when a collocated building or area within a building has previously been determined by the State (with OJJDP concurrence) to qualify as a separate juvenile detention facility under the four established requirements prior to the effective date of this proposed regulation, State determinations and OJJDP concurrence on collocated facilities will be limited to those which are located in geographic areas outside a Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area, and are operational or planned such that a determination of compliance with the criteria can be made, and are determined by the State (with subsequent OJJDP concurrence) to meet the criteria and procedure established in paragraph (e)(3)(i) (A) through (D) and (ii) of this section, no later than December 31, 1994. Each of the following four criteria must be met in order to ensure the requisite separateness of the two facilities. The requirements are: (A) Total separation between juvenile and adult facility spatial areas such that there could be no contact between juveniles and adult residents in the respective facilities. Total separation in spatial areas of juvenile and adult facilities can be achieved by providing for no common use areas, or by time-phasing common use areas, provided that the arrangement precludes contact between juveniles and adult residents and adult facility staff at all times. Sleeping or other living areas may not be considered common use areas. (B) Total separation in all juvenile and adult program activities within the facilities, including recreation, education, counseling, health care, dining, sleeping, and general living activities. There must be an independent and comprehensive operational plan for the juvenile detention facility which provides for a full range of separate program activities. No program activities may be shared by juvenile and adult residents. However, program space, equipment, and other resources may be used by both facility populations subject to the criterion in paragraph (e)(3)(i)(A) of this section. (C) Separate juvenile and adult staff, including management, security staff, and direct care staff such as recreation, education, and counseling. Specialized services staff, such as cooks, bookkeepers and medical professionals who are not normally in contact with detainees or whose infrequent contacts occur under conditions of separation of juveniles and adults, can serve both. The day to day management, security and direct care functions of the juvenile detention facility and its programs must be vested in totally separate staff. Collocated facilities classified by the State with subsequent OJJDP concurrence prior to the effective date of this proposed regulation must also meet this requirement.
