FR941202-1-00054 FR941202-1-00010 * * * * * 7. Section 6101.18 is amended by revising paragraph (b) to read as follows: 6101.18 Sanctions and other proceedings [Rule 18]. * * * * * (b) Sanctions. If the Board expressly finds that (i) a protest or a portion of a protest is frivolous or has been brought or pursued in bad faith; or (ii) that any person has willfully abused the Board's process during the course of a protest, the Board may impose appropriate sanctions. In any type of case, when a party or its representative or attorney or any expert/consultant fails to comply with any direction or order issued by the Board (including an order to provide or permit discovery), or engages in misconduct affecting the Board, its process, or its proceedings, the Board may make such orders as are just, including the imposition of appropriate sanctions. The sanctions include: * * * * * 8. Section 6101.19 is amended by revising paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), and (d) to read as follows: 6101.19 Hearings; scheduling; notice; unexcused absences; suspension decisions [Rule 19]. (a) Scheduling of hearings. (1) *␣*␣* (2) Protest suspension hearing. The Board will, upon timely request by an interested party, hold a hearing to determine whether the Board should suspend the procurement authority of the Administrator or the Administrator's delegation of procurement authority for the protested procurement on an interim basis until the Board can decide the protest. Such a request is timely if the underlying protest is filed on the later of (i) the tenth day after the date of contract award; or (ii) the fifth day after the debriefing date offered to an unsuccessful offeror for any debriefing that is requested and, when requested, is required. The Board will hold the requested hearing within 5 days after the date of the filing of the protest or, in the case of a request for debriefing under the provisions of 10 U.S.C. 2305(b)(5), or 41 U.S.C. 253b, within 5 days after the later of the date of the filing of the protest or the date of the debriefing. (3) Protest hearing on merits. Any hearing on the merits of a protest will commence no later than 35 calendar days after the filing of the protest. * * * * * (d) Suspension decision. The Board shall suspend the respondent's procurement authority, or a delegation thereof, pending a decision on the merits of the protest, unless the respondent establishes at hearing that: (1) Absent suspension, contract award, if not already made, is likely to occur within 30 calendar days; and (2) urgent and compelling circumstances which significantly affect interests of the United States will not permit waiting for the decision of the Board. If a contract award has not been made, a suspension shall not preclude the Federal agency concerned from continuing the procurement process up to but not including award of the contract unless the Board determines such action is not in the best interests of the United States. The decision regarding suspension will be by order of the panel chairman and may be oral, to be reduced to writing as soon as practicable. 9. Section 6101.28 is amended by redesignating the three sentences of paragraph (a) as (a)(1) and adding new paragraphs (a)(2) and (d) to read as follows: 6101.28 Dismissals [Rule 28]: (a) Generally. (2) Protests . The Board may also dismiss a protest that the Board determines (i) is frivolous; (ii) has been brought or pursued in bad faith; or (iii) does not state on its face a valid basis for protest. * * * * *
