FR940106-1-00076 FR940106-1-00011 ␣ 1Chipps Island (74 km) 1Mean 1Min 1Max Wet 148 142 150 Above normal 144 133 141 Below normal 119 118 132 Dry 116 105 118 Critical 90 66 104 Figure 4. The relationship between number of days at Chipps Island and Sacramento Basin Index (Figure 4) yields very small ranges about the mean for all but critical years. However, use of a smooth function is justified because of the open-ended nature of critical years. The driest year on record had a Sacramento Basin Index of 3.1, but the index theoretically could approach 0. This wide span of possible index values in the critical year type is best handled by the smooth function described. The smaller flows this standard entails (12,000 cfs at Chipps and 5,800 cfs at the confluence) and the small range of values within all but critical year types yields smaller differences in water costs. In summary, a smooth function to determine the number of days of compliance would result in the same average number of days for each year type, but would more accurately reflect differences within these categories. Hence, small adjustments could be made in project operations as the water year progresses. The use of a smooth function addresses, to some extent, the issue of adjusting habitat protection requirements in extended droughts. The present identification of year type is based on the Sacramento River Index. That index combines three variables: (1) Precipitation in the April through September period when flood control requirements are reduced and more precipitation can be held in reservoirs, (2) the index of the previous year which partly reflects the amount of carry-over storage, and (3) precipitation in the October through March period. The index weights these three factors in a 40:30:30 ratio. For the purpose of protecting estuarine habitat, the precipitation in February to June and the amount of carry-over storage may be more important than precipitation in the rest of the year. EPA is requesting comments on the possibility of modifying the Sacramento River Index for purposes of developing the salinity criteria as follows: (a) The criteria could calculate an index weighted more toward the previous year's Sacramento River Index and the February through June precipitation. A 40:40:20 ratio or even 50:50:0 index might be a more appropriate basis for the criteria. (b) The criteria could start each February with a baseline set of requirements and add or subtract days at each of the two downstream sites based on how conditions in each month differ from the average conditions for that month. 2. EPA is including a 14 day rolling averaging period in its proposed salinity criteria. As discussed above, the 14 day period was included to assure that the range of spring to neap tidal conditions was included in the averaging period. Accounting for the effects of tidal influences is important, especially for the downstream compliance location at Roe Island. During its discussions of this proposal with the operators of California's major water projects, it was suggested that a 28 day rolling average or other averaging period may be more appropriate, so that the entire tidal cycle is included. EPA's preliminary review of this suggestion indicates that it would be an appropriate device for accounting for tidal influences, and would not have any detrimental impact on protecting the designated Estuarine Habitat use. Therefore, if public comments do not raise any significant issues, EPA would be inclined to use a 28 day averaging period. EPA, therefore, is requesting comments on the following alternative approaches to the averaging period: (a) The proposed criteria could be measured using a 28 day rolling average, thereby lengthening the averaging period to encompass the full range of tidal strengths and giving an overall effect of the tidal cycle.
