FR940822-1-00009 FR940822-1-00002 COC 90 is EPA's best estimate of the 90th percentile incremental cost per-engine associated with meeting the standard for which an NCP is offered, compared with meeting the associated upper limit. COC 90 is based on a near worst case technology, as nearly as EPA can identify it. COC 90 , like COC 50 , includes both manufacturer and owner costs, but not certification costs. MC 50 is an estimate of the industrywide average marginal cost of compliance per unit of reduced pollutant associated with the least cost effective emission control technology installed to meet the new standard. MC 50 is measured in dollars per g/BHP-hr for HDEs and in dollars per gram per mile (g/mi) for LDTs. F is a factor used to derive MC 90 , the 90th percentile marginal cost of compliance with the NCP standard for engines in the NCP category. MC 90 is defined as being the slope of the penalty rate curve near the standard and is equal to MC 50 multiplied by F. For this rulemaking, as was the case in the previous NCP rules, EPA has determined that no reasonable estimate of MC 90 can be made based on existing marginal cost data and has thus set F at a presumptive value of 1.2. This approach was generally supported by commenters on the past NCP rulemakings. B. Parameter Values and Upper Limit The derivation of the proposed cost parameters is described in a support document entitled ``Calculation of Nonconformance Penalty Rates for 1996 and Later Model Year LDT3 Particulate Matter (PM) Standards,'' which is available in the public docket for this rulemaking. The upper limits applicable to a pollutant emission standard shall be determined as per c 86.1104&hyph;91. 1996 Tier 1 Particulate Matter (PM) Standard of 0.10 g/mi for LDT3 at Full Useful Life EPA proposes that the following values (in July, 1993 dollars) be used in the NCP formula for the 1996 and later model year Tier 1 0.10 g/mi PM standard for LDT3 at full useful life. COC 50 = $557 COC 90 = $1178 MC 50 = 557/(.13-.10) = $18,567 F = 1.2 The values of the compliance parameters are based on the cost of projected engine modifications and the use of an oxidation catalyst for PM reduction as outlined in ``Calculation of Nonconformance Penalty Rates for 1996 and Later Model Year LDT3 Particulate Matter (PM) Standards''. While the possibility of complying with the PM standard using a particulate trap exists, it is not considered by EPA or industry to be a likely solution. Since a previous PM standard of 0.13 g/mi exists, EPA is proposing that the upper limit which cannot be exceeded by LDT3 vehicles shall be 0.13 g/mi. IV. Administrative Designation and Regulatory Analysis Under Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993), EPA must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to OMB review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or state, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. Pursuant to the terms of Executive Order 12866, it has been determined that this rule is not a ``significant regulatory action'' and is therefore not subject to OMB review. This regulation will not have an annual effect on the economy in excess of $100 million and will not cause a major increase in the price of HDEs above those that would otherwise occur from compliance with the emission standards themselves. This regulation is intended to assist manufacturers that are having difficulty developing and marketing vehicles which comply with the 1996 Tier 1 PM standard for LDT3s. Without this proposed rule, a manufacturer experiencing difficulty in complying with this new emission standard (after the use of credits) has only two alternatives: fix the nonconforming engines for the associated model years or not sell them at all. NCPs provide manufacturers with additional time to bring their engines into conformity. In addition, NCPs are calculated to deprive nonconforming manufacturers of any cost savings and competitive advantages stemming from marketing a nonconforming engine. Thus, NCPs will not have significant adverse effects on competition, employment, investment, productivity, innovation or on the ability of United States-based enterprises to compete with foreign-based enterprises in domestic or export markets.
