FR940516-2-00049 FR940516-2-00042 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Office of the Secretary Examination of Methods for Assessing Comprehensive Community Change Initiatives AGENCY: Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, HHS. ACTION: Request for applications to conduct research to examine methods for assessing comprehensive community change initiatives. SUMMARY: The Department seeks applications from not-for-profit or for-profit organizations or entities to conduct research to examine methods for assessing comprehensive community change initiatives and to develop possible solutions to assessment problems for these initiatives. The Primary goal of the proposed research is to further the understanding of the problems confronted in assessing the impact of comprehensive community change initiatives. It is anticipated that one ``Cooperative Agreement'' of $50,000 for 12&hyph;17 months will be awarded. DATES: Closing date: The closing date for submitting an application is July 15, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send applications to Grants Officer, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, Department of Health and Human Services, 200 Independence Avenue SW., room 405F, Hubert H. Humphrey Building, Washington, DC 20201. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Grants Officer at above address, phone (202) 401&hyph;3951. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: PURPOSE OF THE SOLICITATION Pursuant to section 1110 of the Social Security Act, the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation (ASPE) is seeking applications from not-for-profit or for-profit organizations or entities to conduct research to examine methods for assessing comprehensive community change initiatives and to develop possible solutions to assessment problems for these initiatives. It is anticipated that a ``Cooperative Agreement'' will be awarded as a result of this announcement. The primary goal of the proposed research is to further the understanding of the problems confronted in assessing the impact of comprehensive community change initiatives. These initiatives have several features that do not correspond to traditional assessment methods: (1) They rely on a complex interaction of components, (2) they are intended to produce impacts in several different spheres, (3) they are purposefully flexible and variable rather than standardized, (4) they saturate a community, affecting all members of the community, and (5) they involve contexts and systems that are in a continuous process of change. Given these difficulties, an examination is needed of how assessment of these initiatives can be improved. A. Type of Application Requested 1. Background ASPE has a long history of interest in comprehensive human services efforts and the methods of assessing the impact of such efforts. This includes an interest in service integration projects, as well as an interest in community-based human services reform. The office has funded assessments of individual projects and clearinghouses for information on comprehensive strategies. Several private foundations have recently created initiatives that attempt to change human service and other systems in communities. These initiatives attempt to work across systems, involving the social services, the health care system, the schools, and economic and physical redevelopment. They are generally focused on one or more urban communities. Examples of foundation initiatives include several foundation-sponsored efforts such as the Annie E. Casey foundation's New Futures Initiative, the Pew Charitable Trust's Children's Initiative, and the Ford Foundation's Neighborhood and Family Initiative. Recent federal initiatives, such as the Empowerment Zone and Enterprise Community Initiative, include similar features.
