FR941222-1-00073 FR941222-1-00008 EPA intends to propose treatment standards for K162 through K166 in a separate rulemaking. However, EPA specifically is soliciting comment and data on the following as they pertain to the proposed listing of dye and pigment industries wastes K162 through K166 as described in this action: (1) Technical descriptions of treatment systems that are or could be used potentially for these wastes; (2) Descriptions of alternative technologies that currently might be available or anticipated as applicable; (3) Performance data for the treatment of these or similar wastes (in particular, constituent concentrations in both treated and untreated wastes, as well as equipment design and operating conditions); (4) Information on known or perceived difficulties in analyzing treatment residues or specific constituents; (5) Quality assurance/quality control information for all data submissions; (6) Factors affecting on-site and off-site treatment capacity; (7) Information on the potential costs for set-up and operation of any current and alternative treatment technologies for these wastes; (8) Information on waste minimization approaches. B. Request for Comment on the Agency's Approach to the Capacity Analyses in the LDR Program In the land disposal restrictions determinations, the Agency must demonstrate that adequate treatment or recovery capacity exists to manage a newly listed waste with BDAT standards before it can restrict the waste from further land disposal. The Agency performs capacity analyses to determine if sufficient alternative treatment or recovery capacity exists to accommodate the volumes of waste that will be affected by the land disposal prohibition. If adequate capacity exists, the waste must be treated to meet the BDAT standard before land disposal. If adequate capacity does not exist, RCRA Section 3004(h) authorizes EPA to grant a national capacity variance from the effective date of the treatment standard for the waste for up to two years or until adequate alternative treatment capacity becomes available, whichever is sooner. To perform capacity analyses, the Agency needs to determine the volume of the listed waste that will require treatment prior to land disposal. The volume of waste requiring treatment depends, in turn, on the waste management practices employed by the listed waste generators. Data on waste management practices for these wastes were collected during the development of this proposed rule. However, as the regulatory process proceeds, generators may decide to minimize or recycle their wastes or otherwise alter their management practices. Thus, EPA will update and monitor changes in management practices because these changes will affect the final volume of waste requiring commercial treatment capacity. Therefore, EPA needs information on current and future waste management practices for these wastes, including the volume of waste that are recycled, mixed with or co-managed with other waste and discharged under Clean Water Act provisions; and the volume and types of residuals that are generated by various management practices applicable to newly listed and identified wastes ( e.g. , treatment residuals).
