FR940323-0-00040 FR940323-0-00020 (2) Where can higher education programs operate? One commenter expressed concern that the neighboring communities language in 2519.100 would not allow a program to operate across State lines. The Corporation's intent was that higher education programs should address needs in the communities where the programs operate, regardless of where the institution of higher education is located. The regulations have been revised to make this clear. Change: §2519.100 has been revised. Parts 2520&hyph;2524_AmeriCorps (1) Living Allowance Match . Under the proposed regulations, programs receiving educational awards only grants were exempt from the living allowance requirement. One commenter suggested that they should not be, arguing that it would make it more difficult for low-income individuals to participate. The Corporation has revised its regulations to not allow this exemption. Change: §2522.240 has been revised. Another commenter requested that grantees be able to provide their 15% match for living allowances on an in-kind basis. In general, the Corporation wants to ensure that every AmeriCorps participant receives a living allowance sufficient to meet reasonable expenses while participating. By definition, a living allowance match must be in cash. However, in certain instances where a program has received a waiver from providing the minimum living allowance, the Corporation will consider on a case-by-case basis waiving or reducing the matching requirement. For example, a program that houses its participants may not count that housing as an in-kind match, but it may be eligible to apply to have the 15% matching requirement waived or reduced. Change: A section (5)(iii), allowing for waivers of the 15% matching requirement, has been added to §2522.240(b). (2) Preselection of programs . Commenters objected to the requirement that applicants for AmeriCorps preselect and specifically identify in their applications the subgrantees they will fund. Some commenters argued that because of the tightness of the timeline, the competitive process is likely to be circumvented if preselection is required. Although the Corporation appreciates the difficulties preselection raises in light of the timeline, for both legal and policy reasons this requirement has not been changed. The statute requires a State applicant to describe the ``jobs or positions into which participants will be placed'' (section 130(c)(1)). It is the Corporation's view that such a description would be inadequate without a corresponding description of the programs in which those jobs or positions would be located. Moreover, section 130(b)(2) of the statute requires ``description of the process and criteria by which the programs were selected.'' From a policy standpoint, preselection is required in order to ensure that the Corporation funds only high-quality programs. (3) Diversity . Several commenters recommended modifications to the participant diversity provisions contained in §2522.100. One commenter stated that programs that are unable to achieve racial and gender diversity should not receive Federal funds. Conversely, other commenters expressed concern that the racial diversity requirement may exclude eligibility minority agencies that would have predominantly minority participants. A number of commenters suggested that the Corporation require diversity of program staff and include that as an evaluation criterion. One commenter suggested that the Corporation encourage programs to engage in joint activities with organizations involving participants of different backgrounds to enhance community-building. The Corporation declines to make the achievement of diversity a requirement or to establish regulatory exceptions to the mandate that every program seek diversity. The Corporation, in establishing the requirement that every program actively seek to be diverse in a number of important areas, attempted to strike a balance between competing concerns. On the one hand, diverse programs will help strengthen communities. On the other hand, there are some very good programs that, for legitimate substantive reasons, will not to be able to achieve diversity in one or more ways. The requirement, as written, will lead to diverse programs except in cases where diversity does not make sense or is not attainable (e.g., a professional corps program requiring specific skills or education should not be required to include as participants individuals who do not have such skills or education). The Corporation agrees with the suggestion that programs also should seek actively to establish a diverse staff. In many cases where a program's staff is very small, it may not always be possible to have a staff that is diverse in all ways. Within these constraints, however, programs should seek to establish a staff that is as diverse as possible. Finally, the Corporation agrees that_especially for programs that lack diversity in one or more ways_it is a good idea for programs to engage in joint activities with organizations involving participants of different backgrounds to help build communities; programs are encouraged to do so where possible. Change: §2522.100(f) has been modified to include staff diversity. (4) 50% rule . One commenter recommended that the Corporation drop the waiver provision from the requirement that at least 50% of funds going to each State go to high-need areas. (§2521.30(b)(3)(iii)) In principle, the Corporation believes strongly that each State should in fact do everything possible to comply with the 50% requirement. Thus in order to attain a waiver from this provision, a State will have to demonstrate in an extremely compelling manner not only that there are not enough viable high-quality programs operating in areas of need within the State to meet the 50% requirement, but that it has made a good-faith effort to locate such programs. Finally, no waivers will be granted to individual States if it would necessitate not complying with the 50% rule in the aggregate. The Corporation is statutorily required to ensure that a minimum of 50% of the total funds going to States go to high-need areas. And although the Corporation is committed to meeting this requirement in the aggregate, it may not always be possible to meet the requirement on a State-by-State basis. For example, the Corporation's review process may result in the selection in a given State of a high-quality program that does not operate in an area of need. If there were not other high-quality programs within that State that did operate in high-need areas, without the waiver provision the Corporation would be unable to fund the high-quality program. For this reason, the waiver provision has been retained. (5) Participant eligibility . (2522.200(b)) One commenter stated that the regulations state that a participant must have a high-school diploma to participate, whereas in fact a diploma is only required to receive the educational award. This section has not been changed. The regulations state that in order to participate an individual must either have a high school diploma or its equivalent, commit to obtaining one, or be deemed unable to obtain one. (6) National Leadership Pool and Recruitment . (2522.210(b)(1)(c)) The Corporation received a number of comments on the national leadership pool and recruitment requirements. One commenter suggested that the regulations allow anyone recruited to the national leadership pool to be placed back into his or her original program. The same commenter argued that programs should not be required to accept national leadership pool participants; instead, the Corporation should operate a pilot leadership program. Other commenters suggested that the §2522.100 requirement that AmeriCorps programs agree to select a certain percentage of participants from the national and state recruiting pools be eliminated. In order to maintain regulatory flexibility, these requirements have not been amended. To the extent that these comments are incorporated into Corporation policy it will not be done in regulations but rather in application materials and other guidelines. However, two items should be noted: (a) Although programs must agree to accept a certain percentage of nationally recruited participants, the Corporation may not require every program to do so, and will likely consider exceptions on a case-by-case basis; and (b) programs will not be required to accept leadership pool participants. (7) Child Care . (2522.250(a)) One commenter argued that child care benefits should go to prospective participants who have undependable child care as well as to participants who don't have child care at all.
