FR941017-2-00027 FR941017-2-00016 [Docket No. CP94&hyph;267&hyph;001, et al.] NorAm Gas Transmission Company, et al.; Natural Gas Certificate Filings October 6, 1994. Take notice that the following filings have been made with the Commission: 1. NorAm Gas Transmission Co. [Docket No. CP94&hyph;267&hyph;001] Take notice that on October 4, 1994, NorAm Gas Transmission Company (NGT), formerly Arkla Energy Resources Company, 1600 Smith Street, Houston, Texas 77002, filed in Docket No. CP94&hyph;267&hyph;001 an amendment to its original application filed in Docket CP94&hyph;267&hyph;000 pursuant to Section 7(c) of the Natural Gas Act for authorization to replace and rearrange existing mainline pipeline, abandon minor storage and gas supply facilities, and make certain mainline enhancements to its pipeline system in Arkansas, Louisiana, and Texas, all as more fully set forth in the application on file with the Commission and open to public inspection. NGT indicates that in its original application, it proposed to install two 2,250 h.p. slow speed reciprocal compressor units on its Line F in the existing Ruston Storage Compressor yard and rearrange and upgrade its Ruston Storage Compressor to perform both storage and mainline compression service, as part of its proposed mainline enhancements, at an estimated cost of $11.0 million. NGT is amending its application to reflect a change in its proposed mainline enhancements. NGT states that it is amending its application to modify the compression facilities that were originally proposed to be installed and rearranged in its Ruston Storage Compressor yard. NGT explains that it now proposes to install one 2,200 h.p. MEP compressor unit on Line F in its existing Ruston Storage Compressor yard to provide injection/withdrawal service and rearrange its existing Ruston Storage Compressor to perform mainline compression service, at a revised estimated cost of $4.6 million. Comment date: October 27, 1994, in accordance with Standard Paragraph F at the end of this notice. 2. Transwestern Pipeline Co. [Docket No. CP94&hyph;751&hyph;001] Take notice that on October 3, 1994, Transwestern Pipeline Company (Transwestern), Post Office Box 1188, Houston, Texas 77251&hyph;1188 filed an amendment (Amendment) to its original application in Docket No. CP94&hyph;751&hyph;000, which was filed pursuant to Section 7(b) of the Natural Gas Act for an order granting permission and approval to abandon certain facilities. Transwestern states that the Amendment incorporates the corrected and revised attachments to the original application for abandonment, all as more fully set forth in the amendment which is on file with the Commission and open to public inspection. It is stated that in the process of analyzing Transwestern's system in response to the May 27, 1994, series of gathering orders issued by the Commission and while preparing for further proceedings in Transwestern's refunctionalization proceeding in Docket No. CP94&hyph;254&hyph;000, it was discovered that certain field facilities, including compressors, plants, meters, dehydrators and miscellaneous associated facilities are no longer used and useful or are uneconomical or otherwise unnecessary for continued operation of the pipeline. Therefore, Transwestern states that it filed the original abandonment application on August 30, 1994. Transwestern determined that it would be most practical and efficient to promptly lay the groundwork for the abandonment of said facilities and withdraw them from Transwestern's refunctionalization proceeding where they had been previously included. Transwestern states that it felt that this sequencing would avoid the necessity of needlessly determining the facilities primary function when they were, except for the uneconomical Halley Plant, unused and unuseful. After filing the abandonment application, Transwestern states that it was discovered that there were several discrepancies in the attachments to the application. Transwestern states that the discrepancies have now been corrected and are the subject of its Amendment. Transwestern states that the following is a summary description of the changes made to the application's attachments: a. Text. Only one page of text has been amended by the addition of the word ``approximately'' in the fourth line of the second full paragraph of Section VII. b. Compression Facilities_Appendix 1. Appendix 1, which includes the detail on all of the compressors has been amended as follows: i. Summary Sheet. The Appendix 1 summary sheet has been amended in that the asterisks which had indicated which of the compressors had also been included in the refunctionalization filing in Docket No. CP94&hyph;254&hyph;000 have been removed. The asterisks have been removed because Transwestern states that it has determined that, in fact, knowing which of the facilities in the abandonment filing are included in the refunctionalization filing is a meaningless exercise; the original refunctionalization filing made on February 25, 1994 only included those facilities for which Transwestern requested a changed functionalization. Therefore, multiple facilities which Transwestern included in the abandonment proceeding were not included in the refunctionalization proceeding because no change in functionalization was requested. Transwestern states that realistically, the primary function that a facility had when it was active is irrelevant to a determination of whether it is in fact now used and useful. Transwestern states that it has concluded that the asterisks have created more confusion than necessary and that the application for abandonment would be more meaningful without them. The system numbers for the Reger Stuart No. 726, the A.R. King No. 721, the Kemnitz Nos. 864 and 884 have been corrected. The line segment numbers have been corrected for the Hoeppner No. 854, Meier Cruise No. 813, A.R. King No. 721, W. Waha No. 749 and the Pecos River No. 839 compressors. Additionally, it is stated that the original cost has been corrected for all of the compressors but the Reger Stuart No. 726, the Meier Cruise No. 813, the W. Waha No. 749 and the Monument No. 811 compressors. These corrections have been made due to the fact that the database from which the data was originally retrieved has been scrubbed in order to formulate Appendixes A and B of the refunctionalization data response, a process that had not been performed when this abandonment was originally filed. Finally, a cost total has been added to the table. ii. Individual Compressor Data Sheets. All of the compressor data sheets behind the summary sheet have been amended by the removal of line 4 which indicated whether the compressor had been included in the refunctionalization proceeding. Additionally, the original cost figures have been changed for all of the compressors except the Reger Stuart No. 726, the Meier Cruise No. 813, the W. Waha No. 749 and the Monument No. 811 compressors. Finally, Page 14, line 7 has been amended so that on in service date of 1969 is reflected. c. Plants_Appendix 2. i. Summary Sheet. The summary sheet in Appendix 2 has been amended to remove the asterisks for those plants included in the refunctionalization filing. The original cost for all of the plants except the Huber Plant has been adjusted to reflect the refinement of the facilities database as described above. In addition, the cost for the Bell Lake Plant has been revised because two compressors and an extraneous piece of pipeline were included in the original number in error. Finally, a cost total for the plants has been added to the summary sheet. ii. Individual Plant Data Sheets. Line 3 has been deleted on all of the individual plant data sheets to eliminate the cross reference to the refunctionalization proceeding. The original cost figures have been corrected for each plant except the Huber plant. In addition, Transwestern states that its field personnel have compiled more detailed information for each of the plants included in the abandonment proceeding with regard to estimates of salvage value, removal costs and reclamation costs. Thus, the entries on lines 12, 13 and 14 on the individual plant data sheets have been amended to reflect a more individualized estimate. Finally, the entries on the Walton, Keystone and Bell Lake Plants on line 14 have been amended to reflect that more facilities than originally indicated are excepted from the abandonment filing.
