FR941202-0-00135 FR941202-0-00012 RSPA 49 CFR Chapter I List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 199 Pipeline safety, Drug testing, Recordkeeping and reporting. For the reasons set out in the preamble, RSPA amends 49 CFR Part 199, as follows: PART 199_DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING 1. The authority citation for Part 199 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 49 U.S.C. 60101 et seq.; 49 CFR 1.53. 2. Section 199.3 is amended by adding the following definitions in alphabetical order: ยง199.3 Definitions. * * * * * Positive rate means the number of positive results for random drug tests conducted under this subpart plus the number of refusals of random tests required by this subpart, divided by the total number of random drug tests conducted under this subpart plus the number of refusals of random tests required by this subpart. * * * * * Refuse to submit means that a covered employee fails to provide a urine sample as required by 49 CFR Part 40, without a genuine inability to provide a specimen (as determined by a medical evaluation), after he or she has received notice of the requirement to be tested in accordance with the provisions of this subpart, or engages in conduct that clearly obstructs the testing process. * * * * * 3. Section 199.11 is amended by revising paragraph (c) to read as follows: ยง199.11 Drug tests required. * * * * * (c) Random testing. (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) through (4) of this section, the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing shall be 50 percent of covered employees. (2) The Administrator's decision to increase or decrease the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing is based on the reported positive rate for the entire industry. All information used for this determination is drawn from the drug MIS reports required by this subpart. In order to ensure reliability of the data, the Administrator considers the quality and completeness of the reported data, may obtain additional information or reports from operators, and may make appropriate modifications in calculating the industry positive rate. Each year, the Administrator will publish in the Federal Register the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing of covered employees. The new minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing will be applicable starting January 1 of the calendar year following publication. (3) When the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing is 50 percent, the Administrator may lower this rate to 25 percent of all covered employees if the Administrator determines that the data received under the reporting requirements of ยง199.25 for two consecutive calendar years indicate that the reported positive rate is less than 1.0 percent. (4) When the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing is 25 percent, and the data received under the reporting requirements of ยง199.25 for any calendar year indicate that the reported positive rate is equal to or greater than 1.0 percent, the Administrator will increase the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing to 50 percent of all covered employees. (5) The selection of employees for random drug testing shall be made by a scientifically valid method, such as a random number table or a computer-based random number generator that is matched with employees' Social Security numbers, payroll identification numbers, or other comparable identifying numbers. Under the selection process used, each covered employee shall have an equal chance of being tested each time selections are made. (6) The operator shall randomly select a sufficient number of covered employees for testing during each calendar year to equal an annual rate not less than the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing determined by the Administrator. If the operator conducts random drug testing through a consortium, the number of employees to be tested may be calculated for each individual operator or may be based on the total number of covered employees covered by the consortium who are subject to random drug testing at the same minimum annual percentage rate under this subpart or any DOT drug testing rule. (7) Each operator shall ensure that random drug tests conducted under this subpart are unannounced and that the dates for administering random tests are spread reasonably throughout the calendar year. (8) If a given covered employee is subject to random drug testing under the drug testing rules of more than one DOT agency for the same operator, the employee shall be subject to random drug testing at the percentage rate established for the calendar year by the DOT agency regulating more than 50 percent of the employee's function. (9) If an operator is required to conduct random drug testing under the drug testing rules of more than one DOT agency, the operator may_ (i) Establish separate pools for random selection, with each pool containing the covered employees who are subject to testing at the same required rate; or (ii) Randomly select such employees for testing at the highest percentage rate established for the calendar year by any DOT agency to which the operator is subject. * * * * * Issued in Washington, D.C. on November 22, 1994. D.K. Sharma, Administrator, Research and Special Programs Administration.
