FR940722-0-00124 FR940722-0-00019 H. Provisions for Rural Telephone Companies 148. After the release of the Second Report and Order, rural telephone companies made numerous ex parte presentations concerning how we can best ensure that rural areas are provided broadband PCS. In addition, we have received several petitions for reconsideration of the Second Report and Order that address our definition of rural telephone companies in the generic auction rules. In this Order, we address the treatment of rural telephone companies for purposes of competitive bidding for broadband PCS licenses and address below some of the issues raised in petitions for reconsideration of the Second Report and Order concerning the definition of these entities. 149. In the Broadband PCS Reconsideration Order, we adopted an important measure that will help rural telephone companies become viable providers of PCS services. In response to numerous requests from rural telephone company interests, we increased from 20 percent to 40 percent the cellular attribution threshold for rural telephone companies with non-controlling cellular interests in their areas. See Broadband PCS Reconsideration Order at ¶125. This action increases the number of rural telephone companies that will be eligible to hold PCS licenses. In taking this action, we recognized that their existing infrastructure makes rural telephone companies well suited to introduce PCS services rapidly into their service areas and adjacent areas. Thus, this action will help speed service to rural areas, which tend to be less profitable to serve for companies without existing infrastructure than more densely populated urban areas. 150. We suggested in the Second Report and Order that allowing broadband PCS licenses to be geographically partitioned may be a means to permit rural telephone companies to hold licenses to provide service in their telephone service areas. 126 Many rural telephone companies proposed some form of partitioning in their comments, arguing that if they were required to bid on entire BTA or MTA licenses to obtain licenses covering their wireline service areas, they would be effectively barred from entering the broadband PCS industry. They contend that under a partitioning plan, they would be able to serve areas in which they already provide service, while the remainder of the PCS service area could be served by other providers. Such a plan, they argue, would encourage rural telephone companies to take advantage of existing infrastructure in providing PCS services, thereby speeding service to rural areas. 127 We believe that these proposals have merit, and therefore we now adopt a license partitioning system to provide these designated entities the enhanced opportunity to participate in the provision of broadband PCS and to deploy broadband PCS in their rural services areas rapidly. 126 See Second Report and Order at ¶243, n. 186. We note that although we stated in n. 186 that we would consider partitioning for rural telephone companies in the reconsideration of the broadband PCS service rules, we have concluded that this issue should be addressed along with other issues concerning designated entities. See Broadband PCS Reconsideration Order at ¶83, n. 113. In our deliberations on this issue, we incorporate into this proceeding the record developed in GEN Docket No. 90&hyph;314. 127 See, e.g., comments of GVNW at 2&hyph;4, Rural Cellular Association at 16, U.S. Intelco at 16. 151. Our partitioning system will allow rural telephone companies to obtain broadband PCS licenses that are geographically partitioned from larger PCS service areas. These companies will be permitted to acquire partitioned broadband PCS licenses in either of two ways in any frequency blocks: (1) They may form bidding consortia consisting entirely of rural telephone companies to participate in auctions, and then partition the licenses won among consortia participants, and (2) they may acquire partitioned broadband PCS licenses from other licensees through private negotiation and agreement either before or after the auction. Each rural telephone company member of a consortium will, following the auction, be required to file a long-form application for its respective, mutually agreed-upon geographic area. If rural telephone company consortia are formed to bid on licenses in the entrepreneurs' blocks, the eligibility rules for those blocks will apply ( i.e., the cumulative gross revenues and assets of the consortium members may not exceed the financial caps for eligibility in these blocks). 128 We will require that partitioned areas conform to established geopolitical boundaries (such as county lines) and that each area include all portions of the wireline service area of the rural telephone company applicant that lies within the PCS service area. In addition, if a rural telephone company receives a partitioned license post-auction from another PCS licensee, the partitioned area must be reasonably related to the rural telephone company's wireline service area that lies within the PCS service area. 129 We recognize that rural telephone companies will require some flexibility in fashioning the areas in which they will receive partitioned licenses, so we do not adopt a strict rule concerning the reasonableness of the partitioned area. Generally, we will presume as reasonable a partitioned area that contains no more than twice the population of that portion of a rural telephone company's wireline service area that lies within the PCS service area. Each licensee in each partitioned area will be responsible for meeting the build-out requirements in its area. 128 As discussed below, we will permit a consortium consisting entirely of small businesses to exceed the entrepreneurs' blocks financial thresholds. See infra ¶¶179&hyph;180. Therefore, if each member of a consortium of rural telephone companies also satisfies the definition of a small business, we will allow the consortium to bid in the entrepreneurs' blocks even if it exceeds the gross revenues and total assets caps. 129 This provision will not apply when rural telephone companies form consortia only among themselves and then partition the license area. In this circumstance, one or more partitioned areas may have to be larger in order for the entire PCS service area to be served. 152. Allowing partitioning of rural areas served by rural telephone companies provides a viable opportunity for many of these designated entities who desire to offer PCS to their customers as a complement to their local telephone services. For example, rural telephone companies who cannot afford or do not desire to bid for or construct PCS systems for an entire BTA can thus acquire licenses in areas they wish to serve or form bidding consortia and partition the entire BTA among themselves. We believe that rural partitioning is an efficient method of getting a license in the hands of an entity that will provide rapid service to rural areas.
