FR940722-2-00024 FR940722-2-00015 (6) World Solar Summit_Two GRC representatives will attend the World Solar Summit in Barcelona, Spain with the purpose of establishing and maintaining foreign governmental and industrial contacts that are critical for the U.S. geothermal export program. The probability of meeting the objectives listed below are very high, given that the GRC has been successful in the past for similar endeavors. The staff of the Geothermal Resources Council is uniquely qualified to provide this service. The GRC Staff is well known and respected throughout the geothermal industry. The GRC's base of operations is in an office that is fully capable of meeting their needs. The budget proposed for the anticipated work was reviewed and is considered to be appropriate and adequate. The major public benefit to be derived from the projects and activities are providing educational material to various stakeholders (i.e., students, teachers, utilities, industry, and the public), and a technology transfer service to the geothermal community. The services that are being provided through this grant are: Forums for presentation and discussion of topics of general interest to the geothermal community; an educational program to keep well regulators updated and certified, expansion of an on-line library which provides access to publications on geothermal energy, as well as a list of geothermal power plants worldwide and a list of vendors of U.S. geothermal goods and services, assistance in providing a training center for geothermal heat pumps which is a very efficient method of heating and cooling buildings, and help in promoting the exportation of U.S. goods and services. The services provided through the proposed grant are vital and strongly support the geothermal program's direction and objectives. The Geothermal Resources Council, a Section 501 (c)(3) organization, is uniquely qualified and positioned to perform the above mentioned tasks since the GRC is an accepted and respected industry organization. The GRC has established an information network which is continually growing. The effort is a continuation of work which has been funded by DOE and competition for this effort would have a significant adverse impact on the continuity of the proposed activities. Issued in Golden, Colorado on: July 12, 1994. John W. Meeker, Procurement Chief, Golden Field Office. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17903 Filed 7&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
