FR941007-1-00120 FR941007-1-00009 (A) Its service delivery systems are accessible to limited portions of its service area(s); (B) To the extent changes have been made, the bank's record of opening and closing branches and ATMs has adversely affected the accessibility its delivery systems, particularly in low- or moderate-income geographies or to low- or moderate-income individuals; (C) Services (including, where appropriate, business hours) vary in a way that inconveniences certain portions of its service area(s), particularly low- or moderate-income geographies or low- or moderate-income individuals; and (D) It provides a limited level of community development services. (v) Substantial noncompliance. The Board shall rate a bank's service performance as being in ``substantial noncompliance'' if, in general, the bank demonstrates: (A) Its service delivery systems are inaccessible to significant portions of its service area(s), particularly low- and moderate-income geographies or low- and moderate-income individuals; (B) To the extent changes have been made, the bank's record of opening and closing branches and ATMs has significantly adversely affected the accessibility of its delivery systems, particularly in low- or moderate-income geographies or to low- or moderate-income individuals; (C) Services (including, where appropriate, business hours) vary in a way that significantly inconveniences many portions of its service area(s), particularly low- or moderate-income geographies or low- or moderate-income individuals; and (D) It provides few, if any, community development services. (4) Assigned rating. The Board shall use the following procedures for assigning a rating: (i) Assign points corresponding to the bank's performance on each of the component tests as follows: ␣ [In points] 1Component test ratings 1Lending 1Service 1Investment Outstanding 12 6 6 High satisfactory 9 4 4 Low satisfactory 6 3 3 Needs to improve 3 1 1 Substantial noncompliance 0 0 0 (ii) Total the points for the three tests, and use that total to determine the composite rating according to the chart below. However, if the total exceeds twice the number of points attributable to the bank's lending test performance (as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this appendix), determine the composite rating using twice the number of points attributable to the bank's lending test performance. ␣ 1Points 1Composite rating 18 or over Outstanding. 9 through 17 Satisfactory. 5 through 8 Needs to improve. 0 through 4 Substantial noncompliance. (c) Community development test for wholesale or limited purpose banks. The Board shall assign each wholesale or limited purpose bank's community development performance one of the four ratings described below. (1) Outstanding. The Board shall rate a wholesale or limited purpose bank's community development performance ``outstanding'' if, in general, it demonstrates:
