FR941221-2-00010 FR941221-2-00007 To achieve the most appropriate comparisons, home market sales were matched with U.S. sales according to the amounts and types of fillers in the products sold and the percentages of those fillers. See Memorandum To File dated August 2, 1994; Changes in the Model Match Methodology for Granular Polytetrafluoroethylene Resin from Italy, which is on file in the Central Records Unit (room B099 of the Main Commerce Building). FMV was based on packed, delivered prices to unrelated customers in Italy, with appropriate deductions from the home market price for inland freight and insurance, credit expenses, and home market packing. We added U.S. packing to the home market price in accordance with section 773(a)(1) of the Act. We then made adjustments to the home market price for indirect selling expenses, which we limited to the amount of indirect selling expenses incurred in the United States, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b)(2). In addition, we included in FMV the amount of value-added taxes collected in the home market in accordance with our practice as outlined in Silicon Manganese from Venezuela, Preliminary Determination of Sales at Less than Fair Value (59 FR 31204, June 17, 1994). Preliminary Results of the Review As a result of our comparison of USP with FMV, we preliminarily determine that the following weighted-average dumping margin existed during the period August 1, 1991 through July 31, 1992: ␣ 1Manufacturer/Exporter 1Period 1Margin (percent) Ausimont S.p.A 08/01/91&hyph; 07/31/92 13.31 The Department shall determine and the Customs Service shall assess antidumpting duties on all appropriate entries. Individual differences between USP and FMV may vary from the percentage stated above. Upon completion of this review, the Department will issue appraisement instructions directly to the Customs Service. Furthermore, the following deposit requirements will be effective for all shipments of the subject merchandise, entered, or withdrawn from warehouses, for consumption on or after the publication of the final results of this administrative review, as provided for by section 751(a)(1) of the Act: (1) The cash deposit rates for the reviewed company will be the rate established in the final results in this administrative review; (2) for previously reviewed or investigated companies not listed above, the cash deposit rate will continue to be the company-specific rate published for the most recent period; (3) if the exporter is not a firm covered in this review, a prior review, or the original less-than-fair-value (LTFV) investigation, but the manufacturer is, the cash deposit rate will be the rate established for the most recent period for the manufacturer of the merchandise; and (4) for merchandise exported by all other manufacturers and exporters who are nor covered by this or any previous administrative review conducted by the Department, the cash deposit rate will be the ``all-others'' rate established in the LTFV investigation. On March 25, 1993, the Court of International Trade (CIT), in Floral Trade Council v. United States , 822 F. Supp. 766 (CIT 1993), and Federal-Mogul Corporation v. United States , 822 F. Supp. 782 (CIT 1993), decided that once an ``all others'' rate is established for a company, it can only be changed through an administrative review. The Department has determined that in order to implement these decisions, it is appropriate to reinstate the original ``all others'' rate from the LTFV investigation (or that rate as amended for correction of clerical errors or as a result of litigation) in proceedings governed by antidumping duty orders. In proceedings governed by antidumping findings, unless we are able to ascertain the ``all others'' rate from the original LTFV investigation, the Department has determined that it is appropriate to adopt the ``new shipper'' rate established in the first final results of administrative review published by the Department (or that rate as amended for correction of clerical errors or as a result of litigation) as the ``all others'' rate for the purposes of establishing cash deposits in all current and future administrative reviews. Because this proceeding is governed by an antidumping duty order, the ``all others'' rate for the purposes of this review will be 46.46 percent_the ``all others'' rate established in the LTFV investigation (50 FR 26019; June 24, 1985).
