FR940805-2-00062 FR940805-2-00039 Request for Nominations for Voting Members on Public Advisory Committees; Device Good Manufacturing Practice Advisory Committee AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is requesting nominations for voting members to serve on the Device Good Manufacturing Practice Advisory Committee in FDA's Center for Devices and Radiological Health. Nominations will be accepted for current vacancies and vacancies that will or may occur through May 31, 1995. FDA has a special interest in ensuring that women, minority groups, and individuals with disabilities are adequately represented on advisory committees and, therefore, encourages nominations for appropriately qualified female, minority, or disabled candidates. DATES: Nominations should be received by September 6, 1994. ADDRESSES: All nominations and curricula vitae for health professionals, industry representatives, and government representatives shall be submitted in writing to Sharon M. Kalokerinos (address below). All nominations and curricula vitae for general public representatives (consumer representatives) shall be submitted in writing to Susan K. Meadows (address below). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Regarding health professionals, industry representatives, and government representatives: Sharon M. Kalokerinos, Center for Devices and Radiological Health (HFZ&hyph;300), Food and Drug Administration, 2098 Gaither Rd., Gaithersburg, MD 20850, 301&hyph;594&hyph;4613. Regarding general public representatives (consumer representatives): Susan K. Meadows, Office of Consumer Affairs (HFE&hyph;20), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;443&hyph;5006. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: FDA is requesting nominations of voting members for the following vacancies: Two vacancies immediately, three vacancies occurring June 1, 1995. There are immediate openings for one industry and one government representative; as of June 1, 1995, vacancies will exist for a general public representative, a health professional, and a government representative. Function The function of the Device Good Manufacturing Practice Advisory Committee is to review regulations for promulgation regarding current good manufacturing practices (CGMP's) governing the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, storage, installation, and servicing of devices, and make recommendations regarding the feasibility and reasonableness of those proposed regulations. The committee also reviews and makes recommendations on proposed guidelines (e.g., ``Guideline on General Principles of Process Validation'') developed to assist the medical device industry in meeting the CGMP requirements, and provides advice with regard to any petition submitted by a manufacturer for an exemption or variance from CGMP regulations. Section 520 of the act, as amended by the Medical Device Amendments of 1976 (2l U.S.C. 360(j)), provides that the Device Good Manufacturing Practice Advisory Committee shall be composed of nine members as follows: (1) Three of the members shall be appointed from persons who are officers or employees of any Federal, State, or local government; (2) two shall be representatives of interests of the device manufacturing industry; (3) two shall be representatives of the interests of physicians and other health professionals; and (4) two shall be representatives of the interests of the general public. Criteria for Members Government Representatives and Health Professionals Persons nominated for membership should have knowledge of or expertise in any one or more of the following areas: Quality assurance concerning the design, manufacture, and use of medical devices. General Public and Industry Representatives To be eligible for selection as a representative of the general public and industry, candidates should possess appropriate qualifications to understand and contribute to the committee's work. Nomination Procedures Any interested person may nominate one or more qualified persons as a member of the advisory committee. Self-nominations are also accepted. Nominations shall include a complete curriculum vitae of each nominee, as well as current business address and telephone number. FDA will ask the potential candidates to provide detailed information concerning such matters as financial holdings, employment, and research grants and/or contracts to permit evaluation of possible sources of conflict of interest. Industry representatives are included specifically for the purpose of representing industry interests and any financial interest covered by 18 U.S.C. 208(a) in the class which the member represents is irrelevant and is exempted under 18 U.S.C. 208(b). The term of office is up to 4 years, depending on the appointment date. Selection Procedures Selection of members representing general public interests is conducted through procedures which include use of a consortium of consumer organizations which has the responsibility for screening, interviewing, and recommending candidates for the agency's selection. This notice is issued under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. app. 2) and 21 CFR part 14, relating to advisory committees. Dated: August 1, 1994. Linda A. Suydam, Interim Deputy Commissioner for Operations. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19096 Filed 8&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
