FR940628-1-00069 FR940628-1-00014 The ANPRM discussed the agency's statistical analyses of the interaction of driver characteristics, vehicle stability metrics, roadway and environmental conditions. The notice described the following vehicle stability metrics as having a potentially significant role in vehicle rollover: center of gravity height; static stability factor; tilt table ratio; side pull ratio; wheelbase; critical sliding velocity; rollover prevention metric; braking stability metric; and percent of total vehicle weight on the rear axle. A vehicle stability metric is a measured vehicle parameter that presumably is related to the vehicle's likelihood of rollover involvement. To supplement the ANPRM, a Technical Assessment Paper that discussed testing activities, testing results, accident data collection, and analysis of the data was placed in the docket on January 6, 1992. A description of the individual metrics can be found in the Technical Assessment Paper. ( Note: For the remainder of this notice, ``tilt table angle'' is used in place of ``tilt table ratio,'' regardless of the term used in any other document. NHTSA is using ``tilt table angle'' because the agency is proposing tilt table angle as one of the possible measurements to be used in the proposed consumer information regulation. Tilt table angle is the angle at which the last uphill tire of a vehicle lifts off a tilting platform. Tilt table ratio is the tangent of the tilt table angle and is believed to be harder for the average consumer to understand.) During the development of the ANPRM and subsequent to receiving and analyzing comments to the ANPRM, it became obvious that no single type of rulemaking could solve all, or even a majority of, the problems associated with rollover. This view was strengthened by the agency's review and analysis of the comments on the ANPRM. To emphasize this conclusion and inform the public further about the complicated nature of the light duty vehicle rollover problem, the agency released a document titled ``Planning Document for Rollover Prevention and Injury Mitigation'' at a Society of Automotive Engineers meeting on rollover on September 23, 1992. The Planning Document gave an overview of the rollover problem and a list of alternative actions that NHTSA was examining to address the problem. Alternatives for regulatory action and a schedule for decisions on each were included. The current status of the presented alternative actions was discussed earlier in this notice. The document was placed in Docket No. 91&hyph;68; Notice 02, on the same day. NHTSA published a notice in the Federal Register announcing the availability of the Planning Document and requesting comment (September 29, 1992; 57 FR 44721). C. Comments on the ANPRM and the Planning Document
