FR940419-1-00077 FR940419-1-00009 (v) Training for programs such as child care, early childhood development, parent involvement, volunteer services, parenting skills, before and after school programs; (vi) Training programs on health, nutrition and safety; (vii) Workshops for youth services, child abuse and neglect prevention, tutorial services, in partnership with community-based organizations such as local Boys and Girls Clubs, YMCA/YWCA, Boy/Girl Scouts, Campfire and Big Brother/Big Sisters, etc. Other HUD programs such as the Youth Sports Program and the Public Housing Drug Elimination Programs also provide funding in these areas; and (viii) Training in the development of strategies to successfully implement a youth program. For example, assessing the needs and problems of the youth, improving youth initiatives that are currently active, and training youth, housing authority staff, resident management corporations and resident councils on youth initiatives and program activities. (5) General. (i) Required training on HUD regulations and policies governing the operation of low-income public housing, financial management, capacity building to develop the necessary skills to assume management responsibilities at the project and property management; (ii) Purchasing hardware, i.e., computers and software, office furnishings and supplies, in connection with business development. Every effort must be made to acquire donated or discounted hardware; (iii) Training in accessing other funding sources; and (iv) Hiring trainers or other experts (RCs/RMCs must ensure that this training is provided by a qualified housing management specialist, a community organizer, the HA, or other sources knowledgeable about the program). ยง964.210 Announcement of funding availability. A Notice of Funding Availability shall be published periodically in the Federal Register containing the amounts of funds available, funding criteria, where to obtain and submit applications, the deadline for submissions, and further explanation of the selection criteria. ยง964.215 Grant agreement. (a) General. HUD shall enter into a grant agreement with the recipient of a technical assistance grant which defines the legal framework for the relationship between HUD and a resident council or resident management corporation for the proposed funding. (b) Term of grant agreement. A grant shall be for a term of three to five years (3&hyph;5 years), and renewable at the expiration of the term.
