FR940407-2-00178 FR940407-2-00081 Attachment J_Checklist for Use in Submitting OCS Grant Applications Job Opportunities for Low-Income Individuals (Optional) The application should contain: 1. Table of Contents. 2. A completed, signed SF&hyph;424, Application for Federal Assistance. The letter code for the priority area (JO) should be in the lower right-hand corner of the page. 3. A completed SF&hyph;424A, Budget Information_Non-Construction''. 4. A narrative budget justification for each object class category required under Section B, SF&hyph;424A; 5. Filled out signed, and dated Assurances-Non-Construction Programs (SF&hyph;424B); 6. The applicant should sign Attachments E and F. In so doing, the applicant is certifying that it will comply with the Federal requirements concerning the drug-free workplace and debarment regulations set forth in Attachments E. 7. A signed copy of Certification Regarding Anti-Lobbying Activities . 8. A completed Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, if applicable. 9. An Executive Summary_not to exceed 300 words; 10. A Project Narrative beginning with a Table of Contents that describes the project in the following order: (i) Eligibility Confirmation (ii) Organizational Experience and Staff Responsibilities (iii) Analysis of Need (iv) Project Design/Work Program (v) Business Plan (If appropriate) (vi) Third-Party Evaluation (vii) Cooperative Partnership Agreement (viii) Budget Appropriateness and Reasonableness 11. A signed copy of the Cooperative Partnership Agreement or letter of commitment. 12. Appendices, including proof of non-profit status; proof that the organization is a community development corporation, if applying under the CDC Set-aside; commitments from officials of businesses that will be expanded or from franchises, where applicable; Single Point of Contact comments, if applicable; Maintenance of Effort Certification and resumes. 13. A self-addressed mailing label which can be affixed to a postcard to acknowledge receipt of application. The narrative portion of the application must not exceed a total of 50 pages. It should include one original and four identical copies, printed on white 81/2 by 11 inch paper, two-holed punched at the top center and fastened separately with a compressor slide paper fastener, such as an ACCO clip, or a binder clip. The submission of bound applications, enclosed in binders, is specifically discouraged. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8275 Filed 4&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;P
