FR941007-1-00134 FR941007-1-00009 §345.24 Service test. (a) Scope of test. The service test evaluates a bank's record of helping to meet the credit needs of the bank's service area(s) by analyzing both the availability and responsiveness of a bank's systems for delivering retail banking services and the extent and innovativeness of its community development services. (b) Assessment criteria_retail banking services. The FDIC shall evaluate the availability and responsiveness of a bank's systems for delivering retail banking services, pursuant to the following criteria: (1) The current distribution of the bank's branches and RSFs among low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income geographies; (2) In the context of its current distribution of the bank's branches and RSFs, the bank's record of opening and closing branches and RSFs, particularly branches and RSFs located in low- or moderate-income geographies or primarily serving low- or moderate-income individuals; (3) The availability of alternative systems for delivering retail banking services ( e.g. , banking by telephone or computer, mobile branches and RSFs, RSFs not owned or operated by or operated exclusively for the bank, loan production offices, and bank-at-work or by-mail programs) in low- and moderate-income geographies and to low- and moderate-income individuals; and (4) The range of services provided in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income geographies and the degree to which the services are tailored to meet the needs of those geographies. (c) Assessment criteria_community development services. (1) Community development services are services that: (i) Primarily benefit low- or moderate-income individuals, businesses or farms with gross annual revenues less than or equal to $1 million, or businesses or farms that qualify as small businesses under a Small Business Administration program; and (ii) Address affordable housing (including multifamily rental housing) or other community economic development needs that are not being met by the private market. (2) The FDIC shall evaluate community development services pursuant to the following criteria: (i) The extent to which the bank provides community development services; and (ii) The innovativeness and responsiveness of community development services. (3) When evaluating a bank's overall service performance, the FDIC shall weigh the bank's community development services according to the characteristics and needs of the bank's service area(s), the capacity and constraints of the bank, and the opportunities available to the bank to provide community development services. (4) At a bank's option, the FDIC shall consider in its assessment of a bank's service performance a community development service provided by an affiliate of the bank, provided that the community development service is not claimed by any other institution. (d) Service performance rating . The FDIC shall rate a bank's service performance as provided in Appendix A of this part. §345.25 Community development test for wholesale or limited purpose banks. (a) Scope of test. (1) The FDIC shall assess the degree to which a wholesale or limited purpose bank (as defined in §345.12 of this part) is helping to meet the credit needs of its service area(s) under the community development test only if the bank's written request to be designated as a wholesale or limited purpose bank has been approved by the FDIC before the commencement of its CRA examination, and the designation has not been revoked either at the request of the bank or at the FDIC's own initiative. (2) The community development test evaluates the record of a wholesale or limited purpose bank in helping to meet the credit needs of its service area(s) through qualified investments, community development lending, or community development services. (3) For purposes of the community development test only, community development loans include small business and small farm loans and loans to low- and moderate-income individuals and geographies, whether or not reported or collected by the bank or one of its affiliates as home mortgage loans, small business loans, small farm loans, or consumer loans, pursuant to §345.42 of this part. (b) Assessment criteria. The FDIC shall evaluate the community development performance of a wholesale or limited purpose bank pursuant to the following criteria: (1) The number and amount of community development loans outstanding, qualified investments (as defined in §345.23 of this part), or community development services (as defined in §345.24 of this part); (2) The use of innovative or complex qualified investments, community development loans outstanding, or community development services and their connection to credit needs; and (3) The degree of responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs.
