FR941013-2-00074 FR941013-2-00057 •Develops OMC's research and evaluation agenda in consultation with HCFA's Office of Research and Demonstrations (ORD). •Initiates and conducts managed care program policy analyses and studies to assess program performance and prepares reports. •Develops program improvement initiatives for OMC (e.g., payment reform, future delivery systems, and rural opportunity initiatives). Develops initiatives to reach special populations, including low income and vulnerable beneficiaries. •Develops new managed care products (e.g. new contracting methods) and programs. •Coordinates policy issues with other payers. •Provide leadership and coordinate Medicare SELECT and dual eligible issues. •Reviews HCFA policy documents to determine impact on Managed Care components. f. Medicare Payment and Audit Team (FAD5) •Establishes and disseminates interim payment rates, retroactively adjusts payments, and performs end-of-year settlements for all cost-based contracting plans. Ensures timeliness and accuracy of all payments to participating plans and develops, reviews, validates, and authorizes these payments. •Recommends payment to plans, checks payment accuracy, and resolves payment disputes (including litigation support). •Develops and implements national payment procedures for coordinated health care plans. •Develops and maintains national instructional manuals on coordinated health care payment for coordinated health care plans. Provides technical assistance to the plans, ROs, and CO relating to the payment process. •Serves as Project Officer for the outside audit contractor who performs the desk review of the HMO and CMP cost reports. •Reviews budgets and cost reports, manages the financial audit process and settlement of final cost reports, ensures payment integrity, and authorizes payments to cost-based contractors. •Determines and approves benefits and premiums on Adjusted Community Rate (ACR) reviews for contract renewals. Trains and guides OMC staff, contractors and plans in ACR reviews. •Develops procedures to improve or revise the payment methodologies and processes of HMO and CMP Medicare contractors. •Manages and assures compliance with presumptive cost limits for cost-based contractors. •Ensures that appropriate payment methodologies are employed for HCFA Demonstration projects. •Coordinates OMC data input to the Adjusted Average Per Capita Cost process. •Resolves payment disputes, including litigation support for cost-based contractors. •Proposes changes in law, regulations, manual instructions, and procedures related to Medicare Payment and Audit activities to OMC's Program Policy and Improvement component. g. Operations and Oversight Team (FAD6) •Investigates, evaluates, approves or denies approval of applications for new Medicare contracts, Federal Qualification of HMOs, and service area expansions of contracts and Federal qualification under Section 1301 of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act, Section 1833 and Section 1876 of the Social Security Act, and related regulations. Integrates RO review of elements of applicant operations into approval or denial decision on Medicare contract applications. •Reviews and assures HMO and CMP fiscal soundness and solvency during the application process. Monitors financial, fiscal solvency provisions, and legal aspects of federally qualified HMO and CMP operations. o Coordinates with and provides technical assistance to the ROs, state regulators, and professional organizations on review of health services delivery, legal, and financial sections of Medicare contract and Title XIII applications, as well as other managed care requirements. •Provides oversight of RO performance of monitoring and other assigned regional functions. Provides training for RO staff about procedures, program requirements and HMO operational issues. •In consultation with the ROs, establishes HMO/CMP contractor performance measures and monitoring and evaluation protocols. •Coordinates with and provides technical assistance to ROs and ORD the monitoring of Medicare contracting HMOs and CMPs including substantive review of demonstration projects. •Enforces employer compliance with Section 1310 of the PHS Act (the mandatory offering of an HMO alternative to indemnity health insurance plans). •Participates in Medicare contract post-approval activities and coordinates all contract renewal/non-renewal, and terminations. •Evaluates RO recommendations regarding compliance or enforcement actions. Implements intermediate sanctions and other enforcement authorities and refers cases of Civil Money Penalties to the Office of the Inspector General.
