FR941102-2-00092 FR941102-2-00068 [Release No. 34&hyph;34895; File Nos. SR&hyph;MCC&hyph;94&hyph;10 and SR&hyph;MSTC&hyph;94&hyph;11] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Midwest Clearing Corporation and Midwest Securities Trust Company; Notices of Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of Proposed Rule Changes That Modify Certain MST Communications System Fees October 25, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on September 16, 1994, the Midwest Clearing Corporation (``MCC'') and Midwest Securities Trust Company (``MSTC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule changes (File Nos. SR&hyph;MCC&hyph;94&hyph;10 and SR&hyph;MSTC&hyph;94&hyph;11) as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared mainly by MCC and MSTC, self-regulatory organizations. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule changes from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. ยง78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organizations' Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Changes MCC and MSTC propose to amend the portions of their services and schedules of charges relating to the MST Communications System 2 by: (1) changing the name of the system from the ``MST Communications System'' to the ``MST Link''; (2) merging and repricing the services previously available and priced under the MSTC Link Service into the general list of services and fees under the MST Link Service; 3 and (3) imposing a charge for terminal IDs of $25 per terminal ID for all terminal IDs after the initial ID. 4 Refer to Exhibit A for the text of the proposed fee changes. 2 The MST Communications System is a combined computer system used by MCC and MSTC and is their primary computer system. Telephone conversation between David T. Rusoff, Attorney, Foley & Lardner, and Thomas C. Etter, Jr., Senior Counsel, Division of Market Regulation, Commission (September 19, 1994). 3 The MSTC Link Service, part of an existing telecommunications system, will be consolidated into the new MST Link. id. 4 The abbreviation ``ID'' in this context refers to computer identification numbers. Id. II. Self-Regulatory Organizations' Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Changes In their filings with the Commission, MCC and MSTC included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule changes and discussed any comments they received on the proposed rule changes. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. MCC and MSTC have prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B) and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organizations' Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Changes MCC and MSTC state that the purpose of the proposed changes is to change the pricing structure of portions of the MST Communications System Service. MCC and MSTC further state that the proposed rule changes are consistent with Section 17A(b)(3)(D) of the Act because they provide for the equitable allocation of reasonable fees and other charges among participants using their facilities. 5 5 15 U.S.C. ยง78q&hyph;1(b)(3)(D) (1988).
