FR940916-0-00031 FR940916-0-00013 33 CFR Part 165 [CGD 05&hyph;94&hyph;077] RIN 2115&hyph;AE84 Regulated Navigation Area; Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway, NC AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Temporary final rule. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is establishing a temporary Regulated Navigation Area (RNA) in the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway by the Onslow Swing Bridge. The purpose of the RNA is to ensure the safety of workers who are replacing a fendering system along the Onslow Swing Bridge and to control maritime traffic which may be delayed because of the fendering project. The RNA establishes a no-wake speed near the bridge and permits the work barge to block the channel while work is in progress. All work is expected to take place during daylight hours and the RNA is effective only while the barge or workers are present. EFFECTIVE DATE: This regulation is effective from September 6, 1994 to September 30, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: LT John Arenstam, Planning and Waterways Management Section, Fifth Coast Guard District, 431 Crawford Street, Portsmouth, VA 23705&hyph;5004, Phone: (804) 398&hyph;6559. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Drafting Information The drafters of this regulation are LT John Arenstam, project officer for the Commander, Fifth Coast Guard District, Portsmouth, VA, and LCDR Christopher Abel, project attorney, Fifth Coast Guard District Legal Office. Background and Purpose This Regulated Navigation Area was requested by the U.S. Navy to repair the Onslow Swing Bridge on Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, to ensure the safety of the workers making the repairs and regulating the traffic transiting through the worksite. Since new pilings and fendering materials must be driven into the bottom of the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway, the barge with the driving machinery may impede traffic while work actually is taking place. Additionally, workers on the barge may be dangerously impeded or thrown off if the barge is affected by wakes. The RNA is expected to be activated only during daylight hours while work actually is taking place. When the barge or workers are not present, the RNA will not be in effect. Mariners will be able to contact the bridge tender on VHF&hyph;FM channel 13 for up-to-date information regarding passage through the worksite. Vessel traffic will not be delayed for a period of more than 90 minutes. The RNA regulates the speed of vessels approaching the work area and their passage through the work area. Good cause exists for making this rule effective without a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking and within 30 days of publication in the Federal Register . The request from the U.S. Navy was received within 30 days of the RNA's effective date. To delay the project until comments could be received would result in a considerable increase in seasonal maritime traffic passing underneath the bridge during the repair work. A delay would also significantly increase the cost of the project to the American taxpayers. Regulatory Evaluation This rule is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this rule to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary. Small Entities Because it expects the impact of this rule to be so minimal, the Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities.
