FR940603-0-00148 FR940603-0-00029 The maximum number of persons for each group of employees which may be added under SEP will be established by the NCUA Board from time to time. The number will be based on potential primary members_that is, the persons sharing the basic occupational affinity to each sponsor group; family members and other derivative members are not included in the SEP limit. Several groups may be simultaneously added using these procedures; however, the maximum number of persons for each group must fall within the SEP limit. The SEP does not apply to associational groups since NCUA must review membership requirements and geographical area prior to these groups' being added to a field of membership. The procedure also does not apply to community charter expansions because of the more individualized analysis required. The following SEP steps and documentation requirements must be adhered to: •The federal credit union must complete, for each group to be added, an Application for Field of Membership Amendment form shown in Appendix D •The federal credit union must obtain a letter, on the group's letterhead where possible, signed by an official representative identified by title, requesting credit union service and stating that the group does not have any other credit union service available from any source •The group must be located within 25 miles of one of the federal credit union's service facilities •The group must indicate the number of potential members_the number of employees_seeking service •The federal credit union must maintain the above documentation permanently with its charter •The federal credit union must maintain a control log of groups added to its field of membership under the SEP procedure. The control log must include the date the group obtained service, the name and location of the sponsor group, the number of potential primary members added, the number of miles to the nearest main or branch office, the federal credit union board of director's approval of the group and the date approved. See Appendix D for a sample control log. •The groups added under SEP must be reported to the federal credit union's board at the next regular board meeting and made a part of the meeting minutes •The control log and other SEP documentation must be made available to NCUA upon request The regional director may from time to time request service status reports on groups added under SEP. It is advisable to use some method, such as a sponsor prefix added to the member account number, to readily access data for such groups. Should a federal credit union fail to provide quality credit union service, as determined by the group's members or employees, to a group added under SEP, NCUA may subsequently permit dual membership with another credit union. Should a federal credit union fail to follow the above procedures or deteriorate financially or operationally, NCUA, at its discretion, may revoke the SEP privilege. VIII.C_Block Additions When a state credit union is converting to a federal charter or when a credit union is being merged into a federal credit union, large blocks of select groups frequently are added to a credit union's field of membership. In such cases, the federal credit union whose field of membership is being revised should consult directly with the appropriate regional office early in the process to ensure the efficient treatment of such revisions and to avoid misunderstandings. Therefore, when a block of 50 or more new groups is being added to a credit union's field of membership at any one time, NCUA may require that a list of the groups and their locations be provided on a computer diskette. Director coordination with the appropriate NCUA regional office will ensure the compatibility of hardware and software. VIII.D_Regional Director's Decision Except for those field of membership amendments resulting from use of the SEP, all such amendment requests will be reviewed by regional office staff in order to ensure conformance to NCUA policy, are properly documented, and do not cause significantly harmful or unreasonable overlap with the fields of membership of existing credit unions. NCUA understands and appreciates the importance of timely processing of well-supported amendment requests. Therefore, NCUA has established a goal of ten business days from the date of receipt in the regional office for processing of a routine, complete amendment request. A fully documented request, including the Application for Field of Membership Amendment, that fulfills all of the criteria discussed in this manual and does not require written or telephone follow-up will normally be processed within this time. In some cases, an on-site review by NCUA staff may be required by the regional director before acting on a proposed amendment. In addition, the regional director may, after taking into account the significance of the proposed field of membership amendment, require the applicant to submit a business plan. The condition of the requesting credit union will be considered in every instance. The economic feasibility of expanding the field of membership of a credit union with serious financial or operational problems must be carefully considered if the safety and soundness of the credit union is to be preserved. In most cases, field of membership amendments will only be approved for credit unions which are operating satisfactorily. If a federal credit union is having difficulty providing good service to its current membership, it may have even more difficulty serving an enlarged field of membership. In some cases, expanding the field of membership of a struggling credit union may do more harm than good. A struggling credit union's resources need to be focused on current problems. Placing an additional strain on these resources by increasing the field of membership may also increase the credit union's problems. VIII.E_Regional Director Approval If the requested amendment is approved by the regional director, the credit union will be furnished a formal, updated Section 5 of its charter which restates the field of membership, including the requested amendment. After action by the board of directors, the form should be promptly filed with the credit union's official charter and bylaws.
