FR940414-2-00149 FR940414-2-00084 4. If the merchandise delivered directly to the consignee is restricted or prohibited, and the carrier proves that an entry summary was filed, estimated duties, taxes and fees were paid and the merchandise was deemed admissible with that entry summary, the claim should be cancelled upon payment of an amount between $100 and $1,000. 5. If the merchandise delivered directly to the consignee is restricted or prohibited, and the carrier does not prove that an entry summary was filed, estimated duties, taxes and fees were paid or provide a showing that the merchandise was deemed admissible, Customs will cancel the bond claim upon payment of an amount equal to the estimated duties plus an amount between 25 and 50 percent of the value of the merchandise, but not less than $250. 6. If the bonded carrier consistently delivers merchandise directly to the consignee, the district director may cancel any claim upon payment of a higher amount than the guidelines generally permit. The advice of Headquarters, Office of Regulations and Rulings, Penalties Branch, may be sought to determine appropriate mitigation. 7. If merchandise delivered directly to the consignee qualifies for entry via the informal entry process, and entry is made and duties, fees and taxes are paid on the improperly delivered shipment through that informal entry process, then the claim may be cancelled upon payment of an amount between $50 and $500, depending on the presence of aggravating or mitigating factors. 8. If merchandise is delivered directly to the consignee, and entry is made and duties, fees and taxes are paid on the improperly delivered shipment and the carrier brings the violations to the attention of Customs, the claims may be cancelled upon payment of $25. D. Aggravating and mitigating factors. 1. Examples of aggravating factors: a. Carrier is uncooperative, e.g., fails to provide information to Customs. b. A large number of violations of this type by the carrier in relation to the total number of transactions engaged in. c. Carrier's willful disregard of or carelessness toward responsibilities under applicable statutes, regulations or bond. 2. Examples of mitigating factors: a. Carrier cooperates with Customs personnel in resolution of the case. b. Carrier takes immediate remedial action. c. Carrier inexperienced in handling in-bond shipments of the type in question. d. A small number of violations of this type in relation to the number of transactions engaged in. e. Circumstances intervened that were beyond the carrier's control (not negligence or error). IV. Guidelines for Cancellation of Claims Involving Failure To Redeliver Merchandise Into Customs Custody or Failure To Comply With a Notice of Refusal of Admission Issued by Another Government Agency (19 CFR 141.113, 113.62(d) or 113.62(e)) A. Statutes and regulations enforced on behalf of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC). 1. The provisions of 21 CFR 1.97 (FDA Regulations) and 16 CFR 1500.271 (CPSC Regulations) require that the district director of Customs and the district director of the other agency be in agreement as to the amount to be accepted in cancellation of the claim for liquidated damages. All petitions for relief received in FDA and CPSC cases must be referred to those agencies for recommendation. By regulation Customs must follow the recommendation of FDA or CPSC. 2. EXCEPTION: When the sole requirement which has been imposed by FDA on refused merchandise is exportation or destruction under Customs supervision, apply guidelines to be used in the case of other Customs statutes or regulations in Subparagraph K below. See 21 CFR 1.97 and HQ Ruling 617367. 3. If any merchandise which is requested for examination by the other agency is available for examination at the place designated by such other agency but is not examined for any reason, Customs will not issue liquidated damages with regard to such merchandise or will cancel any claim related to such merchandise without payment. 4. If there is a compelling reason to depart from the recommendation of the other agency, state such reason in a referral memorandum and forward the case record to Customs Headquarters, Office of Regulations and Rulings, Penalties Branch. B. Statutes and regulations enforced on behalf of other agencies (not FDA or CPSC). 1. Any petition received should be forwarded to the other agency for recommendation. As a rule, the recommendation of the other agency as to appropriate mitigation will be followed. 2. Customs is not required by regulation to follow the recommendation of agencies other than FDA and CPSC. If the district director of Customs finds the recommendation of the other agency to be arbitrary and capricious, he may modify the recommendation to be consistent with Customs guidelines. C. Country of origin marking cases_merchandise marked with the country of origin after liquidation of the entry and outside the 30-day marking period. 1. If the merchandise is marked outside the 30-day marking period and after liquidation of the entry, the entry should be reliquidated if liquidation has not become final, and marking duties should be assessed and collected. 2. If marking duties have been assessed and collected, cancel the claim upon payment of one percent of the value of the merchandise, but not less than $100 for a first-time violation. Cancel upon payment of between one and five percent but not less than $250 for a subsequent violation.
