FR940527-1-00071 FR940527-1-00014 IV. Other Proposed Changes to the Prospective Payment System for Inpatient Operating Costs A. Definition of and Payment for Transfer Cases (§412.4) The prospective payment system distinguishes between ``discharges'', situations in which a patient leaves an acute-care hospital after receiving complete treatment, and ``transfers'', situations in which the patient is transferred to another acute-care hospital for related care. If a full DRG payment were made to each hospital involved in a transfer situation irrespective of the length of time the patient spent in the ``sending'' hospital prior to transfer, this would create a strong incentive to increase transfers, thereby unnecessarily endangering patients' health. Therefore, the regulations at §412.4(d) provide that, in a transfer situation, full payment is made to the final discharging hospital and each transferring hospital is paid a per diem rate for each day of the stay, not to exceed the full DRG payment that would have been made if the patient had been discharged without being transferred. Currently, the per diem rate paid to a transferring hospital is determined by dividing the full DRG payment that would have been paid in a nontransfer situation by the geometric mean length-of-stay for the DRG into which the case falls. Transferring hospitals are also eligible for outlier payments for cases that meet the cost outlier criteria established for all other cases (nontransfer and transfer cases alike) classified to the DRG. They are not, however, eligible for day outlier payments. Two exceptions to the transfer payment policy are transfer cases classified into DRG 385 (Neonates, Died or Transferred to Another Acute Care Facility) or DRG 456 (Burns, Transferred to Another Acute Care Facility), which are not paid on a per diem basis but instead receive the full DRG payment. 1. Definition of a Transfer Case Under current policy, cases that are transferred from an acute-care area paid under the prospective payment system to a hospital or unit excluded from the prospective payment system are considered to be discharges (as opposed to transfers) from the acute-care hospital. As a discharge, payment for the case is the full DRG amount. The rationale for this policy was set forth in the initial hospital inpatient prospective payment interim final rule with comment period, which was published on September 1, 1983. In that document, we stated that: ``*␣*␣* Hospitals and units excluded from the prospective payment system are organized for treatment of conditions distinctly unlike treatment encountered in short-term acute care facilities. Therefore, the services obtained in excluded facilities would not be the same services obtained in transferring hospitals (that is, paid under the prospective payment system), and payment to both facilities would be appropriate.'' (See 48 FR 39759.) Thus, since the prospective payment hospital was assumed to be providing a full course of acute inpatient care before transfer to the excluded hospital or unit for additional care and treatment, we believed it was appropriate to pay the prospective payment hospital the full DRG amount. For the most part, inpatient hospital services furnished by hospitals and hospital units excluded from the prospective payment system are paid on a reasonable cost basis, subject to a cost per discharge limit. This payment does not vary by source of admission or discharge destination. Under §§412.22 through 412.29, the following types of facilities are identified as being excluded from the prospective payment system: psychiatric hospitals and distinct part units; rehabilitation hospitals and distinct part units; long-term care hospitals; cancer hospitals; children's hospitals; hospitals outside the 50 States, the District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico; Veterans Administration and other Federal hospitals; and nonparticipating hospitals furnishing emergency services to Medicare beneficiaries. Also listed in §412.22(c) (2) and (3) are hospitals paid under approved State cost control systems and hospitals reimbursed in accordance with authorized demonstration projects. Under §412.4(b)(3)(i), patients moving from an acute-care hospital paid under the prospective payment system to hospitals within either of these categories are currently considered transfers, and therefore they are not referred to in the following discussion. Since implementation of the prospective payment system over 10 years ago the distinctions between the types of services provided in acute-care hospitals and excluded hospitals and hospital units have become less clear. Acute-care hospitals may have an incentive to reduce patient lengths of stay, and thus patient costs, in order to maximize profits since payment is no longer linked to actual costs. This has led to a steady increase in the numbers of excluded hospitals and units, as well as postacute-care facilities, as acute-care hospitals look to discharge patients whom heretofore they were treating until the patients were ready to be discharged to their homes. (See Langenbruner et al., Health Care Financing Review, Spring 1989.) As part of a study of Medicare transfer cases funded by HCFA (``Transfers of Medicare Hospital Patients under the Prospective Payment System'', PM&hyph;191&hyph;HCFA, January 1994), RAND examined trends in transfer episodes from FY 1987 to FY 1991. RAND's analysis found that, from 1987 to 1991, while transfers from one prospective payment system setting to another increased 4.1 percent, transfers from a prospective payment system setting to excluded rehabilitation units and excluded psychiatric units increased 18.9 percent and 7.0 percent, respectively. We believe that this growth in transfers to excluded hospital units is an indication that the distinction in the types of services provided in short- term acute-care settings and excluded settings is not as significant as it was in 1983.
