FR940525-2-00162 FR940525-2-00085 [Release No. 34&hyph;34084; File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;94&hyph;06] Self-Regulatory Organizations; National Securities Clearing Corporation; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change Modifying Clearing Fund Requirements May 18, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 1 notice is hereby given that on April 4, 1994, the National Securities Clearing Corporation (``NSCC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule changes as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by primarily NSCC. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule changes from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change will modify NSCC's clearing fund requirements with respect to Depository Trust Company (``DTC``) activity in order to more accurately reflect risk. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, NSCC included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. NSCC has prepared summaries, set forth in sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change NSCC currently applies a factor to the clearing fund requirement for members' non-CNS activity. The Depository Trust Company (``DTC'') settlement activity of members which NSCC sponsors into DTC (``sponsored members'') is included in the non-CNS calculation. The factor is applicable when certain amounts owed by the member to NSCC exceed the member's excess net capital. For the reasons set forth below, NSCC desires to eliminate application of the factor to the sponsored member's DTC settlement activity. In lieu thereof, NSCC has determined to add an additional advisory surveillance criteria to cover the circumstance where the debit activity of the sponsored member is greater that its excess net capital. 2 2 ``Advisory surveillance status'' permits NSCC, among other things, to increase on a discretionary basis the member's clearing fund requirement with respect to non-CNS activity up to sum of 5% of the member's average daily non-CNS debits plus 2&hyph;1/2% of the member's average daily non_CNS credits. In File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;82&hyph;10, 3 NSCC amended its clearing fund formula to permit the collection of additional clearing fund deposits from members using the envelope settlement systems. Prior to that filing, NSCC's clearing fund formula required each member to contribute an amount equal to 21/2% of the member's average daily debits and credits with NSCC. The amendment set forth in File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;82&hyph;10 broke out the debits and credits associated with the envelope settlement systems and required clearing fund deposits with respect to activity in those systems as follows: 3 NSCC's proposed rule change set forth in File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;82&hyph;10 was approved in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 18852 (June 18, 1982), 47 FR 29426. Each Member would have to contribute an amount equal to 21/2NSCC of its average daily envelope settlement systems debits and credits or 5% of its average daily envelope settlement systems debits, whichever was greater. In each case, the amount would be multiplied by a factor which represented the number of times, if any, by which the Member's average daily settlement debits exceeded its excess net capital. The factor was initially capped at twenty but was later limited to three in File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;82&hyph;24. 4 4 NSCC's proposed rule change set forth in File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;82&hyph;24 was approved in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 19147 (October 18, 1982), 47 FR 47351. As indicated in the File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;82&hyph;10, the primary purpose of the factor was to better protect NSCC against the risks presented by the envelope settlement systems (i.e., that securities delivered through the envelope settlement systems would not be available for return to the deliverer in the event the receiver were to become insolvent and be unable to pay for the delivery). The concern at the time of File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;82&hyph;10 arose from the stock loan business that was settled through the envelope settlement system. NSCC did not, however, limit the application of the factor to just physical envelope deliveries but also applied it to the DTC settlement activity of sponsored members. NSCC believes that the current clearing fund formula, as applied to sponsored members, can result in excessive clearing fund requirements. This is because the formula seeks to cover a risk relating to DTC activity which NSCC believes can be adequately addressed without the application of the factor. The proposed rule change, while eliminating the factor in determining a sponsored member's clearing fund requirement with respect to DTC activity, gives NSCC the ability to place a sponsored member on advisory surveillance status under the circumstances where the factor previously would have been applied and therefore will allow NSCC to continue to assess the risks associated with sponsored members' DTC settlement activity. The elimination of the application of a factor in determining a sponsored member's clearing fund requirement with respect to DTC activity will more appropriately reflect the risks associated with such activity and will be consistent with the way DTC addresses such risks for dual NSCC/DTC members. Thus, it will result in a more equitable distribution of the financial burdens placed on NSCC sponsored members. Therefore, NSCC believes that this rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act, particularly section 17A of the Act, 5 and the rules thereunder. 5 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1 (1988). B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition NSCC believes that the proposed rule changes will not have any impact or impose a burden on competition. C. Self-regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others NSCC has neither solicited nor received any written comments III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing For Commission Action Within thirty-five days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to ninety days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve such proposed rule change or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be approved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the Submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of NSCC. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;94&hyph;06 and should be submitted by June 15, 1994. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 6 6 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1992). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12747 Filed 5&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
