FR941128-0-00030 FR941128-0-00008 On July 13, 1994 the American Petroleum Institute (API) and the National Petroleum Refiners Association (NPRA) filed a petition for review of these requirements in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, under section 307(b) of the Clean Air Act. API and NPRA v. EPA, No. 94&hyph;1502. Petitioners subsequently filed a motion for a stay pending judicial review, and a motion for summary reversal or in the alternative for expedited consideration of the petition for review. On September 13, 1994 the court granted petitioners' motion for a stay pending judicial review. At the same time, the court denied petitioners' motion for summary reversal and expedited the schedule for judicial review. The court set a briefing schedule requiring completion of all briefing by January 12, 1995, and directed that the clerk set oral argument on the first available time after that date. Given the expedited schedule for judicial review, EPA believes that the court might issue a decision as early as the spring of 1995, although it could be later. In light of this schedule, and the upcoming beginning of the reformulated gasoline program, EPA believes it would be useful to provide certain basic information for all interested parties. First, it is important to note that the judicial stay only affects that part of the reformulated gasoline program relating to the required use of renewable oxygenates. It does not affect any other aspect of either the reformulated gasoline or conventional gasoline programs. The reformulated gasoline regulations will go into effect December 1, 1994, and the conventional gasoline regulations on January 1, 1995. The judicial stay only affects the regulations issued on June 30, 1994_all other regulations for reformulated and conventional gasoline will go into effect as previously announced. Second, if EPA's renewable oxygenate regulations are upheld on judicial review, EPA would expect to implement the renewable oxygenate program as expeditiously as practical. EPA would try to implement the program in a way that maximizes its benefits, taking into consideration various factors such as the benefits that would have been achieved absent a stay, the amount of renewable oxygenates voluntarily used in reformulated gasoline during the pendency of the stay, and other issues relevant to implementation of the program. EPA cannot, at this time, decide exactly how it will implement the renewable oxygenate program if it prevails on judicial review. The limits on EPA's discretion and the implementation options reasonably available will depend in large part on the facts and circumstances then in existence, as well as the timing and actual terms of the court's decision, to the extent it addresses implementation issues. However, to the extent feasible, EPA will at that time evaluate various options and will seriously consider providing credits to refiners and importers who voluntarily use renewable oxygenates during the term of the judicial stay. Dated: November 14, 1994. Mary D. Nichols, Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29152 Filed 11&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
