FR940524-2-00050 FR940524-2-00030 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION FROM SOURCE AGENCY CONTACT: Reynaldo Gonzalez, Debt/Credit Management Coordinator, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 14th and Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20250, telephone number (202) 720&hyph;1168. [This is not a toll-free number.] REPORTING OF MATCHING PROGRAM: In accordance with Public Law 100&hyph;503, the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988, as amended, and Office of Management and Budget Bulletin 89&hyph;22, ``Instructions on Reporting Computer Matching Programs to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), Congress and the Public;'' copies of this Notice and report, in duplicate, are being provided to the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Office of Management and Budget. Authority: The matching program may be conducted pursuant to Public Law 100&hyph;503, ``The Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988,'' as amended, and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;129 (Revised January 1993), Policies for Federal Credit Programs and Non-Tax Receivables. One of the purposes of all Executive departments and agencies_including HUD_is to implement efficient management practices for Federal credit programs. OMB Circular A&hyph;129 was issued under the authority of the Budget and Accounting Act of 1921, as amended; the Budget and Accounting Act of 1950, as amended; the Debt Collection Act of 1982, as amended; and, the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984, as amended. OBJECTIVES TO BE MET BY THe MATCHING PROGRAM: The matching program will allow USDA access to a system which permits prescreening of applicants for loans or loans guaranteed by the Federal Government to ascertain if the applicant is delinquent in paying a debt owed to or insured by the Government. In addition, HUD will be provided access to USDA debtor data for prescreening purposes. RECORDS TO BE MATCHED: HUD will utilize its system of records entitled HUD/DEPT&hyph;2, Accounting Records. The debtor files for HUD programs involved are included in this system of records. HUD's debtor files contain information on borrowers and co-borrowers who are currently in default (at least 90 days delinquent on their loans); or who have any outstanding claims paid during the last three years on Title II insured or guaranteed home mortgage loans; or individuals who have defaulted on Section 312 rehabilitation loans; or individuals who have had a claim paid in the last three years on a Title I loan. For the CAIVRS match, HUD/DEPT&hyph;2, System of Records, receives its program inputs form HUD/DEPT&hyph;28, Property Improvement and Manufactured (Mobile) Home Loans_Default; HUD/DEPT&hyph;32, Delinquent/Default/Assigned Temporary Mortgage Assistance Payments (TMAP) Program; and HUD/CPD&hyph;1, Rehabilitation Loans-Delinquent/Default. The USDA will provide HUD with debtor files contained in its system of records entitled, Applicant/Borrower or Grantee File (USDA/FNHA&hyph;1). HUD is maintaining USDA's records only as a ministerial action on behalf of USDA, not as part of HUD's HUD/DEPT&hyph;2 system of records. USDA's data contain information on individuals who have defaulted on their guaranteed loans. The USDA will retain ownership and responsibility for their system of records that they place with HUD. HUD serves only as a record location and routine use recipient for USDA's data. NOTICE PROCEDURES: HUD and the USDA will notify individuals at the time of application (ensuring that routine use appears on the application form) for guaranteed or direct loans that their records will be matched to determine whether they are delinquent or in default on a Federal debt. HUD and the USDA will also publish notices concerning routine use disclosures in the Federal Register to inform individuals that a computer match may be performed to determine a loan applicant's credit status with the Federal Government. CATEGORIES OF RECORDS/INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED: The debtor records include these data elements: SSN, claim number, program code, and indication of indebtedness. Categories of records include: records of claims and defaults, repayment agreements, credit reports, financial statements, and records of foreclosures. Categories of individuals include: former mortgagors and purchasers of HUD-owned properties, manufactured (mobile) home and home improvement loan debtors who are delinquent or in default on their loans, and rehabilitation loan debtors who are delinquent or in default on their loans. PERIOD OF THE MATCH: Matching is expected to begin 40 days after the date copies of the signed (by both Data Integrity Boards) computer matching agreement are sent to both Houses of Congress or 30 days from the date this Notice is published in the Federal Register or 40 days from the date this notice is approved, whichever is later, providing no comments are received which would result in a contrary determination. Issued at Washington, DC May 3, 1994. Marilynn A. Davis, Assistant Secretary for Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12637 Filed 5&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;01&hyph;M
