FR940610-1-00063 FR940610-1-00008 School Food Service Software Systems The computer software industry has many nutrient analysis software programs on the market. Few of these, however, are specific to the school programs and do not contain the types of foods, descriptions, weights and measurements used in these programs. Moreover, the results of nutrient analysis can vary dramatically depending on which software package is being used. Nutrient analysis must be based on standardized specifications to ensure accuracy. Therefore, the Department has also developed software specifications for NSMP. The overall objective of any software system used for this purpose is to adapt advanced data automation technology to simplify completion of the mathematical and analytical tasks associated with NSMP. The software specifications include menu planning, nutritional analysis of menus and recipes, and data management reports presented in a comprehensive, simplified and user-friendly manner. To ensure that school food authorities are using a software package which meets the Department's specifications, school food authorities will be required to use a software system that has been evaluated by FNS and, as submitted, been determined to meet the minimum requirements established by FNS. However, such review does not constitute endorsement by FNS or USDA. This proposed requirement is found in §210.10(k)(1)(ii) for the NSLP and §220.8(j)(1)(ii) for the SBP. Use of Weighted Averages Some food items are more popular than others and, thus, will be selected by school children more frequently. To accurately perform an assessment of the nutritional composition of reimbursable meals offered, nutrient analysis must be based on production levels of foods offered, as production levels are an indication of foods actually selected. For example, a menu item which is chosen frequently (and therefore more portions are prepared) will contribute more nutrients to the meal than a menu item chosen less frequently. The calculation method for computing a weighted nutritional analysis will require the school food authority to enter the following information into the selected software program the menu item; portion size; projected servings of each menu item; and the projected number of reimbursable meals each day for the school week. It should be noted that the software specifications discussed above are designed to easily perform weighting calculations. This provision is proposed in §210.10 (k)(2) and §210.10 (k)(4) for the NSLP and §220.8 (j)(2) and (j)(4). Definition of School Week A new definition would be added for ``school week'' to indicate that, for NSMP and ANSMP, a minimum of three days and a maximum of seven days must be included. This is because the nutrition analysis is proposed to be an average of the reimbursable meals served over the course of a week. To ensure common understanding of the terms NSMP and ANSMP, a proposed definition would be added to §210.2 and §220.2 explaining the term ``school week.'' Transition to NSMP and ANSMP The Department recognizes that school food authorities will need technical assistance in order to implement these changes efficiently. The Department is conducting NSMP demonstration projects in several school food authorities, and the ongoing experiences gained from these will be shared as part of the overall assistance to school food authorities to phase in NSMP and ANSMP. The Department also plans to provide extensive training and technical assistance to State and local agencies as they prepare to implement NSMP and ANSMP. As noted earlier in this preamble, the Department has requested specific funding in the Administration's Fiscal Year 1995 budget for this purpose as well as to fund other technical assistance and nutrition education activities. Other projects to support the move towards updated nutrition standards are already being undertaken within existing resources, including modification of more than fifty recipes to include more fruits, vegetables, and grain products and to decrease fat levels, and collaboration with the National Food Service Management Institute. Finally, the Department is committed to working with State agencies to target Nutrition Education and Training (NET) resources more intensely toward implementation of the Dietary Guidelines. This proposed regulation would require school food authorities to adopt the updated nutrition standards and NSMP or ANSMP no later than July 1, 1998, the start of School Year 1998&hyph;99. However, school food authorities are encouraged to begin working towards full implementation of the updated nutrition standards as soon as practicable after publication of a final rule or to even use NSMP, ANSMP, or nutrient-based menu analysis in conjunction with the current meal patterns prior to the effective date. State agencies would need to determine when school food authorities are ready to begin NSMP or ANSMP and would, of course, provide training and technical assistance to help school food authorities whenever they begin implementing this procedure. In determining when to begin NSMP in a particular school or school food authority, States should evaluate their capabilities both in terms of computer technology and availability of other technical resources. States will also need to evaluate implementation on an on-going basis to determine if any adjustments are needed and to provide support when start-up difficulties occur. The Department is not establishing a specific procedure for determining the readiness of school food authorities to phase in NSMP or ANSMP. Rather, the Department believes State agencies are in the best position to determine if a school food authority is ready to begin the shift to NSMP or ANSMP and will be able to respond to the wide range of situations that may occur and to concentrate on achieving the goal. This approach frees State agencies from assuring that a particular process is followed and allows them the flexibility to invest their time and efforts as they judge best.
