FR940826-2-00046 FR940826-2-00037 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM Federal Open Market Committee; Domestic Policy Directive of July 5-6, 1994 In accordance with 271.5 of its rules regarding availability of information (12 CFR part 271), there is set forth below the domestic policy directive issued by the Federal Open Market Committee at its meeting held on July 5-6, 1994. 1 The directive was issued to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as follows: 1 Copies of the Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee meeting of July 5-6, 1994, which include the domestic policy directive issued at that meeting, are available upon request to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D.C. 20551. The minutes are published in the Federal Reserve Bulletin and in the Board's annual report. The information reviewed at this meeting suggests that economic activity recorded another substantial gain in the second quarter, causing levels of resource utilization to rise further. Increases in nonfarm payroll employment have been relatively large on average in recent months; the civilian unemployment rate is reported to have declined to 6.0 percent in May. The rise in industrial production slackened in April and May, primarily because capacity constraints prevented normal seasonal increases in the production of motor vehicles. Growth in consumer spending has slowed in recent months after very large increases in February and March. Housing starts have rebounded from winter disruptions to a pace close to the elevated fourth-quarter level. Orders for nondefense capital goods point to a continued strong uptrend in spending on business equipment, while nonresidential construction has recovered from a weather-depressed level in the first quarter. The nominal deficit on U.S. trade in goods and services was larger in April than in March but about unchanged from the average for the first quarter. Increases in broad indexes of consumer and producer prices have remained moderate in recent months, though prices of many basic industrial materials have risen. On May 17, 1994, the Board of Governors approved an increase in the discount rate from 3 to 3-1/2 percent. Most market interest rates were up slightly on balance since the May meeting; declines in bond yields early in the intermeeting period were offset later by market reactions to a weakening dollar in foreign exchange markets and rising commodity prices. The trade-weighted value of the dollar in terms of the other G-10 currencies was down significantly further on balance over the intermeeting period, reflecting a sizable drop since early June. M2 and M3 declined on average over May and June; for the year through June, both M2 and M3 are at the bottom of their ranges for 1994. Total domestic nonfinancial debt has continued to expand at a moderate rate in recent months. The Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster price stability and promote sustainable growth in output. In furtherance of these objectives, the Committee reaffirmed at this meeting the ranges it had established in February for growth of M2 and M3 of 1 to 5 percent and 0 to 4 percent respectively, measured from the fourth quarter of 1993 to the fourth quarter of 1994. The Committee anticipated that developments contributing to unusual velocity increases could persist during the year and that money growth within these ranges would be consistent with its broad policy objectives. The monitoring range for growth of total domestic nonfinancial debt was maintained at 4 to 8 percent for the year. For 1995, the Committee agreed on tentative ranges for monetary growth, measured from the fourth quarter of 1994 to the fourth quarter of 1995, of 1 to 5 percent for M2 and 0 to 4 percent for M3. The Committee provisionally set the associated monitoring range for growth of domestic nonfinancial debt at 3 to 7 percent for 1995. The behavior of the monetary aggregates will continue to be evaluated in the light of progress toward price level stability, movements in their velocities, and developments in the economy and financial markets. In the implementation of policy for the immediate future, the Committee seeks to maintain the existing degree of pressure on reserve positions. In the context of the Committee's long-run objectives for price stability and sustainable economic growth, and giving careful consideration to economic, financial, and monetary developments, slightly greater reserve restraint would or slightly lesser reserve restraint might be acceptable in the intermeeting period. The contemplated reserve conditions are expected to be consistent with modest growth in M2 and M3 over coming months. By order of the Federal Open Market Committee, August 22, 1994. Normand Bernard, Deputy Secretary, Federal Open Market Committee. [FR Doc. 94-21071 Filed 8-25-94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210-01-F
