FR940603-0-00023 FR940603-0-00011 5. Section 356.16 is amended by revising paragraph (b)(2)(ii) and adding a new paragraph (b)(2)(iii) to read as follows: ยง356.16 Responsibility for payment. * * * * * (b) * * * (2) * * * (ii) A submitter that chooses not to pay by charge to its funds account or a submitter that does not have a funds account must, prior to the submission of a tender, have an acknowledged autocharge agreement on file at the Federal Reserve Bank to which the tender is submitted. By submitting a tender for securities to be paid for under such autocharge agreement, the submitter authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank to provide, to the depository institution whose funds account will be charged under the agreement, notice of the total par amount of, and price to be charged for, securities awarded as a result of the submitter's tender. (iii) In addition, a submitter that is a member of a clearing corporation may instruct that delivery and payment be made through the clearing corporation for securities awarded to the submitter for its own account, provided that the following requirements are met: (A) The submitter must, prior to the submission of a tender for such securities, have a delivery and payment agreement with the clearing corporation acknowledged by, and on file at, the Federal Reserve Bank to which the tender is submitted. By entering into such an agreement, the submitter authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank to provide to the clearing corporation notice of the par amounts of, prices to be charged for, and total payment amounts for, securities awarded to the submitter for its own account. (B) An autocharge agreement between the clearing corporation and the depository institution must, prior to the submission of a tender for such securities, be acknowledged by, and on file at, the Federal Reserve Bank servicing the depository institution. By entering into such an agreement, the clearing corporation authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank to which the tender is submitted to provide, to the depository institution whose funds account will be charged under the agreement, notice of the total aggregate par amount of, prices to be charged for, and total payment amounts for, securities to be delivered to the clearing corporation's designated account at the depository institution. * * * * * 6. Section 356.24 is amended by revising paragraphs (a) and (c) to read as follows: ยง356.24 Notice of awards; confirmations. (a) Notice of awards _(1) Notice to submitters. Notice of awards will be provided by a Federal Reserve Bank or the Department to submitters of successful competitive bids. Submitters of noncompetitive bids will be notified only when the price to be paid by noncompetitive bidders is over par or if noncompetitive bids are not accepted in full. (2) Notice to clearing corporation. If awarded securities are to be delivered pursuant to a delivery and payment agreement, notice of the awards also will be provided by a Federal Reserve Bank or the Department to the clearing corporation that is a party to such agreement. * * * * * (c) Confirmation of award and settlement amount to a depository institution having an autocharge agreement with a submitter or a clearing corporation. Not later than the day after each auction, the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank will notify each depository institution that has entered into an autocharge agreement with either a submitter or a clearing corporation as to the amount to be charged to the institution's funds account at the Federal Reserve Bank on the issue date. * * * * * 7. The title to Exhibit B to Part 356 is revised to read as follows: Exhibit B to Part 356. Sample Autocharge Agreement To Deliver and Charge for Securities Awarded in Department of the Treasury Auctions (Submitter and Depository Institution). * * * * * Dated: May 11, 1994. Gerald Murphy, Fiscal Assistant Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13621 Filed 6&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4810&hyph;39&hyph;P
