FR941121-1-00002 FR941121-1-00001 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;ANE&hyph;21] Airworthiness Directives; Pratt & Whitney JT8D Series Turbofan Engines AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes the supersedure of an existing airworthiness directive (AD), applicable to certain Pratt & Whitney (PW) JT8D series turbofan engines, that currently requires initial and repetitive inspections of certain front compressor fan hubs and shotpeening of the forward and aft rim to web radius. This action would reduce the initial inspection interval for front compressor fan hubs installed in all positions of all applicable aircraft, establish a compliance end-date, and clarify the wording of the compliance requirements. This proposal is prompted by a report of a front compressor fan hub fracture installed in a Boeing 737 aircraft that resulted in the release of fan blades and portions of the hub outer rim. The actions specified by the proposed AD are intended to prevent fracture of the front compressor fan hub, which can result in an uncontained engine failure and damage to the aircraft. DATES: Comments must be received by January 20, 1995. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), New England Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;ANE&hyph;21, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, MA 01803&hyph;5299. Comments may be inspected at this location between 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The service information referenced in the proposed rule may be obtained from Pratt & Whitney, Technical Publications Department, M/S 132&hyph;30, 400 Main Street, East Hartford, CT 06108. This information may be examined at the FAA, New England Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, MA. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mark A. Rumizen, Aerospace Engineer, Engine Certification Office, FAA, Engine and Propeller Directorate, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, MA 01803&hyph;5299; telephone (617) 238&hyph;7137, fax (617) 238&hyph;7199. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications should identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;ANE&hyph;21.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, New England Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;ANE&hyph;21, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, MA 01803&hyph;5299.
