FR940119-2-00081 FR940119-2-00059 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20015; 812&hyph;8698] TCW Asia Pacific Equity Limited Partnership, et al. January 12, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANTS: TCW Asia Pacific Equity Limited Partnership, TCW Emerging Markets Limited Partnership, TCW Small Capitalization Growth Stocks Limited Partnership (collectively, the ``Partnerships''), TCW Funds, Inc. (the ``Company''), TCW Asset Management Company (``TAMCO''), and TCW Funds Management, Inc. (the ``Adviser''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under section 17(b) of the Act for an exemption from the provisions of section 17(a) of the Act. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order that would permit the Partnerships to transfer substantially all of their assets and liabilities to certain series of the Company in exchange for the series' shares, which then will be distributed to partners of the Partnerships. FILING DATE: The application was filed on November 26, 1993, and amended on January 6, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on February 7, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, 865 South Figueroa Street, Suite 1800, Los Angeles, California 90017. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James J. Dwyer, Staff Attorney, at (202) 504&hyph;2920, or Elizabeth G. Osterman, Branch Chief, at (202) 272&hyph;3016 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. The Partnerships were organized as California limited partnerships. They are open-end investment partnerships, allowing investors to purchase and redeem Partnership interests (the ``Units'') at net asset value on a monthly basis. The Partnerships are not registered under the Act in reliance on section 3(c)(1) of the Act. The offerings of the Units were structured as private placements under section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, and Regulation D promulgated thereunder. Units are sold to institutional investors and high net worth individuals. 2. TAMCO, a registered investment adviser and an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of The TCW Group, Inc., serves as the sole general partner of each of the Partnerships, and has exclusive responsibility for the overall administration of the Partnerships. TAMCO also has exclusive power and authority to manage and control the investments of each Partnership. 3. The Company, a Maryland corporation, is a registered open-end investment company formed as a series company. Currently, the Company offers six portfolios. The Company proposes to offer three new investment portfolios (the ``Funds''), each of which will correspond to a Partnership in terms of investment objectives and policies. 4. The Company has entered into an advisory agreement with the Adviser, a wholly-owned subsidiary of The TCW Group, Inc., pursuant to which the Adviser will render investment management services to the Funds that are substantially the same as the services that TAMCO currently renders to the Partnerships. The officers of TAMCO serving as portfolio managers of the Partnerships also serve as officers of the Adviser and will serve as portfolio managers of the Funds. 5. Applicants propose that, pursuant to an agreement and plan of exchange, each of the Funds acquire substantially all of the assets and assume substantially all of the liabilities of the corresponding Partnership in exchange for Fund shares (the ``Exchange''). Fund shares received by the Partnership will have an aggregate net asset value equivalent to the net asset value of the assets transferred by the Partnership (except for the effect of organizational expenses paid by the Fund). Upon consummation of an Exchange, the Partnership will distribute the Fund shares to its partners, with each partner receiving shares having an aggregate net asset value equivalent to the net asset value of the Units held by such partner prior to the Exchange (except for the effect of organizational expenses paid by the Fund). Each Partnership may retain assets needed to pay any accrued expenses. Each Partnership may also retain assets which the applicable Fund is not permitted to purchase, or which would be unsuitable for the Fund. Any assets retained in excess of amounts needed to pay the accrued expenses not transferred to the Fund would be distributed pro rata to partners of the Partnership. Each Partnership will be liquidated and dissolved following the distribution. 6. Each Partnership agreement of the Partnerships provides that the Partnership may be converted into a registered investment company if the general partner determines that a conversion is in the best interest of the Partnership. Each agreement expressly provides that no further approval or consent of the limited partners is required for such conversion, so long as at least 60 days' advance written notice is provided to the limited partners. Limited partners who do not wish to participate in the conversion of their Partnership will have adequate opportunity to redeem their Partnership interests before the conversion occurs. As a result, no limited partner will receive shares in exchange for his or her Units unless such limited partner determines to retain his or her investment. 7. Prior to an Exchange, certain limited partners may withdraw from the Partnerships and receive a pro rata in-kind distribution for the purpose of investing in new limited partnerships that have similar investment strategies and are expected to have a minimum investment of $1.5 million. Such limited partners include limited partners who have made investments of a magnitude sufficient to qualify for advisory fees lower than those to be charged by the Funds, limited partners with more than $1.5 million invested in any Partnership, and certain limited partners who would encounter regulatory or other difficulties if they invested in a registered investment company. The new limited partnerships will not be registered under the Act in reliance on section 3(c)(1) thereof, and the new partnership interests will not be registered under the Securities Act of 1933 in reliance on section 4(2) thereof. 8. The expenses of each Exchange will be borne by TAMCO. No brokerage commission, fee, or other remuneration will be paid in connection with an Exchange. Fund organizational expenses, up to a maximum of $50,000 per Fund, will be paid by the Funds and amortized over five years. Fund organizational expenses in excess of $50,000 per Fund will be paid by the Adviser. Any unamortized organizational expenses associated with the organization of a Fund at the time the Adviser withdraws its initial investment in the Company will be borne by the Adviser and not the Fund.
