FR940930-0-00160 FR940930-0-00028 EPA today codifies the exemption from tampering liability for conversion of gasoline or diesel-fueled vehicles to clean fuel vehicles if the converted vehicles comply with the applicable clean fuel vehicle standards and the conversions are performed in compliance with EPA's conversion regulations being promulgated today. Section 247(e) states that such conversions shall not be considered as violations of the tampering prohibition in Section 203(a)(3). Since conversions involve changes to vehicles/engines that have previously been certified as meeting applicable emission standards, conversions are typically subject to the tampering prohibitions of CAA section 203(a)(3), which prohibit tampering with emission control devices. The initial guidelines established by EPA regarding the enforcement of tampering prohibitions are contained in the two documents entitled ``Mobile Source Enforcement Memorandum No. 1A'', dated June 25, 1974, and ``Fact Sheet: Conversion of Vehicles and Engines to Operate on Natural Gas or Propane'', dated November 1, 1991. In the 1990 amendments to the CAA, section 203 was amended to limit the scope of the tampering provisions of section 203(a)(3). As amended, an exemption to the tampering provisions of section 203(a)(3) is provided where a conventional vehicle is converted ``*␣*␣* for use of a clean alternative fuel and if such vehicle continues to comply with section 202 standards when operating on the alternative fuel *␣*␣* and if in the case of a clean alternative fuel vehicle (as defined by the Administrator), the device or element is replaced upon completion of the conversion procedure and such action results in proper functioning of the device or element when the motor vehicle operates on a conventional fuel.'' In addition to the general exemption for clean fuel conversion from the tampering prohibitions, section 247(d) creates a special exemption for conversions performed pursuant to EPA's regulations issued under section 247. Thus, if a conversion is performed in compliance with the regulations issued today, the conversion will not violate the tampering prohibition of section 203(a)(3). For any conversions that are not performed in compliance with today's regulations (e.g., installation of a not-certified conversion configuration), liability for tampering will be determined based on section 203(a). Issues related to the conversion of vehicles to alternative fuel use are addressed in the NPRM and FRM on gaseous-fueled emission standards, (FRM: published in the Federal Register on September 21, 1994), hereafter referred to as the Gaseous Fuels Rule. The conversion provisions in the Gaseous Fuels Rule apply to all conversions regardless of fuel type and hence form the basis for the certification procedures established in today's rule for vehicles converted to CFVs except where superseded by the requirements of today's rule. The Gaseous Fuels Rule provides that a vehicle conversion will not be considered tampering if the vehicle has been converted to a configuration which has been certified by EPA as meeting applicable emission standards. For vehicles converted to use fuels for which no standards exist, the provisions of Memorandum 1A apply, and EPA will not consider a modification to a certified emission control configuration to be tampering if the emissions from the vehicle are not increased as a result of the modification. Consistent with the Gaseous Fuels Rule, today's rule provides that in order to be considered clean fuel vehicles, conversion configurations of vehicles/engines must include all of the hardware necessary to allow a vehicle to operate on a fuel other than the fuel for which the vehicle or engine was originally manufactured. 2. Requirements for Clean Fuel Fleet Vehicle Conversions Section 247(b) of the CAA directs EPA to promulgate regulations governing conversions of conventional vehicles to CFVs that ``*␣*␣* will ensure that a converted vehicle will comply with the standards applicable under this part to clean-fuel vehicles.'' While the conversion provisions in the Gaseous Fuels Rule will require that emissions from converted vehicles meet the applicable emission standards whenever manufacturers certify conversion configurations, those provisions are not intended to fulfill all of the requirements of section 247 of the CAA. Therefore, in addition to the general guidelines for converted vehicles discussed in the section above and in the Gaseous Fuels rule, today's rule establishes that certification must be obtained from EPA before a converted vehicle can be sold to the public as a clean fuel fleet vehicle. The following sections describe the regulations which are promulgated by today's rule to satisfy the requirement of section 243(b).
