FR940822-2-00145 FR940822-2-00061 M. Audit Each recipient must provide for an annual fiscal audit which shall include an opinion on whether the financial statements of the grantee present fairly its financial position and financial operations are in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. For grantees receiving more than $50,000 in Institute grant payments during their fiscal year, the audit shall also include reports on the grantee's internal control structure and compliance with applicable regulations. (See section XI.J. of the Guideline for the requirements of such audits.) N. Suspension of Funding After providing a recipient reasonable notice and opportunity to submit written documentation demonstrating why fund termination or suspension should not occur, the Institute may terminate or suspend funding of a project that fails to comply substantially with the Act, Institute guidelines, or the terms and conditions of the award. 42 U.S.C. 10708(a). O. Title to Property At the conclusion of the project, title to all expendable and nonexpendable personal property purchased with Institute funds shall vest in the recipient court, organization, or individual that purchased the property if certification is made to the Institute that the property will continue to be used for the authorized purposes of the Institute-funded project or other purposes consistent with the State Justice Institute Act, as approved by the Institute. If such certification is not made or the Institute disapproves such certification, title to all such property with an aggregate or individual value of $1,000 or more shall vest in the Institute, which will direct the disposition of the property. P. Original Material All products prepared as the result of Institute-supported projects must be originally-developed material unless otherwise specified in the award documents. Material not originally developed that is included in such products must be properly identified, whether the material is in a verbatim or extensive paraphrase format. Q. Acknowledgment and Disclaimer
