FR941021-0-00156 FR941021-0-00022 a. Background. 43. As we discussed in the Notice, the six applicants proposed two system designs (LEO and GSO) and two system architectures (CDMA and TDMA/FDMA). A CDMA architecture would permit multiple systems to share the same frequencies. A TDMA/FDMA architecture would operate bi-directionally in a portion of the 1.6 GHz band only and would require each system to operate on discrete frequency band segments. The Committee's work plan called for the Committee to develop rules that would maximize multiple entry and avoid or resolve mutual exclusivity among the six applications. The applicants, however, could not develop a set of technical parameters and sharing criteria that could accommodate all proposed systems. In the Notice , we proposed a sharing plan that could accommodate up to four CDMA systems and one TDMA/FDMA system. 52 The plan was based, in part, upon partial settlement proposals filed by two groups of LEO applicants after the Negotiated Rulemaking was concluded. 53 The plan proposed to assign licensees implementing CDMA systems in the United States to 11.35 MHz of shared bandwidth at 1610&hyph;1621.35 MHz. It proposed to assign a TDMA/FDMA system operating in the United States to 5.15 MHz of dedicated bandwidth at 1621.35&hyph;1626.5 MHz. If only one CDMA system is implemented, the plan proposed to adjust the domestic assignment for that system to 8.25 MHz at 1610&hyph;1618.25 MHz, leaving the freed 3.15 MHz of spectrum available for possible reassignment to the TDMA/FDMA licensee or for new entry. We also tentatively concluded that CDMA systems would be provided with equal amounts of downlink and uplink spectrum, unless CDMA system proponents could demonstrate an unequal assignment was warranted. 52 Our plan included both system architectures for two reasons: (1) the record did not support a finding that one architecture is superior to the other, and (2) the plan would permit up to five systems to be licensed, furthering our multiple entry policy. 53 See note 23, supra . b. The basic plan . 44. All five applicants proposing LEO systems agree that our plan provides a basis for accommodating five LEO systems. None takes issue with the framework of the plan: up to four CDMA systems can share 11.35 MHz of bandwidth in the 1.6 GHz band and that one TDMA/FDMA system can operate over 5.15 MHz of dedicated bandwidth. Constellation, for example, states that 11.35 MHz can ``support competitive CDMA systems operating in a sharing environment.'' 54 Motorola supports awarding a single TDMA/FDMA license in 5.15 MHz of bandwidth. 55 LQP, TRW, and Ellipsat all agree that both LEO transmission techniques can be accommodated, with CDMA systems operating on shared spectrum. Indeed, the four proponents of the Joint Proposal, supported by LQP, explicitly agree to an 11.35 MHz/5.15 MHz spectrum split. 54 Constellation Comments at 19. 55 Motorola Comments at 47, n. 35. 45. Despite its general agreement that its system could be accommodated in 11.35 MHz of shared spectrum, Constellation contends in its comments that all five LEO applicants should be given equal options to use the spectrum. Specifically, it argues that adoption of rules requiring four LEO applicants share spectrum, while allowing the remaining applicant to have exclusive use of its own band segment or assigning prime spectrum to one applicant and impaired spectrum to another, would violate the doctrine enunciated in Ashbacker Radio Corp. v. FCC , 326 U.S. 327 (1945) ( Ashbacker ). We do not agree that a rule requiring sharing by applicants proposing CDMA systems, and that permits other applicants to have exclusive spectrum, implicates Ashbacker . Such a rule is merely a reasonable exercise of our rulemaking authority, based upon the technical characteristics of the systems involved. We also note that the CDMA applicants agreed to a band sharing plan. Indeed, Constellation agrees that its system can be accommodated in a shared band. Consequently, we adopt the plan's basic framework. 56 56 See Final Report of the Majority of the Active Participants of Informal Working Group 1 to Above 1 GHz Negotiated Rulemaking Committee, Annex 1 (Attachment 1 to Committee Report) and Joint Proposal, note 23, supra . 46. Despite their general support for the plan, all LEO applicants request some modifications or clarifications. The requests center around three issues: (1) what portion of the 2.4 GHz MSS downlink band will be available to the CDMA licensees; (2) whether MSS operations in the lower 6 MHz of the 1.6 MHz band will be impaired by GLONASS, the Russian Global Navigation Satellite System, and radioastronomy serviced (RAS) operations in that band; and (3) whether the 11.35 MHz CDMA assignment will be automatically reduced to 8.25 MHz should only one CDMA system become operational. We discuss these in turn. c. Downlink assignment. 47. In the Notice , we assumed that CDMA systems assigned to share the 1.6 GHz uplink spectrum would require a corresponding amount of 2.4 GHz downlink spectrum. We requested comment on this assumption. All CDMA operators strongly disagree, arguing in their comments and in the Joint Proposal that CDMA applicants should be allowed to share the entire 16.5 MHz of 2.4 GHz downlink spectrum allocated to MSS. They argue that the systems must operate over the entire bandwidth to achieve maximum capacity at minimum cost. According to the CDMA proponents, if the number of satellites transmitting in any segment of the 2.4 GHz band is minimized, the satellites' cost can be substantially reduced. They also argue that the 2.4 GHz band is already constrained by international and domestic power flux density (pfd) limits and other existing services, which limits the number of users that can be served, and that any limitations on bandwidth will further affect system capacity. 48. We are convinced that the entire 16.5 MHz of spectrum allocated domestically and internationally at 2483.5&hyph;2500 MHz should be assigned to Big LEO system downlinks in the United States. There is no compelling reason to restrict use of this band. Indeed, assignment of the entire band should provide operators with sufficient flexibility to coordinate their operations with other Big LEO systems in the band and to accommodate other users in the band or in adjacent bands with little or no corresponding loss of capacity. Consequently, we will provide CDMA operators with access to the entire allocated 2.4 GHz band. Moreover, only satellite systems using CDMA will be permitted in this band.
