FR940603-1-00006 FR940603-1-00001 A notice of intent to prepare an EIS will be published in the Federal Register as soon as it is determined that a proposed major Federal action has the potential to affect significantly the quality of the human environment. The notice may include a preliminary scope of environmental study. All public and other involvement in APHIS' EIS process, including the scoping process, commenting on draft documents, and participation in the preparation of any supplemental documents, will be pursuant to the CEQ implementing regulations. Early public and other agency involvement is especially useful in the EA process where exigent circumstances (animal disease or plant pest outbreaks, for example) require rapid APHIS response. In such an event, any EA comment period would, of necessity, be extremely abbreviated. Opportunities for early public involvement in the EA process will be announced in the same fashion as the availability of EA's and findings of no significant impact, as specified in §372.8(b)(3). Section 1506.6 of the CEQ regulations requires agencies to involve the public and others in implementing their NEPA procedures which, according to CEQ, ``includes public involvement in the preparation of EA's and findings of no significant impact. These are public ``environmental documents'' under §1506.6(b), and, therefore, agencies must give public notice of their availability'' (CEQ, Forty Most Asked Questions Concerning CEQ's National Environmental Policy Act Regulations, 46 FR 18037, March 23, 1981). Notification of the availability of EA's and findings of no significant impact for proposed activities will be published in the Federal Register , unless it is determined that the effects of the action are primarily of local concern. Where the effects of the action are primarily of local concern, notice will normally be provided through publication of notice in a local or area newspaper of general circulation, or through the provisions of Executive Order 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs. Under this order, the State would act as a clearinghouse for review and public notice of the EA. See, the regulations implementing Executive Order 12372_Intergovernmental Review of Department of Agriculture Programs and Activities, 7 CFR part 3015, subpart V. All environmental documents, comments received, and any underlying documents, including interagency correspondence where such correspondence transmits comments of Federal agencies on the environmental impact of proposals for which documents were prepared, will be made available to the public upon request. Materials to be made available will be provided without charge, to the extent practicable, or at a fee which is not more than the actual cost of reproducing copies required to be sent to other Federal agencies, including CEQ. Processing and Use of Environmental Documents (Section 372.9) This section would satisfy provisions of the CEQ regulations designed ``to ensure that decisions are made in accordance with the policies and purposes of the Act'' (40 CFR 1505.1). EA's will be forwarded immediately upon completion to the decisionmaker for a determination of whether the proposed action may have significant effects on the human environment, and for the execution, as appropriate, of a finding of no significant impact or a notice of intent to prepare an EIS. At this time, the EA's will be made available consistent with the notification provisions of §372.8 of these procedures. Comments, if any, will be transmitted, together with any analyses and recommendations, to the APHIS decisionmaker who may then take appropriate action. Changes to environmental assessments and findings of no significant impact which are prompted by comments, new information, or any other source, will normally be announced in the same manner as the notice of availability (except that all commenters will be mailed copies of changes directly) prior to implementing the proposed action or any alternative. EIS's will be processed according to the CEQ regulations from inception (publication in the Federal Register of the notice of intent) to completion (publication of a final environmental impact statement or a supplement). For rulemaking or adjudicatory proceedings, relevant environmental documents, comments, and responses will be part of the administrative record. For all APHIS activity that is subject to the NEPA process, the environmental record, including comments and responses, will accompany proposals through the existing review process. The APHIS decisionmaking for each NEPA document will consider the range of alternatives discussed in environmental documents in reaching their determinations on the merits of proposed actions. Supplementing Environmental Impact Statements (Section 372.10) This section describes how supplemental EIS's are introduced into the administrative record. The decision to prepare a supplemental EIS is similar to the decision to prepare an EIS in the first instance. As such, that decision turns on a myriad of factors. But once a decision to supplement an EIS is made, a notice of intent will be published in the Federal Register , which in effect serves to reopen the administrative record. The supplemental document will then be processed in the same fashion (exclusive of scoping) as a draft and a final statement, unless alternative procedures are approved by CEQ. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866, and, therefore, has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. These proposed procedures satisfy the requirement to implement CEQ's NEPA regulations and have been designed to reduce to a minimum the regulatory burden on small entities and all other individuals and organizations, public and private. Under these circumstances, the Administrator of APHIS has determined that these procedures would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12372 This program/activity is listed in the catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under No. 10.025 and is subject to Executive Order 12372, which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials. (See 7 CFR part 3015, subpart V). Executive Order 12778 This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. If these proposed procedures are adopted: (1) All State and local laws and regulations that are in conflict with these procedures will be preempted; (2) no retroactive effect will be given to this rule; and (3) administrative proceedings will not be required before parties may file suit in court challenging this rule. The National Environmental Policy Act Section 372.5(b)(1) of these proposed procedures provides, in part, that an EA will normally be prepared for ``rulemaking proposals that *␣*␣* may affect opportunities for the public, nongovernmental organizations, and others to influence environmental planning and decisionmaking.'' See, Illinois Commerce Comm'n v. ICC, 848 F.2d 1246, 1256 (D.C. Cir. 1988) (``it is not at all apparent that a change in procedure alone will not affect the environment_the new procedure may, for example, lessen the opportunity for environmental groups to influence the agency's final decision''). An environmental assessment, which examines opportunities for public involvement in APHIS' environmental process, has been prepared. The environmental assessment concludes essentially that public involvement in APHIS' environmental planning and decisionmaking is consistent with NEPA requirements. In the circumstances, a finding of no significant impact is appropriate. Copies of the environmental assessment may be obtained by writing the contact for this rulemaking provided under the section heading For Further Information Contact. Comments are invited and should be submitted to this same contact on or before the comment due date for this proposed rulemaking. Paperwork Reduction Act These proposed procedures contain no information collection or recordkeeping requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ).
