FR940208-0-00117 FR940208-0-00031 Service Response: The Service designated critical habitat based on biological information regarding whether or not an area contains the primary constituent elements of desert tortoise habitat, after taking into account the economic costs of designating that area. Although the Service recognizes that Ward Valley is important culturally to indigenous peoples of the region, the Act does not address inclusion of areas within critical habitat for cultural reasons. Issue 42: Some respondents stated that critical habitat should not be designated because species like the tortoise that cannot adapt should be allowed to become extinct. Service Response: In section 2 of the Act, Findings, Purposes, and Policy, Congress found that numerous species of fish, wildlife, and plants had become extinct and that other species had become so depleted in numbers that these species were in danger of, or threatened with, extinction due to a lack of concern for their conservation. Furthermore, Congress found that these species of fish, wildlife, and plants are intrinsically valuable to the Nation and its people. These findings are the basis of the Endangered Species Act, the purpose of which is to conserve threatened and endangered species and the ecosystems on which they depend. The designation of critical habitat is one mechanism provided under the Act to facilitate the recovery of listed species. It would be contrary to the Act and the mission of the Service to allow the desert tortoise to become extinct without taking all reasonable preventative actions. Issue 43: Some respondents stated that the Service had not protected enough critical habitat, because even full implementation of the draft recovery plan gives the tortoise only a 50/50 chance of surviving 500 years. Service Response: The CHUs proposed by the Service were based on recommendations provided in the Draft Recovery Plan because those areas are necessary for the recovery of the desert tortoise. Some areas are larger than those recommended in the Draft Recovery Plan based on new biological information. The Draft Recovery Plan pointed out that implementation of recovery actions can increase the probability of survival of the species. Issue 44: One respondent stated that designation of critical habitat above that required or suggested by the Act as mitigation against threatened additional litigation is improper. Section 4(b)(2) of the Act defines the methodology to be used in the determination of critical habitat, as exemplified by the actions of the Recovery Team. However, the boundaries of the proposed CHUs extend beyond that recommended by the Desert Tortoise Recovery Plan for DWMAs. The Service should not arbitrarily designate additional acreage that is ``unsuitable'' or excessive. Critical habitat should not include the entire range of the species. The Service neither identifies nor makes available the content or source of the additional information upon which these expansions are based so that the reviewing public has an opportunity to base its comments upon the same information. The proposed rule increased the number of DWMAs in California from four to eight. Service Response: The Service based its designation of critical habitat on biological information and recovery recommendations provided by the Draft Recovery Plan. The Draft Recovery Plan provided general areas in which recovery is necessary to ensure maintenance of viable populations of desert tortoises in each of the six recovery units. The Act requires that critical habitat boundaries be defined by legal metes and bounds. To refine the Draft Recovery Plan recommendations, the Service held regional meetings of desert tortoise biologists and agency personnel during preparation of the proposed rule. Information gathered during these meetings was evaluated and incorporated into the critical habitat boundaries, which were generally drawn to the nearest section line. Final designation of critical habitat also included an economic analysis of the costs of designating critical habitat. The Draft Recovery Plan recommends eight DWMAs within four recovery units in California. These include Chemehuevi DWMA (Northern Colorado Recovery Unit); Chuckwalla and part of Joshua Tree DWMAs (Eastern Colorado Recovery Unit); Ord-Rodman, Superior-Cronese, Fremont-Kramer, and part of Joshua Tree DWMAs (Western Mojave Recovery Unit); and Fenner and Ivanpah DWMAs (Eastern Mojave Recovery Unit). The Fenner DWMA is incorporated into the Piute-Eldorado CHU, which extends into Nevada. Joshua Tree National Monument, although still considered important for recovery, was not designated as critical habitat because such designation would not afford the desert tortoise any additional benefit due to the National Park Service's ecosystem management of the area. However, the BLM land north of the Joshua Tree National Monument was designated critical habitat, and was given the new name of the Pinto Mountains CHU. Issue 45: One letter disagreed with the use of recovery units as legally and biologically accepted subpopulations of the Mojave population. Behavioral, physiological, and ecological uniqueness have not been linked to the genetic and morphologic variability described for Nevada populations. The bounds of adaptive plasticity for the desert tortoise have not been determined.
