FR941011-0-00037 FR941011-0-00011 (ii) Special rules for assets generating foreign source income_ (A) Assets that generate foreign source income, both United States and foreign source income, or combined gross income of a FSC (as defined in section 922), DISC (as defined in section 992(a)), or possessions corporation (as defined in section 936) and its related supplier, may be included in a general asset account if the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section are satisfied. If, however, the inclusion of these assets in a general asset account results in a substantial distortion of income, the Commissioner may disregard the general asset account election and make any reallocations of income or expense necessary to clearly reflect income. (B) A general asset account shall be treated as a single asset for purposes of applying the rules in ยง1.861- 9T(g)(3) (relating to allocation and apportionment of interest expense under the asset method). A general asset account that generates income in more than one grouping of income (statutory and residual) is a multiple category asset (as defined in ยง1.861&hyph;9T(g)(3)(ii)), and the income yield from the general asset account must be determined by applying the rules for multiple category assets as if the general asset account were a single asset. (2) Grouping assets in general asset accounts_ (i) General rules. If a taxpayer makes the election under paragraph (k) of this section, assets that are subject to the election are grouped into one or more general asset accounts. Assets that are eligible to be grouped into a single general asset account may be divided into more than one general asset account. Each general asset account must include only assets that_ (A) Have the same asset class (for further guidance, see Rev. Proc. 87&hyph;56, 1987&hyph;2 C.B. 674, and ยง601.601(d)(2)(ii)( b ) of this chapter); (B) Have the same applicable depreciation method; (C) Have the same applicable recovery period; (D) Have the same applicable convention; and (E) Are placed in service by the taxpayer in the same taxable year. (ii) Special rules. In addition to the general rules in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, the following rules apply when establishing general asset accounts_ (A) Assets without an asset class, but with the same characteristics described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i)(B), (C), (D), and (E) of this section, may be grouped into a general asset account; (B) Assets subject to the mid-quarter convention may only be grouped into a general asset account with assets that are placed in service in the same quarter of the taxable year; (C) Assets subject to the mid-month convention may only be grouped into a general asset account with assets that are placed in service in the same month of the taxable year; and (D) Passenger automobiles for which the depreciation allowance is limited under section 280F(a) must be grouped into a separate general asset account. (d) Determination of depreciation allowance_ (1) In general. Depreciation allowances are determined for each general asset account by using the applicable depreciation method, recovery period, and convention for the assets in the account. The depreciation allowances are recorded in a depreciation reserve account for each general asset account. The allowance for depreciation under this section constitutes the amount of depreciation allowable under section 167(a). (2) Special rule for passenger automobiles. For purposes of applying section 280F(a), the depreciation allowance for a general asset account established for passenger automobiles is limited for each taxable year to the amount prescribed in section 280F(a) multiplied by the excess of the number of automobiles originally included in the account over the number of automobiles disposed of during the taxable year or in any prior taxable year in a transaction described in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) (disposition of an asset in a qualifying disposition), (e)(3)(iv) (transactions subject to section 168(i)(7)), (e)(3)(v) (anti-abuse rule), (g) (assets subject to recapture), or (h)(1) (conversion to personal use) of this section.
