FR940214-0-00027 FR940214-0-00004 FmHA response: This was discussed under section 1944.231(a) above. 46. Exhibit A&hyph;2 Comment: One respondent felt that a new column ``housing condition'' be added to this exhibit. FmHA response: The respondent did not make known whether the reference to housing condition refers to the overall condition or to the interior condition of the units. If the latter, we have deliberately not required this type of information since it would be almost impossible for a market analyst to inspect the inside of the units. In the case of the overall exterior condition of the property, FmHA feels this analysis is subject to the personal feelings of the analyst and would not be based on any uniform means for ranking the physical condition. FmHA does require the analyst to give an opinion as to the upkeep of the existing stock in accordance with Exhibit A&hyph;8, ``Outline of Professional Market Study.'' 47. Exhibit A&hyph;7 Paragraph I.A Comment: There were many objections raised to this section that requires an audited financial statement. It was pointed out that, even if individual financial statements could be audited, the cost for providing the original and updates during the processing period would be prohibitive. These same individuals objected to providing a copy of their prior year income tax return because it is deemed an invasion of privacy. One respondent pointed out the hardship this would create for nonprofit applicants and proposed that they be able to provide their most recent audited statement. One respondent supported this section but suggested that ``current'' be defined as the end of the company's last fiscal year and that updates be unaudited. One respondent suggested that instead of requiring audited financial statements, a good review of financial statements by FmHA personnel would ensure financial security. Several persons pointed out the fact that most applicants are newly established organizations which have no financial record to audit. One respondent representing a Certified Public Accounting firm stated that it is often impracticable to conduct an examination of personal financial records in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and to express an unqualified opinion. That respondent recommended the section be changed to require that the personal financial statements either be compiled or reviewed and stated that a detailed and complete underwriting of creditworthiness can be performed on compiled or reviewed personal financial statements that are comprehensively prepared. Two respondents supported this section.
