FR941017-1-00013 FR941017-1-00001 The existing regulation (10 CFR part 100, appendix A, section V(a)(1)(iv)) states ``The maximum vibratory accelerations of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake at each of the various foundation locations of the nuclear power plant structures at a given site shall be determined *␣*␣*''. The location of the seismic input motion control point as stated in the existing regulation has led to confrontations with many applicants that believe this stipulation is inconsistent with good engineering fundamentals. The proposed regulation would move the location of the seismic input motion control point from the foundation-level to the free-field at the free ground surface. The 1975 version of the Standard Review Plan placed the control motion in the free-field. The proposed regulation is also consistent with the resolution of Unresolved Safety Issue (USI) A&hyph;40, ``Seismic Design Criteria'' (August 1989), that resulted in the revision of Standard Review Plan Sections 2.5.2, 3.7.1, 3.7.2, and 3.7.3. However, the proposed regulation requires that the horizontal component of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motion in the free-field at the foundation level of the structures must be an appropriate response spectrum considering the site geotechnical properties, with a peak ground acceleration of at least 0.1g. 5. Value of the Operating Basis Earthquake Ground Motion (OBE) and Required OBE Analyses The existing regulation (10 CFR, appendix A, section V(a)(2)) states that the maximum vibratory ground motion of the OBE is at least one half the maximum vibratory ground motion of the Safe Shutdown Earthquake ground motion. Also, the existing regulation (10 CFR, appendix A, section VI(a)(2)) states that the engineering method used to insure that structures, systems, and components are capable of withstanding the effects of the OBE shall involve the use of either a suitable dynamic analysis or a suitable qualification test. In some cases, for instance piping, these multi-facets of the OBE in the existing regulation made it possible for the OBE to have more design significance than the SSE. A decoupling of the OBE and SSE has been suggested in several documents. For instance, the NRC staff, SECY&hyph;79&hyph;300, suggested that design for a single limiting event and inspection and evaluation for earthquakes in excess of some specified limit may be the most sound regulatory approach. NUREG&hyph;1061, ``Report of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Piping Review Committee,'' Vol. 5, April 1985, (Table 10.1) ranked a decoupling of the OBE and SSE as third out of six high priority changes. In SECY&hyph;90&hyph;016, ``Evolutionary Light Water Reactor (LWR) Certification Issues and Their Relationship to Current Regulatory Requirements,'' the NRC staff states that it agrees that the OBE should not control the design of safety systems. Activities equivalent to OBE&hyph;SSE decoupling are also being done in foreign countries. For instance, in Germany their new design standard requires only one design basis earthquake (equivalent to the SSE). They require an inspection-level earthquake (for shutdown) of 0.4 SSE. This level was set so that the vibratory ground motion should not induce stresses exceeding the allowable stress limits originally required for the OBE design. The proposed regulation would allow the value of the OBE to be set at (i) one-third or less of the SSE, where OBE requirements are satisfied without an explicit response or design analyses being performed, or (ii) a value greater than one-third of the SSE, where analysis and design are required. There are two issues the applicant should consider in selecting the value of the OBE: first, plant shutdown is required if vibratory ground motion exceeding that of the OBE occurs (discussed below in Item 6, Required Plant Shutdown), and second, the amount of analyses associated with the OBE. An applicant may determine that at one-third of the SSE level, the probability of exceeding the OBE vibratory ground motion is too high, and the cost associated with plant shutdown for inspections and testing of equipment and structures prior to restarting the plant is unacceptable. Therefore, the applicant may voluntarily select an OBE value at some higher fraction of the SSE to avoid plant shutdowns. However, if an applicant selects an OBE value at a fraction of the SSE higher than one-third, a suitable analysis shall be performed to demonstrate that the requirements associated with the OBE are satisfied. The design shall take into account soil-structure interaction effects and the expected duration of the vibratory ground motion. The requirement associated with the OBE is that all structures, systems, and components of the nuclear power plant necessary for continued operation without undue risk to the health and safety of the public shall remain functional and within applicable stress, strain and deformation limits when subjected to the effects of the OBE in combination with normal operating loads. As stated above, it is determined that if an OBE of one-third of the SSE is used, the requirements of the OBE can be satisfied without the applicant performing any explicit response analyses. In this case, the OBE serves the function of an inspection and shutdown earthquake. Some minimal design checks and the applicability of this position to seismic base isolation of buildings are discussed below. There is high confidence that, at this ground-motion level with other postulated concurrent loads, most critical structures, systems, and components will not exceed currently used design limits. This is ensured, in part, because PRA insights will be used to support a margins-type assessment of seismic events. A PRA-based seismic margins analysis will consider sequence-level High Confidence, Low Probability of Failures (HCLPFs) and fragilities for all sequences leading to core damage or containment failures up to approximately one and two-thirds the ground motion acceleration of the design basis SSE (Reference: Item II.N, Site-Specific Probabilistic Risk Assessment and Analysis of External Events, memorandum from Samuel J. Chilk to James M. Taylor, Subject: SECY&hyph;93&hyph;087_Policy, Technical, and Licensing Issues Pertaining to Evolutionary and Advance Light-Water Reactor (ALWR) Designs, dated July 21, 1993. There are situations associated with current analyses where only OBE is associated with the design requirements, for example, the ultimate heat sink (see Regulatory Guide 1.27, ``Ultimate Heat Sink for Nuclear Power Plants''). In these situations, a value expressed as a fraction of the SSE response would be used in the analyses. Section VIII of this proposed rule identifies existing guides that would be revised technically to maintain the existing design philosophy. In SECY&hyph;93&hyph;087, ``Policy, Technical, and Licensing Issues Pertaining to Evolutionary and Advance Light-Water Reactor (ALWR) Designs,'' the NRC staff requested Commission approval on 42 technical and policy issues pertaining to either evolutionary LWRs, passive LWRs, or both. The issue pertaining to the elimination of the OBE is designated I.M. The NRC staff identified actions necessary for the design of structures, systems, and components when the OBE design requirement is eliminated. The staff clarified that guidelines should be maintained to ensure the functionality of components, equipment, and their supports. In addition, the staff clarified how certain design requirements are to be considered for buildings and structures that are currently designed for the OBE, but not the SSE. Also, the NRC staff has evaluated the effect on safety of eliminating the OBE from the design load combinations for selected structures, systems, and components and has developed proposed criteria for an analysis using only the SSE. Commission approval is documented in the Chilk to Taylor memorandum dated July 21, 1993, cited above. More than one earthquake response analysis for a seismic base isolated nuclear power plant design may be necessary to ensure adequate performance at all earthquake levels. Decisions pertaining to the response analyses associated with base isolated facilities will be handled on a case by case basis.
