FR940725-2-00045 FR940725-2-00034 (b) The number and types of individuals who can be expected to benefit from the project; (c) The administrative and management ability of the applicant to carry out the proposed project in a cost effective manner; (d) The adequacy of the staff and faculty; (e) The soundness of the budget; and (f) The potential of the project to continue without further support under this program. In addition, the following factor will be applied in determining the funding of applications: A funding priority is defined as the favorable adjustment of aggregate review scores when applications meet specified objective criteria. The following funding priorities will be used in the distribution of grant awards in FY 1995. Statutory Funding Priority Public Law 102&hyph;408 requires the Secretary to give priority in funding to the following schools: 1. A school which previously received an HCOP grant and increased its first-year enrollment of individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds by at least 20 percent over that enrollment in the base year 1987 (for which the applicant must supply data) by the end of 3 years from the date of the award of the HCOP grant; and 2. A school which had not previously received an HCOP grant that increased its first-year enrollment of individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds by at least 20 percent over that enrollment in the base year 1987 (for which the applicant must supply data) over any period of time (3 consecutive years). Established Funding Priority The following funding priority was established in fiscal year 1990 after public comment at 55 FR 11264, dated March 27, 1990, and is being continued in FY 1995, with the exception that wording related to alternative means of documenting enrollment in terms of increases and retention rates for disadvantaged students has been deleted. Progress in these areas is considered as a part of the merit review process for this program and applicants will be informed of relevant benchmarks in application materials. A funding priority will be given to HCOP applications from health professions schools that have a disadvantaged student enrollment of 35 percent or more. Traditionally, disadvantaged students have been disproportionally underrepresented in the health profession schools and the health professions. A funding priority will also be given to schools of allied health offering baccalaureate or higher level programs in physical therapy, physician assisting, respiratory therapy, medical technology or occupational therapy that have a disadvantaged student enrollment of 35 percent or more among those programs.
