FR941202-0-00069 FR941202-0-00010 (6) Several commenters stated that the rule was complex and difficult to understand. They stated that additional guidance should be provided, particularly for small businesses. The EPA agrees that guidance would be helpful and has developed a brochure summarizing the rule, and will be developing a guidance manual that is scheduled for publication in January 1995. This guidance manual includes a detailed summary of the rule, example forms that can be used for reporting and recordkeeping, and additional assistance for evaluating alternative cleaning technologies. (7) Several commenters recommended that the EPA reduce the monitoring frequency of the emission control equipment. The EPA evaluated the monitoring frequencies and has added a provision to the final rule that allows the hoist monitoring frequency to decrease from monthly to quarterly if, the owner or operator has operated the hoist for one year without an exceedance in the hoist speed. The EPA has also changed the reduced room draft (RRD) monitoring frequency from weekly to quarterly with weekly monitoring of the parameters used to obtain the RRD. (8) Several comments were received on the batch cold cleaning machine equipment requirement provisions. A number of commenters reported the use of TCA, MC, and TCE in noncarburetor batch cold cleaning machine operations. The commenters stated that the proposed water layer control option was not always possible for these cleaning machines, particularly when TCA or TCE solvents are used. In order to address this issue, alternative control equipment options were added to the final rule to allow for the use of an increased freeboard ratio and cover, or remote-reservoir and cover, in lieu of a water layer and cover. An owner or operator complying with these alternative options must also comply with work practice requirements. The final rule also allows an owner or operator of a batch cold cleaning machine to use alternative control equipment, if demonstrated to be equivalent to the equipment requirements cited in the final rule and approved by the Administrator. IV. Administrative Requirements A. Docket The docket is an organized and complete file of all the information considered by the EPA in the development of this rulemaking. The docket is a dynamic file, since material is added throughout the rulemaking development. The docketing system is intended to allow members of the public and industries involved to readily identify and locate documents so that they can effectively participate in the rulemaking process. Along with the statement of basis and purpose of the proposed and promulgated standards and the EPA responses to significant comments, the contents of the docket will serve as the record in case of judicial review (section 307(d)(7)(A)). B. Paperwork Reduction Act Information collection requirements associated with this regulation (those included in 40 CFR Part 63, Subpart A and Subpart T) have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. and have been assigned OMB control number (2060&hyph;0273). An Information Collection Request (ICR) document has been prepared by the EPA (ICR No. 1652.02) to reflect the changed information requirements of the final rule and has been submitted to OMB for review. A copy may be obtained from Sandy Farmer, Information Policy Branch, EPA 2136, 401 M St., SW, Washington, DC 20460, or by calling (202) 260&hyph;2740. The annual respondent burden and costs averaged over the first 3 years for batch vapor and in-line cleaning machine subcategories are 359,000 hours and $12.0 million. Since the reporting burden for some of the required activities will be incurred only once, the average annual burden for batch vapor and in-line cleaning machine subcategories will decrease after the first two years of implementation. For the batch cold cleaning machine subcategory, the annual respondent burden and costs averaged over the first 3 years are 33,000 hours and $1.1 million. The batch cold cleaning machine subcategory is not expected to incur costs after the initial activities. This collection of information is estimated to have an annual public reporting and recordkeeping burden averaging 42 hours per facility over the first 3 years. These burden estimates include time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information.
