FR940304-1-00139 FR940304-1-00014 The Department therefore concludes that the burdens of standard level 8 for water heaters outweigh the benefits, and rejects the standard level. The next two most stringent standard levels, 7 and 6, are projected to save 45.85 and 44.39 quads of energy, respectively. However, these levels also produce life-cycle cost increases for gas water heaters compared to the base case with payback of 11.2 and 10.1 years, which are more than two thirds of the average product lifetime. The first cost of electric water heaters at these levels is quadrupled from the base case and manufacturer short-run return on equity is reduced from 0.4 percent to negative 18.1 and negative 17.1 percent, respectively. The Department therefore concludes that the burdens of standards level 7 and 6 for water heaters outweigh the benefits, and rejects these standard levels. The next most stringent standard level is standard level 5. This standard level is projected to save 34.98 quads of energy. However, this level also produces a life-cycle cost increase for gas water heaters compared to the base case, with a payback of 10.1 years, which is more than two thirds of the average product lifetime. The Department therefore concludes that the burdens of standard level 5 for water heaters outweigh the benefits, and rejects this standard level. After carefully considering the analysis, the Department is amending the National Appliance Energy Conservation Act_imposed 1990 standard for water heaters with standard level 4. The Department concludes that standard level 4 for water heaters saves a significant amount of energy and is technologically feasible and economically justified. There would be significant energy savings at this level of efficiency. During the period 1996&hyph;2030, these savings are calculated to be 34.87 quads of primary energy. In addition, the standard could have a positive effect on the environment by reducing the emissions of NO 2 and SO 2 by 5,336,000 tons and 5,890,000 tons, respectively, or by as much as 2.77 and 2.72 percent, respectively, by the year 2030. Furthermore, the standard will reduce emissions of CO 2 by 2,845 million tons, or as much as 2.93 percent, over the forecast period. The technologies that are necessary to meet this standard are presently available. The Department finds the level to be economically justified. The consumer payback of this standard level is 2.0 and 3.5 years for electric and gas water heaters, respectively. This standard has the lowest life-cycle cost for all classes and is expected to result in a reduction in life-cycle cost of approximately $1,025 and $31 for electric and gas water heaters, respectively. Additionally, the standard is expected to double the prototypical manufacturer's long-run return on equity from 0.4 to 0.8 percent even though the short-run return on equity is projected to drop to negative 3.5 percent. However, as stated previously, the Department believes that the requirement of heat pumps for electric water heaters will cause other manufacturers, with the stronger financial characteristics of room air conditioner manufacturers, to be drawn into the mix of manufacturers offering electric water heating systems. The Department believes that this mix of manufacturers would have a positive return on equity compared to that projected for existing water heater manufacturers. The Department recognizes that establishing a standard for electric water heaters that essentially requires the use of heat pumps is a significant change for consumers and manufacturers. However, heat pump water heaters are not a technology that has to be developed; the product already exists in the marketplace. Additionally, the projected energy savings are very large and the forecasted benefits appear to outweigh the burdens. However, the magnitude of some of the changes, such as in first cost and product manufacturing, could make questionable some of the assumptions contained in the analysis and may warrant closer scrutiny. For example, as reported in the Technical Support Document, the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Residential Energy Model's computation of appliance turnover rate, i.e., the repair or replace decision, is based on industry data about historical annual shipments and does not explicitly consider the effects of increased first cost. A significant increase in first cost could distort this model. The Department assumes, however, that water heaters are typically replaced because of tank leaks which, because of design features such as glass-lined tanks and foamed-in-place insulation, are essentially non-repairable. Therefore, the Department believes that the impacts on the replacement rate, because of a substantial increase in first cost, is likely to be small. The Department welcomes comment on this assumption and other areas where it might be thought that the magnitude of the first cost increase or manufacturing changes might warrant additional or revised modeling assumptions.
