FR941110-0-00176 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: Some commenters suggested we mandate State monitoring be used whenever a facility is undergoing termination or closure. Response: While we agree with commenters that installing a State monitor would be appropriate in a termination or closure situation, we will not require the States to use this remedy in all such cases. Section 488.421␣Directed Plans of Correction Comment: Some commenters wanted us to define a directed PoC as a facility-initiated PoC which the State or HCFA orders the facility to implement. Commenters reasoned that making this change would allow States to use directed PoC more efficiently and effectively since facilities' governing bodies will generally be more capable of drafting viable plans of correction based upon knowledge of facility resources. One commenter wanted to amend proposed §488.224 to read as follows: ``HCFA, or the State (or the temporary manager with HCFA or State approval) has the responsibility to develop a plan of correction *␣*␣*''. Another commenter believed that when the State or HCFA orders (or directs) a facility to comply with the directed PoC, the State or HCFA have more authority to require the facility to revise any aspect of the PoC which is not acceptable. The commenter further suggested that the imposition of a governmentally created PoC on a facility raises questions of the government's and the facility's respective liabilities if the plan does not correct the deficiencies. Response: Defining a directed PoC as a facility-initiated plan which HCFA or the State orders or directs a facility to implement would be virtually identical to the way we have always defined a traditional PoC. The traditional PoC is a requirement when any deficiency is cited, except for isolated deficiencies where no actual harm has occurred and there may be potential for minimal harm. The exception to this is if a directed PoC is used as a remedy. The directed PoC can be used by itself for deficiencies which cause no actual harm. We also disagree that a PoC developed by the facility would give the State survey agency or HCFA any more authority than one developed by the State survey agency, HCFA, or a temporary manager. We do not believe that to say ``HCFA *␣*␣* has the responsibility'' adds anything to the meaning of this section. Although it may be true that the facility's governing body may be more familiar with a facility's resources, developing a directed PoC does not rest solely on this knowledge. For the reasons stated above, we are not accepting these suggestions. With respect to the commenter's point that a governmentally-initiated PoC could raise a question about the State's or HCFA's liability if the directed PoC does not correct deficiencies, we do not guarantee that any remedy will necessarily result in facility compliance. The directed PoC, as well as other remedies prescribed, are developed and recommended based on the professional judgment of State or HCFA staff and their consideration of which remedy(ies) would promote prompt achievement of compliance. If a remedy does not result in a facility achieving compliance, another remedy may be imposed to safeguard the health or safety of nursing home residents. This other remedy could be an additional remedy from the same category, or, if the deficiencies have been exacerbated, a remedy or remedies from a higher category, including termination. However, HCFA and the State will usually impose alternative remedies prior to terminating a facility. Comment: Other commenters wanted us to amend §488.424 to specify situations where a directed PoC would be mandatory. These commenters asked that a directed PoC be used when the following deficiencies are identified. •Violations of admission requirements; •Violations of Sarrassat requirements concerning notice of Medicare coverage and rights to demand billing; •Violations of transfer prohibitions and bed hold requirements; •All cases of violations of individual rights; and •Care problems of specific, identifiable individuals.
