FR941110-2-00159 FR941110-2-00107 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to the Bureau's authorizing legislation, programs must maintain a non-political character and should be balanced and representative of the diversity of American political, social, and cultural life. ``Diversity'' should be interpreted in the broadest sense and encompass differences including but not limited to race, gender, religion, geographic location, socio-economic status, and physical challenges. Applicants are strongly encouraged to adhere to the advancement of this principle. Overview The purpose of this program is to provide the opportunity for American students to study at a school and experience life with a host family and its community in one of the 12 Newly Independent States of the former Soviet Union, and, to sponsor students from countries of the former Soviet Union to study at an American school and experience life with a host family and its community in the U.S. Grant funding is also intended to provide avenues that will enhance the students' understanding of each country's political, social, and cultural and ethnic diversity; to promote the exchange of ideas; and to foster long-term friendships. The countries of the NIS are: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrogyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Guidelines This program has four components. Please note that each component is independent of the other and is not subject to reciprocity. However, applicants may opt to apply for any component or a combination of any or all four. A. Outbound Semester This component will give American high-school students a chance to live with a host family and study at the secondary school level in an NIS country for a period of no less than three months. B. Inbound Semester This component provides opportunities for NIS high school students to live with a host family and study at secondary level institutions for one academic semester in the U.S. C. Academic Year Outbound This component provides opportunities for American high school students to study for a full year in one of the countries of the former Soviet Union, and to more fully experience the life and culture of a host family and its community. D. Academic Year Inbound This component provides the opportunity for students from the former Soviet Union to study for a full year at an American high school, and to more fully experience the life and culture of a host family and its community. There is no prescribed formula for either component of the program. However, organizations should encourage students to participate in extracurricular activities as well as provide students with community based activities. Also, organizations have the option to disperse students widely or concentrate groups of students in regional clusters. The purpose of clustering is to facilitate periodic gatherings for ongoing orientation, excursions and cultural programming, as well as supervision and feedback. Organizations should identify in their proposals the target regions, states and/or communities in which placements will be sought. Regardless of the placement plan, organizations may propose periodic gatherings of students locally, regionally or nationally. Grantee organizations working with their offices overseas and/or NIS partners will: Recruit and select students based on merit using their own criteria; arrange for their placement in schools; select and orient host families; make all travel and logistical arrangements; conduct orientation sessions; conduct re-entry and debriefing sessions; supervise students, solve problems, and provide counseling as needed; develop a mechanism for the transfer of academic credit and/or the certification of school attendance; interact with the schools on an ongoing basis; and evaluate the program's success. Proposals should succinctly describe how these elements will be handled, with special attention to the following factors: _Organizations must demonstrate the capacity to secure quality homestays and school placements for the number of students on which they are bidding in conformance with the regulations governing J visas for inbound secondary school students. _The proposal should include a description of the process the organization uses to identify and screen potential host families, as well as its system for making school placements. _Proposals using the cluster method should: Specify the cluster size and likely locations; and include a description of how clustering will affect the program, such as scheduling periodic gatherings of the students. A sample schedule of gatherings and topics or themes to be addressed should be included. _An organization using the dispersal method should include a justification for not using the cluster model and explain its placement philosophy; and if planning period gatherings the proposal should include a tentative itinerary for a sample meeting. _Inbound students should be sufficiently proficient in English upon arrival in the U.S. to function in a high-school environment. No USIA grant funding will be provided for English training under this program. Preference will be given to proposals that include language skills as a selection criterion for American students going to the NIS. Applicant organizations with alternative approaches to language qualifications should discuss them in the proposal.
