FR940913-1-00027 FR940913-1-00012 The mandatory text also urges consumers to contact insurance companies if they wish to obtain precise information about actual premiums for particular makes and models of vehicles. Previous studies by NHTSA have revealed that the difference between the premiums charged by different insurance companies for the same car and driver is greater than the difference between the premiums charged by a given company for comparably-valued cars that have different claims experience. NHTSA believed the mandatory text would help to minimize consumer confusion by providing customers with an understanding of the uses and limitations of the auto insurance cost data. In specifying the yearly insurance cost data that accompanied the required text, NHTSA decided to rely on collision loss experience data collected and reported by the Highway Loss Data Institute (HLDI), as the best available indicator of the effect of damage susceptibility on insurance costs. In the March 1993 final rule, NHTSA specified HLDI's December Insurance Collision Report as the data source for part 582. NHTSA decided to specify HLDI's December Report because it contains more current data and covers more vehicle models than other HLDI publications. The HLDI data is presented in a format that ranks the vehicles in each class from best to worst (with numerical values given for each vehicle). NHTSA specified this format because it determined the use of this ranking system should assist customers in evaluating the comparative performance of comparable vehicles. In the March 1993 final rule, NHTSA stated its belief that the HLDI information should be available as soon as possible after its publication date. Therefore, NHTSA stated its intent to publish the annual Federal Register document updating HLDI's December Insurance Collision Report data no later than January of the calendar year that follows HLDI's publication of the data. Proposed Amendments In this notice of proposed rulemaking, NHTSA proposes to amend part 582 by making certain changes in section 582.5, that specifies the text of the insurance cost information booklet. At present, the text specifies the date ``January [Year to be Inserted].'' In this NPRM, NHTSA proposes to revise ``January'' to ``March.'' The change to a later month will allow NHTSA adequate time to publish the comparative insurance cost information booklet. HLDI sends the December Insurance Collision Report data to NHTSA in mid-January. The data is then formatted for printing and distributed to automobile dealers by mail. NHTSA can thus expect that the booklet will be published by March of each year. Part 582 presently specifies a comparison of insurance costs for ``passenger motor vehicles.'' In this NPRM, NHTSA proposes to revise ``passenger motor vehicles,'' at appropriate places in ยง582.5, to read ``passenger cars, utility vehicles, light duty trucks and vans.'' The proposed revisions would make clear that ``passenger motor vehicles'' includes many vehicle types besides ``passenger car.'' In this NPRM, NHTSA also proposes to make certain changes to the required text that would make more explicit the limitations of the collision loss data. At present, the text in ยง582.5 explaining the data's limitations states that the collision loss data table does not include information about new models, models that have been substantially redesigned, and models without enough claim experience. In order to make clear that certain data should not be relied upon, NHTSA proposes to revise the third paragraph in ยง582.5 to state: The table is not relevant for new models or models that have been substantially redesigned for [YEAR TO BE INSERTED], and it does not include information about models without enough claim experience. At present, the fourth paragraph in ยง582.5 states that it is unlikely that a consumer's total premium will vary more than five percent depending upon the collision loss experience of a particular vehicle. Upon further review, NHTSA believes it would be more accurate to state that it is unlikely that a consumer's total premium will vary more than ten percent. This notice proposes that change. The reason for the change to ten percent is that the Insurance Services Organization (ISO) recommends insurance premium rates to its members. An ISO representative indicated to NHTSA that the collision cost data could result in an insurance premium reduction of ten percent rather than the five percent mentioned in the booklet ``Comparison of Differences in Insurance Costs for Passenger Motor Vehicles on the Basis of Damage Susceptibility,'' made available to motor vehicle purchasers.
