FR940505-1-00170 FR940505-1-00012 Because of these and other potential drawbacks, EPA believes that it would be preferable at this point in time to avoid mandating the use of these control technologies by all ships when they are in California ports. There are at least three reasons why other solutions should be pursued at this time. First, as shown above, not all ships are high emitters. Therefore, it does not make sense to mandate special technologies for all ships, since this would mean imposing costly retrofits on some existing ships that are not high emitters. Second, and more importantly, not all ships spend a lot of operating time in California ports. It does not make sense to mandate permanent, expensive control technologies for ships that visit California ports only once or twice a year which, as noted above, is the case for approximately 60 percent of the vessels that use California's ports. Finally, the regulation of oceangoing marine vessels registered in the United States has been traditionally undertaken by the United States Coast Guard, and through international organizations such as the International Maritime Organization (IMO), for ships registered outside the United States. International trade may be significantly harmed by unilateral and contradictory actions taken by various countries around the world mandating different control methods and technologies for vessels engaged in international trade. EPA believes that it is appropriate at this time to avoid unilaterally mandating the use of control technologies or other methods on ships that are inconsistent with the technologies currently being advocated by the United States in the IMO. 91 This is especially important in the South Coast region because approximately 80 percent of the larger marine vessels that call on the LA ports, for example, are registered in foreign countries. EPA believes that it is important to create a regime that will encourage all ship operators and owners to reduce their emissions of NO X and SO X while in California ports without creating significant problems for international trade. 91 The IMO is currently developing an international agreement to control emissions from ships on international voyages. The IMO subcommittee working on this project (Bulk Chemicals Handling) was charged by the IMO with achieving a 30 percent worldwide reduction in ship NO X emissions and a 50 percent SO X reduction. The subcommittee is currently considering a rule for new engines only. The resolution of this issue will clearly have significant ramifications for this FIP. See Section (2)(A) Fee Categories, below, for additional discussion of this effort. Emission control strategies must also take into account economic realities. Ships and ports bring more than pollution to California. They also perform the obvious function of transporting products and raw materials to the area for manufacturing and production purposes, and they bring jobs and money. Many millions of dollars of imports and exports travel through the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach every day, on their way from the Midwest to the Far East or vice versa. Any program for the control of emissions from ships and ports must also consider the effects of such a program on this trade and on the South Coast economy. Inappropriate treatment could move the trade out of the area, or even out of the country, with corresponding economic effects. While it is true that trade has centered in the South Coast because the area is well situated to accept it, having adequate facilities for moving and processing the products delivered, it is also true that emission control strategies should stress appropriate regulations which would balance emissions reductions with possible negative impacts on trade. For all of these reasons, EPA is proposing a flexible control strategy for the reduction of emissions from ships at port. This strategy will rely on economic incentives to encourage operators and owners of ships that frequently use California's South Coast ports to take the steps necessary to reduce their emissions. Specifically, this strategy involves imposing user fees for ships that use ports in the South Coast region. These fees will be based on the level of emissions of a ship using the port, among other things. EPA is proposing a three-tier fee structure, as more thoroughly described below. Like other emission charges proposed today, the ship fee will be based on a price of $10,000 per ton of NO X emissions emitted to the atmosphere. In addition to encouraging ship operators and owners to install and use emission control systems, the program contains two other features that should help reduce marine vessels' contribution to California's pollution while ships are berthed in port and while they are operating at sea. First, ship operators may receive a reduction in the fees outlined below if they use onshore power sources instead of internally generated power while they are at port (this is called ``cold ironing''). Second, ship operators may receive a reduction in fees if they use a relocated Santa Barbara shipping channel. EPA is proposing that this shipping channel be located at least 70 miles from the shore to decrease the amount of marine emissions that are transported onshore by prevailing winds. Both of these aspects of the program are described in greater detail below. No fee will be assessed any shipper who uses the lowest emitting class of engine, cold irons and avoids the Ventura air basin. There are several advantages to this type of emission control program. First, it allows a ship operator or owner to make decisions about which control technologies to adopt, if any, based not only on the characteristics of a particular vessel but also based on the extent to which the vessel uses South Coast ports. Those ships that use South Coast ports more frequently will be faced with higher annual fees and therefore will have a greater incentive to install more efficient emission control devices to reduce those annual fees. Vessels that use these ports infrequently are not faced with the same level of annual fees and would therefore probably elect to pay the fee instead of installing more expensive emission control devices. EPA believes this is a fair strategy because these vessels contribute less to overall regional air quality problems than those vessels that use these ports more often. At the same time, payment of a fee by a vessel that infrequently uses port facilities is justified because the vessel is contributing to local air quality while it uses the port.
