FR940817-2-00121 FR940817-2-00068 Notice of Availability of the Draft Environmental Assessment and Land Protection Plan Proposed Establishment of Big Branch Marsh National Wildlife Refuge St. Tammany Parish, LA AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of Availability of the Draft Environmental Assessment and Land Protection Plan for the Proposed Establishment of Big Branch Marsh National Wildlife Refuge. SUMMARY: This notice advises the public that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Southeast Region, proposes to establish a national wildlife refuge in the vicinity of St. Tammany Parish, Louisiana. The purpose of the proposed refuge is to protect, enhance, and manage a valuable wetland area known as the Big Branch Marsh, which is threatened by urban expansion from the city of New Orleans. A Draft Environmental Assessment and Land Protection Plan for the proposed refuge has been developed by Service biologists in coordination with the State of Louisiana, the Northshore Coast Watch, the Coalition to Restore Louisiana, the Lake Pontchartrain Basin Foundation, the St. Tammany Sportsmen's League, and the St. Tammany Police Jury. The assessment considers the biological, environmental, and socioeconomic effects of establishing the refuge. The assessment also evaluates three alternative actions and their potential impacts on the environment. Written comments or recommendations concerning the proposal are welcomed and should be sent to the address below. DATES: Land acquisition planning for the project is currently underway. The draft environmental assessment and land protection plan will be available to the public for review and comment on August 15, 1994. Written comments must be received no later than September 13, 1994, to be considered. ADDRESSES: Comments and requests for copies of the assessment and for further information on the project should be addressed to Mr. Charles R. Danner, Chief, Branch of Project Development, Office of Refuges and Wildlife, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 1875 Century Boulevard, Atlanta, Georgia 30345. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The primary objectives of the proposed Big Branch Marsh National Wildlife Refuge are to provide: (1) Habitat for a natural diversity of wildlife associated with the Big Branch Marsh, (2) wintering habitat for migratory waterfowl, (3) nesting habitat for wood ducks, (4) habitat for non-game migratory birds, and (5) opportunities for compatible public outdoor recreation, such as hunting, fishing, hiking, birdwatching, and environmental education and interpretation. The proposed refuge area is located along the north shore of Lake Pontchartrain in St. Tammany Parish, Louisiana, just south of the town of Lacombe. It is bordered by Cane Bayou on the west, Lake Pontchartrain on the south, and the Southern Railway trestle on the east. The northern boundary runs along several parish roads and bayous which separate the marsh from residential development south of U.S. Highway 190, an east-west highway that runs from Slidell to Mandeville, Louisiana. The proposed rufuge would consist of up to 12,000 acres of land acquired in fee title from willing sellers. The major wildlife values are the numerous species of shorebirds, wading birds, neotropical migratory birds, and wintering watefowl. Raptors include the osprey, northern harrier, peregrine falcon, and bald eagle. White-tailed deer, mink, raccoon, and river otter are among the many species of mammals dependent on the area. The entire area serves as an important nursery for fish, shrimp, and crabs and represents one of the better fish production areas on Lake Pontchartrain. The estuaries, ponds, and bayous provide a diverse mix of brackish and freshwater habitats for many species of saltwater and freshwater fish of both recreational and commercial importance. Dated: August 2, 1994. James W. Pulliam, Jr., Regional Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20373 Filed 8&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
