FR941107-2-00100 FR941107-2-00052 Public Health Service National Toxicology Program; Chemicals (6) Nominated for Toxicological Studies; Request for Comments SUMMARY: The National Toxicology Program (NTP) is soliciting public comments on six chemicals nominated for toxicological studies. These comments will assist the NTP in making informed decisions about whether to perform toxicological testing on these chemicals. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Errol Zeiger, AO&hyph;01; National Toxicology Program, NIEHS, P.O. Box 12233, Research Triangle Park, NC l27709; (919) 541&hyph;4482. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The NTP was established in 1978 as a cooperative effort within the Public Health Service of the Department of Health and Human Services to coordinate toxicology research and testing activities within the Department to provide information about potentially toxic chemicals to regulatory and research agencies and the public, and to strengthen the science base in toxicology. The chemical nomination and selection process remains integral to the effective operation and success of the NTP with respect to the testing of chemicals using current methodologies, the validation of new testing methodologies, and the evaluation of mechanisms of toxicity. As part of the nomination and selection process, the NTP Interagency Committee for Chemical Evaluation and Coordination (ICCEC) (formerly the Chemical Evaluation Committee [CEC]), composed of representatives from Federal agencies participating in the NTP, evaluates chemicals nominated to the Program and makes recommendations for study. Nominated chemicals which have been reviewed by the ICCEC are published in the Federal Register with request for comment. The purpose is to encourage active participation in the NTP chemical evaluation process, thereby helping the NTP to make more informed decisions as to whether to select, defer or reject chemicals for toxicology study. Comments and data submitted in response to this announcement will be reviewed by NTP technical staff for use in the further evaluation of the nominated chemicals. The NTP chemical nomination and selection process is summarized in the NTP FY 1993 Annual Report, pages 17&hyph;19. On September 22, 1994, the ICCEC met to evaluate six chemicals nominated to the NTP for toxicological studies. The following table lists the chemicals, their Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) registry numbers, and the types of toxicological studies recommended by the ICCEC.
