FR940613-2-00089 FR940613-2-00055 (i) such exemption is consistent with the public interest, the protection of investors and the purposes of this rule; and (ii) such dealer (A) prior to the time the contribution(s) which resulted in such prohibition was made, had developed and instituted procedures reasonably designed to ensure compliance with this rule; (B) prior to or at the time the contribution(s) which resulted in such prohibition was made, had no actual knowledge of the contribution(s); (C) has taken all available steps to cause the person or persons involved in making the contribution(s) which resulted in such prohibition to obtain a return of the contribution(s); and (D) has taken such other remedial or preventive measures, as may be appropriate under the circumstances. The Board believes that a dealer that is subject to the prohibition on business should have to make a substantial effort to be exempted from that prohibition. The proposed rule change would require the dealer to petition the NASD or appropriate bank regulatory agency to seek such an exemption and to provide sufficient evidence to justify an exemption. In making a determination concerning an exemption, the NASD or appropriate bank regulatory agency would then review the facts and circumstances presented by the dealer, as well as the factors set forth in the proposed rule change. The Board would expect that this prohibition exemption not be routinely requested by dealers and that exemptions would be granted by the NASD and the bank regulatory agencies only in limited circumstances. The Board believes that the proposed rule change will offer relief from the prohibition on business in appropriate circumstances without sacrificing the rule's purpose and intent, i.e., to ensure that the high standards and integrity of the municipal securities industry are maintained, to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to perfect a free and open market, and to protect investors and the public interest. The Board will seek information from the NASD and bank regulatory agencies regarding the granting of any exemptions in order to monitor the implementation of this provision, and to determine if any changes are necessary. Definition of ``Official of an Issuer'' An ``official of an issuer'' is defined in rule G&hyph;37(g)(vi) as any incumbent, candidate or successful candidate for elective office of the issuer, which office is directly or indirectly responsible for, or can influence the outcome of, the hiring of a dealer for municipal securities business. The definition is intended to include any state or local official or candidate (or successful candidate) who has influence over the awarding of municipal securities business, including certain state-wide executive or legislative officials. The Board, however, was concerned that because the definition focuses on ``an elective office of the issuer,'' it did not clearly include certain other officials. For example, a state may have certain issuing authorities whose boards of directors are appointed by the governor. Although the governor is an official with influence over the awarding of municipal securities business, the governor, in this illustration, is not an incumbent or candidate for ``elective office of the issuer'' ( i.e., the state authority). Thus, a contribution to the governor would not prohibit a dealer from engaging in business with the state authority. The Board intended to include the governor as an official of the issuer in such circumstances and, therefore, has determined to amend the definition to clarify its intent. The amended definition of official of an issuer includes any incumbent or candidate ``for any elective office of a state or of any political subdivision, which office has authority to appoint any official(s) of an issuer, as defined in [paragraph (g)(vii)(A) of rule G&hyph;37].''
