FR941206-2-00047 FR941206-2-00034 Focus Group and Interview Protocol Introduction Why FCC is Surveying Customers •National Performance Review •Executive Order 12862 •Align services with customer needs What this Surveying Entails •Talking with customers directly to assess their customer service needs Question 1: What products and services do you receive from the FCC? Question 2: When did you directly interact with the FCC? Question 3: Which office at the FCC did you directly interact with? Question 4: Have there been any issues or significant problems with the products or services provided to you by the FCC? (question will be asked for each relevant product and service). Question 5: How would you suggest the FCC improve? (question will be asked for each relevant product and service). Question 6: What positive experiences have you had in your interactions with the FCC? Question 7: What kinds of products and services should the FCC provide for you? Question 8: Do you currently have any need of products or services not currently provided by the FCC? Question 9: Does the FCC currently provide a product or service that is not particularly useful to you? Question 10: Would you pay more for services the FCC currently provides? Question 11: Would you pay more for additional services? Question 12: How would you feel about the FCC raising the cost of their services? Wrap-up of Discussion and Thank-you for Participating. Language for Focus Group Customer Segment Calls Hello, My name is XXXXXX and I am calling from the FCC. The Federal Communications Commission is conducting a survey of their customers to determine the kind and quality of services they want and their level of satisfaction with existing services. We are inviting various representatives to participate in focus groups to obtain their ideas as to how the FCC can improve. We've hired Booz-Allen & Hamilton to conduct these focus groups. We would like to have your company represented. The best individual to send would be the one who interacts most with the FCC on your company's behalf. We will use the results of the focus groups to set customer service standards and to develop a customer service plan. We will be holding the focus groups at the Booz-Allen & Hamilton offices in Bethesda, MD. During the focus groups, you will be asked a series of questions relating to the licensing/application process at the FCC, your particular experiences with the FCC and what types of improvements you would recommend. We expect the focus groups to last approximately two hours. Will you be able to attend? We will send you a confirmation letter that includes directions to Booz-Allen offices. Thank you for your time. We look forward to hearing your suggestions. Language for Telephone Interviews Customer Segment Calls Hello, My name is XXXXXX and I am calling from the FCC. The Federal Communications Commission is conducting a survey of their customers to determine the kind and quality of services they want and their level of satisfaction with existing services. We are inviting various representatives to participate in telephone interviews to obtain their ideas as to how the FCC can improve. We've hired Booz-Allen & Hamilton to conduct these interviews. We would like to have your company represented. The best individual for us to speak with would be the one who interacts most with the FCC on your company's behalf. We will use the results of the interviews to set customer service standards and to develop a customer service plan. Booz-Allen & Hamilton will be calling your representative. We would like to schedule a convenient date and time now. During the interview, you will be asked a series of questions relating to the licensing/application process at the FCC, your particular experiences with the FCC and what types of improvements you would recommend. We expect the interview to last approximately two hours. Will you be able to participate? We will send you a confirmation letter that includes the date and time of the interview. Thank you for your time. We look forward to hearing your suggestions. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30049 Filed 12&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6712&hyph;01&hyph;M
