FR941021-1-00029 FR941021-1-00009 Proposed §67.401(e) retains the language of current §67.19(c) regarding consideration of the freedom of a private pilot to accept reasonable risks to his or her own person or property that are not acceptable in the exercise of commercial or airline transport pilot privileges, and consideration at the same time of the need to protect the safety of persons and property in other aircraft and on the ground. Proposed §67.401(f) adds language that explicitly provides that the Federal Air Surgeon may withdraw the Authorization or SODA. An Authorization or SODA may be withdrawn at any time for (1) adverse change in medical condition, (2) failure to comply with its provisions, (3) potential endangerment of public safety, (4) failure to provide medical information, or (5) the making or causing to be made of a fraudulent or intentionally false statement or an incorrect statement in support of a request for an Authorization or SODA or in any entry in any logbook, record or report that is kept, made, or used to show compliance with any requirement for an Authorization or SODA. Proposed §67.401(i) allows a person to request that the Federal Air Surgeon review a decision to withdraw an Authorization or SODA. The request for a review would have to be made within 60 days of the service or mailing of the letter withdrawing the Authorization or SODA. The proposed review procedures would be on an expedited basis and would provide an affected holder of an Authorization or SODA a full opportunity to respond to a withdrawal by submitting supporting medical evidence. 21. Proposed §67.403 amends current §67.20 to provide for denial of an airman medical certificate if the application for airman medical certificate is falsified. Though this consequence is implied, the current regulation specifically provides only for revocation or suspension of certificates. Additionally, §67.403 proposes to deny or withdraw any Authorization or SODA where information provided to obtain it is false, whether the statement was knowingly false or unknowingly incorrect. Finally, §67.403(c) proposes that the making of an unknowingly incorrect statement on an application for an airman medical certificate or on a request for an Authorization or SODA is a basis for denial, revocation, withdrawal, or suspension of an airman medical certificate and the denial or withdrawal of an Authorization or SODA. The making of an unknowingly incorrect statement is not a basis for revocation or suspension of other types of certificates or ratings issued under the FAR. 22. A new §67.415 of the FAR is proposed to provide that the holder of any medical certificate that is suspended or revoked shall, upon the Administrator's request, return it to the Administrator. The FAA practice always has been to request return of the certificate in such circumstances. 23. Where appropriate, changes are made to eliminate gender-specific pronouns, to replace ``applicant'' with ``person,'' to use current position titles and addresses, to correct spelling and improve syntax, and to adjust section and sub-section references. Summary of Proposed Amendments to Part 61 Section 61.3(c) of the FAR provides, with some exceptions, that no person may serve as pilot in command or in any other capacity as a required pilot flight crewmember unless that person has in his or her personal possession an appropriate current medical certificate issued under part 67 of the FAR. The medical standards for issuing first-, second-, and third-class medical certificates are set forth in current §§67.13, 67.15, and 67.17, respectively. Section 61.23 identifies the duration of validity and privileges of each class of medical certificate. Currently, a first-class medical certificate is valid for 6 months for operations requiring an airline transport pilot certificate, 12 months for operations requiring only a commercial pilot certificate, and 24 months for operations requiring only a private, recreational, or student pilot certificate. A second-class medical certificate is valid for 12 months for operations requiring a commercial pilot or an air traffic control tower operator certificate and for 24 months for operations requiring only a private, recreational, or student pilot certificate. A third-class medical certificate currently is valid for 24 months for operations requiring a private, recreational, or student pilot certificate.
