FR940505-1-00448 FR940505-1-00012 Enhanced I/M program means a program meeting the enhanced I/M performance standard as established under EPA's I/M rule (40 CFR 51.351). Farm equipment means a vehicle designed or adapted and determined by the Administrator to be used exclusively for agricultural operations and only incidentally operated or moved upon highways. Gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) means the value specified by the manufacturer on the Federal weight certification label as the loaded weight of a single vehicle. For the purposes of the FIP's I/M program, California-certified vehicles shall be considered to fall under the same gross vehicle weight ratings as comparable, 49-state vehicles. Heavy-duty vehicles means trucks weighing more than 8,500 pounds GVWR. Light-duty trucks 1 (LDT1) means trucks weighing less than 6,000 pounds GVWR. Light-duty trucks 2 (LDT2) means trucks weighing from 6,000 to 8,500 pounds GVWR. Light-duty vehicles means passenger cars or multi-purpose vehicles weighing less than 6,000 pounds GVWR. Onboard diagnostic device (OBD) means a system for monitoring the in-use emission performance of a vehicle which provides feedback to the driver concerning actual or potential malfunctions through the illumination of a malfunction indicator light (MIL). The event triggering MIL illumination is also stored on the OBD computer as a trouble code which can be downloaded at a vehicle testing or repair facility. Oversight contractor(s) means a contractor or contractors who have been awarded a contract by the Administrator to conduct and report the results of overt and covert audits of the test provider(s) sites and personnel. The information generated by the oversight contractor shall be used by the Administrator to substantiate enforcement actions taken by EPA against the test provider and its employees. Qualifying repairs means those vehicle repairs necessary to correct the deficiencies which resulted in a vehicle's failure of an emissions inspection and which count toward the minimum dollar amount required before a waiver may be issued. For those repairs where repair or replacement of emission-related parts requires replacement of other non-emission related equipment constructed as one indivisible unit by the manufacturer, the total replacement costs or repair costs may be counted toward qualifying repairs. Recognized repair facility means a business engaged in the diagnosis and repair of automotive engines and related systems. Recognized repair technician means a person who has received and has proof of formal training in the diagnosis and repair of automotive engines and related systems, or holds a valid license issued by the California Bureau of Automotive Repair, or is employed by a recognized repair facility primarily for the purpose of diagnosing and repairing automotive engines and their related systems.
