FR941102-2-00111 FR941102-2-00074 Note: Redisclosure of a mailing address from the IRS may be made only for the purpose of debt collection, including to a debt collection agency in order to facilitate the collection or compromise of a Federal claim under the Debt Collection Act of 1982, except that a mailing address to a consumer reporting agency is for the limited purpose of obtaining a commercial credit report on the particular taxpayer. Any such address information obtained from the IRS will not be used or shared for any other DOT purpose or disclosed to another Federal, state, or local agency which seeks to locate the same individual for its own debt collection purpose. e. Data base information consisting of debtor's name, Social Security Number, and amount owed may be disclosed to the Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC), Department of Defense, the U.S. Postal Service or to any other Federal, state, or local agency for the purpose of conducting an authorized computer matching program in compliance with the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended, so as to identify and locate delinquent debtors in order to start a recoupment process on an individual basis of any debt owed DOT by the debtor arising out of any administrative or program activities or services administered by DOT. f. Disclosure of personal and financial information from this system on current, retired, or former employees of DOT or U.S. Coast Guard members may be made to any creditor Federal agency seeking assistance for the purpose of that agency requesting voluntary repayment or implementing administrative or salary offset procedures in the collection of unpaid financial obligations owed the U.S. Government from an individual affiliated with the DOT. An exception to this routine use is an individual's mailing address obtained from the IRS pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 6103(m)(2). Disclosure to consumer reporting agencies: Disclosure pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(12) may be made from this record system to consumer reporting agencies as defined in the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681a(f)) or the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966 (31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(3)). The disclosure, once determined to be valid and overdue, is limited to information necessary to establish the identity of the individual, including name, address, and taxpayer identification number (Social Security Number); the amount, status, and history of the claim; and the agency or program under which the claim arose for the sole purpose of allowing the consumer reporting agency to prepare a commercial credit report. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: The storage for records on personal computers is kept on floppy disks. Storage on microcomputers is first downloaded onto a floppy disk and then locked in a file cabinet. Data kept in paper file folders are locked in file cabinets. Retrievability: Records are retrieved by name or Social Security Number. Safeguards: Computers provide privacy and access limitation by requiring a user name and password match. These records are available only to those persons whose official duties require such access. Records are kept in limited access areas during duty hours and in locked cabinets at all other times. Retention and disposal: Records are disposed of when ten years old except documents needed for an ongoing investigation in which case the record will be retained until no longer needed for the investigation. Data tracks on floppy disks are overwritten a minimum of three times. System manager(s) and address: Department of Transportation, Director, Office of Financial Management (B&hyph;30), 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether information about themselves is contained in this system should address written inquiries to the particular DOT operating administration or component in care of the ``system location'' above. Individual should furnish full name, Social Security Number, current address and telephone number. Record access procedures: Same as above. Contesting record procedures: Same as above. Record source categories: Information in this system of records is obtained from the individual, creditor agencies, Federal employing agency of debtor, collection agencies, Federal, state or local agencies furnishing identifying information and/or address of debtor, as well as other internal DOT records such as payroll information. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27123 Filed 11&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;62&hyph;P
