FR941206-0-00194 FR941206-0-00019 (A) A sufficient number of samples, but no less than four samples, shall be collected to represent the organic composition for the entire discrete quantity of hazardous waste being tested. All of the samples shall be collected within a 1-hour period. Sufficient information shall be prepared and recorded to document the waste quantity represented by the samples and, as applicable, the operating conditions for the source or process generating the hazardous waste represented by the samples. (B) Each sample shall be collected in accordance with the requirements specified in ``Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,'' EPA Publication No. SW&hyph;846, Third Edition, September 1986, as amended by Update I, November 15, 1992 (incorporated by reference_refer to ยง260.11 of this chapter). (C) Each collected sample shall be prepared and analyzed in accordance with the requirements of Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. (D) The measured VO concentration for the discrete quantity of hazardous waste shall be determined by using the results for all samples analyzed in accordance with paragraph (a)(5)(iv)(C) of this section and the following equation: E:GRAPHICSER06DE94.003 where: C=Measured VO concentration of the discrete quantity of hazardous waste, ppmw. i=Individual sample ``i'' of the hazardous waste collected in accordance with the requirements of SW&hyph;846. n=Total number of samples of hazardous waste collected (at least 4) within a 1-hour period. C i =VO concentration measured by Method 25D for sample ``i'', ppmw. (v) The average VO concentration of the hazardous waste shall be determined using the following procedure: (A) When the facility owner or operator is the generator of the hazardous waste, a sufficient number of VO concentration measurements for the hazardous waste shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section to represent the complete range of hazardous waste organic compositions and quantities that occur during the entire averaging period due to normal variations in the operating conditions for each process operating mode identified for the source or process generating the hazardous waste. (B) When the facility owner or operator is not the generator of the hazardous waste, a sufficient number of VO concentration measurements for the hazardous waste shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section to represent the complete range of hazardous waste organic compositions and quantities that occur in the hazardous waste as received at the facility during the entire averaging period. (C) The average VO concentration of the hazardous waste at the point of waste origination shall be calculated by using the results for all VO measurements performed in accordance with paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section and the following equation: E:GRAPHICSER06DE94.004 where: C ave =Average VO concentration of the hazardous waste at the point of waste origination, ppmw. j=Individual discrete quantity ``j'' of the hazardous waste for which a VO concentration measurement is determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section. m=Total number of VO concentration measurements determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section for the averaging period. Q j =Mass of the discrete quantity of the hazardous waste represented by C j , kg. Q T =Total mass of the hazardous waste for the averaging period, kg. C j =Measured VO concentration of discrete quantity ``j'' for the hazardous waste determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section, ppmw. (6) Procedure for using knowledge of the waste to determine the average VO concentration of a hazardous waste at the point of waste origination. (i) The owner or operator shall identify and record the point of waste origination for the hazardous waste. All information used to determine the average VO concentration of the hazardous waste shall be based on the hazardous waste composition at this point. (ii) The owner or operator shall designate and record the averaging period to be used for determining the average VO concentration for the hazardous waste. The averaging period shall not exceed 1 year. An initial waste determination shall be performed for each averaging period.
