FR940429-0-00029 FR940429-0-00009 Applicant means a State, Indian tribe, unit of general local government, PHA, IHA or local nonprofit housing sponsor. A State, Indian tribe, or unit of general local government may apply on behalf of a local nonprofit housing sponsor or a for-profit owner of eligible housing for the elderly. Area agency on aging means the single agency designated by the State Agency on Aging to administer the program described in Title III of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (45 CFR chapter XIII). Assistant Secretary means the HUD Assistant Secretary for Housing_Federal Housing Commissioner or the HUD Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing. Case management means implementing the processes of: establishing linkages with appropriate agencies and service providers in the general community in order to tailor the needed services to the program participant; linking program participants to providers of services that the participant needs; making decisions about the way resources are allocated to an individual on the basis of needs; developing and monitoring of case plans in coordination with a formal assessment of services needed; and educating participants on issues, including, but not limited to, supportive service availability, application procedures and client rights. Congregate housing means low-rent housing that is connected to a central dining facility where wholesome and economical meals can be served to the residents. Congregate Housing Services Program (CHSP) means a program assisted under this part undertaken by an eligible housing project to provide congregate services to program participants. Elderly person means a person who is at least 62 years of age. Eligible housing for the elderly means any eligible project including any building within a mixed-use project that was designated for occupancy by elderly persons, or persons with disabilities at its inception or, although not so designated, for which the eligible owner or grantee gives preference in tenant selection (with HUD approval) for all units in the eligible project (or for a building within an eligible mixed-use project) to eligible elderly persons, persons with disabilities, or temporarily disabled individuals. For purposes of this part, this term does not include projects assisted under the Low-Rent Housing Homeownership Opportunity program (Turnkey III (24 CFR part 905, subpart G)). Eligible housing project means: (1) Public housing (as that term is defined in section 3(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937); (2) Low income housing developed or operated under a contract between the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and an Indian housing authority under title II of the United States Housing Act of 1937; (3) Housing assisted under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 with a contract that is attached to the structure under section 8(d)(2), or with a contract entered into in connection with the new construction or substantial rehabilitation of the structure under section 8(b)(2), as that section existed before October 1, 1983; (4) Housing assisted under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959; (5) Housing assisted under section 221(d) or 236 of the National Housing Act, with respect to which the owner has made a binding commitment to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development not to prepay the mortgage or terminate the insurance contract under section 229 of the National Housing Act (unless the binding commitments have been made to extend the low-income use restrictions relating to the housing for the remaining useful life of the housing); (6) Housing assisted under section 514 or 515 of the Housing Act of 1949, with respect to which the owner has made a binding commitment to the Secretary of Agriculture not to prepay or refinance the mortgage (unless the binding commitments have been made to extend the low income use restrictions relating to the housing for not less than the 20-year period under section 502(c)(4) of the Housing Act of 1949); and (7) Housing assisted under section 516 of the Housing Act of 1949. Eligible owner means an owner of an eligible housing project. Eligible project resident means a person residing in eligible housing for the elderly who qualifies under the definitions of frail elderly, person with disabilities (regardless of whether the person is elderly), or temporarily disabled. Excess residual receipts mean residual receipts of more than $500/per unit in the project which are available and not committed to other uses at the time of application to HUD for CHSP. Such receipts may be used as matching funds and may be spent down to a minimum of $500/unit. Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) means a credit agency for agriculture and rural development in the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). Fees mean charges levied to residents for meals with or without other supportive services under CHSP and equivalent fees and donations made to new or expanded State and local supportive services program which are used to match the CHSP other than those of the Older Americans Act. For-profit owner of eligible housing for the elderly means an owner of an eligible housing project in which some part of the project's earnings lawfully inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual. Frail elderly person means a person at least 62 years of age who is unable to perform three or more activities of daily living.
