FR941202-2-00061 FR941202-2-00042 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The proposed final RMP/EIS describes and analyzes seven alternatives to resolve the following issues: (1) Timber production practices, (2) old growth forests and habitat diversity, (3) threatened and endangered and other special status species habitat (including habitat for the northern spotted owl), (4) special management areas, (5) visual resources, (6) stream/riparian/water quality, (7) recreation resources, (8) wild and scenic rivers, (9) land tenure, (10) rural interface areas, (11) range management, and (12) proposed hydroelectric or alternative energy projects. The issues are analyzed in seven distinct alternatives that range from high resource production to high resource protection. The overall objective of the plan is to manage the resources in the Klamath Falls Resource Area on an ecosystem basis. Within that ecosystem management framework, the proposed final resource management plan would maintain or improve water quality through a system of Riparian Reserves and best management practices. Approximately 51,400 acres would be managed for timber production, with restrictions to protect or enhance other resource values. The annual probable timber sale quantity would be 1.11 million cubic feet or 6.31 million boardfeet (1.03 mmcf or 5.91 MMBF west of Highway 97 and 0.08 mmcf or 0.40 MMBF east of Highway 97). To contribute to biological diversity, standing trees, snags, and dead and down woody material would be retained. Management would provide 12,978 animal unit months in the livestock grazing program. In addition to protecting listed or proposed threatened and endangered species as required by the Endangered Species Act, the BLM would manage habitats of federal candidate, state listed, and Bureau sensitive species to maintain their populations at a level that would avoid federal listing. Management would provide for a wide variety of recreation opportunities, with particular emphasis on enhancement of opportunities for dispersed recreation activities including hunting, fishing, and hiking, as well as providing outdoor recreation activities in areas that are both close to population centers and accessible by vehicles. Most BLM-administered lands would remain available for mineral leasing and location, but 300 acres would be closed to leasing for oil and gas and geothermal resources, and 6,400 acres would be closed to location of mining claims. The proposed final RMP/EIS proposes designation of four new areas of critical environmental concern with the noted restrictions. ␣ 1Rights_area name 1Acres 1Vegetation harvest 1ORV use 1Mining location 1Mineral 2Leasing 2Of-way Miller Creek 2,000 R P R R R Yainax Butte 720 R R R R NC Upper Klamath River 4,960 R R R R R Old Baldy 520 P P P R P NC = No Change from existing situation. R = Use is allowed but with restrictions. P = Use is prohibited. The Miller Creek area would be designated an area of critical environmental concern to maintain, protect, and/or restore natural processes, wildlife, and scenic values. The area would not be available to planned timber harvest. Livestock grazing would be restricted. Mineral leasing would be subject to no surface occupancy. The area would be closed to off-highway vehicle use (except Round Valley Road area).
