FR940727-2-00120 FR940727-2-00069 Outside Servicing Contractors Permitted GreenLine will require a greater servicing effort by lenders than the Agency's other business loan programs and two existing pilot programs. SBA recognizes that the extent of these servicing requirements may potentially inhibit the willingness of small community-based, rural, and independent banks from participating in the program. This may, in turn, have the undesirable effect of limiting access of creditworthy small businesses to the program in the areas serviced by such lenders. Therefore, the Agency is authorizing lenders to contract out for the servicing functions they do not perform themselves. Contracting does not relieve the lender of its responsibilities contained in SBA Form 750 (or 750 B) or any individual loan authorization issued by SBA. The lenders will be held responsible by SBA for the activities of their contractors. Every contractor must meet the minimum requirements, as specified below. To assure that each GreenLine maintains its revolving feature, lenders agree to make initial and periodic examinations of the borrower's current assets which serve as collateral and forms the basis for disbursements. Lenders also agree to continually monitor the financial data and control of the cash generated by the borrower as a result of their having the use of the GreenLine proceeds. At a minimum, a borrower's generated cash must go to an operating account where the business can not make withdrawals without the concurrence of the Lender. Considering the volatility of the collateral securing revolving lines of credit, lenders shall agree as a condition for approval that they will liquidate a GreenLine borrower's current assets prior to seeking SBA's purchase of any guaranty. Third Party Service Providers Minimum Requirements The following standards have been formulated as guidelines for lenders participating in SBA's GreenLine Program for use when evaluating and selecting an outside or third party service provider (Provider) who may perform those examination, monitoring, or control functions required to prudently administer GreenLine loans guaranteed by the SBA: Experience; Competence; Character; Equal Opportunity; Financial Responsibility; Coverage; Business Authorities; and Confirmation. These standards are numerically arranged from 1 to 8. Those standards noted by an ``a'' after the number are required for lender approval of Providers who will perform examination services. The standards noted with a ``b'' are required for lender approval of Providers who will perform monitoring or control services. The lender shall have the responsibility for providing the required examination, monitoring, or control functions. Under this program, the lender may contract with a Provider who meets these standards to assist the lender with the examination, monitoring, or control functions. SBA takes no position on the approvability or quality of any Provider. Providers Who Will Perform Examination Services 1a. Experience Provider must demonstrate that it has successfully been in business continuously as an individual, partnership, or corporation for not less than three (3) years. This experience must substantially consist of examining, auditing, analyzing or reviewing supporting documents and physical quantification of accounts receivable, inventory or their equivalents. Experience is not limited to accounting firms, collateral control companies or asset based lenders, provided however, the applicant's experience has been directly related to asset based lending. 2a. Competence Provider must be capable of submitting a description or outline of services offered, methodology in delivering and documentation supporting, together with at least two (2) examples of past engagements performed in the last two (2) years. 3a. Character Provider shall certify in writing to the lender that: •During its business career that it or its parent organizations, partnerships or venture partners, have not been convicted of a violation of any federal or state criminal laws. •It has never been in litigation with the SBA or with any SBA participating lender in connection with SBA lending. •It is in compliance with Internal Revenue Service (IRS) reporting requirements and must not be subject to IRS enforcement procedures when it applies to become a Provider. 4a. Equal Opportunity Provider must certify in writing that: •It does not discriminate, nor will it discriminate, in its hiring practices with respect to race, creed, age, gender, or national origin. •It is in compliance with all federal, state and local regulations governing employee safety and workman's compensation, as applicable. 5a. Financial Responsibility Provider must furnish proof that: •It maintains at least $500,000 of unencumbered professional liability coverage from a reputable insurance carrier, or financially provided by an equivalent source. Coverage amount must insure each incident and on an aggregate annual basis. •Such insurance covers employees, agents and subcontractors for principal loss as a result of errors, omissions or negligence in quantifying accounts receivable, or inventory. •Coverage extends to the geographic area Provider is requesting to service. 6a. Coverage Provider must indicate whether it is applying for a specific state[s], region[s], or locale[s] and support this by explanation of staffing.
