FR940603-1-00008 FR940603-1-00001 (b) Actions normally requiring environmental assessments. Classes of actions identified below, which normally do not have the potential to affect significantly the quality of the human environment, will, for NEPA purposes, be evaluated in the context of environmental assessments. (1) Policymaking and rulemaking proposals that involve program plans, techniques, methods, or other activities likely to have a consequential effect on the physical or natural environment or that may affect opportunities for the public, nongovernmental organizations, and others to influence environmental planning and decisionmaking. (2) Development of program plans or similar nonexperimental approaches that seek to establish in more limited contexts impact-generating strategies, methods, or techniques as the means of dealing with animal and plant health issues within the purview of APHIS. Examples of this category of actions include: (i) Proposals to remedy specific problems, including plant pest infestations, animal diseases, and depredating animals; and (ii) Substantial APHIS involvement in the planning efforts of the USDA's Forest Service, the Department of the Interior's Bureau of Land Management, States, and Indian Tribes to eradicate or control plant pests, animal disease, or depredating animals. (3) Site-specific implementation of action plans and approaches mentioned in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, except where isolated activities, introductions, or applications, as developed more fully in the following subsection entitled ``Categorically Excluded Actions,'' are contemplated. (4) Planning, design, and construction or acquisition of major new facilities, or proposals for substantial modifications to existing facilities. (5) Disposition of laboratory waste and other hazardous or toxic materials, except as provided under paragraph (c) of this section. (6) Approval and issuance of permits for: (i) The release into the environment of genetically engineered organisms and products; and (ii) The release into the environment of exotic organisms. (7) Research or testing that: (i) Will be conducted outside of a laboratory or other containment area (field trials, for example); or (ii) Reaches a stage of development (e.g., formulation of pre-marketing strategies) that forecasts an irretrievable commitment to the resulting products or technology. (c) Categorically excluded actions. The Department has promulgated categorical exclusions of actions that are applicable to all agencies whose procedures do no provide otherwise. Those categorical exclusions, codified at 7 CFR 1b.3(a), are adopted as entirely appropriate for APHIS. Other categories of APHIS actions which do not individually or cumulatively have a significant effect on the human environment and for which neither environmental assessment nor environmental impact statements will be prepared include: (1)(i) Routine measures employed by the agency to pursue its mission and functions, such as identifications, inspections, surveys, sampling, testing, seizures, quarantines, removals, sanitizing, inoculations, and monitoring, including the use_according to any label instructions or other lawful requirements and consistent with standard, published program practices and precautions_of chemicals, pesticides, or other potentially hazardous or harmful substances, materials, and target-specific devices or remedies, provided that such use: (A) Is localized in nonurban areas to individual parcels such as farms, ranches, or nurseries, or contained (and not aerially applied or administered) in urbanized areas to discrete sites that do not cater to the general public, and is limited in terms of quantity, i.e., low- or ultra-low volume or individualized dosages and remedies; (B) Will not cause contaminants to enter water bodies, including wetlands; (C) Does not adversely affect any federally protected species or critical habitat; and (D) Is not persistent in the environment and does not cause bioaccumulation. (ii) All circumstances delineated in paragraph (c)(i) (A) through (D) of this section (insofar as they may pertain to a particular action) must be affirmed for any such use to be categorically excluded from the NEPA process. Examples of this category of actions include: (A) Inoculation of discrete herds of livestock, or wildlife treatment strategies undertaken in contained areas (such as a zoo, an exhibition, or an aviary); (B) Pesticide treatments applied to infested plants on a homesite without contamination of water; and (C) Isolated (for example, along a highway) weed control efforts. (2) Activities that are carried out in laboratories, facilities, or other areas designed to eliminate the potential for harmful environmental effects_internal or external_and to provide lawful waste disposal. Examples of this category of actions include: (i) The development and/or production (including formulation, repackaging, movement, and distribution) of approved and/or licensed program material, devices, reagents, and biologics; (ii) Research, testing, and development of animal repellents; and (iii) Development and production of sterile insects. (3) Routine precautionary measures, including identifications, inspections, surveys, testing, inoculating, and monitoring of a limited scope and intensity, designed to assure the proper care, protection, and treatment of animals. (4) Rehabilitation of existing laboratories and other APHIS facilities, functional replacement of parts and equipment, and minor additions to such existing APHIS facilities.
