FR940325-0-00009 FR940325-0-00003 10 CFR Part 50 RIN: 3150&hyph;AD40 Emergency Planning and Preparedness Exercise Requirements for Nuclear Power Plants AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is amending its emergency planning regulations in order to update the Commission's emergency planning exercise requirements for nuclear power plants and clarify ambiguities that have surfaced in the implementation of the regulations. These amendments also make the NRC regulations consistent with FEMA regulations. EFFECTIVE DATE: June 23, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michael T. Jamgochian, Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone (301&hyph;492&hyph;3918). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On August 19, 1980 (45 FR 55402), the NRC published a final rule that revised its emergency planning regulations. The final rule became effective on November 3, 1980. On July 6, 1984 (49 FR 27733), the NRC amended its emergency planning regulations to relax the frequency of participation by State and local governmental authorities in emergency preparedness exercises at nuclear power reactor sites. The amendments were based on the NRC's experience gained in observing and evaluating emergency preparedness exercises since 1980. Further experience has shown that the language setting forth the requirements in 10 CFR part 50, Appendix E, Section IV.F.3 concerning full or partial participation by State or local governments in the biennial (offsite) exercise is unnecessarily complicated. The NRC published a notice of proposed rulemaking in the Federal Register on June 28, 1993 (58 FR 34539). Public comments were requested by September 13, 1993. The proposed rule did not seek to change the requirements set forth in Appendix E, Section IV.F.3 (a), (b), and (d) but to clarify and simplify the text of the regulation. Offsite authority responsibilities remain unchanged. Under the proposed rule the offsite plans for each site were to be exercised biennially with full participation by each offsite authority having a role under the plan. Further, where the offsite authority has a role under the plan for more than one site, it would be required to participate in one exercise fully every two years and partially participate in other offsite plan exercises in this period. The only amended requirements were those set forth in Appendix E, Section IV.F.3(e) where the interval for an ingestion exposure pathway exercise was changed from 5 to 6 years, and Appendix E, Section IV.F.3(c) where the requirement that all States within the plume exposure pathway emergency planning zone (EPZ) for a given site fully participate in an offsite exercise for that site at least once every 7 years was deleted. Public Comments A total of 12 comment letters were received, of which 5 were from utilities, 6 were from State emergency management agencies and one from NUMARC. All commenters generally agreed with the proposed rulemaking except for one State agency. Comment: The one commentor that opposed the rule change noted that, We do not believe, however, the NRC has substantiated its claim that the seven-year return requirement is unnecessary. Similar arguments have surfaced in previous emergency planning issues, and our response is the same: The high level of industry sensitivity to emergency preparedness is a direct result of comprehensive requirements for emergency preparedness programs and exercises. Elimination of those requirements runs the risk of returning the industry to pre-TMI levels of preparedness.
