FR940304-1-00091 FR940304-1-00014 Arthur D. Little also was critical of the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory- Manufacturer Impact Model's inability to take into account (or try to predict) some of the consequences of the low profitability that the model sometimes predicts. In particular, its report points out that if the rate of profit did decline significantly in real terms, the industry would have a very hard time raising additional equity. Arthur D. Little points out that, in actuality, both owners and financial backers of firms would limit capital until expected return matched their required return. According to the comment, the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory-Manufacturer Impact Model, therefore, ``*␣*␣* sacrifices realism in modeling the relationship between expected return and the willingness of owners and financial backers to commit capital for retooling.'' (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61E at 27&hyph;28.) The Department agrees with Arthur D. Little's statement regarding the difficulty that industry likely would have in raising capital as a consequence of significantly reduced profitability. Furthermore, it is true that the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory-Manufacturer Impact Model is limited to estimating the impact of potential standards on an industry, whether positive or negative, as characterized by profitability. The model does not attempt to predict the specific forms of the damage and the complex reactions (inability to raise capital, failures of some firms, foreign buy-outs, mergers, capacity reductions, etc.) that could occur within a negatively affected industry. However, the Department does not believe that it is necessary to attempt to predict that sort of detail. Rather, DOE believes it is obligated not to set standards that would cause serious damage. The Department believes that the magnitude of the hypothetical profit loss is a very good indicator of the magnitude of the impacts that will be imposed on the industry. When the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory-Manufacturer Impact Model predicts a precipitous decline in profit, this should be interpreted as damaging to the industry. Indeed, in many cases, as discussed in Section IV below, the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory-Manufacturer Impact Model does predict a sharp drop in profitability, and this prediction figures strongly in rejecting the standard in question. Because of all the ``deficiencies'' in the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory- Manufacturer Impact Model, Arthur D. Little's report suggested that the Department abandon the model, and proposed, instead, that the Department use a cash-flow model. The cash-flow model determines the economic impact of energy conservation standards on manufacturers by estimating the cash flows associated with meeting the standards, and calculating a value for those cash flows. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61E at 19 and Appendix C.) However, Arthur D. Little's cash-flow model submitted does not predict whether a manufacturing industry will or will not be hurt by standards. It allows one to make various assumptions about the market's behavior, and then to predict the impact of those assumptions on cash flow; but, it tells nothing about the market's behavior. As a result, the Department notes that Arthur D. Little has run three scenarios with radically different implications for the industry, with no way to choose among them. The model is equally capable of processing the optimistic and the pessimistic scenario, but it does not have an expected scenario. The Department, therefore, does not believe that the cash flow model, as presented in Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers's comments, could serve to replace the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory-Manufacturer Impact Model for use in the analyses of the impacts of appliance standards on manufacturers. However, the Arthur D. Little report also stated that one of the key assumptions in the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory-Manufacturer Impact Model is the proportion of costs that are fixed. The Arthur D. Little report went on to state that, ``After interviewing all five domestic manufacturers, Arthur D. Little was unable to verify that the washing machine manufacturers have any sense as to the proportion of their costs which are long-term fixed costs *␣*␣*. Basing a model upon an assumption that is not empirically verifiable is a risky proposition.'' (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, Id .) The Department agrees that one of the key assumptions in the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory-Manufacturer Impact Model is the proportion of costs that are fixed and variable. The Department is sensitive to the claim that this key input parameter to the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory-Manufacturer Impact Model is ``completely alien to manufacturers.'' The Department would certainly consider alternate manufacturer impact models that utilize more known and verifiable inputs. However, to be an acceptable alternative model, the Department believes that such model would have to have forecasting ability similar in scope and sophistication as the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory- Manufacturer Impact Model. As discussed above, the cash-flow model submitted by the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers does not meet this test. Additionally, the Department would be interested in any analyses that indicate adverse manufacturer impacts at any of the proposed standard levels, as opposed to arguments over the severity of the adverse impact of rejected standard levels.
