FR941202-2-00010 FR941202-2-00006 In the course of this investigation, parties will have the opportunity to address our designation of the PRC as an NME and provide relevant information and argument related to the issues of the PRC's NME status and granting of separate rates to individual exporters. In addition, parties will have the opportunity in this investigation to submit comments on whether FMV should be based on prices or costs in the PRC consistent with section 773(c)(1)(B) of the Act. See Amendment to Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value and Amendment to Antidumping Duty Order: Chrome-Plated Lug Nuts from the People's Republic of China, 57 FR 15052 (April 24, 1992). Conforming with Department practice, the petitioners calculated FMV on the basis of the valuation of the factors of production and, claiming that their production process is similar to the Chinese production process, based the factors of production on their own experience. The factors of production were valued, where possible, on publicly available published information pertaining to India. The petitioners argue that India is both a country at a comparable level of economic development to the PRC and a significant producer of comparable merchandise, thus meeting the requirements of section 773(c)(4) of the Act. For purposes of this initiation, we have accepted India as an appropriate surrogate country selection. Where Indian values were not available, the petitioners valued the factors of production using either a ratio based on their own experience or their own costs. In accordance with section 773(c)(1)(B) of the Act, the petitioners' FMV consisted of the sum of values assigned to materials, labor, energy, overhead and selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses. Certain of these factor values were adjusted for inflation. Pursuant to section 773(e)(1) of the Act, the petitioners added to the cost of manufacturing (COM), overhead and SG&A expenses, the statutory minimum of eight percent for profit. Based on our analysis of the petition and the subsequent supplement to the petition, we have made certain adjustments to the petitioners' FMV calculation as follows: (1) we disallowed all factors valued by using the petitioners' own costs; (2) we recalculated factory overhead and depreciation expenses using the statistics in the December 1992 Reserve Bank of India Bulletin. This source is publicly available and has been used to value factory overhead in other investigations of imports from the PRC; (3) for the purpose of initiating this investigation, we recalculated the valuation of several process chemicals, using data from the Chemical Marketing Reporter. This information was supplied by the petitioners in their November 22, 1994, supplement to the petition. We accepted this surrogate information for the purpose of initiating the investigation because it is information that is reasonably available to the petitioners for supporting their allegations, within the meaning of section 732(b) of the Act. (4) we recalculated electrical consumption using the industrial rate for electricity in Indonesia, an appropriate surrogate country at a comparable level of economic development to the PRC. In our recent investigations of magnesium from the PRC, we found that the Indian rate for electricity was inappropriate. See Preliminary Determinations of Sales at Less than Fair Value and Postponement of Final Determinations: Pure Magnesium and Alloy Magnesium from the People's Republic of China, 59 FR 55424, 55426, November 7, 1994. Fair Value Comparisons Based on a comparison of USP and FMV, the petitioners' alleged dumping margins, as revised by the Department, range from 104.77 percent to 143.32 percent. Initiation of Investigation Pursuant to section 732(c) of the Act, the Department must determine, within 20 days after a petition is filed, whether a petition alleges the elements necessary for the imposition of a duty under section 731 of the Act and whether the petition contains information reasonably available to the petitioner supporting the allegations. We have examined the petition for manganese metal from the PRC, as amended, and have found that it meets the requirements of section 732(b) of the Act. Therefore, we are initiating an antidumping duty investigation to determine whether imports of manganese metal from the PRC are being, or are likely to be, sold in the United States at less than fair value. If this investigation proceeds normally, we will make our preliminary determination by April 27, 1995. International Trade Commission (ITC) Notification Section 732(d) of the Act requires us to notify the ITC of this action and we have done so. Preliminary Determination by the ITC The ITC will determine by December 23, 1994, whether there is a reasonable indication that imports of manganese metal from the PRC are materially injuring, or threatening material injury to, a U.S. industry. Pursuant to section 733(a) of the Act, a negative ITC determination will result in the investigation being terminated; otherwise, the investigation will proceed according to statutory and regulatory time limits. This notice is published pursuant to section 732(c)(2) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.13(b). Dated: November 28, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29727 Filed 12&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
