FR940318-0-00135 FR940318-0-00023 The submitter should also identify in Section II both the substitute chemical and the class I or II compound it is replacing. Further, if a registrant is aware that a particular chemical intended for use as a class I or II substitute in a pesticide formulation has already been accepted through earlier SNAP/FIFRA determinations, the registrant should also reference the relevant part of the prior review. b. Review of applications. When the Agency receives the FIFRA application and SNAP submission, it will log each into the relevant tracking systems: the OPP's tracking system for the FIFRA application and the SNAP tracking system for SNAP submissions. If the FIFRA application is identified in section II as a Clean Air Act substitution, the FIFRA program coordinator will contact EPA's SNAP program to ask if the substitute has been the subject of any prior SNAP reviews. If the registrant's substitute is already on the list of unacceptable substitutes, EPA will notify the registrant that the amendment request cannot be granted. If the registrant's substitute is already on the list of acceptable substitutes, EPA will proceed with the standard FIFRA application review. If a chemical substitute is not listed under existing SNAP determinations but is a substitute for an ozone-depleting compound, EPA will inform the registrant that a SNAP review must commence. 5. Communication of Decision Once EPA review is complete, the Agency will notify the registrant whether the new formulation or proposed formulation change is acceptable. At the same time, the Agency will amend the SNAP determinations to reflect these findings and will publish the revised determinations in the next quarterly Federal Register notice. Submitters should note that, because of the shared authority to review substitutes under both SNAP and FIFRA, formulators may not sell amended or new formulations subject to FIFRA until they have received FIFRA approval. D. Shared Statutory Authority with the Food and Drug Administration The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDCA), 21 U.S.C. 321, provides for the safety and effectiveness of drugs and therapeutic devices, the purity and wholesomeness of foods, and the harmlessness of cosmetics. Under this statute, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulates the packaging of food products and incidental additives and requires predistribution clearance of medical devices. As defined in the FDCA, medical devices can include any devices, diagnostic products, drugs, and drug delivery systems. Devices covered under this jurisdiction are subject to review under the FDCA. Some medical devices and food packaging currently contain class I or II compounds. The Agency has determined that such products are exempt from further review for human health effects under the SNAP program where FDA approval of such effects is required before a product can be introduced into commerce. EPA will rely in its SNAP determination on FDA's conclusions regarding health effects. The Agency believes this exemption is justified because of the higher burden of proof placed on submitters under the FDCA. However, the Agency will continue to evaluate all other environmental effects of the proposed substitute, and will consult with the FDA to determine the appropriate course of action. VIII. Petitions A. Background 1. Role of Petitions Section 612(d) of the CAA explicitly states that ``any person may petition the Administrator to add a substance *␣*␣* or to remove a substance from either of such (prohibited or safe use) lists.'' The petition provision serves two principal needs. The first is to permit the appeal of existing Agency determinations under the SNAP program. The second is to provide a mechanism for individuals and organizations to bring to the Agency's attention new information on substitutes that could affect existing listing determinations or result in new ones. The opportunity for outside parties to comment on existing listing decisions is an important aspect of the petition process. As discussed in the section on notifications, companies that produce substitutes must submit specific data on the substitutes to the Agency for review. However, organizations and private citizens other than those required to submit SNAP notices may have additional information about existing substitutes or information on new substitutes not yet reviewed by the Agency. To ensure that the SNAP determinations are based on the best information on substitutes, it is essential that the Agency offer a means for such information to be incorporated into the SNAP analyses on a continuing basis. Before individuals, organizations, or companies may initiate legal action against EPA for the purpose of changing the lists of acceptable or unacceptable substitutes, they must first exhaust all administrative remedies for receiving such relief, including remedies like the petition process described in this section. 2. Types of Petitions Five types of petitions exist:
