FR940524-1-00002 FR940524-1-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Agricultural Marketing Service 7 CFR Part 52 [FV&hyph;94&hyph;327] RIN 0581&hyph;AB16 Processed Fruits and Vegetables, Processed Products Thereof, and Certain Other Processed Food Products Regulations Governing Inspection and Certification1 AGENCY: Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA. 1 Other processed products may include the following: Honey; molasses, except for stockfeed; nuts and nut products, except oil; sugar (cane, beet, and maple); sirups (blended), sirups, except from grain; tea, cocoa, coffee, spices, condiments. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This proposed rule would revise the Regulations Governing Inspection and Certification of Processed Fruits and Vegetables and Certain Other Products by increasing the fees charged for inspection and by adding a section concerning cancellation of contracts. These amendments are necessary in order to recover, as nearly as practicable, the costs of performing inspection services under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946. DATES: Comments must be received on or before: June 23, 1994. ADDRESSES: Interested persons are invited to submit written comments concerning this proposal. Comments must be sent in duplicate to the Office of the Branch Chief, Processed Products Branch, Fruit and Vegetable Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, P.O. Box 96456, Room 0709 South Building, Washington, DC 20090&hyph;6456. Comments should note the date and page number of this issue of the Federal Register and will be made available for public inspection in the office of the Branch Chief during regular business hours. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. James R. Rodeheaver, Processed Products Branch, Fruit and Vegetable Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, P.O. Box 96456, Room 0709 South Building, Washington, DC 20090&hyph;6456, Telephone (202) 720&hyph;4693. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This rule has been determined to be not-significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866 and therefore has not been reviewed by OMB. This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This action is not intended to have retroactive effect. This rule would not preempt any State or local laws, regulations, or policies, unless they present an irreconcilable conflict with this rule. There are no administrative procedures which must be exhausted prior to any judicial challenge to the provisions of this rule. The Administrator, Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS), has certified that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, as defined in the Regulatory Flexibility Act, Public Law 96&hyph;354 (5 U.S.C. 601). The proposed rule reflects fee increases needed to recover the costs of services rendered in accordance with the Agricultural Marketing Act (AMA) of 1946. The inspection, grading and certification program for processed fruits and vegetables and related products is voluntary. The AMA authorizes official inspection, grading, and certification on a user-fee basis, of processed food products including processed fruits, vegetables, and processed products made from them. The AMA provides that reasonable fees be collected from the user of the program services to cover as nearly as practicable the costs of services rendered. This proposal would amend the schedule of fees and charges for inspection, grading, and certification services to more nearly reflect the costs currently associated with the program. The amendment would include the addition of the new Section 52.47 pertaining to charges when service is canceled or changed in order to manage the program in the most cost effective manner. Former ยง52.47, which was removed, pertained to microbiological and other types of testing functions which were transferred to the AMS Science Division. AMS regularly reviews its programs to determine if fees are adequate. Employee salary and fringe benefits are major program costs that account for approximately 85 percent of the total operating budget. Two salary increases for Federal employees, a 3.7 percent pay increase effective January 10, 1993, and a locality pay increase, ranging from 3.09 to 6.52 percent depending upon locality, effective January 8, 1994, have materially affected program costs. Unemployment insurance, FTS 2000 telecommunications, General Services Administration rent, and other administrative, supervisory, and program costs have also increased. In addition, the Agricultural Appropriation Bill for fiscal year 1994 directed AMS to establish a user fee program to recover the costs associated with agricultural commodities quality standards. In response, the service has implemented cost-cutting actions (reorganization and/or downsizing of field offices and technical support services) which reduced obligations by $569,175 from FY&hyph;92 to FY&hyph;93. Nonetheless, despite these measures, the Agency has determined that due to the increases in program operating costs, an increase in fees is necessary to meet rising costs and prevent financial losses. Based on the Agency's analysis of increased costs since 1993, AMS proposes to increase the fees relating to such services as shown in the following table. The table compares current fees and charges with proposed fees and charges for processed fruit and vegetable inspection as found in 7 CFR 52.42&hyph;52.51. For inspection services charged under ยง52.42, overtime and holiday work would continue to be charged as provided in that section. For inspection services charged on a contract basis under section 52.51 overtime work would also continue to be charged as provided in that section. Unless otherwise provided for by regulation or written agreement between the applicant and the Administrator, the charges in the schedule of fees as found in ยง52.42 are:
