FR940505-1-00218 FR940505-1-00012 d. Tracking of vehicle failures. Compliance with the liability thresholds will be determined on a model year/engine family basis (i.e., I/M test results will be segregated by engine family and model year). EPA proposes to segregate tracking by model year to prevent the I/M test results of more recent model year vehicles within a given engine family from diluting the test results of earlier model year vehicles. EPA requests comments on this approach. While EPA will receive actual I/M 240 emission results from the performers of enhanced I/M testing, only pass or fail results will be tallied against the 5 and 10 percent thresholds. A vehicle will enter the tracking system when it receives its first enhanced I/M test. As long as it passes that and any subsequent enhanced I/M test, it will be considered a ``pass'' vehicle. Once it fails any of the three HC related tests (i.e., the enhanced in-use I/M standard for exhaust HC or the pressure or purge tests), it will be considered an HC failure. Once it fails the enhanced in-use I/M NO X standard, it will be considered a NO X failure. If a failure occurred while the vehicle is within its first half life (e.g., for a LDV, 5.0 years old and 50,001 miles or less), the failure will be included in the failure tally against both the 5 percent half-life and the 10 percent full-life thresholds. If the failure occurred while the vehicle is within its second half life (e.g., for a LDV, more than 5.0 years old and 50,000 miles but no more than 10.0 years old and 100,000 miles), the failure will only be included in the failure tally against the 10 percent full-life threshold. The failure rate for each model year/engine family combination will consist of the number of vehicles failing the enhanced in-use I/M HC or NO X standards divided by the number of vehicles which have been tested in an enhanced I/M program. The I/M test results would cease to be counted after individual vehicles exceeded an age of 10 years or 100,000 miles (120,000 miles for MDVs), respectively. For example, if 2.0 percent of an engine family's vehicles (from a single model year) fail the enhanced in-use I/M standards for a given pollutant over its first two years (i.e., a biennial program) and an additional 2.0 percent (i.e., different vehicles) fail over the next two years, the failure rate after 4 years is 4.0 percent. Comments are requested on the use of only pass/fail information and the calculation procedure. Once a specific model year/engine family combination exceeded a liability threshold, EPA proposes that the manufacturer become liable for the selective recall and repair of vehicles not only from that model year, but for the repair of all vehicles which are part of that engine family. While this could significantly increase the potential liability faced by manufacturers, it will more equitably protect the consumer by treating all vehicles with essentially the same emission control design (and thus, performance) the same. EPA requests comments on this approach, as well as the option whereby manufacturers were only held liable for the repairs of vehicles from the specific model year which caused the exceedance of the enhanced in-use I/M liability threshold. If exceedance of the liability threshold appears likely, typical failure modes could be determined and efficient repair methods developed. A manufacturer could even go so far as to take preventative action (e.g., a voluntary recall) to reduce the number of I/M failures (and the triggering of the liability threshold) and avoid the negative publicity or market response that may otherwise result. EPA also proposes to exclude the I/M test results of vehicles if they have been obviously abused or tampered. (More discussion on what might constitute obvious abuse or tampering is included in Section A.(3) above addressing enhanced in-use compliance recall requirements.) EPA proposes to limit the definition of such abuse or tampering for the purpose of the enhanced in-use I/M program to a missing catalyst or evaporative canister. Tampering can be discouraged by the vehicle's design and performance. While EPA is aware that manufacturers cannot prevent all forms of less obvious tampering problems, the Agency wants to create incentives for manufacturers to design vehicles as tamper-resistant as is reasonable. EPA requests comments on the appropriate inclusion of specific determinations of obvious abuse and tampering which would be practical by I/M test personnel in an enhanced I/M test, while maintaining the integrity and purpose of the enhanced in-use I/M program. e. Repair responsibility. Under conventional enhanced I/M, individual vehicle owners are responsible for repairs based on failures of either the enhanced I/M 240 cutpoints and the pressure/purge functional tests. Motorists are required to spend a maximum of $450 on repairs within a biennial test cycle related to the emission test failure before being eligible for a waiver of the requirement to comply.
