FR941205-0-00194 FR941205-0-00029 (d) Requirements _(1) One partial claim payment. Only one partial claim payment may be made under a contract of insurance. (2) Partial claim payment amount. The amount of the partial claim payment is equal to the amount of relief provided by the HFA in the form of a reduction in principal and a reduction of delinquent interest due on the insured mortgage times the lesser of HUD's percentage of the risk of loss or 50 percent. (3) HFA second mortgage. Repayment of the relief provided by the HFA must be secured by a second mortgage to the HFA. This second mortgage may provide for postponed amortization and may not be assigned by the HFA. This second mortgage is not insured under this part and may not be insured under any other HUD-related insurance program. (4) Partial claim repayment by HFA. The HFA must remit to HUD a percentage of all amounts collected on the HFA's second mortgage within 15 days of receipt by the HFA. The applicable percentage is equal to the percentage used in paragraph (d)(2) of this section to determine the partial claim payment amount. Payments made after the 15th day must include a 5 percent late charge plus accrued interest at the debenture rate. (5) Certified statements of amounts collected. As long as the second mortgage remains of record, the HFA must submit to the Commissioner an annual certified statement of the amounts collected by the HFA. The HFA must submit a final certified statement within 30 days after the second mortgage is paid in full, foreclosed, or otherwise terminated. §266.632 Withdrawal of claim. In case of a default and subsequent filing of claim, the HFA shall determine the form of workout or modification and will inform HUD of the type of mortgage relief determined to be appropriate. If the default is cured after the claim is made but before the initial claim payment is paid by HUD, the HFA may, in writing, withdraw the claim, and insurance will continue as if the default had not occurred. §266.634 Reinstatement of the contract of insurance. (a) Conditions for reinstatement. After the initial claim payment, HUD may reinstate the contract of insurance on the following conditions: (1) The HFA has not acquired the project; (2) The mortgagor has cured the default; and (3) The HFA requests that HUD reinstate the contract of insurance. (b) Notification of reinstatement. If reinstatement is acceptable to HUD, HUD shall notify the HFA of the date the contract of insurance will be reinstated and shall advise the HFA of the payment needed to reinstate the contract of insurance. (c) Payment. Within 30 days of the date of the notice under paragraph (b) of this section, the HFA shall pay HUD an amount equal to the initial claim amount, as determined under §266.628(a)(1), plus an amount equal to the accrued and unpaid interest on the HFA Debenture through the reinstatement date, plus an amount equal to the mortgage insurance premium for the period from the date of reinstatement of the contract of insurance to the next anniversary date for payment of the mortgage insurance premium. (d) Cancellation of debenture. Upon receipt from the HFA of the amount specified in paragraph (c) of this section, HUD shall return the HFA debenture for cancellation. (e) Continuation of contract of insurance. Upon reinstatement, the contract of insurance shall continue as if the default had not occurred. §266.636 Insuring new loans for defaulted projects. The HFA may not make another loan that is insured under this part to the same owner in the same project if HUD has paid a claim under this part. §266.638 Issuance of HFA Debenture. (a) Condition to initial claim payment. The HFA must issue an instrument in the form of a debenture to HUD within 30 days of receiving the initial claim payment. The HFA Debenture shall meet the following requirements and shall be in a form that has been approved by HUD as part of the application approval process. (b) Term of HFA Debenture. The HFA Debenture shall be dated the same date that the initial claim payment is issued. The HFA Debenture shall have a term of five years in order to afford the mortgagor ample time to cure the default or the HFA time to foreclose and/or resell the project. HUD may provide a written extension of the five year term if the HFA certifies and provides documentation that the project owner has filed bankruptcy and the HFA is taking action to have the project discharged from the bankruptcy. The HFA Debenture shall, during this extended period, continue to bear interest as described below at HUD's published debenture rate at the earlier of initial endorsement or final endorsement. Interest shall be due and payable annually on the anniversary date of the initial claim payment. Interest is due on the full face amount of the HFA Debenture through the term of the HFA Debenture or through the date an application for final claim payment is received by the Commissioner. (c) HFA Debenture amount. (1) The HFA Debenture shall be for the full initial claim amount as determined under §266.628(a)(1) (minus any excess funds returned to HUD under §266.628(a)(3)). (2) The full amount of the HFA Debenture shall be payable to HUD upon maturity, unless the HFA Debenture is canceled because of: (i) A reinstatement of the contract of insurance under §266.634; or (ii) Final claim settlement under §266.654. (d) HFA Debenture interest rate. The HFA Debenture shall bear interest at HUD's published debenture rate at the earlier of initial endorsement or final endorsement. Interest shall be due and payable annually on the anniversary date of the initial claim payment and on the date of redemption when redeemed or canceled before an anniversary date. Interest shall be computed on the full face amount of the HFA Debenture through the term of the HFA Debenture.
