FR940805-1-00173 FR940805-1-00017 (b) Order of assessment. An order of assessment, which assesses a civil penalty, may be issued for a violation described in paragraph (a) of this section after notice and an opportunity to answer any charges and be heard as to why such order should not be issued. (c) Definitions. As used in this part, the following definitions apply: Flight engineer means a person who holds a flight engineer certificate issued under part 63 of this chapter. Mechanic means a person who holds a mechanic certificate issued under part 65 of this chapter. Person acting in the capacity of a pilot, flight engineer, mechanic, or repairman means a person acting in such capacity, whether or not that person holds the respective airman certificate issued by the FAA. Pilot means a person who holds a pilot certificate issued under part 61 of this chapter. Repairman means a person who holds a repairman certificate issued under part 65 of this chapter. (d) Delegation of authority. The authority of the Administrator, under section 901 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended, to initiate and assess civil penalties for a violation of the Act, or a rule, regulation, or order issued thereunder, is delegated to the Chief Counsel, the Deputy Chief Counsel, the Assistant Chief Counsel for Enforcement, the Assistant Chief Counsel for each region and center. The authority of the Administrator to refer cases to the Attorney General of the United States, or the delegate of the Attorney General, for collection of civil penalties is delegated to the Chief Counsel, the Deputy Chief Counsel, the Assistant Chief Counsel for Enforcement, the Assistant Chief Counsel for Regulations, and the Assistant Chief Counsel for each region and center. (e) Notice of proposed assessment. A civil penalty action is initiated by sending a notice of proposed assessment to the person charged with a violation specified in paragraph (a) of this section. The notice of proposed assessment contains a statement of the charges and the amount of the proposed civil penalty. The person charged with a violation may do the following: (1) Submit the amount of the proposed civil penalty or an agreed-upon amount, in which case either an order of assessment or a compromise order will be issued in that amount. (2) Answer the charges in writing. (3) Submit a written request for an informal conference to discuss the matter with an agency attorney and submit relevant information or documents.
