FR940505-1-00373 FR940505-1-00012 (v) Reflectance of anti-glare safety coatings. The reflectance of anti-glare safety coatings shall be measured by ASTM Test Method D&hyph;523. (vi) Transfer efficiency. The transfer efficiency for alternative coating application methods, as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(A)( 7 ) of this section, shall be determined in accordance with the South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) test method for determining transfer efficiency entitled, ``Spray Equipment Transfer Efficiency (TE) Test Procedure for Equipment User, May 24, 1989.'' This transfer efficiency method is approved for the limited purpose of comparing alternative application technologies under controlled conditions. The results of these tests are not transferable to a production setting. The test method is not acceptable for determining transfer efficiency to establish VOC emission reduction credits to allow the use of higher VOC coatings, or to establish VOC credits for trading or offset purposes. (vii) Qualification and petition for classification as an extreme-performance topcoat. (A) Extreme-performance topcoat qualification. A topcoat is an extreme-performance topcoat if it is to be applied on Group II vehicles and equipment and will be repeatedly exposed to any of the following: ( 1 ) Heavy abrasion, including mechanical wear and repeated scrubbing with industrial-grade detergents, cleaners, solvents, or abrasive scouring agents; ( 2 ) Temperatures in excess of 250 F; ( 3 ) Corrosive, caustic, or acidic agents, chemicals, chemical fumes, chemical mixtures or solutions; or ( 4 ) Other similar environmental conditions as determined by EPA. (B) Extreme-performance coating petition. Any person seeking to use an extreme-performance coating in any coating operation which is subject to the provisions of this section shall comply with the following requirements: ( 1 ) A petition shall be submitted to EPA stating the performance requirements, volume of coating, and VOC level which is attainable. ( 2 ) If EPA grants written approval, such petition will be repeated on an annual basis. ( 3 ) If EPA grants written approval, such approval shall contain volume and VOC limit conditions. ( 4 ) Records shall be maintained as in paragraph (c)(5) of this section. (d) Adhesives and sealants. (1) Applicability. This section applies to any person who supplies, sells, offers for sale, or uses adhesives, sealants, or adhesive primers in the affected area. This section does not apply to household adhesives which are subject to consumer products regulations in the California Code of Regulations (Title 17, Division 3, Subchapter 8.5_Consumer Products, §§94507&hyph;94517). For the purpose of this section, the affected area refers to the Sacramento Metro Area for ozone as described at 40 CFR 81.305. (2) Definitions. For the purposes of paragraph (d) of this section, the following definitions apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in §52.2950. ABS adhesive means any substance that is intended for welding acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS) plastic pipe. Adhesive means any substance that is used to bond one surface to another surface by attachment. Adhesive primer means a coating that is intended by the manufacturer to be applied to a substrate, prior to the application of an adhesive, to provide a bonding surface. Aerosol adhesive means a mixture of rubber, resins, and liquid and gaseous solvents and propellants packaged in a disposable container for hand-held application. Aerospace component means the fabricated part, assembly of parts, or completed unit of any aircraft or space vehicle excluding tires. Aircraft means any machine designed to travel through the air without leaving the earth's atmosphere, whether heavier or lighter than air, including airplanes, balloons, dirigibles, helicopters, and missiles. Automotive glass primer means any adhesive primer that is intended by the manufacturer to be applied to automotive glass prior to installation with an adhesive/sealant. This primer improves adhesion to the pinch weld and blocks ultraviolet light. Ceramic tile installation means the installation of ceramic tile products using an adhesive formulated for that purpose. Computer diskette manufacturing means the process where the fold-over flaps are glued to the body of a vinyl jacket. Contact adhesive means any adhesive that is intended by the manufacturer to adhere to itself instantaneously upon contact. This adhesive is applied to both adherents and, when dry, develops a bond when the adherents are brought together without sustained pressure. For the purpose of this section, products that qualify as a contact adhesive using the above definition, and that are labelled exclusively for only one of the following applications, shall not be required to meet the VOC limit for ``Contact adhesives'' in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(A) of this section. (1) Single-ply roofing material installation; (2) Bonding of immersible products; or (3) Bonding of flexible vinyl to flexible vinyl. Cove base installation means the installation of cove base (or wall base), which is generally made of vinyl or rubber, on a wall or vertical surface at floor level using an adhesive formulated for that purpose. Dry wall and panel installation means the installation of gypsum dry wall to studs or solid surfaces using an adhesive formulated for that purpose.
