FR940620-1-00004 FR940620-1-00002 FARM CREDIT ADMINISTRATION 12 CFR Part 617 RIN 3052&hyph;AB33 Referral of Known or Suspected Criminal Violations AGENCY: Farm Credit Administration (FCA). ACTION: Proposed rule; resolicitation of comments. SUMMARY: The Farm Credit Administration (FCA), by order of the FCA Board (Board), reproposes a rule amending its regulations governing the referral of known or suspected criminal violations. The proposed regulation was originally published in the Federal Register on October 13, 1992 (57 FR 46819). The objective of this reproposed regulation is, in part, to promote efficiencies and timeliness in reporting, investigating, and prosecuting known or suspected criminal activities within Farm Credit System (FCS or System) institutions. Therefore, this reproposed regulation would require System institutions to notify law enforcement agencies of known or suspected criminal violations that meet the threshold reporting limits. Generally, a criminal violation must be reported under this part if the borrower/shareholder or insider has an intent to ``defraud'' a System institution. The reproposed regulation would also mandate the continued use of the existing criminal Referral Form. System institutions should expect this form to be replaced with a new FCA Criminal Referral Form in the future. The existing criminal Referral Form or any replacement form is referred to hereinafter as Referral Form. The FCA believes that the regulation should be reproposed due to the lapse of time since the proposed rule was originally published in the Federal Register (October 13, 1992). Although the reproposed rule incorporates many of the comments received in response to the proposed rule, the FCA Board also believes that the public should be given another opportunity to comment due to the number of changes proposed and the level of interest in the issues. To the extent that commenters wish to comment on the dollar thresholds for reporting known or suspected criminal activities or an institution's cost of complying with the regulation, the FCA requests that commenters provide pertinent empirical data in support of their comments. DATES: Comments should be submitted on or before August 19, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be mailed or delivered (in triplicate) to Patricia W. DiMuzio, Associate Director, Regulation Development, Office of Examination, Farm Credit Administration, McLean, VA 22102&hyph;5090. Copies of all comments will be available for examination by interested parties in Regulation Development, Office of Examination, Farm Credit Administration. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Eric Howard, Policy Analyst, Regulation Development, Office of Examination, Farm Credit Administration, McLean, VA 22102&hyph;5090, (703) 883&hyph;4498, ␣␣or Jane Virga, Senior Attorney, Administrative Law and Enforcement Division, Office of General Counsel, Farm Credit Administration, McLean, VA 22102&hyph;5090, (703) 883&hyph;4020, TDD (703) 883&hyph;4444. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Decision to repropose The proposed regulation was published (57 FR 46819) in the Federal Register on October 13, 1992. The comment period for the proposed regulation amending part 617 closed on November 12, 1992. The FCA received two letters on the proposed regulation. The Farm Credit Council (Council), on behalf of its membership, provided comments and suggestions on the wording and requirements of the proposed regulation. The FCA also received a letter from the Farm Credit Bank of Baltimore adopting the Council's comments. Many of the commenters' suggestions were incorporated to improve clarity. The Council requested, among other things, that the FCA Board republish the proposed regulation. The FCA Board agrees that the proposed regulation should be republished to afford the public another opportunity to comment. All comments submitted to date have been considered and responded to concerning the proposed regulation. Responses to these comments are detailed below, and corresponding changes were made to the proposed regulation in many instances. The commenters also addressed whether the dollar thresholds for reporting known or suspected criminal activities should be increased. One of the stated reasons to raise the thresholds was to limit the perceived reporting burden that would result from implementation of the proposed thresholds. It was believed that if the reporting thresholds were increased, the reporting burden would decrease. Those commenters who wish to comment again on the dollar thresholds are requested to provide any pertinent empirical information that would indicate that the thresholds should be increased. Commenters who address the cost of complying with the proposed regulation, e.g., time and cost of investigating and completing the Referral Form under existing thresholds in part 617 and the proposed thresholds, should also provide pertinent empirical information in support of their comments. II. Background Pursuant to the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended, the FCA regulates and examines FCS institutions for safety and soundness and for compliance with Federal laws and regulations. Violations of Federal laws and regulations may affect the safety and soundness of FCS institutions and could undermine public confidence in the FCS. System institutions have the responsibility to establish and maintain safeguards to detect, deter, and report criminal activity involving the assets, operations, or affairs of the institution. Law enforcement agencies need to receive timely and specific information from FCS institutions on known or suspected criminal violations to determine whether investigations and prosecutions are warranted. The Interagency Bank Fraud Working Group (Working Group), a task force consisting of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of Thrift Supervision, the National Credit Union Administration, the Farm Credit Administration, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the U.S. Secret Service, the Department of Justice, and the U.S. Department of the Treasury, was formed to facilitate the reporting of criminal activity by financial institutions and to enhance the law enforcement agencies' ability to investigate and prosecute the matters reported. To accomplish these objectives, the Working Group developed uniform reporting standards and processes for filing criminal referrals and is in the process of developing a uniform criminal referral form.
