FR940912-0-00037 FR940912-0-00006 (2) A quarterly report to investors within 60 days after the end of each quarter, except for the quarter that coincides with the end of the fiscal year. (b) Each report to investors shall present Systemwide combined financial statements and related footnotes deemed appropriate for the purpose of the report to provide investors with the most meaningful presentation pertaining to the financial condition and results of operations of the System. (c) All items of essentially the same character as items required to be reported in the reports of condition and performance pursuant to part 621 of this chapter shall be prepared in accordance with the rules set forth in part 621 of this chapter. (d) Each report to investors shall contain the information required by subparts B and C of this part, as applicable, and such other information as is necessary to make the required statements, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. (e) Information in any part of the report may be referenced or incorporated in answer or partial answer to any other item of the report. Information required by this part may be presented in any order deemed suitable by the Funding Corporation. (f) The report shall include a statement in a prominent location that Systemwide debt securities and consolidated bank debt obligations are joint and several liabilities of individual banks and that copies of each bank's recent periodic reports to shareholders are available upon request. The report shall also include addresses and telephone numbers where copies of the report to investors and the periodic reports of individual banks can be obtained. Copies of the report to investors shall be available for public inspection at the Funding Corporation. (g) Three complete copies of the report shall be filed with the Chief Examiner, Farm Credit Administration, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;5090, within the applicable period prescribed under paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section. (1) At least one copy of the report filed with the FCA shall be dated and manually signed by the following officers and director(s) of the Funding Corporation on its behalf: (i) The officer(s) designated by the board of directors to certify the report; (ii) The chief executive officer; and (iii) Each member of the board or, at a minimum, one of the following board members formally designated by action of the board to certify on behalf of individual board members: the chairperson of the board or a board member designated by the chairperson of the board. (2) The name and position title of each person signing the report shall be typed or printed beneath his or her signature. Signers of the report shall attest as follows:
