FR940303-2-00227 FR940303-2-00111 The Secretary strongly encourages the development of challenging and feasible school-based collaborations that are based upon appropriate research results and exemplary teaching and professional development practices, as well as the contributions of expert school, higher education, and community practitioners. Emphases might include collegial strategies such as in-school mentoring for teachers; school-university teams integrating teacher preparation and school curriculum to effectively educate at-risk students; teacher sabbaticals to work in model schools; and practitioner-led inquiry and reform activities. The Secretary will announce the final priority in a notice in the Federal Register . The final priority will be determined by responses to this notice, available funds, and other considerations of the Department. Funding of particular projects depends on the availability of funds, the nature of the final priority, and the quality of the applications received. The publication of this proposed priority does not preclude the Secretary from proposing additional priorities; nor does it limit the Secretary to funding only this priority, subject to meeting applicable rulemaking requirements. Note: This notice of proposed priority does not solicit applications. A notice inviting applications under this competition will be published in the Federal Register concurrent with or following publication of the notice of final priority. Priority Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(3) the Secretary proposes to give an absolute preference to applications that meet the following priority. The Secretary proposes to fund under this competition only applications that meet this absolute priority: Projects that design and implement innovative, high quality, standards-based preservice, induction and/or inservice professional development programs for K&hyph;12 teachers and other educators. Each project must involve one or more local education agencies (LEAs) working in partnership with one or more institutions of higher education (IHEs), and others such as State education officials and representatives from professional organizations, private schools, business, and the community, as appropriate. Programs and activities must be built upon relevant and current research including a demonstrated relationship between the professional development approach and lessons learned from relevant research and exemplary practice. A grounding in research findings must also be evident in the content of the professional development activities. Required Activities Each project must: (a) Provide professional development opportunities that are aligned with challenging academic content standards for students as developed through voluntary national, State, and/or local efforts in one or more subjects such as English, mathematics, science, history, geography, civics, foreign languages, and the arts. (b) Consider the implications of available professional standards such as those for beginning and expert teachers and other educators, as well as for teacher preparation, credentialling, and ongoing staff development as appropriate to the particular focus of the project. (c) Establish an advisory committee composed of school and university practitioners; state education officials; parents; professional organization, community and business representatives; and others as appropriate. The advisory committee must guide the project activities to ensure a systemic approach including cross-institutional planning, coordination, and resource allocation. (d) Evaluate the following aspects of the project: (1) The degree to which the professional development content and strategies reflect relevant research and exemplary practice; (2) The degree to which the project activities were actually implemented as compared to the original design; and (3) The nature and impact of project outcomes related to improved teaching and increased student learning and development. The evaluation must use state-of-the-art documentation and assessment approaches.
