FR940802-2-00115 FR940802-2-00059 Model Specifications for Alcohol Screening Devices 1. Purpose and Scope These specifications establish performance criteria and methods for testing of alcohol screening devices. Alcohol screening devices use bodily fluids to detect the presence of 0.020 or more BAC with sufficient accuracy for screening purposes. These specifications are intended primarily for use in the conformance testing of alcohol screening devices. 2. Classification 2.1␣Disposable Alcohol Screening Devices Alcohol screening devices designed for a single use. 2.2␣Reusable Alcohol Screening Devices Alcohol screening devices designed to be reused. 3. Definitions. 3.1␣Alcohol The intoxicating agent in beverage alcohol, ethyl alcohol or other low molecular weight alcohols including methyl or isopropyl alcohol. 3.2␣Alcohol Screening Device A device that is used to detect the presence of 0.020 or more BAC. The device may measure any bodily fluid for this purpose, but shall provide output in BAC units. Test results may be indicated by numerical read-out or by other means, such as by the use of lights or color changes. 3.3␣Blood alcohol concentration (BAC) Grams alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood or grams alcohol per 210 liters of breath in accordance with the Uniform Vehicle Code, Section 11&hyph;903(a)(5) 3 (BrAC is often used to indicate that the measurement is a breath measurement); or grams alcohol per 100 milliliters of saliva. 3 Available from the National Committee on Traffic Laws and Ordinances, 405 Church Street, Evanston IL 60201. 3.4␣Calibrating Unit A device that produces an alcohol-in-air test sample of known concentration that meets the NHTSA Model Specifications for Calibrating Units (49 FR 48865). 3.5␣Breath Alcohol Sample Simulator (BASS) A device that provides an alcohol-in-air test sample with known and adjustable alcohol concentration profile, flow rate, and air composition at 34 ○ centigrade. (See NBS Special Publication 480&hyph;41, July 1981 4 for a description of a BASS unit suitable for use in the required testing.) 4 Available from Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402. 3.6␣Bodily Fluid Any bodily fluid capable of being used to estimate alcohol concentration, provided the relationship between such bodily fluid and BAC has been established according to scientifically acceptable standards. Such fluids include but are not limited to blood, exhaled deep lung breath and saliva. 3.7␣Scientifically Acceptable Substitutes Fluids that have been scientifically accepted as equivalent to bodily fluids for testing purposes, such as aqueous alcohol test solutions on a one-to-one basis for blood or saliva. 4. Test Methods and Requirements Testing will be performed according to the instructions which normally accompany the submitted device and under the conditions specified in the tests below. 4.1␣Test 1. Precision and Accuracy Perform 40 trials under normal laboratory conditions using fluorescent light, including 20 trials at 0.008 BAC and 20 trials at 0.032 BAC. Use the BASS device for breath devices and preparations of bodily fluids or scientifically acceptable substitutes for non-breath devices. For disposable alcohol screening devices that indicate the presence of alcohol in a manner that requires interpretation, combine Tests 1 and 2, in accordance with 4.3 below. For alcohol screening devices that indicate the presence of alcohol in a manner that does not require interpretation, perform the test using a VNTSC investigator. To conform at 0.008 BAC, not more than one positive result. To conform at 0.032 BAC, not more than one non-positive result. 4.2␣Test 2. Blank Reading Perform 20 trials under normal laboratory conditions using fluorescent light at 0.000 BAC. Use non-alcoholic human breath for breath devices and preparations of non-alcoholic bodily fluids or scientifically acceptable substitutes for non-breath devices. For disposable alcohol screening devices that indicate the presence of alcohol in a manner that requires interpretation, combine Tests 1 and 2, in accordance with 4.3 below. For alcohol screening devices that indicate the presence of alcohol in a manner that does not require interpretation, perform the test using a VNTSC investigator. To conform, no positive results. If the device is capable of providing a reading of greater than 0.000 BAC and less than 0.020 BAC, not more than one such result. 4.3␣Methodology for Combining Tests 1 and 2 for Disposable Interpretive Devices Perform the test under normal laboratory conditions using fluorescent light using ten individuals who qualify as test interpreters (according to the manufacturer's restrictions, if any) and who have no knowledge of test BACs. Ask each individual to read the manufacturer's instructions for interpretation of the device's read-out. Label sixty devices from 1 to 60 and randomly separate them into three groups of twenty. Record the numbers in each group. Use two of the groups of devices for Test 1 and the remaining group for Test 2. Dose each group at the BAC levels specified in Tests 1 and 2. Order the sixty devices into a single set from 1 to 60 and ask each individual to independently interpret the results of these trials.
