FR940428-1-00017 FR940428-1-00007 Under the change proposed, one tolerance for all applicants would be used and that would not differ depending on the specific programs to which the student is applying for assistance. The Secretary considers the value of this simplification of the regulations to outweigh any potential loss in flexibility. Establishment of a new tolerance amount to be used in the calculation of an applicant's EFC would not establish a new policy. Institutions are currently using tolerance amounts in the calculation of an applicant's EFC. However, since the Secretary would be implementing a new single tolerance amount and deleting the zero PGI charts to simplify the processing of Title IV assistance, the Secretary requests public comment on the establishment of the $400 tolerance. The Secretary will issue final changes to §§668.54 and 668.59 of these regulations following an opportunity for public comment in response to the proposed changes listed above. Executive Order 12866 These proposed regulations have been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866. Under the terms of the order the Secretary has assessed the potential costs and benefits of this regulatory action. The potential costs associated with the proposed regulations are those resulting from statutory requirements and those determined by the Secretary to be necessary for administering this program effectively and efficiently. In assessing the potential costs and benefits_both quantitative and qualitative_of these proposed regulations, the Secretary has determined that the benefits of the proposed regulations justify the costs. The Secretary has also determined that this regulatory action does not unduly interfere with State, local, and tribal governments in the exercise of their governmental functions. To assist the Department in complying with the specific requirements of Executive Order 12866, the Secretary invites comment on whether there may be further opportunities to reduce any potential costs or increase potential benefits resulting from these proposed regulations without impeding the effective and efficient administration of the programs. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification The Secretary certifies that these proposed regulations would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities affected by these regulations are small institutions of higher education. However, the regulations would not have a significant economic impact on the small institutions affected because the regulations would not impose excessive regulatory burdens or require unnecessary Federal supervision. The regulations would impose minimal requirements necessary to ensure the proper expenditure of program funds. Invitation To Comment All comments concerning these proposed changes should be sent to the contact person given above. All comments submitted in response to the proposed changes to §§668.54 and 668.59 will be available for public inspection during and after the comment period in room 4613, Regional Office Building No. 3 (ROB&hyph;3), 7th and D Streets SW., Washington, DC between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday of each week except Federal holidays. Assessment of Educational Impact The Secretary particularly requests comments on whether the proposed regulations in this document would require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. List of Subjects in 34 CFR Part 668 Administrative practice and procedure, Colleges and Universities, Consumer protection, Education, Grant programs-education, Loan programs-education, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Student aid. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Numbers: Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant Program, 84.007; Federal Stafford Loan Program, 84.032; Federal PLUS Loan Program, 84.032; Federal Work-Study Program, 84.033; Federal Perkins Loan Program, 84.038; Federal Pell Grant Program, 84.063; Presidential Access Scholarship and Partnership Program, No number assigned; Federal Direct Student Loan Program, 84.268) Dated: April 21, 1994. Richard W. Riley, Secretary of Education. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10133 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
