FR940810-2-00099 FR940810-2-00067 Use of a hand geometry biometrics system exceeds the present verification methodology's capability to discern an individual's identity. Unlike the photograph identification badge, hand geometry is nontransferable. During the initial access authorization or registration process, hand measurements are recorded and the template is stored for subsequent use in the identity verification process required for entry into the protected area. Authorized individuals insert their access authorization card into the card reader and the biometrics system records an image of the hand geometry. The unique features of the newly recorded image are then compared to the template previously stored in the database. Access is ultimately granted based on the degree to which the characteristics of the image match those of the ``signature'' template. Since both the badge and hand geometry would be necessary for access into the protected area, the proposed system would provide for a positive verification process. Potential loss of a badge by an individual, as a result of taking the badge offsite, would not enable an unauthorized entry into protected areas. The access process will continue to be under the observation of security personnel. The system of identification badges coupled with their associated access control cards will continue to be used for all individuals who are authorized access to protected areas without escorts. Badges will continue to be displayed by all individuals while inside the protected area. Addition of a hand geometry biometrics system will provide a significant contribution to effective implementation of the security plan at each site. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that this proposed action would result in no significant radiological environmental impact. With regard to potential non-radiological impacts, the proposed change does not affect non-radiological plant effluents and has no other environmental impact. Therefore, the Commission concludes that there are no significant non-radiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed action. Alternative to the Proposed Action As an alternative to the proposed action, the staff considered denial of the proposed action. Denial of the application would result in no change in current environmental impacts. The environmental impacts of the proposed action and the alternative action are similar. Alternative Use of Resources This action did not involve the use of any resources not previously considered in the Final Environmental Statements related to operation of Surry Units 1 and 2, and North Anna Units 1 and 2. Agencies and Persons Consulted The NRC staff consulted with the State of Virginia regarding the environmental impact of the proposed action. Finding of No Significant Impact The Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed exemption. Based upon the foregoing environmental assessment, the Commission concludes that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. For further details with respect to this action, see the request for exemption dated May 27, 1994, which is available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, 2120 L Street NW., Washington, DC, and at the local public document rooms located at the Swem Library, College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, Virginia 23185, and the Alderman Library, Special Collections Department, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22903&hyph;2498. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 3rd day of August 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Victor M. McCree, Acting Director, Project Directorate II&hyph;2, Division of Reactor Projects_I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulations. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19494 Filed 8&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
