FR940707-2-00071 FR940707-2-00049 Administration for Children and Families [Program Announcement No. 93631&hyph;94&hyph;02] Developmental Disabilities: Availability of Financial Assistance for Projects of National Significance for Fiscal Year 1994 AGENCY: Administration on Developmental Disabilities (ADD), Administration for Children and Families (ACF). ACTION: Announcement of availability of financial assistance for Projects of National Significance for Fiscal Year 1994. SUMMARY: The Administration on Developmental Disabilities, Administration for Children and Families, announces that applications are being accepted for funding of Fiscal Year 1994 Projects of National Significance. This program announcement consists of five parts. Part I, the Introduction, discusses the goals and objectives of ACF and ADD. Part II provides the necessary background information on ADD for applicants. Part III describes the review process. Part IV describes the priorities under which ADD solicits applications for Fiscal Year 1994 funding of projects. Part V describes in detail how to prepare and submit an application. All of the forms and instructions necessary to submit an application are published as part of this announcement following Part V. No separate application kit is either necessary or available for submitting an application. If you have a copy of this announcement, you have all the information and forms required to submit an application. Grants will be awarded under this program announcement subject to the availability of funds for support of these activities. DATE: Closing date for submittal of applications under this announcement is August 8, 1994. ADDRESSES: Applications should be mailed to: Department of Health and Human Services, ACF/Division of Discretionary Grants, Sixth Floor, 370 L'Enfant Promenade SW., Washington, DC 20447, Attn: 93.631 ADD_Projects of National Significance. Hand delivered applications are accepted during the normal working hours of 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, on or prior to the established closing date at: Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 6th Floor OFM/DDG, 901 D Street SW., Washington, DC 20447. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gail Evans, Program Development Division, Administration on Developmental Disabilities, (202) 690&hyph;5911. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Part I. Introduction A. Goals of the Administration on Developmental Disabilities The Administration on Developmental Disabilities (ADD) is located within the Administration for Children and Families (ACF), Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS). Although different from the other ACF program administrations in the specific populations it serves, ADD shares a common set of goals that promote the economic and social well-being of families, children, individuals and communities. Through national leadership, ACF and ADD envision: •Families and individuals empowered to increase their own economic independence and productivity; •Strong, healthy, supportive communities having a positive impact on the quality of life and the development of children; •Partnerships with individuals, front-line service providers, communities, States and Congress that enable solutions which transcend traditional agency boundaries; •Services planned and integrated to improve client access; and
