FR940617-1-00067 FR940617-1-00012 18. Several comments objected to the agency's proposal that the professional labeling of povidone-iodine products containing molecules greater than 35,000 daltons should include warnings against parenteral use and against exposure of open surgical wounds or deep wounds to the product. (See comment 71, 43 FR 1210 at 1221.) Some of the comments contended that the Panel recommended such warnings because it felt there was widespread misuse (unapproved use) of povidone-iodine solution by surgeons bathing the peritoneal cavity with povidone-iodine during major surgery and then cleansing the area by rinsing. Another comment stated that because health-care personnel handwashes or surgical hand scrubs require a surfactant, such products so formulated would never be considered for peritoneal lavage by surgeons. One comment argued that labeling to warn against parenteral use is clearly beyond the scope of the OTC drug review and FDA's regulatory authority. Another comment stated that it is unnecessary to establish an arbitrary molecular weight limit for povidone-iodine because no parenteral use of povidone-iodine is permitted in any of the approved labeling in the new drug applications for those products. One comment stated that povidone-iodine is generally recognized as safe and effective for use in open wounds and a warning against such use would be contrary to clinical experience with this drug. In support of this position, the comment submitted a controlled study in which the surgical incisions of one group were irrigated before closure with 10 percent povidone-iodine solution, and the surgical incisions of the control group were irrigated before closure with saline solution (Ref. 1). The comment stated that the results of this study showed a significant decrease in infections when povidone-iodine was used, and there were no allergic, adverse, or other deleterious effects following this use of povidone-iodine. In response to the Commissioner's recommendation for research data (43 FR 1210 at 1235), one comment submitted an extensive review of the extent of scavenging of residual povidone-iodine molecules by the reticuloendothelial system and possible lymph node involvement following use in the abdominal cavity or in large wounds (Ref. 2). The comment stated that, based on these data, povidone-iodine with medium molecular weights should not be limited to use on intact skin, nor should a warning be required. Another comment stated that the average molecular weight of povidone in the povidone-iodine that has been used exclusively in topical antimicrobial products for almost a quarter of a century is 37,900 daltons, and it presents no risk for any of the topical antimicrobial uses covered by the tentative final monograph. The Panel recognized a relationship between molecular size and nodular lymphatic changes accompanying exposure to povidone-iodine, but made no decision on limiting the molecular size causing such pathology. (See 39 FR 33103 at 33130.) In the previous tentative final monograph, FDA evaluated data provided in a comment (Ref. 3) that contended there should be restrictions on the use of povidone-iodine according to molecular size. Published research cited in that comment indicated that povidone molecules larger than 40,000 daltons cannot be excreted by the kidneys, can cause nodules to appear in the lymphatic system, and may induce cosmetic deformities in the area of healing skin wounds. Based on expert opinion and the data provided in the comment (Ref. 3), the agency proposed that a molecular weight of 35,000 daltons be established as the safe upper limit for povidone-iodine products used parenterally. This calculation assumed that a povidone-iodine molecule with this molecular weight would be too large to pass through the kidney. (See comment 71, 43 FR 1210 at 1221.) FDA also noted its awareness of the inappropriate use of povidone-iodine products in open wounds and in the abdominal cavity during surgery. (See 43 FR 1235.) To promote proper use of povidone-iodine products, FDA proposed to recognize two categories of such products. Products with povidone-iodine molecular weights less than 35,000 daltons would be permitted for general use. Appropriate labeling would place each product in its proper category of use. The professional labeling of povidone-iodine products containing molecules greater than 35,000 daltons would also include warnings against parenteral use of, and exposure of open surgical wounds or deep wounds to, the product.
