FR940505-1-00380 FR940505-1-00012 (A) Electrostatic application; (B) Flow coat; (C) Roll coat; (D) Dip coat; (E) High-volume, low-pressure (HVLP) spray; (F) Hand application methods; or (G) Other coating application methods that are demonstrated to have a transfer efficiency at least equal to HVLP spray equipment in the application, and which are used in such a manner that the parameters under which they were tested are permanent features of the method. Such coating application methods shall be approved in writing by EPA. (iv) Cleanup Solvent Use. Solvents used for surface preparation, equipment cleanup, and thinning operations, including storage and disposal of VOC-containing materials, shall be subject to the provisions and requirements of ยง52.2961(a), solvent cleaning operations. (v) Prohibition of sale. A person shall not sell or offer for sale for use in the affected area any coating which contains VOCs in excess of the limits specified in this section for any application governed by this section unless the label on the product or the data sheets for the product clearly bear the warning that the coating shall not be used unless compliance with this section can be achieved. (vi) Prohibition of specification. (A) A person shall not solicit or require any other person to use, in the affected area, any coating or combination of coatings to be applied to any metal container, metal closure, or metal coil subject to the provisions of this section that does not meet the limits and requirements of this section. (B) The requirements of paragraph (e)(3)(vi)(A) of this section shall apply to all written or oral agreements executed, entered into, or renewed. (4) Exemptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the spray coating of 1 gallon per day or less of coatings at a single facility. (5) Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Any person subject to this section shall comply with the following requirements: (i) Maintain and have available during an inspection, the listed category of each of the coatings and the type of metal container, metal closure, and/or metal coil to which each coating was applied. (ii) Maintain and have available during an inspection, a current list of coatings in use which provides all of the coating data necessary to evaluate compliance, including the following information, as applicable: (A) Coating, catalyst, additives, and reducer used; (B) Mix ratio of components used; and (C) VOC content of coating as applied. (iii) Maintain records on a daily basis including the following information: (A) Coating and mix ratio of components in the coating used; and (B) Quantity of each coating applied. (iv) Control equipment records. Any person using an emission control system as a means of complying with this section shall maintain daily records of key system operating and maintenance procedures which will demonstrate continuous operation and compliance of the emission control device during periods of emission producing activities. Key system operating parameters are those necessary to ensure compliance with paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section such as temperatures, pressures, and flowrates. (v) All records shall be retained at the facility for at least five years and shall be made available to EPA upon request. (6) Test methods. For the purpose of this section, the following test methods shall be used: (i) VOC content. (A) The VOC content of coatings subject to the provisions of this section shall be determined by EPA Method 24 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A). (B) The VOC content of emissions shall be determined by EPA Method 18 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A). (C) The exempt compound content shall be determined by ASTM Test Method D&hyph;4457&hyph;85.
