FR940303-2-00161 FR940303-2-00089 b. Program measures are reasonably consistent with achieving the goals of reducing existing noncompatible land uses around the airport and preventing the introduction of additional noncompatible land uses; c. Program measures would not create an undue burden on interstate or foreign commerce, unjustly discriminate against types of classes of aeronautical uses, violate the terms of airport grant agreements, or intrude into areas preempted by the Federal Government; and d. Program measures relating to the use of flight procedures can be implemented within the period covered by the program without derogating safety, adversely affecting the efficient use and management of the navigable airspace and air traffic control systems, or adversely affecting other powers and responsibilities of the Administrator prescribed by law. Specific limitations with respect to the FAA's approval of an airport noise compatibility program are delineated in FAR part 150, ยง150.5. Approval is not a determination concerning the acceptability of land uses under Federal, state, or local law. Approval does not by itself constitute an FAA implementing action. A request for Federal action or approval to implement specific noise compatibility measures may be required, and an FAA decision on the request may require an environmental assessment of the proposed action. Approval does not constitute a commitment by the FAA to financially assist in the implementation of the program nor a determination that all measures covered by the program are eligible for grant-in-aid funding from the FAA. Where federal funding is sought, requests for project grants must be submitted to the FAA Detroit Airports District Office in Belleville, Michigan. The Capital Region Airport Authority submitted to the FAA in 1993 noise exposure maps, descriptions, and other documentation produced during the noise compatibility planning study conducted from 1990 and 1992. The Capital City Airport noise exposure maps were determined by the FAA to be in compliance with applicable requirements on June 29, 1993. Notice of this determination was published in the Federal Register on July 26, 1993. The Capital City Airport study contains a proposed noise compatibility program comprised of actions designed for phased implementation by airport management and adjacent jurisdictions from the date of study completion to the year 1996. It was requested that the FAA evaluate and approve this material as a noise compatibility program as described in section 104(b) of the Act. The FAA began its review of the program on July 27, 1993, and was required by a provision of the Act to approve or disapprove the program within 180 days (other then the use of new flight procedures for noise control). Failure to approve or disapprove such program within the 180-day period would have been deemed to be an approval of such program. The submitted program contained nine (9) proposed actions for noise mitigation. The FAA completed its review and determined that the procedural and substantive requirements of the Act and FAR Part 150 have been satisfied. The overall program, therefore, was approved by the Assistant Administrator for Airports effective January 21, 1994. Outright approval was granted for all nine (9) of the specific program elements. The nine (9) measures include: Informal Preferential Runway Use Program, Voluntary Compliance of Phase-Out of Stage 2 Aircraft, Airport Zoning, Environmental Review, Revision of Building Code, Real Estate Disclosure, Local Government Comprehensive Plans, Noise Abatement Officer, and Provisions for Revisions. These determinations are set forth in detail in a Record of Approval endorsed by the Assistant Administrator for Airports on January 21, 1994. The Record of Approval, as well as other evaluation materials and documents which comprised the submittal to the FAA, are available for review at the following locations: Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue SW., room 617, Washington, DC 20591, Federal Aviation Administration, Detroit Airports District Office, Willow Run Airport, East, 8820 Beck Road, Belleville, Michigan 48111, Capital Region Airport Authority, Capital City Airport, Lansing, Michigan 48906. Questions may be directed to the individual named above under the heading, FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT . Issued in Belleville, Michigan, February 7, 1994. Dean C. Nitz, Manager, Detroit Airports District Office, Great Lakes Region. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4874 Filed 3&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
