FR940406-2-00151 FR940406-2-00090 B. Timeframes Once funding availability is advertised by the intermediary for its jurisdiction, technical assistance applications will be submitted to the intermediaries on an ongoing basis. If the applications are acceptable, grants must be awarded no later than 30 calendar days after a complete application is received by the intermediary. If the application is found to be substantially complete (i.e., there are no missing exhibits), but technically deficient (i.e., an exhibit does not adequately meet the application requirements), the intermediary shall send the applicant a deficiency letter and allow 14 days for resubmission of deficient exhibits. The intermediary will have an additional 30 days to review and approve an application, following receipt of application revisions. If the application is not substantially complete, it will be rejected. C. Technical Assistance Grant Selection Criteria 1. Resident Capacity Grants All Resident Capacity applicants will receive an application kit, which will be produced and distributed by the intermediary. A sample application kit will be provided to the intermediaries from the Department. Applications will be accepted on an ongoing basis, and all acceptable applications will be approved unless there are no funds available for Resident Capacity grants. Intermediaries must review and approve or reject applications for Resident Capacity grants based on the following threshold criteria: (a) The applicant meets the eligible applicant criteria listed in paragraph A of Appendix A to this NOFA. (b) The applicant is applying for funds for eligible activities listed in paragraph D(1) of Appendix A to this NOFA. (c) The applicant has notified the residents of its application in accordance with paragraph B of Appendix A to this NOFA. (d) The plan for promoting the ability of residents to participate meaningfully in the preservation process is reasonable and feasible. (e) The budget submitted with the application reflects reasonable costs directly associated with the grant activities. (f) The estimate of time necessary to achieve completion of activities and delivery of products is reasonable and realistic and within the time frames set forth in the applicable program regulation. 2. Predevelopment Grants All Predevelopment grant applicants will receive an application kit that will have been produced and distributed by the intermediary. A sample application kit will be provided to the intermediaries from the Department. Applications will be accepted on an ongoing basis, and all acceptable applications will be approved unless there are no funds available for Predevelopment grants. Intermediaries must review and approve or reject applications for Predevelopment grants based on the following threshold criteria: (a) The applicant meets the eligible applicant criteria listed in paragraph A of Appendix A to this NOFA; (b) The applicant is applying for eligible activities listed in paragraph D(2) of Appendix A to this NOFA; (c) The applicant has notified the residents of its application in accordance with paragraph B of Appendix A to this NOFA; (d) The plan for promoting and achieving a resident supported purchase of the property must be reasonable and feasible and in conformance with the appropriate program regulations and guidelines. This will include an evaluation of the experience and capacity of the applicant's development team; (e) The budget submitted with the application reflects reasonable costs directly associated with the grant activities that would result in the development of a feasible purchase; and (f) The estimate of time necessary to achieve completion of activities and delivery of products is reasonable and realistic and within the time frames set forth in the applicable program regulation. 3. Competing Grant Applications If a second technical assistance application is received within 30 days of receipt of the first application for any property, and if that application is for the same grant category, the intermediary shall have an additional 20 days to review both applications. The total review time for any grant cannot exceed 50 days. If the competing applications are for Resident Capacity grants, resident groups and Resident Councils shall have priority over other applicants. If the competing applications are for Predevelopment grants, and both are found technically acceptable, the Intermediary will return the applications with instructions that the applicants meet together and with the residents to reach a resolution for a final application. If no compromise is reached, the intermediary will approve the applicant that the intermediary finds most capable of performing grant and nonprofit sponsor activities. In addition, in the case of any application, if there is an indication that a majority of the residents oppose the applicant's selection, that application shall be denied. 4. Decision Not To Fund In any denial of award letter, the intermediary shall be required to explain the reasons for its determination. In addition, if the intermediary makes a determination that results in a reduction of proposed grant funds, that determination shall also be explained in writing.
