FR941006-2-00126 FR941006-2-00086 B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition NSCC does not believe that the proposed rule will have an impact or impose a burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others No new written comments have been solicited or received. 5 NSCC will notify the Commission of any written comments it receives. 5 Since the initial filing of the proposed rule change NSCC has received one letter of comment. In the letter Wedbush Morgan Securities, Inc. opposed NSCC's proposal because they believed it would increase the cost of posting collateral. Letter from Edward W. Wedbush, President, Wedbush Morgan Securities, Inc., to David F. Hoyt, Assistant Secretary, NSCC (November 9, 1989). III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Section 17A(b)(3)(F) of the Act requires that a clearing agency's rules be designed, among other things, to ensure the safeguarding of securities and funds in its possession or control or for which it is responsible and to protect investors and the public interest. 6 NSCC's proposal to limit the use of letters of credit to collateralize clearing fund obligations should make NSCC's clearing fund more liquid. A liquid clearing fund is necessary to ensure the safety and soundness of a clearing agency. NSCC's proposal is therefore consistent with the requirements under the Act with regard to NSCC's obligation to safeguard securities and funds and to protect the interests of investors and of the public. 6 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(b)(3)(F) (1988). Although letters of credit are a useful means of funding clearing agency guarantee deposits, their unrestricted use may present risks to clearing agencies. Because letters of credit reflect the issuer's promise to pay funds upon presentation of stipulated documents by the holder, a clearing agency holding letters of credit will be exposed to risk should the issuer refuse to honor its promise to pay. Furthermore, because under the Uniform Commercial Code the issuer may defer honoring a payment request until the close of business on the third banking day following receipt of the required documents, the clearing agency either may have to await payment or may have to seek alternative short-term financing. This waiting period could reduce a clearing agency's liquidity and thereby could hinder its ability to meet its payment obligations on a timely basis. 7 7 While the Division of Market Regulation (``Division'') believes that NSCC's reducing from 100% to 70% the percentage of a clearing member's required clearing fund contribution that can be collateralized with letters of credit, the Division is still concerned that 70% may be too high a percentage. Consequently the Division and NSCC are continuing their reviewing of the 70% concentration limit and its effect on NSCC's clearing fund. As indicated above, since the proposal first received temporary approval, NSCC has experienced over a 200% increase in both cash and securities deposited as clearing fund collateral. Because cash and securities are generally more liquid than letters of credit, the enhanced level of such deposits helps to ensure the liquidity of the clearing fund in the event of a major member insolvency, catastrophic loss, or major settlement loss. By reducing the risk associated with the use of letters of credit, the proposal is consistent with NSCC's responsibilities under the Act to safeguard securities or funds in its custody or control and to protect investors and the public in general. NSCC has requested that the Commission find good cause for approving the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of the filing. The Commission finds good cause for so approving because accelerated approval of the proposal will keep effective NSCC's rules that restrict member's usage of letters of credit as clearing fund deposits and thereby help reduce the exposure of NSCC's clearing fund to the potential liquidity risks associated with using letters of credit to collateralize member's clearing fund obligations. Moreover, since it was first introduced in 1989, NSCC's proposal has been open for public comment and has elicited only one opposing comment. Thus the Commission does not foresee that approval of the proposal will elicit further opposition. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of NSCC. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;94&hyph;18 and should be submitted by October 27, 1994. V. Conclusion On the basis of the foregoing, the Commission finds that the proposed rule filing is consistent with the Act and in particular with Section 17A of the Act. It Is Therefore Ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 8 that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;94&hyph;18) be, and hereby is approved through September 30, 1995. 8 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 9 9 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1994). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24797 Filed 10&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
