FR940204-0-00064 FR940204-0-00021 Each of the four plants face anthropogenic threats (see Factor A and Factor B in ``Summary of Factors Affecting the Species''), and many of the remaining populations of these species occur on privately owned property for which development is proposed or on which vandalism has already been noted. Due to the small number of populations of C. pungens var. hartwegiana and Erysimum teretifolium and the documented vandalism and proposed development of their habitats, the publication of precise maps and descriptions of critical habitat in the Federal Register would make them more vulnerable to such incidents and could contribute to their decline. In addition, no known Federal action, authorization, licensing, or funding on these lands exist, hence a designation of critical habitat would provide no additional protection under section 7 of the Act. Therefore, it would not be prudent to designate critical habitat for these two species. The appropriate agencies and landowners can be notified of the locations and management needs of these plants. Protection of these populations will be addressed through the recovery process. Available Conservation Measures Conservation measures provided to species listed as endangered or threatened under the Endangered Species Act include recognition, recovery actions, requirements for Federal protection, and prohibitions against certain activities. Recognition through listing encourages and results in conservation actions by Federal, State, and private agencies, groups, and individuals. The Endangered Species Act provides for possible land acquisition and cooperation with the States and requires that recovery actions be carried out for all listed species. The protection required of Federal agencies and the prohibitions against certain activities involving listed plants are discussed, in part, below. Section 7(a) of the Act, as amended, requires Federal agencies to evaluate their actions with respect to any species that is proposed or listed as endangered or threatened and with respect to its critical habitat, if any is being designated. Regulations implementing this interagency cooperation provision of the Act are codified at 50 CFR part 402. Section 7(a)(2) requires Federal agencies to insure that activities they authorize, fund, or carry out are not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of such a species or to destroy or adversely modify its critical habitat. If a Federal action may affect a listed species or its critical habitat, the responsible Federal agency must enter into formal consultation with the Service. Federal activities potentially impacting one or more of the four taxa include road and building construction projects and perhaps waterfowl management practices on Federal land. Populations of one of the four plants occur, at least in part, on Federal land. Fort Ord, which is managed by the Department of Defense, supports populations of Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens on the western and southern portion of the base. The Department of Defense indicated that closure and transfer of the base at Fort Ord will be phased over many years. Therefore, potential impacts to C. pungens var. pungens as a result of the land transfer cannot be determined at this time. C. pungens var. pungens is also thought to occur on the Salinas River National Wildlife Refuge, which is managed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; currently no activities occur on the Refuge that are known to affect the C. pungens var. pungens. Activities relating to the discharge of fill materials into waters of the United States and other special aquatic sites are regulated by section 404 of the Clean Water Act and may affect Chorizanthe pungens var. hartwegiana and Erysimum teretifolium where they occur adjacent to sand quarry operations. The pending proposal to develop the two Glenwood Estates parcels in Scotts Valley may also involve the discharge of fill materials. The Army Corps of Engineers would be required to consult with the Service on any section 404 permitting actions that may affect these species. The Act and its implementing regulations found at 50 CFR 17.61, 17.62, and 17.63 for endangered species and 17.71 and 17.71 for threatened species set forth a series of general prohibitions and exceptions that apply to all endangered or threatened plants. With respect to the four plant taxa that are the subject of this final rule, all trade prohibitions of section 9(a)(2) of the Act, implemented by 50 CFR 17.61 and 17.71, apply. These prohibitions, in part, make it illegal for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to import or export, transport in interstate or foreign commerce in the course of a commercial activity, sell or offer for sale in interstate or foreign commerce, or to remove and reduce to possession any such species from areas under Federal jurisdiction. Seeds from cultivated specimens of threatened plant species, in this case Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens, are exempt from these prohibitions provided that a statement of ``cultivated origin'' appears on their containers. In addition, for listed plants, the Act prohibits malicious damage or destruction of any such species on any area under Federal jurisdiction, and the removal, cutting, digging up, or damaging or destroying any such species on any other area in knowing violation of any State law or regulation, or in the course of any violation of a State criminal trespass law. Certain exceptions apply to agents of the Service and State conservation agencies. The Act and 50 CFR 17.62 and 17.63 also provide for the issuance of permits to carry out otherwise prohibited activities involving endangered or threatened plant species under certain circumstances. It is anticipated that few trade permits would ever be sought or issued because the four plant species are not common in cultivation or in the wild. Requests for copies of the regulations on plants and inquiries regarding them may be addressed to the Office of Management Authority, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, room 420C, 4401 North Fairfax Drive, Arlington, Virginia 22203&hyph;3507 (703/358&hyph;2104).
