FR940902-0-00171 FR940902-0-00010 In addition to the definitions contained in sections 4, 301, 303(e), and in ยง626.4 of this chapter, the following definitions apply to the administration of Title V of the Act and this part: Absent parent means an individual who is continuously absent from the household and who is a non-custodial parent of a dependent child receiving aid to families with dependent children (AFDC) under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601, et seq. ). Disability assistance means benefits offered pursuant to Title XVI of the Social Security Act, relating to the supplemental security income program. Federal contribution means the amount of the Federal component of cash payments to individuals within the participating State under welfare and/or disability assistance programs, including Part A of Title IV of the Social Security Act. Subpart B_Program Planning and Operation ยง637.200 Allotments to States. (a) For each program year for which funds are appropriated to carry out programs under this part, the Secretary shall pay to each participating State the amount the State is eligible to receive in accordance with this part. No payments shall be made for any years for which funds are not appropriated and/or not available (section 502(a)). (b) If the appropriation is not sufficient to pay to each State the amount it is eligible to receive in accordance with this part, the State shall receive a percentage of the total available funds equal to the percentage of its bonus compared to the national total of bonuses (section 502(b)). (c) If an additional amount is made available after the application of paragraph (b) of this section, such additional amount shall be allocated among the States by increasing payment in the same manner as was used to reduce payment, except that no State shall be paid an amount which exceeds the amount to which it is eligible (section 502(c)). ยง637.205 Notice of intent to participate. (a) Any State seeking to participate in the incentive bonus program shall notify the Secretary of its intent to do so no later than 30 days before the beginning of its first program year of participation (i.e., June 1) (section 505(a)). (b) Pursuant to instructions issued by the Secretary, the notification referenced in paragraph (a) of this section shall be in the form of a letter from the Governor to the Secretary advising the Secretary of the State's intention to apply for, receive and expend bonuses under this program in a manner consistent with this part (section 505(b)). (c) After the State's submission of a notice of intent to participate, incentive bonuses may be claimed by a State for any individual who: (1)(i) Was an absent parent of any child receiving AFDC at the time such individual was determined to be eligible for participation in programs under the Act; (ii) Has participated in education, training, or other activities (including the Job Corps) funded under the Act; and (iii) Pays child support for a child specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section following termination from activities funded under the Act; or (2)(i) Is blind or disabled; (ii) Was receiving disability assistance at the time such individual was determined to be eligible for participation in programs under the Act; (iii) Has participated in education, training, or other activities (including the Job Corps) funded under the Act; and (iv) Earns from employment a wage or an income (section 506). (d) A Governor may withdraw the State's participation in the incentive bonus program in any program year by submitting a written notice of withdrawal.
