FR940203-2-00124 FR940203-2-00068 Discussion: The Secretaries agree that it is preferable for the term utilized in this notice to be consistent with the term utilized in the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act. Moreover, the term ``All aspects of the industry'' also appears in both the Senate and House bills of the School-to Work Opportunities bills currently under consideration by Congress. Therefore, the Secretaries have eliminated the term ``Elements of the industry'' from the notice, and have substituted the term ``All aspects of the industry.'' However, the Secretaries feel that the term ``industry'' is clear in the context of this definition, and need not be further defined in this notice. Changes: The term ``Elements of the industry'' has been replaced by the term ``All aspects of the industry'' for the purpose of achieving consistency with the proposed School-to-Work Opportunities legislation, as well as with the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act. Likewise, the definition of the term ``all elements of the industry'' has been replaced with the definition of ``all aspects of the industry'' from the regulations implementing the Perkins Act, at 34 CFR 400.4(b). Definitions_Career Major Comment: Two commenters expressed the view that, when coupled with the examples of local partnership activities contained in the notice, the proposed definition of the term ``Career major'' suggests that the School-to-Work Opportunities initiative will not recognize a high school equivalency diploma as being equivalent to the attainment of an actual high school diploma. These commenters recommended that the definition of a ``Career major'' be amended to better accommodate out-of-school youth by including both passage of a high school equivalency test and the high school diploma, as acceptable outcomes of participation in School-to-Work Opportunities programs. Discussion: The Secretaries agree with the commenters that, in part, the attainment of an equivalency diploma by a former student who has participated in, and completed, a School-to-Work Opportunities program, would be an acceptable outcome of such participation. Changes: The definition of the term ``Career major'' has been modified to include an ``equivalent'' certificate. (Parallel changes have been made in the ``General Program Requirements'' section of the notice and the ``Local Programs'' selection criterion.) Comment: One commenter stated that, while a four-year degree is not the primary focus or goal of the School-to-Work Opportunities initiative, it should be considered an appropriate outcome of participation in a School-to-Work Opportunities program. The commenter felt that course work should be sufficiently rigorous and linked to higher education academic requirements so a student could enter into a four-year academic program following participation in the program. This commenter suggested that the term, ``or enrollment in a Bachelor's degree program'' be added to the end of the last sentence in the definition of the term ``career major.'' Discussion: The Secretaries agree with the reasoning provided by the commenter, as discussed above. Changes: Paragraph (e) of the definition of the term ``career major'' has been revised by adding the clause ``or admission into a degree-granting college or university'' so as to clarify that, among other things, completion of a career major may result in admission into a degree-granting college or university. Comment: One commenter stated that the proposed definition of a ``career major'' included criteria that would result in an automatic barrier preventing many students with disabilities from benefitting from a School-to-Work Opportunities program. This commenter felt that, in most school systems, students participating in special education programs continue to receive certificates in lieu of a high school diploma and that one or two additional years of training past high school should be an acceptable outcome for many of these learners in lieu of one or two years of postsecondary education. The commenter recommended that the definition of the term ``career major'' be revised in specific ways to accommodate and encourage the participation of special education students. Discussion: The Secretaries do not intend to discourage the participation of students with disabilities in State School-to-Work Opportunities programs. Indeed, the School-to-Work Opportunities initiative is intended to serve all students, as has already been discussed. Moreover, the Secretaries agree with the commenter that many States already provide equivalent diplomas or certificates to disabled students. Accordingly, the Secretaries intend to include within the term ``equivalent,'' which has been added to the definition of the term ``Career major,'' certificates provided by States to students with disabilities, that are considered to be equivalent to high school diplomas.
