FR940512-2-00177 FR940512-2-00078 While several studies provide some evidence of alcohol and drug abuse decline in the general youth population, recent locally based studies indicate that this is not the trend among the runaway and homeless youth population. There is a marked increase in the use of alcohol and other dangerous and addictive drugs such as cocaine and its derivative, crack. Alcohol use among the younger adolescent population is also on the increase. This population's circumstances require more detailed and focused approaches to prevention and drug reduction services than those provided by traditional approaches. Many runaway and homeless youth have already experimented with, or become frequent users of, one or more drugs and need effective programs which help them understand drug use problems and teach them the decision-making skills they need to maintain a drug-free lifestyle. The Drug Abuse Education and Prevention Program (DAPP) provides Federal assistance to comprehensively address the problem of drug involvement among runaway and homeless youth. Since the program's inception in 1989, ACYF has awarded approximately $82 million in discretionary grants to approximately 450 agencies and organizations located throughout the United States, including Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. These awards were made to support a wide variety of locally determined project designs which address the problem of drug involvement among runaway and homeless youth. While varying degrees of success have been reported by DAPP grantees, many of the most promising programs have implemented one or more of the following components: 1. Candid discussions between youth and street-wise peer counselors and/or recovering youth substance abusers who can discuss addiction and recovery from their personal experience; 2. Sessions in which youth obtain accurate facts on any and all aspects of substance abuse and treatment; 3. Presentation of decision-making and self-assertiveness skills and techniques that assist youth in making independent choices and avoiding drug-involved friends and environments; 4. Counseling and/or other strategies for helping youth to understand both the underlying causes of drug use and the effect of drugs on them, their families, their peers and their communities; 5. Educational information that portrays the consequences of overdosing, the effects of drug withdrawal, and the increased chances of contracting the HIV virus and AIDS; and 6. The provision of specific and realistic information on various treatment options that are available, assistance in enrolling in such programs, and appropriate follow-up by the service provider. Minimum Requirements for project design: As a part of addressing the evaluation criteria outlined in Part II of this announcement, applicants must address the following items in the program narrative sections of their applications. Objectives and Need for Assistance
