FR941220-0-00121 FR941220-0-00014 (1) Be dated; (2) Be typewritten or legibly written; (3) Specify the issue or issues stated in the notice of determination giving rise to such request; (4) State the specific reason or reasons why the party requesting the hearing believes such determination is in error; (5) Be signed by the party making the request or by an authorized representative of such party; and (6) Include the address at which such party or authorized representative desires to receive further communications relating thereto. (d) The request for such hearing shall be received by the Chief Administrative Law Judge, at the address stated in the Administrator's notice of determination, no later than 15 calendar days after the date of the determination. An interested party which fails to meet this 15-day deadline for requesting a hearing may thereafter participate in the proceedings only by consent of the administrative law judge, either through intervention as a party pursuant to 29 CFR 18.10 (b) through (d) or through participation as an amicus curiae pursuant to 29 CFR 18.12. (e) The request may be filed in person, by facsimile transmission, by certified or regular mail, or by courier service. For the requesting party's protection, if the request is by mail, it should be by certified mail. If the request is by facsimile transmission, the original of the request, signed by the requestor or authorized representative, shall be filed within ten days. (f) Copies of the request for a hearing shall be sent by the requestor to the Wage and Hour Division official who issued the Administrator's notice of determination, to the representative(s) of the Solicitor of Labor identified in the notice of determination, and to all known interested parties. ยง XXX .825 Rules of practice for administrative law judge proceedings. (a) Except as specifically provided in this subpart, and to the extent they do not conflict with the provisions of this subpart, the ``Rules of Practice and Procedure for Administrative Hearings Before the Office of Administrative Law Judges'' established by the Secretary at 29 CFR part 18 shall apply to administrative proceedings under this subpart. (b) As provided in the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 556, any oral or documentary evidence may be received in proceedings under this part. The Federal Rules of Evidence and subpart B of the Rules of Practice and Procedure for Administrative Hearings Before the Office of Administrative Law Judges (29 CFR part 18, subpart B) shall not apply, but principles designed to ensure production of relevant and probative evidence shall guide the admission of evidence. The administrative law judge may exclude evidence which is immaterial, irrelevant, or unduly repetitive. ยง XXX .830 Service and computation of time. (a) Under this subpart, a party may serve any pleading or document by regular mail. Service on a party is complete upon mailing to the last known address. No additional time for filing or response is authorized where service is by mail. In the interest of expeditious proceedings, the administrative law judge may direct the parties to serve pleadings or documents by a method other than regular mail. (b) Two (2) copies of all pleadings and other documents in any administrative law judge proceeding shall be served on the attorneys for the Administrator. One copy shall be served on the Associate Solicitor, Division of Fair Labor Standards, Office of the Solicitor, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue NW., Room N&hyph;2716, Washington, DC 20210, and one copy shall be served on the attorney representing the Administrator in the proceeding. (c) Time will be computed beginning with the day following the action and includes the last day of the period unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or federally-observed holiday, in which case the time period includes the next business day.
