FR940105-2-00093 FR940105-2-00045 [Docket Nos. 50&hyph;275 and 50&hyph;323] Pacific Gas and Electric Co., Diablo Canyon Power Plant, Unit Nos. 1 and 2; Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of amendments to Facility Operating Licensing Nos. DPR&hyph;80 and DPR&hyph;82, issued to the Pacific Gas and Electric Company (the licensee), for operation of Diablo Canyon Power Plant, Unit Nos. 1 and 2, located in San Luis Obispo, California. Environmental Assessment Identification of Proposed Action The proposed amendment would consist of revisions to the Technical Specifications in response to the revised 10 CFR part 20. The change would revise the limitations on the dose rate resulting from radioactive material released in gaseous effluents, and reflect the relocation of the prior 10 CFR 20.106 requirements to the new 10 CFR 20.1302. These changes are in response to the licensee's application for amendments dated July 7, 1993. The Need for the Proposed Action The proposed action is needed in order to retain operational flexibility consistent with 10 CFR part 50, appendix I, concurrent with the implementation of the revised 10 CFR part 20. Environmental Impacts of the Proposed Action The proposed revision, in regard to the actual release rates as referenced in the Technical Specifications (TS) as a dose rate to the maximally exposed member of the public, will not increase the types or amounts of effluents that may be released offsite, nor increase individual or cumulative occupational radiation exposures. Therefore, the Commission concludes that there are no significant radiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed amendments. With regard to potential nonradiological impacts, the proposed changes do not affect nonradiological effluents and have no other environmental impact. Therefore, the Commission concludes that there are no significant nonradiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed amendments. Alternatives to the Proposed Action Since the Commission concluded that there are no significant envirommental impacts associated with the proposed amendments to the TS, any alternative to the amendments will have either no significantly different environmental impact or will have greater environmental impact. The principal alternative would be to deny the requested amendments. This would not reduce environmental impacts as a result of plant operation. Alternatives Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of resources not previously considered in the Final Environmental Statement and Addendum related to the operation of Diablo Canyon Power Plant Units 1 and 2, dated May 1973 and May 1976, respectively. Agencies and Persons Consulted The Commission's staff reviewed the licensee's request and did not consult other agencies or persons. Finding of No Significant Impact The Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed license amendments. Based upon the foregoing environmental assessment, we conclude that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. For further details with respect to this action, see the application for amendment dated July 7, 1993, which is available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, 2120 L Street NW., Washington, DC and at the California Polytechnic State University, Robert E. Kennedy Library, Government Documents and Maps Department, San Luis Obispo, California 93407. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Theodore R. Quay, Director, Project Directorate V, Division of Reactor Projects III/IV/V, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;128 Filed 1&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
