FR941004-1-00006 FR941004-1-00001 During the Commission review of the revision of Appendix G published final on May 27, 1983 (48 FR 24009), the requirement to ``design to permit annealing'' was criticized because licensee response to the requirement was perfunctory and staff review of the responses was cursory, as detailed in SECY&hyph;83&hyph;254 (June 27, 1983). Further, there were no criteria to assess whether a design would permit annealing. An additional problem cited with the requirement was that it was misinterpreted to mean that plant operation with an RT NDT greater than 200 ○F or a Charpy upper-shelf energy below 50 ft-lb was unsafe. The Commission indicated that it would seek public comments on the proposed deletion of the requirement, and this was done concurrently with the publication of the proposed PTS rule on February 4, 1984 (49 FR 4498). All sixteen of the commenters on this item recommended deletion of the paragraph, although eight of them urged that the deletion should not in any way imply that annealing is no longer an option to increase safety margins. In the notice of final rulemaking for the PTS rule published on July 23, 1985 (50 FR 29944), the ``Supplementary Information'' noted that the Commission planned a separate rulemaking action to delete Section IV.B. That planned deletion was delayed so that it could be combined with other amendments to Appendix G. Appendix H of 10 CFR Part 50 Changes in the fracture toughness properties of the RPV beltline materials due to irradiation embrittlement are monitored using a surveillance program, as required in Appendix H of 10 CFR Part 50, ``Reactor Vessel Material Surveillance Program Requirements''. Appendix H references American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) standard E 185 (``Standard Practice for Conducting Surveillance Tests for Light-Water Cooled Nuclear Power Reactor Vessels'') for many of the detailed requirements of surveillance programs, and permits the use of integrated surveillance programs, wherein surveillance program capsules for one reactor are irradiated in another reactor. This proposed amendment would make the following changes: 1. End the provision for ``reducing the amount of testing'' for integrated surveillance programs, 2. Restructure the section on requirements for integrated surveillance programs (Section II.C), and 3. Clarify the version of ASTM Standard E 185 that applies to the surveillance program. Integrated surveillance programs are permitted under Section II.C of Appendix H of 10 CFR Part 50. One provision of this section is that ``the amount of testing may be reduced if the initial results agree with predictions.'' It is proposed to discontinue this provision as of the effective date of the Appendix, although previous authorizations granted by the Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation, would continue in effect. A second proposed change to Appendix H restructures Section II.C to clarify the requirements for integrated surveillance programs. The other principal change to Appendix H clarifies the version of ASTM Standard E 185 that applies to the various portions of the surveillance programs. Appendix H recognizes the need to separate surveillance programs into two essential parts, specifically the design of the program, and subsequent testing and reporting of results from the surveillance capsules. Since the design of the surveillance program cannot be changed once the program is in place, the requirements for design of the surveillance program are static for each plant. However, the testing and reporting requirements are updated along with technical improvements made to ASTM standard E 185. The clarification proposed in this revision indicates that the design of the program and the withdrawal schedule must meet the requirements of ASTM E 185&hyph;73, or the edition of ASTM E 185 that is current on the issue date of the ASME Code to which the reactor vessel was purchased, whichever is latest. Licensees could choose to comply with later editions of ASTM E 185, up through the 1982 edition. Further, specimen test procedures and reporting requirements must meet the requirements of ASTM E 185&hyph;82 ``to the extent practicable for the configuration of the specimens in the capsule.'' The NRC staff intended that this proposed amendment to Appendix H would incorporate by reference a version of ASTM standard E 185 updated from the currently available 1982 version. However, that standardization process has not been completed, and it was decided to proceed with this proposed amendment. A subsequent amendment to Appendix H will be considered after the NRC staff has reviewed the updated ASTM standard. Request for Public Comments On June 13, 1994 (SECY&hyph;94&hyph;163) the staff requested Commission approval to publish for public comment these proposed revisions and provided a discussion of options for public participation related to thermal annealing. The Commission approved issuance of the proposed revisions but directed that the staff to (1) include with the proposed rule package a discussion of options the staff has considered for structuring of the regulatory process for the proposed thermal annealing rule (10 CFR 50.66), which is included in the following section, and (2) request comments on the following issues related to the proposed regulation on thermal annealing: 1. The technical adequacy of the staff's guidance; 2. The sufficiency of the guidance and criteria to support a certification that if satisfied, a plant with an annealed vessel can safely resume operation; 3. Whether health and safety concerns are best served by approval of the thermal annealing plan or of readiness for restart; 4. The preferred regulatory process (including opportunities for public participation) and the commenter's basis for recommending a particular process; and 5. Whether there are health and safety issues concerning thermal annealing that cannot be addressed generically and would warrant plant-specific consideration. Options the Staff Has Considered for Structuring of the Regulatory Process Related to Public Participation in Thermal Annealing A significant issue with respect to thermal annealing, identified in SECY&hyph;92&hyph;283 (August 14, 1992), is the nature and timing of public participation related to the NRC's review and approval of a licensee's proposal for thermal annealing. The proposed rule does not address public participation per se, but instead provides the performance requirements that a licensee would have to meet to gain NRC approval of a thermal annealing application and to permit subsequent operation. Under the proposed rule, there are three circumstances that arguably require an opportunity for hearing pursuant to Section 189 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (AEA) in connection with NRC review and approval of thermal annealing. First, a licensee seeking to anneal its reactor vessel must obtain NRC approval of the content of the thermal annealing plan prior to implementing the plan (see §50.66(a) of the proposed rule). Second, and apart from the NRC approval required under §50.66(a), the thermal annealing process as described in the licensee's plan may necessitate license amendments (including technical specification changes). License amendments may be required if the licensee's final safety analysis report (FSAR) needs to be revised to reflect the thermal annealing process, and the licensee is unable to conclude that such FSAR changes do not constitute ``unreviewed safety questions'' under 10 CFR 50.59. Implementation of the thermal annealing plan may also violate existing technical specifications, necessitating requests for changes to technical specifications. Any license amendment and technical specification change must be approved by the NRC before the licensee may implement the thermal annealing plan. Finally, after the licensee implements the annealing plan, if he determines that he cannot meet the criteria specified in §50.66(c)(1) of the proposed rule, then NRC approval is needed in order for the licensee to resume operation (see §50.66(c)(2) of the proposed rule).
