FR941019-1-00020 FR941019-1-00002 The BSC has studied and analyzed several alternatives for taking into account the effects of netting when calculating the capital charge for potential future exposure. In particular, the BSC reviewed one general method proposed by commenters to the April 1993 netting proposal. This method would reduce the amount of the add-on for potential future exposure by multiplying the calculated gross add-on by the ratio of the portfolio's net current exposure to gross current exposure (the net-to-gross ratio or NGR). The NGR is used as a proxy for the risk-reducing effects of the netting arrangement on the potential future exposure. The more diversified the portfolio, the lower the net current exposure tends to be relative to gross current exposure. The BSC incorporated this method into its proposal. However, given that there are portfolio-specific situations in which the NGR does not provide a good indication of these effects, the BSC proposal gives only partial weight to the effects of the NGR on the add-on for potential future exposure. The proposed method would average the amount of the add-on as currently calculated (A gross ) and the same amount multiplied by the NGR to arrive at a reduced add-on (A net ) for contracts subject to qualifying netting arrangements in accordance with the requirements set forth in the recently amended Accord. This formula is expressed as: A net = .5(A gross + (NGR * A gross )). For example, a bank with a gross current exposure of 500,000, a net current exposure of 300,000, and a gross add-on for potential future exposure of 1,200,000, would have an NGR of .6 (300,000/500,000) and would calculate A net as follows: .5(1,200,000 + (.6 * 1,200,000)) A net = 960,000 For banks with an NGR of 50 percent, the effect of this treatment would be to permit a reduction in the amount of the add-on by 25 percent. The BSC believes that most dealer banks are likely to have an NGR in the vicinity of 50 percent. The BSC proposal does not specify whether the NGR should be calculated on a counterparty-by-counterparty basis or on an aggregate basis for all transactions subject to qualifying, legally enforceable netting arrangements. The proposal requests comment on whether the choice of method could bias the results and whether there is a significant difference in calculation burden between the two methods. The BSC proposal also acknowledges that simulations using bank's internal models for measuring credit risk exposure would most likely produce the most accurate determination of the effect of netting arrangements on potential future exposures. The proposal states that the use of such models would be considered at some future date. C. The FDIC Proposal In light of the BSC proposal, the FDIC believes that it is appropriate to seek comment on proposed revisions to the calculation of the add-on for potential future exposure for derivative contracts. Therefore, the FDIC is proposing to amend its risk-based capital guidelines for state nonmember banks to expand the matrix of conversion factors, and to permit institutions that make use of qualifying netting arrangements to recognize the effects of those netting arrangements in the calculation of the add-on for potential future exposure. The second part of the proposed amendment is contingent on the adoption of a final amendment to the FDIC's risk-based capital guidelines to recognize bilateral close-out netting arrangements and would formally extend this recognition to commodity, precious metals, and equity derivative contracts. With regard to the portion of the proposal to expand the conversion factor matrix, the FDIC is proposing the same conversion factors set forth in the BSC proposal. The FDIC agrees with the BSC that the existing conversion factors applicable to long-dated transactions do not provide sufficient capital for the risks associated with those types of contracts. The FDIC also agrees with the BSC that the conversion factors for foreign exchange transactions are significantly too low for commodity, precious metal, and equity contracts due to the volatility of the associated indices or the prices on the underlying assets. 18 18 Similar to the BSC proposal, the FDIC's proposed amendment specifies that for equity contracts that automatically reset to zero value following a payment, the remaining maturity is set equal to the time remaining until the next payment. Also, for contracts with multiple exchanges of principal, the conversion factors are to be multiplied by the number of remaining payments in the contract. The FDIC is proposing the same formula as the BSC proposal to calculate a reduction in the add-on for potential future exposure for contracts subject to qualifying netting contracts. The FDIC recognizes several advantages with this formula. First, the formula uses bank-specific information to calculate the NGR. The NGR is simple to calculate and uses readily available information. The FDIC believes the use of the averaging factor of 0.5 is an important aspect of the proposed formula because it means the add-on for potential future exposure can never be reduced to zero and banks will always hold some capital against derivative contracts, even in those instances where the net current exposure is zero. The FDIC is seeking comment on all aspects of this proposal. As mentioned earlier, the BSC proposal seeks comment on whether the NGR should be calculated on a counterparty-by-counterparty basis, or on a global basis for all contracts subject to qualifying bilateral netting arrangements. The FDIC's proposed regulatory language would require the calculation of a separate NGR for each counterparty with which it has a qualifying netting contract. However, the FDIC is also seeking comment as to which method of calculating the NGR would be most efficient and appropriate for institutions with numerous qualifying bilateral netting arrangements. With either calculation method the NGR would be applied separately to adjust the add-on for potential future exposure for each netting arrangement. The FDIC notes that some preliminary findings indicate that a global NGR may be less burdensome to apply since the same NGR would be used for each counterparty with a netting arrangement, but counterparty specific NGRs may provide a more accurate indication of the credit risk associated with each counterparty.
