FR940228-2-00065 FR940228-2-00039 Minerals Management Service Memorandum of Understanding Establishing Jurisdictional Responsibilities for Offshore Facilities AGENCY: Minerals Management Service (MMS), Interior. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The memorandum of understanding (MOU) establishing Federal jurisdictional boundaries for offshore facilities, including pipelines, became effective on February 3, 1994. The MOU divides the responsibilities associated with oil-spill prevention and control, response planning, and response equipment inspection for offshore facilities. The MOU is among the Department of the Interior (DOI), Department of Transportation (DOT), and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The coast line marks the boundary that determines which agency is responsible for a facility. The MMS of the DOI is responsible for offshore facilities, including pipelines but not deepwater ports, located seaward of the coast line. The EPA is responsible for non-transportation-related offshore facilities located landward of the coast line. The U.S. Coast Guard and the Research and Special Programs Administration of the DOT will handle transportation-related offshore facilities, including pipelines, located landward of the coast line. Any exceptions to the MOU will be determined on a facility-specific basis, and the affected parties will be notified. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sharon L. Buffington, Engineering and Technology Division; MS&hyph;4700; Minerals Management Service; 381 Elden Street; Herndon, Virginia 22070&hyph;4817, telephone (703) 787&hyph;1600. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Executive Order (E.O.) 12777 (56 FR 54757) delegated to DOI, DOT, and EPA various responsibilities identified in the Clean Water Act (CWA), as amended by the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (Public Law 101&hyph;380). The E.O. 12777 assigned the responsibilities associated with oil-spill prevention and control, contingency planning, and response equipment inspection for offshore facilities to DOI. However, section 311(a)(11) of the CWA defines ``offshore facility'' to include facilities of any kind located in, on, or under navigable waters of the United States. By using this definition, the traditional DOI role of regulating facilities in the Outer Continental Shelf is expanded by E.O. 12777 to include inland lakes, rivers, streams, and any other inland waters. Without this MOU, as many as four Federal agencies could have overlapping responsibilities for some coastal facilities. To avoid any confusion caused by the definition of ``offshore facility'', MMS coordinated an effort to establish jurisdictional boundaries for oil-spill prevention and control, response planning, and response equipment inspection activities. Pursuant to section 2(i) of E.O. 12777, the Secretary of the Interior redelegated those functions vested in DOI to give EPA non-transportation-related offshore facilities located landward of the coast line and give DOT transportation-related offshore facilities landward of the coast line. The divisions agreed to in the MOU (Appendix A) is more consistent with traditional agency expertise and jurisdiction. This MOU does not include jurisdictional boundaries for oil-spill financial responsibility. Dated: February 17, 1994. Thomas Gernhofer, Associate Director for Offshore Minerals Management.
