FR940602-1-00108 FR940602-1-00014 IV. Solicitation of Comments EPA is soliciting comments on a number of items in today's proposed rule. The following is a list of the items on which EPA solicits comment in the preamble. Detailed discussions of each of the items can be found in the relevant sections of the preamble. For ease in referencing these sections, the items are briefly summarized below. A. Expanded Public Participation 1. Equitable Public Participation EPA is asking for comments, in section 4.a: Equitable Public Participation, on how the requirements proposed in ยง124.30 could be implemented. 2. Environmental Justice EPA is soliciting comments, in section 4.a.1: Agency activities dealing with environmental justice, on several items relating to environmental justice. For instance, EPA is interested in receiving comments on ways to incorporate environmental justice concerns into the RCRA public participation process. EPA is also requesting comments on the need for additional rulemaking or policy guidance for incorporating environmental justice into certain aspects of the RCRA permitting program, such as corrective action. The Agency is also interested in receiving comments on suggested methodologies and procedures for undertaking analysis of ``cumulative risk'' and ``cumulative effects'' associated with human exposure to multiple sources of pollution. Finally, EPA is soliciting comments on some of the recommendations developed by the OSWER Environmental Justice task force, discussed in section 4.a.1. 3. Pre-Application Meeting_Applicability EPA is soliciting comments on the applicability of the pre-application meeting requirements in two sections. In section 4.b: Applicability of Pre-application Meeting, EPA is requesting comments on whether the pre-application meeting should apply to permit renewal applications. In section 5.b: Requirements for the Pre-application Meeting, EPA is requesting comment on whether the requirements should apply to all facilities or only to certain groups (e.g., incinerators, commercial facilities). EPA is also requesting comments on whether the permitting authority should attend the pre-application meeting. 4. Pre-Application Meeting_Possible Alternative In section 4.b: Applicability of Pre-application Meeting, EPA is requesting comments on whether a State's public participation meeting for siting a facility should be an allowable substitute for today's proposed pre-application meeting. 5. Pre-application Meeting Notice Requirements As discussed in section 5.b.1: Providing Notice of the Pre-application Meeting, EPA would like comments on whether these expanded notice requirements should apply to other notices during the RCRA permitting process. EPA also requests comments on how to implement the alternative notice provision in the regulations without prescribing a specific formula or approach that may not be appropriate in all circumstances. 6. Public Notice at Permit Application_Applicability EPA is requesting comments in section 4.c: Applicability of Public Notice at Permit Application on whether today's proposed requirements should also apply to post-closure permits. 7. Public Notice at Permit Application_Responsibility In section 5.c: Requirement for Public Notice at Permit Application, EPA is requesting comments on whether the permitting authority or the facility should be responsible for providing the public notice at application submittal. 8. Information Repository EPA is requesting comments on the proposed information repository requirements described in section 5.d: Requirement for an Information Repository. For example, at what time during the permitting process would it be useful to have the repository be maintained or terminated? Should the repository be limited to certain types of facilities? What specific documents would the public like to see in the repository? B. Requirements Regarding the Trial Burn 1. Notices of Trial Burns In section 4.c: Notices of Trial Burns, EPA is requesting comments on whether the permitting authority or the facility should be responsible for providing public notices during the trial burn stage. EPA is also requesting comments, in section 5.c.2: Interim Status Combustion Facilities, on whether the Agency should establish a comment period for interim status facilities prior to approving the trial burn plan, in view of the fact that, for permitted facilities, the public has an opportunity to comment on a draft trial burn plan as part of the draft permit process. C. Cost Estimates In section VI. Regulatory Impact Analysis Pursuant to Executive Order 12866, EPA is asking for comments on the data and methodologies used to derive the cost estimates associated with this proposed rule. EPA intends to consider all comments on these, and any additional, items before drafting a final rule. V. State Authority A. Applicability of Rules in Authorized States Under section 3006 of RCRA, EPA may authorize qualified states to administer and enforce the RCRA program within the state (see 40 CFR part 271 for the standards and requirements for authorization). Following authorization, EPA retains enforcement authority under sections 3008, 7003, and 3013 of RCRA, although authorized states have primary enforcement responsibility. Prior to enactment of the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments (HSWA) of 1984, a state with final RCRA authorization administered its hazardous waste program entirely in lieu of the federal program. The federal requirements no longer applied in the authorized state, and EPA could not issue permits for any facilities in that state, since only the state was authorized to issue RCRA permits. When new, more stringent federal requirements were promulgated or enacted, the state was obligated to enact equivalent authority within specified timeframes. However, the new federal requirements did not take effect in an authorized state until the state adopted the requirements as state law. In contrast, HSWA amended RCRA to add section 3006(g) (42 U.S.C. 6926(g)). Under section 3006(g), new requirements and prohibitions imposed under HSWA authority take effect in authorized states at the same time that they take effect in nonauthorized states. EPA is directed by statute to implement those requirements and prohibitions in authorized states, including the issuance of permits, until the state is granted authorization to do so. While states must still adopt HSWA-related provisions as state law to retain final authorization, the HSWA requirements are implemented by EPA in authorized states in the interim. Today's proposal is promulgated pursuant to pre-HSWA authority. These provisions, therefore, would become effective as RCRA requirements in states with final authorization once the state has amended its regulations and the amended regulations are authorized by EPA. However, EPA would like to encourage States to adopt the changes proposed today expeditiously, and implement them as part of their own programs as rapidly as possible. B. Effect on State Authorizations The provisions of this rule are proposed under pre-HSWA authority. This section discusses the implications of the pre-HSWA authority on EPA's and the states' implementation, and the schedule for state adoption of these new requirements.
