FR940128-1-00065 FR940128-1-00006 The agency believes that economic adulteration occurs with sufficient frequency in various seafood products to result in substantial losses to the consumer. Evidence of such economic adulteration usually comes to light indirectly, as a result of investigations that are carried out for other purposes. Fourteen and one-half percent of the samples of seafoods reported in 1986 as having adverse findings by eight FDA district offices were so listed because of product misrepresentation (Ref. 123). Similarly, FDA found that in fiscal years 1991 and 1992, 14.8 and 11.7 percent, respectively, of all consumer complaints involved complaints of economic problems (Ref. 60). Imported seafood products also are subject to significant levels of economic misrepresentation. In 1992, approximately 13 percent of all detentions of imported seafood involved some form of misbranding, such as false or misleading labeling, short fill, short weight, standard of identity, and omitted labeling (Ref. 124). Specific data on species substitution are available from The National Seafood Inspection Laboratory (NSIL) of NMFS, Department of Commerce. Data gathered for the 3-year period of 1990&hyph;1992 by the laboratory in conducting species verification tests requested by industry show that 59 percent of the samples labeled as cod, 57 percent of the product labeled as haddock, 56 percent of the product labeled as flounder or sole, and 51 percent of the product labeled as red snapper were not the species claimed on the label. While these data cannot be regarded as representative of industry-wide misbranding practices because the testing was not random, the results indicate a remarkably high incidence of species substitution. Moreover, these findings are consistent with other surveys (Ref. 35, p. 45). For example, a survey conducted in Florida to determine the extent of retail species substitution in the case of red snapper found that 64 percent of the fish fillets labeled for retail sale as red snapper were misbranded (Ref. 125). The prevalence of misbranding just this one desirable species is underscored by the observation: ``If all of the red snapper sold in the United States were genuine, the seas would long since have been swept absolutely clean of this species'' (Ref. 126, p. 41). While most States' regulations follow FDA nomenclature policy and regulations, misbranding practices are exacerbated by the failure of some States to require these common names for some species sold within the State. Red snapper again provides a case study in the extent of variation in acceptable nomenclature allowed for a species. Although not permitted when sold in interstate commerce, California regulations allow 12 species of rockfish to be labeled as ``Pacific red snapper'' within the State. Similarly, Oregon and Washington regulations also allow rockfish to be called ``snapper'' (Ref. 126, p. 305). Moreover, an even greater variety of imported species may be misrepresented as ``red snapper.''
