FR941004-2-00128 FR941004-2-00073 It is well established that these factors are to be considered in the disjunctive, i.e., the Deputy Administrator may properly rely on any one or a combination of factors, and give each factor the weight he deems appropriate. Henry J. Schwarz, Jr., M.D., 54 FR 16422 (1989). Of the stated factors, the administrative law judge found that there is little if any evidence that the Respondent failed to comply with applicable State and local law, or was convicted under Federal or State law, or developed new substances or promoted technical advances. Accordingly, Judge Bittner determined that the first, fifth and sixth factors are relevant to the proceeding. Under the first and fifth factors, the administrative law judge found that Respondent's past practices with respect to recordkeeping, reporting, and security are clearly relevant. With respect to the sixth factor, the administrative law judge found that Respondent's history of noncompliance with FDA regulations was relevant to the public health and safety. Judge Bittner found that for a number of years, Respondent's compliance with DEA and FDA regulations ranged from poor to abysmal, eventually culminating in seizure of its drug products by both the FDA and DEA. Furthermore, she found that Dr. Bhutani was less than responsive to the regulatory concerns, and tended to hold others responsible for Respondent's failures and to minimize the seriousness of the deficiencies. Judge Bittner concluded that there was a legitimate basis for the Deputy Administrator to find that the registration of the Respondent as a manufacturer of Schedule III through V controlled substances would be inconsistent with the public interest. However, the administrative law judge recommended, ``admittedly with some reservations'', that the Respondent's application be granted because the Respondent has undertaken measures to improve its physical security, standard operating procedures, recordkeeping and reporting, and that Dr. Bhutani recognized that compliance with FDA and DEA requirements was mandatory for continued business operation. The Deputy Administrator adopts the opinion and recommended ruling, findings of fact, conclusions of law and decision of administrative law judge, except as noted below. The Deputy Administrator finds that with respect to the first and fifth factors, Respondent has failed to maintain proper records and submit reports, failed to ensure that its facility has proper security and that it was properly registered with the DEA as a manufacturer, and illegally possessed and distributed controlled substances. The Deputy Administrator further finds with respect to the sixth factor that Respondent has a lengthy history of violations of the FD&C GMP regulations related to its activities as a manufacturer of controlled substances. A manufacturer is at the apex of the legitimate controlled substance distribution system, often producing large quantities of the most dangerous drugs of abuse, and making these controlled substances widely available to hundreds of thousands of registered controlled substance handlers for ultimate dispensing to patients. A registrant conducting the business activities of a manufacturer bears some of the heaviest responsibilities under the regulatory scheme of the CSA. Respondent, in its capacity as a manufacturer, has twice been the subject of seizures of its product: once by FDA for its adulteration of drugs, and once by DEA for illegal possession and distribution of controlled substances. The Deputy Administrator finds that Respondent's President and founder, Dr. Bhutani, has not taken his controlled substance responsibilities seriously; has shown a history and pattern of noncompliance with Federal laws and regulations pertaining to controlled and non-controlled substances; has minimized the importance of compliance with these laws and regulations; and has, throughout the years and in the instant proceedings, been less than wholly responsive, candid, and forthright, thereby failing to evidence the type of direction and leadership to be expected of a manufacturer under the CSA. The Deputy Administrator concludes that Respondent has not shown the commitment to compliance required of a DEA registrant, that its registration as a manufacturer of controlled substances would not be in the public interest, and that its application for registration should be denied. Accordingly, the Deputy Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, pursuant to the authority vested in him by 21 U.S.C. 823 and 824 and 28 CFR 0.100(b) and 0.104 (59 FR 23637), hereby orders that the application for registration of Alra Laboratories, Inc., be, and it hereby is, denied. This order is effective on October 4, 1994. Dated: September 27, 1994. Stephen H. Green, Deputy Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24405 Filed 10&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;09&hyph;M
