FR940630-1-00004 FR940630-1-00001 Section 708.102(d) This section has been modified by adding the term ``institution'' to clarify that NCUSIF insurance terminates for all nonNCUSIF-insured financial institutions member accounts as of the effective date of the merger. Section 708.108 (a) and (b) These sections have been modified by adding the term ``institution'' and substituting ``affected supervisory authority'' for ``state supervisory authority'' to clarify that all financial institutions must certify the completion of the merger to the Regional Director. Section 708.203 (a), (b), (c) and (d) These sections have been modified by adding the term ``institution'' to clarify that this regulation applies to additional methods whereby federally-insured state chartered credit unions and federal credit unions might consider converting to nonNCUSIF insurance. Section 708.204(a) This section has been modified by substituting the term ``nonNCUSIF'' for ``nonfederal'' to clarify that the notice requirements apply to conversions to all institutions. Section 708.303 This section has been modified by deleting the reference to subparagraph (a) and inserting as a new second sentence, ``Proposed notices or ballots concerning mergers or conversions to institutions will be made with the approval of the Board and, in the case of a state credit union, the appropriate state authority.'' Regulatory Procedures Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act requires the NCUA to prepare an analysis to describe any significant economic impact any regulation may have on a potential number of small credit unions (primarily those under $1 million in assets). Preliminary analysis concerning the effect the proposed rule will have on small credit unions indicates that no significant economic impact will result if the rule is promulgated by the NCUA Board. The proposed rule merely clarifies statutory authority. Therefore, the NCUA Board has determined and certifies under the authority granted in 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that the proposed rule, if adopted, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small credit unions. Accordingly, the NCUA Board has determined that a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Paperwork Reduction Act These amendments do not change the paperwork requirements. Executive Order 12612 Executive Order 12612 requires NCUA to consider the effect of its actions on state interests. The proposed regulation applies to all federally insured credit unions. However, it makes no substantive changes but merely clarifies existing requirements. The Federal Credit Union Act gave the NCUA the authority to approve all insured credit union mergers or consolidations with ``institutions.'' 12 U.S.C. 1785(b)(1)(A). The NCUA Office of General Counsel has also issued several public opinion letters consistent with these clarifications. These letters are available on request to the NCUA Public and Congressional Affairs Office. The NCUA Board has determined that this amendment is not likely to have any direct effect on states, on the relationship between the states, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. List of Subjects in 12 CFR Part 708 Back deposit insurance, Credit Unions and Reporting and record keeping requirements. By the National Credit Union Administration Board on June 23, 1994. Becky Baker, Secretary to the Board. Accordingly, NCUA proposes to amend 12 CFR part 708 as follows:
