FR940524-1-00011 FR940524-1-00005 GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION 41 CFR Part 101&hyph;6 Fire Protection Engineering AGENCY: Public Buildings Service (PBS), GSA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The General Services Administration is proposing a regulation to further define the term equivalent level of safety. The Federal Fire Safety Act of 1992 amended the Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 to require sprinklers or an equivalent level of safety, in certain types of Federal Employee office buildings, Federal employee housing units, and Federally assisted housing units. This regulation establishes certain criteria which alternative approaches must satisfy to be judged equivalent. These criteria have been selected to provide the level of life safety prescribed in the Act. DATES: To assure consideration, comments must be received at the address, as provided below, no later than 5 p.m. on June 20, 1994. ADDRESSES: Mail comments to the following address: General Services Administration, Safety and Environmental Management Division (PMS), Federal Fire Safety Act Comments, 18th & F Streets, NW., Washington, DC 20405. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Donald G. Bathurst, (202) 501&hyph;1271. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. General Requirements of the Act The Fire Administration Authorization Act of 1992 (Public Law 102&hyph;522) was signed into law by the President on October 26, 1992. Section 106, Fire Safety Systems in Federally Assisted Buildings, of Title I_United States Fire Administration, is commonly referred to as the Federal Fire Safety Act of 1992. This section amends the Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2201 et seq.) to require sprinklers or an equivalent level of safety, in certain types of Federal Employee office buildings, Federal employee housing units, and Federally assisted housing units. The Act's applicability and requirements are very complex. They are summarized as follows: In Federal employee office buildings with more than 25 Federal employees that are newly constructed, purchased, renovated, or leased (with the Government occupying 35,000 sq. ft. or more and some portion on or above the sixth floor): •Buildings with 6 or more stories must have sprinklers (or an equivalent level of safety ) throughout. •All other buildings must have sprinklers (or an equivalent level of safety ) in hazardous areas. In Federal employee housing: •New or rebuilt multifamily housing must have sprinklers (or an equivalent level of safety ) throughout, and hard wired smoke detectors. •All other housing requires hard wired smoke detectors on tenant change or no later than October 26, 1995. In Federally assisted housing: •New multifamily housing, 4 or more stories above ground level, must have sprinklers and hard wired smoke detectors. •New multifamily housing in New York City, 4 or more stories above ground level, must have sprinklers (or an equivalent level of safety ) and hard wired smoke detectors. •Rebuilt multifamily property, 4 or more stories above ground level, must comply with the chapter on existing apartment buildings in National Fire Protection Association Standard 101, Life Safety Code ® . •All other housing must have hard wired or battery operated smoke detectors. The requirements of the Act apply to all Federal agencies and all Federally owned and leased buildings in the United States, except those of the Postal Service and those under the control of the Resolution Trust Corporation. In addition, there are a number of definitions associated with the Act. The major definitions are summarized below: •Federal Employee Office Building means any building, owned or leased by the Federal Government, that can be expected to house at least 25 Federal employees in the course of their employment. • Renovated means the repairing or reconstructing of 50 percent or more of the current value of a Federal employee office building, not including the land on which the Federal employee office building is located. • Rebuilding means the repairing or reconstructing of portions of a multifamily property where the cost of the alterations is 70 percent or more of the replacement cost of the completed multifamily property, not including the land on which the Federal employee office building is located. • Multifamily property means a residential building consisting of more than 2 residential units under one roof housing Federal employees or their dependents or a residential building consisting of more than 4 residential units under one roof housing other persons.
