FR940119-1-00014 FR940119-1-00005 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Defense Logistics Agency 32 CFR Part 323 [Defense Logistics Agency Reg. 5400.21] Defense Logistics Agency Privacy Program AGENCY: Defense Logistics Agency, DOD. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Defense Logistics Agency proposes to exempt an existing system of records, S255.01 DLA-GC, entitled Fraud and Irregularities, from certain provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974. The exemptions are intended to increase the value of the system of records for law enforcement purposes, to comply with prohibitions against the disclosure of certain kinds of information, and to protect the privacy of individuals identified in the system of records. The notice was previously published on November 16, 1993, at 58 FR 60428. DATES: Comments must be received no later than February 18, 1994, to be considered by the agency. ADDRESSES: Send comments to the Privacy Act Officer, Administrative Management Division, Office of Planning and Resource Management, Defense Logistics Agency Administrative Support Center, Room 5A120, Cameron Station, Alexandria, VA 22304&hyph;6100. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Susan Salus at (703) 617&hyph;7583. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Executive Order 12866 . The Director, Administration and Management, Office of the Secretary of Defense has determined that this Privacy Act rule for the Department of Defense does not constitute `significant regulatory action'. Analysis of the rule indicates that it does not have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more; does not create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; does not materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; does not raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in Executive Order 12866 (1993). Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980. The Director, Administration and Management, Office of the Secretary of Defense certifies that this Privacy Act rule for the Department of Defense does not have significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because it is concerned only with the administration of Privacy Act systems of records within the Department of Defense. Paperwork Reduction Act. The Director, Administration and Management, Office of the Secretary of Defense certifies that this Privacy Act rule for the Department of Defense imposes no information requirements beyond the Department of Defense and that the information collected within the Department of Defense is necessary and consistent with 5 U.S.C. 552a, known as the Privacy Act of 1974. This proposed rule would add two exemptions to an existing DLA system of records. DLA performs as one of its principal functions investigations into and enforcement actions concerned with violations of civil and administrative law, fraud, or antitrust rules relating to DLA procurement, property disposal, contract administration, or other DLA activities. The proposal to add the (k)(2) and (k)(5) exemptions reflects recognition that certain records in the system may be deemed to require protection from disclosure in order to protect confidential sources mentioned in the files and avoid compromising, impeding, or interfering with investigative and enforcement proceedings. The system would thus be exempt from sections 552a(c)(3), (d)(1) through (d)(4), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f) as well as corresponding DLA and DoD Regulations. The Director proposes to adopt the exemptions for the above reasons. List of subjects in 32 CFR part 323 Privacy. Accordingly, the Defense Logistics Agency proposes to amend 32 CFR part 323 as follows: 1. The authority citation for 32 CFR part 323 continues to read as follows: Authority: Pub. L. 93&hyph;579, 88 Stat 1896 (5 U.S.C. 552a). 2. Appendix H to part 323 is amended by adding paragraph c. * * * * * Appendix H to Part 323&hyph;DLA Exemption Rules * * * c. ID: S100.50 DLA-GC (Specific exemption). 1. System name: Fraud and Irregularities. 2. Exemption: This system of records is exempt from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3), (d)(1) through (4), (e)(1), (e)(4)(G), (H), and (I), and (f). 3. Authorities: 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) and (k)(5). 4. Reasons: From subsection (c)(3) because granting access to the accounting for each disclosure as required by the Privacy Act, including the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure and the identity of the recipient, could alert the subject to the existence of the investigation or prosecutive interest by DLA or other agencies. This could seriously compromise case preparation by prematurely revealing its existence and nature; compromise or interfere with witnesses or make witnesses reluctant to cooperate; and lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence. From subsections (d)(1) through (d)(4) and (f) because providing access to records of a civil investigation and the right to contest the contents of those records and force changes to be made to the information contained therein would seriously interfere with and thwart the orderly and unbiased conduct of the investigation and impede case preparation. Providing access rights normally afforded under the Privacy Act would provide the subject with valuable information that would allow interference with or compromise of witnesses or render witnesses reluctant to cooperate; lead to suppression, alteration, or destruction of evidence; and result in the secreting of or other disposition of assets that would make them difficult or impossible to reach in order to satisfy any Government claim growing out of the investigation or proceeding. From subsection (e)(1) because it is not always possible to detect the relevance or necessity of each piece of information in the early stages of an investigation. In some cases, it is only after the information is evaluated in light of other evidence that its relevance and necessity will be clear. From subsections (e)(4) (G) and (H) because there is no necessity for such publication since the system of records will be exempt from the underlying duties to provide notification about and access to information in the system and to make amendments to and corrections of the information in the system. From subsection (e)(4)(I) because to the extent that this provision is construed to require more detailed disclosure than the broad, generic information currently published in the system notice, an exemption from this provision is necessary to protect the confidentiality of sources of information and to protect privacy and physical safety of witnesses and informants. DLA will, nevertheless, continue to publish such a notice in broad generic terms as is its current practice. Dated: December 23, 1993. L. M. Bynum, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1187 Filed 01&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;F
