FR941019-0-00059 FR941019-0-00008 Second, as suggested by several commenters, the Commission has deleted the definition of ``distributor.'' 13 This definition was intended to identify persons involved in distributing fund shares for purposes of other disclosure items that are designed to elicit disclosure about relationships between fund directors (who vote on Rule 12b&hyph;1 Plans) and persons involved in distributing fund shares that could involve conflicts of interest. Commenters argued that, because many persons or firms may provide distribution services to a fund, the definition would likely result in the disclosure of large amounts of information much of which would be immaterial because many of the persons involved have a minor role in the distribution of fund shares. The Commission has eliminated the definition and has modified the disclosure concerning Rule 12b&hyph;1 Plans to require information concerning only those persons receiving significant payments from the fund for distribution services. 14 13 Proposed item 22(a)(1)(iv) defined ``distributor'' as any person or persons who either wholly or in part assist in the distribution of a fund's shares, including, without limitation, a fund's principal underwriter, investment adviser, manager, sponsor, administrator, and other entities performing similar functions. 14 See infra section I.F. 3. Comparative Fee Table As proposed, item 22(a) would require fund proxy statements seeking approval of proposals that would increase fees or expenses, directly or indirectly, to include a comparative fee table showing the amount of fees and expenses currently paid by fund shareholders and the amount of fees and expenses shareholders would have paid if the matter being voted on had been in effect. Some commenters suggested that the fee table requirement be combined with a materiality limitation, either for indirect fee increases or for increases in any fees, direct or indirect. The Commission believes that shareholders should see the effects of any increases in fees. Moreover, limiting the requirement to material increases in fees would necessarily introduce more variability, and possibly uncertainty, into a determination of when the requirement is applicable. Therefore, the Commission is adopting the fee table requirement as proposed. 15 15 Subparagraph (a)(3)(iv) of item 22. The comparative fee table would be required if any of the fee categories in the fee table would be increased ( i.e., Management Fees, 12b&hyph;1 Fees, Other Expenses) regardless of whether total expenses would be increased, but would not be required if a proposal's effect on expenses is speculative. A sample fee table is attached as an appendix to this release. The Commission also proposed to amend Form N&hyph;14, the form used by funds to register securities issued in certain investment company merger transactions, to require a comparative fee table for the combined fund. Commenters supported the addition of the comparative fee table to Form N&hyph;14, and the Commission is adopting the amendments as proposed. Paragraph (a) of item 3 of Form N&hyph;14. 4. Voting Results As proposed, item 22(a) would include a requirement that a fund state in the proxy statement whether it intends to inform shareholders of the voting results in a shareholder report or other document transmitted to shareholders. Some commenters had reservations about the voting results statement because, among other things, their experience did not suggest that shareholders had a significant interest in the information. In addition, commenters objected to a requirement for a negative statement if the fund does not plan to provide voting results in a subsequent shareholder report. In lieu of the proposed disclosure requirement, the Commission is adopting an express requirement that funds report voting results in the fund's next annual or semi-annual report. The Commission is amending rule 30d&hyph;1 to require a report of voting results in the annual or semi-annual report to shareholders. The Commission believes that this approach will assure that voting result information is available to shareholders and eliminate any necessity for funds to make a negative statement regarding the availability of voting results in proxy statements.
