FR941202-2-00163 FR941202-2-00098 1.6␣Structure of the Accreditation Requirements The structure of the NELAP shall be based on the field of testing (see Figure 1&hyph;3). It shall consist of a set of general requirements that all applicants must satisfy. Applicants for a particular field of testing must also meet the necessary number of additional levels of specific requirements or functions that are linked to the general requirements. The number and the degree of difficulty of the required additional levels shall depend on the complexity of the test procedures in question. It is proposed that the different fields of laboratory testing be structured into groupings based on parameter, group of parameters, or method. In addition, a category of supplemental accreditation will be designated. A ``supplemental'' accreditation means accreditation of a laboratory which has met additional methods or parameters required by a state accrediting authority. ``Supplemental'' accreditation shall be needed only for those few methods and/or parameters which are unique to a particular state. These supplemental requirements shall be limited in number and scope. 1.6.1␣General Requirements The general requirements are applicable to all applicants regardless of their size, volume of business, or field of testing. The organizational structure, or procedures used by applicant organizations to meet these general requirements may differ as a function of size or scope of testing of an organization. The general requirements shall include all the elements outlined in General Requirements for the Competence of Calibration and Testing Laboratories, ISO/IEC Guide 25: 1990 (E). General requirements shall include Health and Safety, and Waste Management Programs. Applicant organizations shall be required to be in compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local rules and regulations covering environmental, and occupational health and safety. Responsibility for the evaluation of compliance with these rules and regulations shall remain with the appropriate regulatory body. The relevant elements listed in the document are as follows: 1.6.1.1␣Organization and Management The organization shall be legally identifiable; the organization shall have managerial staff with the authority and resources needed to discharge their duties; this includes technical management with overall responsibility for the technical operations, and quality management with responsibility for the quality system and its implementation. 1.6.1.2␣Quality System, Audit and Review The organization shall establish and maintain a quality system appropriate to the type, range and volume of calibration and testing activities it undertakes; the quality manual, and related quality documentation, shall state the organization's policies and operational procedures; the organization shall arrange for audits of its activities at appropriate intervals to verify that its operations continue to comply with the requirements of the quality system. 1.6.1.3␣Personnel The organization shall have sufficient personnel, having the necessary education, training, technical knowledge and experience for their assigned functions. 1.6.1.4␣Accommodation and Environment Organization facilities shall have suitable space, energy sources, lighting, heating and ventilation for proper performance of calibrations or tests. 1.6.1.5␣Equipment and Reference Materials The organization shall be furnished with all items of equipment (including reference materials) required for the correct performance of calibrations and tests. 1.6.1.6␣Measurement Traceability and Calibration
