FR940819-1-00004 FR940819-1-00001 The Department of Agriculture is committed to carrying out its statutory and regulatory mandates in a manner that best serves the public interest. Therefore, where legal discretion permits, the Department actively seeks to promulgate regulations that promote economic growth, create jobs, are minimally burdensome and are easy for the public to understand, use or comply with. In short, the Department is committed to issuing regulations that maximize the net benefits to society and minimize costs imposed by those regulations. The Department has developed and reviewed this regulatory proposal in accordance with these principles. Nonetheless, the Department believes that public input from all interested persons can be invaluable to ensuring that the final regulatory product is minimally burdensome and maximally efficient. Therefore, the Department specifically seeks comments and suggestions from the public regarding any less burdensome or more efficient alternative that would accomplish the purposes described in the proposal. Comments suggesting less burdensome or more efficient alternatives should be addressed to the agency as provided in this proposal. Discussion FmHA stands alone as the only Federal Agency that requires approval of a complete subdivision prior to insuring or guaranteeing a loan for a home within the subdivision. Developers, builders, realtors and applicants for the programs have frequently complained that there is too much ``red tape'' before an eligible applicant can receive an FmHA loan within a well developed subdivision. Most counties and communities now have adequate subdivision reviews, and FmHA's subdivision approval is not needed to assure quality sites but is duplication of efforts. This action permits the better use of existing developments and decreases the environmental impact because not as many new developments will be needed to meet the demand for lots that will meet the Agency's requirements. It fits into existing growth patterns and places more authority with the local people. FmHA is committed to quality sites for its programs and therefore, proposes close scrutiny of the site. The new site criteria incorporates many of the prior subdivision requirements and makes them part of the site underwriting criteria. This action provides for better sites, without requiring the cumbersome subdivision review and approval process. It also provides the loan applicant with assurance of a quality water supply and property served by publicly owned and maintained roads. The proposal provides for an orderly request for review and systematic process of reviewing the site. This proposed regulation omits the detailed internal agency administrative instruction used by the field offices to administer the program. In the past, FmHA program regulations and FmHA Instructions have been identical. The Agency has adopted a policy of publishing regulations which set forth anything which confers a benefit or imposes an obligation on the public or which is necessary for the public to understand their responsibilities. The Agency does not intend to publish a regulation that omits or evades issues which are subject to public comment or would be of interest to the public. Any substantive changes in the regulation will continue to be published in the Federal Register . Each FmHA field office has a copy of the FmHA Instruction and a copy is available upon request to FmHA. Conforming changes will be made in other FmHA regulations at the final rule stage. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 1924 Housing standards, Low and moderate income housing, Rural areas. Therefore, as proposed, Chapter XVIII, Title 7, Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 1924_CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR 1. The authority citation for part 1924 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480; 5 U.S.C. 301; 7 CFR 2.23; 7 CFR 2.70. Subpart C_Planning and Performing Site Development Work 2. Sections 1924.101 through 1924.150 of Subpart C of part 1924, are revised and exhibit A is removed to read as follows: PART 1924_CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR Subpart C_Planning and Performing Site Development Work
