FR941213-1-00004 FR941213-1-00001 9. The scope and frequency of external audits of the foreign bank; 10. The operating record of the foreign bank generally and its role in the banking system in its home country; 11. The foreign bank's record of compliance with relevant laws, as well as the adequacy of its money laundering controls and procedures, in respect of its worldwide operations; 12. The operating record of the U.S. offices of the foreign bank and any affiliates; 13. The views and recommendations of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (``OCC'') or the relevant state banking regulator regarding the U.S. offices of the foreign bank; 14. Whether the foreign bank, if requested, has provided the Board with adequate assurances that such information will be made available on the operations or activities of the foreign bank and any of its affiliates as the Board deems necessary to determine and enforce compliance with the IBA, the BHC Act, and other applicable federal banking statutes; and 15. Any other information relevant to the safety and soundness of the U.S. operations of the foreign bank. These criteria address factors relating both to the operations of the foreign bank as a whole and to its U.S. operations in particular. Evaluations of both of these facets of a foreign bank's operations are necessary in order to determine whether the bank's U.S. operations should be permitted to continue and, if so, whether these operations should be subject to supervisory constraints. As subsection (c) of proposed ยง211.30 of Regulation K provides, any foreign bank that the Board determines is not subject to comprehensive, consolidated supervision may be required to enter into an agreement to conduct its U.S. operations subject to such restrictions as the Board, having taken into account the criteria, determines to be appropriate in order to assure the safety and soundness of the bank's U.S. operations. Where appropriate, such an agreement could require a suitable degree of insulation between the foreign bank's U.S. operations and its operations (or those of its affiliates) in other countries. For example, one means of accomplishing this would be to require the bank to conduct its U.S. banking operations in a ``net due to'' position vis-a-vis the rest of the organization. Other restraints also could be imposed where appropriate ( e.g., restricting transactions with other parts of the organization or requiring that international transactions of the U.S. offices be conducted through a correspondent acceptable to the Board). Prior to imposing such restrictions, the Board will consult with the OCC or the appropriate state banking authority. If any requirements imposed in such an agreement were not adhered to, the U.S. banking operations of the foreign bank would be subject to further enforcement action, including issuance of an order terminating the activities of the U.S. offices or transmittal of a recommendation to the OCC for such termination, as appropriate in the circumstances. Request for Comment The Board believes that the proposed criteria will be sufficient to evaluate the safety and soundness of the U.S. operations of a foreign bank, to determine whether its U.S. operations should be permitted to continue in the absence of comprehensive, consolidated supervision by the home country authority, and, if so, on what basis. At the same time, the Board does not wish to impact unduly the existing operations of foreign banks, the vast majority of which are operated in a safe and sound manner by banks that are subject to a significant degree of supervision by their home country authorities. The Board, therefore, considers it to be appropriate, in developing the proposed criteria, to take into account the panoply of tools available to the Board and other banking regulators to regulate the operations of foreign banks that are not yet subject to full consolidated supervision, which fall short of the ultimate sanction of termination of their U.S. operations. As required by the Act, the Board has consulted with the Treasury in the development of the proposed criteria and the Treasury has agreed that the criteria may be published for comment. Further consultation will take place with the Treasury following the analysis by both agencies of the comments received. The Board requests comment on all aspects of the proposed criteria. Paperwork Reduction Act No collections of information pursuant to section 3504(h) of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ) are contained in the proposed rule.
