FR941117-1-00027 FR941117-1-00004 Also, there currently are many facilities that are not psychiatric hospitals that are currently providing these services under existing Medicaid regulations. It is not clear if their costs are higher than the proposed residential treatment facilities. It is also unclear how many of them will be able to qualify under the new regulations, and what this will do to the supply of care and its cost. In any event, it does not appear that more eligible individuals will come into the program because of this regulation. Currently, there are approximately 42,000 recipients of services under this category. As for the implementation of requirements for comprehensive programs and coordination of State authorities concerned with provision of mental health services, as well as the requirements for coordinated plans of care, they will probably increase administrative costs somewhat, but will reduce program costs by ensuring that the most appropriate and efficient form of care is utilized. The magnitude of these costs and savings is difficult to determine but probably is negligible, given the number of recipients involved. For these reasons, we are not preparing analyses for either the RFA or section 1102(b) of the Act since we have determined, and the Secretary certifies, that this proposed rule would not result in a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities and would not have a significant impact on the operations of a substantial number of small rural hospitals. In accordance with the provisions of Executive Order 12866, this proposed regulation was not reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. List of Subjects 42 CFR Part 440 Grant programs_health, Medicaid. 42 CFR Part 441 Family planning, Grant programs_health, Infants and children, Medicaid, Penalties, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 42 CFR Part 447 Standards for payment. 42 CFR Part 483 Requirements for States and long term care facilities. 42 CFR chapter IV would be amended as set forth below: PART 440_SERVICES: GENERAL PROVISIONS A. Part 440 is amended as follows: 1. The authority citation for part 440 continues to read as follows:
