FR940505-2-00076 FR940505-2-00051 Availability of a Draft Revised Recovery Plan for the Masked Bobwhite Quail for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability and public comment period. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability for public review of a draft recovery plan for the masked bobwhite quail ( Colinus virginianus ridgwayi ) which the Service listed as an endangered species on March 11, 1967 (32 FR 4001). Four populations are known to exist in the wild: Three in Mexico and one on the Buenos Aires National Wildlife Refuge in the United States. The total wild population is believed to be less than 1,500 birds. Historic accounts and collections indicate this subtropical subspecies has always been restricted to level plains and river valleys in Sonora, Mexico and extreme south-central Arizona in the United States. The Service solicits review and comments from the public on this draft plan. DATES: Comments on the draft recovery plan must be received on or before July 5, 1994 to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contacting the Refuge Manager, Buenos Aires National Wildlife Refuge P.O. Box 109, Sasabe, Arizona 85633. Written comments and materials regarding the plan should be addressed to the Field Supervisor at the above address. Comments and materials received are available on request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. William (Bill) Kuvlesky, Jr., U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Biologist, telephone (602) 823&hyph;4251 or at the above address. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring an endangered or threatened plant or animal to the point where it is again a secure, self-sustaining member of its ecosystem is a primary goal of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe site specific management actions considered necessary for conservation and survival of the species, establish objective, measurable criteria for the recovery levels for downlisting or delisting species, and estimate time and cost for implementing recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) requires development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan development. The Service will consider all information presented during a public comment period prior to approval of each new or revised recovery plan. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comments into account in the course of implementing approved recovery plans. Habitat of the masked bobwhite quail ( Colinus virginianus ridgwayi ) is open savanna grassland within dry-tropic scrub. Occupied habitat is further restricted to elevations ranging between 10 and 1,200 meters where mean rainfall ranges from 250 to over 500 millimeters. The birds are associated with weedy bottomlands, grassy and herb-strewn valleys, and forb-rich plains. This habitat type has declined drastically as a result of overgrazing by livestock and periods of severe drought. The recovery plan addresses populations that remain in Mexico and steps being taken in the United States to reintroduce the species to areas once occupied in the state of Arizona. Although the goal is to recover the species to the level where delisting can occur, the recovery plan emphasizes short term actions deemed necessary to stabilize the species in the wild and prevent the species, extinction. The plan will be finalized and approved following incorporation of comments and materials received during this comment period. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the recovery plan described. All comments received by the date specified above will be considered prior to the plan's approval. Authority The Authority for this action is section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1533(f). Dated: April 28, 1994. Lynn B. Starnes, Acting Regional Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10781 Filed 5&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
