FR940405-0-00011 FR940405-0-00002 (h) (1) Debts shall be collected by offset in the following order of priority without regard to the date of the request for such collection: (i) Debts to ASCS. (ii) Debts to other agencies of USDA as determined by ASCS. (iii) Debts to other government agencies as determined by ASCS. (2) In the case of multiple debts involving the same debtor, ASCS may, at its discretion, deviate from the usual order of priority in applying recovered amounts to debts owed other agencies when considered to be in the Government's best interest. Such decision shall be made by ASCS based on the facts and circumstances of the particular case. (i) Amounts recovered by offset for ASCS and CCC debts but later found not to be owed to the Government shall be promptly refunded. (j) The debtor shall be notified whenever any offset action has been taken. (k) Offsets made pursuant to this section shall not deprive a debtor of any right he or she might otherwise have to contest the debt involved in the offset action either by administrative appeal or by legal action. (l) Any action authorized by the provisions of this section may be taken against amounts payable to a debtor who operates under more than one name, provided there is identical ownership, or ASCS determines that the debtor has established an entity for the purpose of avoiding the payment of the claim or debt. (m) The amount to be offset shall not exceed the actual or estimated amount of the debt, including interest, administrative charges, and penalties, unless the Department of Justice requests that a larger specified amount be offset. (n) Offset action will not be taken against payments when: (1) A debt has been discharged as provided in ยง792.16. (2) ASCS determines such action will unduly interfere with the administration of an ASCS or CCC program. (3) The debt has been delinquent for more than ten years or legal action to enforce the debt due ASCS is barred by an applicable period of limitation, whichever is later. ยง792.8 Priorities of offsets versus assignments. (a) No amounts payable to a debtor by ASCS shall be paid to an assignee until there have been collected any amounts owed by the debtor except as provided in this section. (b) A payment which is assigned in accordance with part 1404 of this title by execution of Form CCC&hyph;36 shall be subject to offset for any debt owed to ASCS or CCC or any judgment in favor of the United States without regard to the date notice of assignment was accepted by ASCS or CCC. (c) A payment which is assigned in accordance with part 1404 of this title by execution of Form CCC&hyph;252 shall be offset: (1) Against any debt of the assignor entered on the debt record of the applicable ASCS office prior to the filing of such form with ASCS or CCC, or (2) At anytime, regardless of the date of filing of such form with ASCS or CCC, if the debt which is the basis for the offset arises from a judgment in favor of the United States, or under the same contract under which the payment is earned by the assignor. (d) With respect to all other Federal agencies, offset shall be made of any amounts due any other Federal agency which have not been reduced to judgment, and which are entered on the debt record of the appropriate ASCS office prior to the date the notice of assignment was accepted by ASCS or CCC. (e) Any amount due and payable to the assignor which remains after deduction of amounts paid to the assignee shall be available for offset. ยง792.9 Withholding. (a) Withholding of a payment prior to the completion of an applicable offset procedure may be made from amounts payable to a debtor by ASCS to ensure that the interests of ASCS and the United States will be protected as provided in this section. (b) A payment may be withheld to protect the interests of ASCS or the United States only if ASCS determines that: (1) There has been a serious breach of contract or violation of program requirements and the withholding action is considered necessary to protect the financial interests of ASCS; (2) There is substantial evidence of violations of criminal or civil frauds statutes and criminal prosecution or civil frauds action is of primary importance to program operations of ASCS; (3) Prior experience with the debtor indicates that collection will be difficult if amounts payable to the debtor are not withheld; (4) There is doubt that the debtor will be financially able to pay a judgment on the claim of ASCS; (5) The facts available to ASCS are insufficient to determine the amount to be offset or the proper payee;
