FR940302-2-00019 FR940302-2-00008 For both Toray and Teijin, in order to simplify analysis, we decided to test the home markets sales to determine whether we could use annual FMVs as a basis of comparison to U.S. sales. To determine whether a period of review (POR) weighted-average price was representative of the transactions under consideration we performed a three-step test. We first compared the monthly weighted-average home market price for each model with the weighted-average POR price of that model. We calculated the proportion of each model's sales whose POR weighted-average price did not vary more than plus or minus ten percent from the monthly weighted-average prices. We did this test for each model. We then compared the volume of sales of all models of whose POR weighted-average price did not vary more than plus or minus ten percent from the monthly weighted-average price from the total volume of sales. If the POR weighted-average price of at least 90 percent of sales did not vary more than plus or minus ten percent from the monthly weighted-average price, we consider the POR weighted-average price to be representative of the sales under consideration. Finally, we tested whether there was any correlation between fluctuations in price and time for each model. Where the correlation was less than 0.05 (where a coefficient approaching 1.0 indicates a direct relationship between price and time), we concluded that there was no significant relationship between price and time. Since home market prices of both companies passed all of these tests we used annual FMV's as a basis of comparison for both companies. Preliminary Results of the Review As a result of this review, we preliminarily determine that the following margins exist for the period November 30, 1990, through May 31, 1992: ␣ 1Manufacturer/producer/exporter 1Margin (percent) Toray 4.76 Diafoil 14.00 Teijin 5.73 Case briefs and/or written comments from interested parties may be submitted no later than 30 days after the date of publication of this notice. Rebuttal briefs and rebuttals to written comments, limited to issues raised in the case briefs and comments, may be filed not later than 37 days after the date of publication of this notice. Within 10 days of the date of publication of this notice, interested parties to this proceeding may request a disclosure and/or a hearing. The hearing, if requested, will take place not later than 44 days after publication of this notice. Persons interested in attending the hearing should contact the Department for the date and time of the hearing. The Department will subsequently publish the final results of this administrative review, including the results of its analysis of issues raised in any such written comments or a hearing. The Department shall determine, and the Customs Service shall assess, antidumping duties on all appropriate entries. Individual differences between United States price and foreign market value may vary from the percentages stated above. The Department will issue appropriate appraisement instructions directly to the Customs Service upon completion of this review. Furthermore, the following deposit requirements will be effective upon publication of our final results of review for all shipments of the subject merchandise entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after that publication date of the final results of this administrative review, as provided by section 751(a)(1) of the Tariff Act: (1) The cash deposit rate for the reviewed companies will be those rates established in the final results of this review; (2) The cash deposit rate for subject merchandise exported by manufacturers or exporters not covered in this review but covered in previous reviews or in the original LTFV investigation will be based upon the most recently published rate in a final result or determination for which the manufacturer or exporter received a company-specific rate;
