FR940304-2-00162 FR940304-2-00084 Before releasing data to third parties that perform a regulatory or oversight function related to the government securities market, GSCC must determine, and the Membership and Standards committee of the Board of Directors of GSCC must concur, that the following five conditions have been met. The requesting party must show a legitimate need for such data related to its market regulatory or oversight function. The data released by GSCC will be used solely for market regulatory or oversight purposes. The requesting party must make the request in writing and with sufficient specificity. With respect to member specific data, the member must be notified of the request and be given the opportunity to present GSCC with any objections to the release of data. 7 Finally, with respect to member specific data, the requesting party must show that it unsuccessfully attempted to obtain the data directly from the member. 8 7 This prerequisite does not apply if valid legal process prohibits GSCC from informing the member of the request for data. 8 This prerequisite does not apply if valid legal process prohibits GSCC from informing the member of the request for data. III. Discussion Section 17A(b)(3)(F) of the Act 9 requires that the rules of a clearing agency be designed to protect investors and the public interest. The proposed rule change serves this goal by enhancing the surveillance of the government securities market. 9 15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(F) (1988). As discussed in the Joint Report on Government Securities (``Joint Report''), 10 adequate surveillance of the government securities market is necessary to detect manipulation and address disorderly market conditions. In order to provide coordinated surveillance, the FRBNY was selected to collect and analyze a range of market data, which is transmitted promptly to the Federal Reserve Board, the Treasury, and the Commission. The FRBNY collects information from a variety of sources, including automated systems operated by vendors, daily telephone surveys of primary dealer operations, and weekly and daily reports of dealers. Their efforts provide additional safeguards to the government securities market. In addition, other government organizations have had the need to study the government securities market in order to evaluate suspicious activity in the market. GSCC, by providing data necessary to evaluate market activity, assists these organizations in the performance of their functions. Thus, the amendment furthers the protection of investors and the public interest. 10 U.S. Department of the Treasury, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and Securities and Exchange Commission, Joint Report on the Government Securities Market (January 1992). IV. Conclusion For the reasons discussed above, the Commission finds that the proposal is consistent with the requirements of the Act, and particularly with Section 17A of the Act, and the rules and regulations thereunder. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the above-mentioned proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;GSCC&hyph;93&hyph;05) be, and hereby is, approved. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4929 Filed 3&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
