FR940711-2-00173 FR940711-2-00073 (ii) Compliance with Section 8 Portability rules: •8 Points_Assign 8 points if HA is in compliance with all provisions of the portability rules. •5 Points_Assign 5 points if HA is in general compliance with portability rules, but has some minor compliance issues. •2 Points_Assign 2 points if HA has some major compliance issues under portability which are being addressed. •0 Points_Assign 0 points if HA is not in compliance with portability rules and issues are not being addressed. (iii) Housing Quality Standards (HQS) Inspections: •8 Points_Assign 8 points if HA had more than 95% of its units pass HQS inspections by HUD at the last review or HUD is aware of actions taken by the HA to improve the number of units that pass HQS inspections to 95% or more. •6 Points_Assign 6 points if HA had more than 90% of its units pass HQS inspections by HUD at the last review, or HUD is aware of actions taken by the HA to improve the number of units that pass HQS inspections to 90% or more. •4 Points_Assign 4 points if HA had more than 85% of its units pass HQS inspections by HUD at the last review, or HUD is aware of actions taken by the HA to improve the number of units that pass HQS inspections to 85% or more. •2 Points_Assign 2 points if HA had more than 80% of its units pass HQS inspections by HUD at the last review, or HUD is aware of actions taken by the HA to improve the number of units that pass HQS inspections to 80% or more. •0 Points_Assign 0 points if HA had 80% or less of its units pass HQS inspections by HUD at the last review and HUD is not aware of actions taken by the HA to improve the number of units that pass HQS inspections to 80% or more. (iv) Percentage of Units Leased as of September 30, 1993. HUD staff should use the percentage of units under ACC for a period of one year for the tenant-based rental assistance programs administered by an HA. HUD may use a report on leasing for another period if the September 30, 1993, report is not reflective of HA performance. •8 Points_Assign 8 points if HA had 98% or more of its rental certificates and rental vouchers under lease. •6 Points_Assign 6 points if HA had 96% or more of its rental certificates and rental vouchers under lease. •4 Points_Assign 4 points if HA had 94% or more of its rental certificates and rental vouchers under lease. •2 Points_Assign 2 points if HA had 90% or more of its rental certificates and rental vouchers under lease. •0 Points_Assign 0 points if HA had less than 90% of its rental certificates and rental vouchers under lease. (v) Timely Submission of HA Budget and Financial Statements to HUD. •8 Points_Assign 8 points if the HA submitted both its most recent fiscal year Section 8 budget at least 30 days prior to the start of the HA fiscal year and its year-end Section 8 annual financial statements within the required 45 days of the end of the HA's fiscal year. •4 Points_Assign 4 points if the HA submitted either its most recent fiscal year budget at least 30 days prior to the start of the HA's fiscal year or its year-end Section 8 annual financial statements within the required 45 days of the end of the HA fiscal year. •0 Points_Assign 0 points if the HA is unable to document the timely submission of the budget and financial statements. (2) Selection Criterion 2: Underfunding of Housing Needs (45 points). (a) Description: The degree to which the housing needs of the primary area specified in the HA's application from which the HA draws families to assist (primary area) have previously been underfunded, relative to the needs of other localities within the same allocation area, taking into account such factors as the number of assisted housing units and the number of very low-income renter households with housing problems, eligible for such assistance. The HUD State or Area Office/Native American Programs Office will, wherever practicable, consider needs being met by all Federally assisted rental housing programs, including the FmHA Section 515 Rural Rental Housing program, but will, as a minimum, consider assistance provided under the Rental Voucher Program, the Rental Certificate Program, other Section 8 Programs, and the Public or Indian Housing Program. In accordance with Notice PIH 91&hyph;45 (HUD), the HUD State or Area Office/Native American Programs Office will notify FmHA of applications it receives and ask that FmHA provide advisory comments concerning the market for additional assisted housing or the possible impact the proposed units may have on FmHA projects. Applications for which FmHA has provided comments expressing concerns about market need or the continued stability of existing FmHA projects, with which HUD agrees, will receive zero points for this criterion. (b) Rating and Assessment: To receive points under this criterion, an application must propose funding in an area which has been previously underfunded or proportionately funded relative to the need for housing in the same allocation area. The assignment of points is based on the degree to which the needs in the primary area specified in the application have been underfunded, taking into account the number of assisted housing units and the number of very low-income renter households with housing problems. The determination of point values will be based on a comparison of the percentage of housing need served in the primary area specified in the application to the percentage of need served in the allocation area since the 1990 census. The percentages for the allocation areas and the primary areas are to be rounded to the nearest whole number.
