FR940527-1-00046 FR940527-1-00014 For example, the midpoint of a cost reporting period beginning January 1, 1991 and ending December 31, 1991 is June 30, 1991. An inflation adjustment factor of 1.033713 would be applied to the wages of a hospital with such a cost reporting period. In addition, for the data for any cost reporting period that began in FY 1991 and covers a period of less than 360 days or greater than 370 days, we annualized the data to reflect a 1-year cost report. Annualization is accomplished by dividing the data by the number of days in the cost report and then multiplying the results by 365. Step 4_For each hospital, we subtracted the reported excluded hours from the gross hospital hours to determine net hospital hours. We increased the net hours by the addition of any reported contract labor hours and home office hours to determine total hours. Step 5_As part of our editing process, we deleted data for 69 hospitals that are no longer participating in the Medicare program or that are in bankruptcy status, and for which we lacked sufficient documentation to verify data that failed edits. We retained the data for other hospitals that are no longer participating in the Medicare program because these hospitals contributed to the relative wage levels in their labor market areas during their FY 1991 cost reporting period. Step 6_Within each urban or rural labor market area we added the total adjusted salaries plus fringe benefits obtained in Step 3 for all hospitals in that area to determine the total adjusted salaries plus fringe benefits for the labor market area. Step 7_We divided the total adjusted salaries plus fringe benefits obtained in Step 6 by the sum of the total hours (from Step 4) for all hospitals in each labor market area to determine an average hourly wage for the area. Step 8_We added the total adjusted salaries plus fringe benefits obtained in Step 3 for all hospitals in the nation and then divided the sum by the national sum of total hours from Step 4 to arrive at a national average hourly wage. Using the data as described above, the national average hourly wage is $18.1808. Step 9_For each urban or rural labor market area, we calculated the hospital wage index value by dividing the area average hourly wage obtained in Step 7 by the national average hourly wage computed in Step 8. C. Changes In the Reporting of Hospital Wage Index Data Currently, the data used to develop the wage index are submitted by hospitals on the Worksheet S&hyph;3, Part II of the Medicare cost report. We developed this worksheet as part of the FY 1990 cost reports, and we used the worksheet to calculate the wage index for FY 1994. The worksheet has been evaluated by HCFA and industry representatives to ensure that this data collection mechanism captures relative wage costs as accurately as possible and to determine whether any refinements are appropriate. The Medicare Technical Advisory Group (MTAG) established a task force to study and recommend changes to the cost reporting form used to collect wage index data. The task force was comprised of hospital, intermediary, and HCFA representatives. The MTAG task force recommended, and we are proposing, three major changes to the Worksheet S&hyph;3, Part II; the provider cost report questionnaire (HCFA 339); and accompanying instructions as discussed below. We note that the proposed changes outlined below are effective for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1994. Therefore the proposed changes will not affect the proposed FY 1995 wage index, which is based on FY 1991 wage data. 1. The Elimination of Part A Physicians' and CRNA Salaries Currently, a hospital that directly employs and pays the salary of a physician can include the Part A portion of the physician's salary in total salaries reported on Worksheet S&hyph;3, Part II. (The Part B portion of physician salaries has always been excluded from the wage index.) However, if a hospital contracts for physician services, it is not permitted to include the Part A physician services as contract labor because we consider Part A physician services to be administrative, not direct patient-care related (to be included in the computation of the wage index, contract labor must be directly related to patient care). Not all hospitals directly employ physicians. There are currently five States in which State laws specifically restrict hospitals from directly hiring physicians. Hospitals in these States are forced to contract out for physicians. The inability of those hospitals that contract for physician services to include the Part A portion of the services as contract labor has been perceived as inequitable. In States where hospitals may directly employ physicians, the hospitals may include some of these characteristically high wages in the wage data, while in States where hospitals must contract for their physician services, these contract wages cannot be included in their wage data. We agree with the MTAG task force recommendation and are proposing to exclude all Part A physician costs on the Worksheet S&hyph;3, Part II, regardless of whether the physician is a hospital employee or contractor. For purposes of this exclusion, physician's salaries are defined as salaries applicable to positions that require a licensed physician, such as a medical director of a department. Salaries for physicians employed in other positions, such as hospital administrator, that do not require a physician would not be excluded. Since this change would apply equally to hospitals that are permitted to employ physicians and to those that must contract for physician services, we believe this proposal will promote payment equity and provide more uniformity in the wage data across areas. This action should not require any additional reporting burden since these Part A physician salaries already are reported on the cost report (Worksheet A&hyph;8&hyph;2). We believe that this proposal to eliminate Part A physicians' salaries is more appropriate than the alternative of allowing all Part A physician costs (whether salaried or under contract) for three reasons. First, physician costs are not driven by normal labor market situations and, in many cases, hospitals must hire physicians from outside of their recruiting areas. Second, many hospitals have indicated difficulty in accurately determining the hours for the physicians attributable to Part A services, especially for those under contract.
