FR941122-2-00137 FR941122-2-00099 Specifically, what types of products and services are you contemplating delivering or making available, or would you like to see delivered or made available on the NII? 2. What threats do you foresee in making products and services available via the NII? Such threats might include fraud, unauthorized access, breach of confidentiality or privacy, breach of integrity, and lack of reliability. 3. What legal, policy, and ethical issues do you foresee affecting usage of the NII? Such issues may include liability, information/property rights, equal access, document/records management, legal admissibility/evidentiary requirements, and auditability. 4. What kinds of administrative or technical solutions are you aware of, or would you like to see developed, to address security, legal, and ethical concerns? Such solutions may include international agreements, criminal laws, public key encryption, and digital signatures. Position statements for the meeting, ``Security for Health and Education Information in the NII,'' should address five principal questions: 1. What enhancements in electronic data transmission, storage, and retrieval are needed to protect the confidentiality of personal health and education information? 2. What enhancements in electronic data transmission, storage, and retrieval are needed to improve data users' access to individual health and education information? 3. How can the NII be constructed to address and satisfy both of these needs simultaneously? 4. What safeguards need to be developed to limit children's access to inappropriate material through the NII? 5. What technical solutions are available, or can be developed, in order to address these data security concerns? II. Guidelines for Participation in the Public Hearing Individuals who would like to participate on a panel must request an opportunity to do so no later than November 30, 1994 by submitting a brief, 1&hyph;2 page summary position statement. If approved, each participant will be allowed to present brief opening remarks. Primary participating, however, shall be during the general discussion to follow, according to the format described above.
