FR940912-0-00042 FR940912-0-00006 (v) Provision for income taxes. (vi) Net income (loss). (3) Key financial ratios. (i) Return on average assets. (ii) Return on average capital stock and surplus. (iii) Net interest income as a percentage of average earning assets. (iv) Net loan chargeoffs as a percentage of average loans. (v) Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of gross loans outstanding at yearend. (vi) Capital stock and surplus as a percentage of total assets at yearend. (vii) Debt to capital stock and surplus at yearend. (g) Discussion and analysis. Fully discuss any material aspects of financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations of System institutions, on a combined basis, for the comparative years required by paragraph (g)(6)(ii) of this section or such other time periods specified in the following paragraphs of this section. Identify favorable and unfavorable trends, and significant events or uncertainties necessary to understand the financial condition and results of operations of the System. At a minimum, the discussion shall include the following: (1) Loan portfolio _(i) Categorization. Describe the loan portfolio of the System by major loan purpose category, indicating the amount and approximate percentage of the total dollar portfolio represented by each major category. (ii) Risk exposure. (A) Describe and analyze all high-risk assets, including an analysis of the nature and extent of significant current and potential credit risks within the loan portfolio and of other information that could adversely affect the loan portfolio and other property owned. (B) Provide an analysis of the allowance for loan losses that includes the ratios of the allowance for loan losses to loans (outstanding at yearend) and net chargeoffs to average loans, and a discussion of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses to absorb the risk inherent in the loan portfolio and the basis for such determination. (iii) Secondary market activities. (A) If material, quantify System institutions' secondary market activities and the risk involved in such activities. (B) If material, provide an analysis of historical loss experience and the amount provided for risk of loss associated with secondary market activities. (2) Results of operations. (i) Describe, on a comparative basis, changes in the major components of net interest income. Include a discussion of significant factors that contributed to the changes and quantify the amount of change(s) due to an increase or decrease in volume and the amount due to changes in interest rates earned and paid, based on averages for each period. (ii) Describe any unusual or infrequent events or transactions, or any significant economic changes that materially affected reported income and, in each case, indicate the extent to which income was so affected. (iii) Discuss the factors underlying any material changes in the return on average assets and return on average capital stock and surplus. (iv) Describe, on a comparative basis, the major components of operating expense and any other significant components of income or expense, indicating the reasons for any significant increases or decreases. (v) Describe any known trends or uncertainties that have had, or that are reasonably expected to have, a material impact on net interest income or net income. Disclose any known events that will cause a material change in the relationship between costs and revenues. (vi) Explain the changes that have taken place, by major components on a comparative basis, in Insurance Fund assets and related restricted capital and how such changes affected reported income. (3) Funding sources and liquidity _(i) Funding sources.
