FR940920-1-00058 FR940920-1-00007 The proposed NSPS also requires that, during the period of review of the materials separation plan and NSR application for a construction permit, the MWC owner or operator make the MWC siting analysis available to the public in the service area where the affected facility is to be constructed. As part of making this information available to the public, the MWC owner or operator would be required to distribute the siting analysis to all public libraries in the affected service area and to publish a notification of the public meeting in the principal newspaper(s) serving the area where the MWC will be sited and where the waste will be collected. The MWC owner or operator would then be required to hold a public meeting and accept comments on the siting analysis. The public meeting would be required to be held in the county where the MWC is to be constructed and would be required to be scheduled 30 days or more after making the siting analysis available to the public and publishing the notification of the public meeting. Because the proposed siting analysis is based on the NSR requirements, the EPA anticipates that if a public meeting is scheduled to address the environmental impacts analysis required by the NSR program, the same public meeting could also be used to discuss the proposed siting analysis. Also, as discussed above, the same public meeting would address the final draft materials separation plan. The MWC owner or operator would be required to prepare responses to the comments received at the public meeting and to make the document summarizing responses to public comments available to the public in the service area where the MWC is to be located, including distribution to all public libraries in the service area. The MWC owner or operator would be required to submit the siting analysis, the final materials separation plan, and the document summarizing responses to public comments on the siting analysis and any additional public comment on the materials separation plan as part of the facility's initial notification of construction. As discussed above, the final materials separation plan is submitted with the initial notification of construction of the MWC. Under this proposal, after the final plan is submitted, no subsequent reporting would be required. However, the EPA is considering requiring an annual materials separation report. The EPA requests comment on the usefulness of using a materials separation report to document the effectiveness of the plan and any changes made to it, and to help determine if any changes are warranted. Comment is also requested on appropriate means to ensure that the adopted materials separation plan is implemented. Based on the comments received, the final regulation may require submission of annual reports for assessing the performance of the materials separation plan. VI. Rationale for the Proposed Standards for Fugitive Fly Ash/Bottom Ash Emissions The following discussion addresses the basis for EPA's decision to regulate fugitive fly ash/bottom ash emissions from MWC facilities. The available technologies for controlling these fugitive emissions and the EPA's selection of MACT for these emissions are presented. A. Background Fugitive fly ash/bottom ash emissions are emissions of dust from fly ash and bottom ash handling that are not confined (i.e., emissions that are not contained within a fully enclosed ash handling system). The fly ash/bottom ash dust consists of PM and various associated pollutants adsorbed to the PM such as Cd, Pb, Hg, and organic compounds (e.g., dioxins/furans). A study of MWC ash handling and storage facilities at best controlled MWC facilities has shown that such facilities, when improperly controlled, can be sources of these pollutants through fugitive fly ash/bottom ash emissions. Therefore, visible emissions standards for fugitive fly ash/bottom ash emissions are being proposed to ensure control equipment and operating practices are implemented to eliminate such emissions. B. Fugitive Emission Control Techniques Sources of MWC fugitive fly ash/bottom ash emissions include fly ash and bottom ash conveyors and conveyor transfer points, storage facilities (including ash storage bins or piles), and ash loading facilities for trucks or containers. Fugitive fly ash/bottom ash emissions from conveyors that are not already inside enclosed structures can be controlled by totally enclosing the conveyors. Emissions from conveyor transfer points can be controlled by totally enclosing the transfer point and ventilating it to a control device if the transfer point is not inside an enclosed structure. Alternatively, adequate moisture in the fly ash and bottom ash can be maintained to control fugitive emissions from conveyors or transfer points. Fugitive fly ash/bottom ash emissions from the ash storage facilities at an MWC plant can be controlled by totally enclosing the ash storage operations and by ensuring that the fly ash and bottom ash have an adequate moisture content to prevent dust generation. Chemical stabilizers and binders may also be used in addition to or in place of moisture to prevent dust emissions from MWC ash for nearly all the activities described in this section.
