FR941006-1-00026 FR941006-1-00007 ยง908.101 Purpose. The purpose of this part is to require Housing Agencies (HAs) that operate public housing, Indian housing, or Section 8 Rental Certificate, Rental Voucher and Moderate Rehabilitation programs to electronically submit certain data to HUD for those programs. This electronically submitted data is required for HUD Forms HUD&hyph;50058, Family Report, and HUD&hyph;50058&hyph;FSS, Family Self-Sufficiency Addendum. ยง908.104 Requirements. (a) Automated HAs. Housing agencies that currently use automated software packages to transmit Forms HUD&hyph;50058 and HUD&hyph;50058&hyph;FSS information by tape or diskette to the Department's data processing contractor must convert to telephonic electronic transmission of that data in a HUD specified format by [insert date 120 days after publication of the final rule] . (b) Nonautomated HAs. Housing agencies that currently prepare and transmit the HUD&hyph;50058 and HUD&hyph;50058&hyph;FSS information to HUD paper must: (1) Complete a vendor search and obtain either: (i) The necessary hardware and software required to develop and maintain an in-house automated data processing system (ADP) used to generate electronic submission of the data for these forms via telephonic network; or (ii) A service contract for the operation of an automated system to generate electronic submission of the data for these forms via telephonic network; (2) Complete their data loading; and (3) Begin electronic transmission by [insert date 365 days after publication of the final rule] . (c) Electronic transmission of data. Electronic transmission of data consists of submission of all required data fields (correctly formatted) from the forms HUD&hyph;050058 and HUD&hyph;50058&hyph;FSS telephonically, in accordance with HUD instructions. Regardless of whether an HA obtains the ADP system itself or contracts with a service bureau to provide the system, the software must be periodically updated to incorporate changes or revisions in legislation, regulations, handbooks, notices, or HUD electronic transmission data format requirements. (d) Service contract. HAs that determine that the purchase of hardware and/or software is not cost effective may contract out the electronic data transmission function to organizations that provide such services, including, but not limited to the following organizations: local management associations and management agents with centralized facilities. HAs that contract out the electronic transmission function must retain the ability to monitor the day-to-day operations of the project at the HA site and be able to demonstrate the ability to the relevant HUD Field Office. (e) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Department may approve transmission of the data by tape or diskette if it determines that the cost of telephonic transmission would be excessive. ยง908.108 Cost. (a) General. The costs of the electronic transmission of the correctly formatted data, including either the purchase and maintenance of computer hardware or software, or both, the cost of contracting for those services, or the cost of centralizing the electronic transmission function, shall be considered Section 8 Administrative expenses, or eligible public housing operating expenses that can be included in the public housing operating budget. At the HA's option, the cost of the computer software may include service contracts to provide maintenance or training, or both. (b) Sources of funding. For public and Indian housing, costs may be covered from operating subsidy for which the HA is already eligible, or the initial cost may be covered by funds received by the HA under HUD's Comprehensive Improvement Assistance Program (CIAP) or Comprehensive Grant Program (CGP). For Section 8 programs, the costs may be covered from ongoing administrative fees or the Section 8 operating reserve.
