FR940426-1-00097 FR940426-1-00008 (4) Raise novel or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. Pursuant to the terms of the Executive Order, since this action could result in a rule that could have a substantial economic impact, this notice was submitted to OMB for review. EPA intends to prepare an economic analysis under E.O. 12866 for any final rule that is a significant regulatory action. Any written comments to EPA and any written EPA responses to those comments will be included in the docket for this proceeding. VI. Impact on Small Entities The Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601(a), provides that, whenever an agency is required to publish a general notice of rulemaking, it must prepare and make available a regulatory flexibility analysis (RFA). While EPA intends to follow rulemaking procedures under section 307(d) of the Clean Air Act, EPA believes it is not legally required to publish a general notice of rulemaking here, and hence that it need not prepare a RFA. But even if EPA is required to publish a general notice of rulemaking here, a RFA is required only for small entities which are directly regulated by the rule. See Mid-Tex Electric Cooperative, Inc. v. FERC , 773 F.2d 327 (D.C. Cir. 1985)(agency's certification need only consider the rule's impact on regulated entities and not indirect impact on small entities not regulated). The OTC's recommended LEV program would directly regulate auto manufacturers. Since these auto manufacturers generally do not qualify as small businesses within the meaning of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, EPA does not believe a RFA is needed for either the proposed or final rules, even if rulemaking is required. Accordingly, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 605(b), the Administrator certifies that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. VII. Paperwork Reduction Act The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq ., and implementing regulations, 5 CFR part 1320, do not apply to this action as it does not involve the collection of information as defined therein. Dated: April 19, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
