FR940803-1-00031 FR940803-1-00006 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Part 51 [AD-FRL&hyph;5022&hyph;9] Preparation, Adoption, and Submittal of State Implementation Plans; Test Method 205, Appendix M AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Proposed rule and notice of public hearing. SUMMARY: The purpose of this proposed rule is to add a test method which would be used to verify the performance and accuracy of gas dilution systems during a field test. The test method is entitled, ``Verification of Gas Dilution Systems for Field Instrument Calibrations,'' and will be added to 40 CFR Part 51, Appendix M, as Test Method 205. This method will allow the facility greater flexibility while assuring the Administrator of the quality of the calibration of the field analyzers. A public hearing will be held, if requested, to provide interested persons an opportunity for oral presentation of data, views, or arguments concerning the proposed rule. DATES: Comments. Comments must be received on or before October 17, 1994. Public Hearing. If anyone contacts EPA requesting to speak at a public hearing by August 24, 1994, a public hearing will be held September 19, 1994 beginning at 10:00 a.m. Persons interested in attending the hearing should call the contact mentioned under ADDRESSES to verify that a meeting will be held. Request to Speak at Hearing. Persons wishing to present oral testimony must contact EPA by August 24, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments. Comments should be submitted (in duplicate if possible) to: Central Docket Section (LE&hyph;131), Attention: Docket Number A&hyph;93&hyph;36, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Room M&hyph;1500, First Floor, Waterside Mall, 401 M Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20460. Public Hearing. If anyone contacts EPA requesting a public hearing, it will be held at EPA's Emission Measurement Laboratory, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. Persons interested in attending the hearing or wishing to present oral testimony should notify Rima Dishakjian, Emission Measurement Branch, Technical Support Division (MD&hyph;19), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711, telephone number (919) 541&hyph;0443. Docket. Docket No. A&hyph;93&hyph;36, containing materials relevant to this rulemaking, is available for public inspection and copying between 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, at EPA's Air Docket Section, Room M&hyph;1500, First Floor, Waterside Mall, 401 M Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20460. A reasonable fee may be charged for copying. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Rima Dishakjian or Anthony Wayne, Emission Measurement Branch (MD&hyph;19), Technical Support Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711, telephone number (919) 541&hyph;0443. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. The Rulemaking A. Summary of Proposed Changes A verification procedure for gas dilution systems is being proposed. Gas dilution systems allow the user to dilute a high level certified gaseous standard to the concentration levels needed for multi-point calibration. The instrumental test methods in 40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A (e.g., Methods 3A, 6C, 7E, 10, 15, 16, 20, 25A, and 25B) require on-site, multi-point calibration using gases of known concentrations. An extensive field test can require the tester to transport dozens of high pressure gas cylinders to a test site. If a gas dilution system were available, the number of gas cylinders to be transported to the test site would be greatly reduced. This procedure provides a mechanism for the tester to avoid the cost and risk associated with transport of multiple gas cylinders, while also providing assurances to the on-site Administrator that the calibration gases produced by the gas dilution system will be precise and accurate. B. Comments and Responses on Draft The proposed method was published through the Emission Measurement Technical Information Center as Conditional Test Method 007 in April 1991. No technical comments have been submitted thus far. Several commenters suggested that the protocol be published in the CFR, thus resulting in this action. II. Administrative Requirements A. Public Hearing A public hearing will be held, if requested, to discuss the proposed rulemaking in accordance with Section 307(d)(5) of the Clean Air Act. Persons wishing to make oral presentations should contact EPA at the address given in the ADDRESSES section of this preamble. Oral presentations will be limited to 15 minutes each. Any member of the public may file a written statement with EPA before, during, or within 30 days after the hearing. Written statements should be addressed to the Central Docket Section address given in the ADDRESSES section of this preamble. A verbatim transcript of the hearing and written statements will be available for public inspection and copying during normal working hours at EPA's Central Docket Section in Washington, D.C. (see ADDRESSES section of this preamble). B. Docket The docket is an organized and complete file of all the information submitted to or otherwise considered by EPA in the development of this proposed rulemaking. The principal purposes of the docket are to: (1) allow interested parties to identify and locate documents so that they can effectively participate in the rulemaking process, and (2) serve as the record in case of judicial review except for interagency review materials [Section 307(d)(7)(A)]. C. Office of Management and Budget Review It has been determined that this rule is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under the terms of Executive Order 12866 and is therefore not subject to OMB review. D. Regulatory Flexibility Act Compliance Pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 605(b), I hereby certify that this attached rule, if promulgated, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because no additional costs will be incurred.
