FR940318-0-00078 FR940318-0-00014 The proposed regulations, with a few changes to respond to comments, are adopted as final regulations. The changes, as well as certain comments and suggestions that were not adopted in the final regulations, are discussed below. The proposed regulations provide that the value of a loss corporation under the special valuation rule of section 382(l)(6) of the Code is the lesser of the value of its stock immediately after the ownership change, or the value of its assets (determined without regard to liabilities) immediately before the ownership change. The proposed regulations further provide that the value of the loss corporation's pre-change assets is reduced by the amount of any capital contribution to which section 382(l)(1) applies. The proposed regulations could be read to require such a reduction even in cases in which the value of the pre-change assets would not reflect the value of the contributed assets, as would be the case, for example, when the contribution is concurrent with the ownership change. To avoid this possibility, the final regulations provide that the value of the pre-change assets of the loss corporation is determined without regard to any capital contribution to which section 382(l)(1) applies. Section 382(l)(5)(H) of the Code allows a loss corporation to elect not to have the provisions of section 382(l)(5) apply. The proposed regulations provide that this election must be made by the due date (including extensions) of the loss corporation's return for the taxable year in which the ownership change occurs. The proposed regulations also provide that this election is irrevocable. One commenter suggested that the final regulations allow a taxpayer to file an election after the prescribed due date upon a showing of reasonable cause. The commenter also suggested that taxpayers be allowed to revoke an election. The Treasury and the Service believe that the general standards and procedures under §301.9100&hyph;1 of the Procedure and Administrative Regulations provide adequate relief for taxpayers seeking to make a retroactive election under section 382(l)(5)(H) of the Code for an ownership change occurring on or after March 17, 1994. A specific regulatory provision allowing an election after the prescribed due date or allowing revocation of an election would inappropriately allow the loss corporation the benefit of hindsight to determine the relative advantages of sections 382(l)(5) and 382(l)(6). Therefore, the final regulations retain the rules of the proposed regulations that the election is irrevocable and must be made on the return of the loss corporation for the taxable year including or ending with the change date. Because of uncertainties that existed with respect to the application of sections 382(l)(5) and 382(l)(6) before issuance of final regulations, transitional rules are provided in §§1.382&hyph;9(d)(6)(ii) and (p)(2) that allow taxpayers to retroactively file or revoke a prior section 382(l)(5)(H) election for an ownership change occurring before March 17, 1994. A commenter suggested that the final regulations clarify that a loss corporation need not use liquidation value in determining the value of its gross assets, and that the corporation may take into account the value of any intangible assets, such as goodwill and going concern value. The Treasury and the Service have determined that the proposed clarification is unnecessary. The valuation rule refers to ``the value of the loss corporation's pre-change assets,'' without limitation to either liquidation value or tangible assets. Therefore, if a loss corporation is able to establish the existence and value of any intangible assets, that value may be taken into account. The proposed regulations provide that the amount received by a loss corporation for the issuance of debt is treated as a capital contribution that must be excluded from the value of its pre-change assets if the issuance of the debt is part of a plan a principal purpose of which is to increase the value of the loss corporation under the rules of the proposed regulations. A commenter questioned the appropriateness of treating an issuance of debt as a capital contribution. The commenter also suggested that, if the proposed rule is retained, it should be subject to an exception for cases in which the loss corporation uses the proceeds of the debt to fund operating expenses. The final regulations retain the rule of the proposed regulations regarding the treatment of certain debt issuances as capital contributions. The Treasury and the Service believe that this rule effectuates the principles of section 382(l)(1) of the Code. The Treasury and the Service will consider possible exceptions to this rule in the context of providing general guidance under section 382(l)(1).
