FR941107-2-00013 FR941107-2-00005 The products subject to this investigation are currently classifiable under subheadings 8104.11.00 and 8104.20.00 of the HTSUS. Although the HTSUS subheadings are provided for convenience and customs purposes, our written description of the scope is dispositive. Nonmarket Economy Status Ukraine has been treated as a nonmarket economy (``NME'') country in all past antidumping proceedings ( see, e.g., Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Uranium from Ukraine (58 FR 36640, July 8, 1993)). No information has been provided in this proceeding that would lead us to overturn this designation. Therefore, in accordance with section 771(18)(c) of the Act, we have treated Ukraine as an NME for purposes of this investigation. Period of Investigation The POI is October 1, 1993, through March 31, 1994. Fair Value Comparisons A. Participating Respondents To determine whether sales by Gerald Metals and MG Metals of pure magnesium from Ukraine to the United States were made at less than fair value, we compared the United States price (``USP'') to the foreign market value (``FMV''), as specified in the ``United States Price'' and ``Foreign Market Value'' sections of this notice. B. Non-Participating Respondents All companies to which a questionnaire was issued are considered mandatory respondents in this proceeding. We consider those mandatory respondents that did not respond to the questionnaire to be uncooperative respondents and have based the less-than-fair-value margin for those companies on the best information available (``BIA''). We consider the following companies to be uncooperative respondents: Alusuisse-Lonza; Derek Raphael & Co. Ltd.; Marco Trading; Wogen Group Ltd.; Alex; Mages; F&S; and the 11 companies whose names cannot be disclosed because their identities are deemed business proprietary information. Accordingly, we have based these companies' LTFV margin on an uncooperative BIA rate. In determining what to use as BIA, the Department follows a two-tiered methodology, whereby the Department normally assigns lower margins to those respondents that cooperated in an investigation and margins based on more adverse assumptions for those respondents which did not cooperate in an investigation. As outlined in the Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value; Certain Hot-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products, Certain Cold-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products, and Certain Cut-to-Length Carbon Steel Plate From Belgium, 58 FR 37083 (July 9, 1993), when a company refuses to provide the information requested in the form required, or otherwise significantly impedes the Department's investigation, it is appropriate for the Department to assign to that company the higher of (a) the highest margin alleged in the petition, or (b) the highest calculated rate of any respondent in the investigation. Here, since these companies failed to respond to our questionnaire, we are deeming them uncooperative and are assigning them a BIA margin of 53.99 percent. This margin represents the highest margin in the petition, as recalculated by the Department at the time of the initiation to account for errors in arithmetic and/or methodology. C. All Other Companies We are basing the LTFV margins for all other companies, including those companies which reported that they did not sell the subject merchandise to the United States during the POI, on a simple average of the rates calculated for the mandatory respondents, including rates based on BIA but excluding zero and de minimis margins, if any. United States Price We based USP on purchase price sales, in accordance with section 772(b) of the Act, because the subject merchandise was sold directly by the exporters to unrelated parties in the United States prior to importation into the United States and because exporter's sales price methodology was not indicated by other circumstances. For those exporters that responded to the Department's questionnaire, we calculated purchase price based on packed, CIF or FOB foreign-port prices to unrelated purchasers in the United States. In addition, for CIF prices, we made the following deductions (where appropriate): for MG Metals, we deducted foreign brokerage, ocean freight, marine insurance, U.S. duty, U.S. inland freight, U.S. inland insurance and U.S. brokerage and repacking cost; for Gerald Metals, we deducted foreign brokerage, ocean freight, U.S. Duty, U.S. inland freight, U.S. insurance and U.S. brokerage. From each exporter's U.S. price, we calculated and then deducted foreign inland freight between the factory and the reported intermediate destination. We based our calculation on the per-ton foreign inland freight amount reported in the petition as best information available because the exporters failed to report information on this area in their questionnaire responses.
