FR940711-2-00152 FR940711-2-00059 The following paragraphs highlight key principles of good LCCA practice. Applying these principles generally will allow States and local agencies to identify investment alternatives that will minimize total life-cycle costs. While their use is not mandatory in all instances, States are strongly encouraged to apply these principles in conducting life-cycle cost analyses unless there are unique characteristics of particular programs or projects that require principles to be modified. Life-cycle cost analysis, of course, is only one consideration in many investment decisions, but it certainly is one of the most important for NHS routes and other high volume roads in light of the costs and lost productivity associated with future maintenance and rehabilitation actions. In general there are no hard and fast rules concerning the appropriate length of the analysis period. The analysis period will vary depending on the type of improvement (bridge, versus tunnel, versus pavement), the location (urban versus rural), the highway system (NHS versus other), and the design lives of all appropriate alternatives. In general, longer design lives should be considered for improvements on the NHS and other high volume urban roadways because future agency and user costs associated with maintenance and rehabilitation activities may be so high. For pavement improvements on the NHS, design lives of 50 years may be reasonable while bridge and tunnel improvements may have design lives of 100 or more years. The consideration of longer design lives will require longer analysis periods in LCCA. Analysis periods for projects involving other modes generally should be long enough to cover the full life-expectancy of the investment_the time until facilities would have to be reconstructed if initially constructed to an optimum design. These lives would vary according to the modal alternative being examined. Analysis periods for all project alternatives should be the same length. The inclusion of user costs in LCCA is particularly controversial among some States. Part of the controversy over user costs is the fact that they often are many times higher than agency costs and can critically influence decisions. While all motorists do not value costs of delays as highly as do commercial travelers, the costs and lost productivity to businesses of delays around work zones are simply too high to ignore. In fact, such delays arguably have a greater impact on business than delays associated with inadequate capacity because businesses factor normal congestion costs into their plans, but delays around work zones generally cannot be foreseen and thus are more disruptive. Technical advisories to be developed on estimating user operating and delay costs will address this issue in greater detail. In addition to increased delay and vehicle operating costs, rehabilitation and maintenance activities may result in increased accident costs around work zones. Technical advisories will be developed to assist in estimating increases in accident rates associated with different types of rehabilitation and maintenance activities. The most comprehensive information on the costs of motor vehicle accidents is contained in the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's publication, ``The Economic Cost of Motor Vehicle Crashes, 1990.'' A copy of this document is available in the public docket for this notice. The proper use of the discount rate has been an issue for LCCA, cost-benefit analysis and other types of economic analysis as well. Among the issues are the relationship between the discount rate and inflation, factors that affect the choice of rates, and how to establish rates over a long analysis period. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;94, ``Guidelines and Discount Rate for Benefit-Cost Analysis of Federal Programs,'' provides guidance on selecting appropriate discount rates for economic analyses. Since the choice of discount rate can affect relative life-cycle costs, sensitivity analysis may be appropriate if two or more alternatives are close in cost, if streams of costs and benefits among alternatives vary significantly over time, or if the discount rate is outside the range of discount rates recommended by OMB. The FHWA will develop training and technical assistance materials to address issues in LCCA. These materials should supplement guidance on economic analysis techniques contained in AASHTO's 1977 publication, ``A Manual on User Benefit Analysis of Highway and Bus-Transit Improvements,'' 1 the ``Red Book,'' in the forthcoming update to that publication which was developed under National Cooperative Highway Research Program Project 7&hyph;12, and in other guidance on LCCA issues. While additional materials are being developed, this interim policy statement provides guidance on LCCA principles applicable to highway and structure design. 1 This document is available for inspection as prescribed at 49 CFR Part 7, Appendix D. It may be purchased from the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, 444 N. Capitol Street, NW., Suite 225, Washington DC 20001. A copy also will be available in the public docket for this notice.
