FR941230-2-00084 FR941230-2-00047 Paragraph IV.C orders Topa not to make unsolicited offers to hire any executive employee of any wholesaler with which a supplier has entered into any arrangement to distribute its distilled spirits in the Virgin Islands for two years following the opening for business of the new wholesaler, unless the employee has previously resigned from or been terminated by such wholesaler. Paragraph IV.D. orders Topa not to refuse to deal with any retailer because the retailer deals with another wholesaler. Topa has the Virgin Islands distribution rights for almost every major brand of distilled spirits available in the world market. Consequently, even if Topa loses some brands to a new or existing wholesaler, Topa will retain enormous influence over retailers. This provision will prevent Topa from abusing that position in the retail trade and will help ensure that a new or existing wholesaler will be able to compete fairly in the marketplace. Paragraph IV.E orders Topa not to prevent, or attempt to prevent, any wholesaler with which a supplier has entered into any arrangement to distribute its distilled spirits in the Virgin Islands from obtaining warehouse space for the distribution of distilled spirits. This provision helps ensure that a Topa competitor will be able to obtain warehouse space for its products. Under the wording of this provision, the United States can seek Court-ordered relief should Topa do anything to prevent a competitor from obtaining warehouse space. The provision allows Topa to obtain warehouse space for its own use, if it is acquired in ``the ordinary course of business'' and is an ``ordinary and necessary'' business requirement. Paragraph IV.F orders Topa not to, directly or indirectly, merge or consolidate with, or acquire securities of, any other wholesaler without obtaining the prior written consent of the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice. Paragraph IV.G also orders Topa not to acquire, without obtaining the prior written consent of the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice, either any quantity in excess of 5% of a wholesaler's assets, excluding inventory, applied to the wholesale distribution of distilled spirits in the Virgin Islands, or any quantity in excess of 30% of a wholesaler's inventory of distilled spirits. Topa is also ordered, within thirty days of the entry of this Final Judgment, to deliver to all suppliers who have contracts then in existence with Topa, written or otherwise, by certified letter or its equivalent (necessary because so many of the suppliers are not in the United States), a copy of the Final Judgment. IV Remedies Available to Potential Litigants Section 4 of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. 15, provides that any person who has been injured as a result of conduct prohibited by the antitrust laws may bring suit in federal court to recover three times the damages the person has suffered, as well as costs and reasonable attorney's fees. Entry of the proposed Final Judgment will neither impair nor assists the bringing of any private antitrust actions under the Clayton Act. Under the provisions of Section 5(a) of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. 16(a), the proposed Final Judgment has no prima facie effect in any private lawsuit that may be brought against the defendants. V Procedures Available for Modification of the Proposed Final Judgment As provided by the APPA, any person believing that the proposed Final Judgment should be modified may submit written comments within the sixty day period from the date of publication in the Federal Register to John T. Orr, Chief, Atlanta Field Office, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, Suite 1176, 75 Spring Street, S.W., Atlanta, GA 30303, (404) 331&hyph;7100. These comments, and the Department's responses, will be filed with the Court and published in the Federal Register . All comments will be given due consideration by the Department of Justice, which remains free to withdraw its consent at any time prior to entry. The proposed Final Judgment provides that the Court retains jurisdiction over these actions, and any party may apply to the Court for any order necessary or appropriate for their modification, interpretation or enforcement. VI Alternatives to the Proposed Final Judgment The United States considered, as an alternative to the proposed Final Judgment, litigation seeking structural relief, including forcing Topa to unilaterally terminate its distribution arrangements with some of its suppliers. The United States rejected that alternative because such structural relief would place an unacceptably large burden on the third-party suppliers. Moreover, the relief in the proposed Final Judgment presents an effective means to improve the level of competition in the Virgin Islands wholesale distilled spirits market without creating a regulatory environment that might interfere with free market forces. VII Determinative Documents No documents were determinative in the formulation of the proposed Final Judgment. Consequently, the United States has not attached any such documents to the proposal Final Judgment. Dated: December 7, 1994. Justin M. Nicholson, James L. Weis, Attorneys, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, Richard B. Russell Building, Suite 1176, 75 Spring Street, S.W., Atlanta, Georgia 30303, (404) 331&hyph;7100. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;32146 Filed 12&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;01&hyph;M
