FR940802-1-00006 FR940802-1-00001 E. Existing Standards As explained in section A of this notice, ASTM has a voluntary standard for baby walkers, ASTM F977. This standard has performance requirements that address walker tipover and structural failure. Falls down stairs are addressed by a warning label. The CPSC staff's compliance program, also discussed in section A of this notice, indicated a high level of conformance with the stair warning label requirement of the voluntary standard. At this time, ASTM is not considering performance requirements to address the hazard of children falling down stairs in walkers. ASTM members are waiting for completion of the CPSC data collection, discussed above, to determine the appropriate direction for any new requirements. A voluntary safety standard published by the Canadian Juvenile Products Association, effective June 1, 1989, requires walkers to be constructed to preclude their passage through a simulated door opening 900 mm (35.4 inches) in width. In Canada, this standard had the same effect as a ban of the sale of walkers. Walker manufacturers apparently believed that the low market sales of walkers in Canada (about 150,000 annually as compared to 4 million in the U.S.) did not justify redesigning their products. However, due to the much larger market in the United States, and the fact that this alternative retains much of the mobility of a traditional walker, the Commission has no reason to believe that a standard similar to the Canadian one would eliminate the U.S. market for baby walkers. F. Statutory Authority The FHSA is the appropriate act for regulating risks associated with baby walkers or other articles intended for use by children that present a mechanical hazard. 15 U.S.C. 1261(F)(1)(D). Section 2(s) of the FHSA provides: An article may be determined (by rule) to present a mechanical hazard if, in normal use or when subjected to reasonably foreseeable damage or abuse, its design or manufacture presents an unreasonable risk of personal injury or illness .␣.␣. (4) from moving parts, (5) from lack or insufficiency of controls to reduce or stop motion, .␣.␣. (8) because of instability, or (9) because of any other aspect of the article's design or manufacture. 15 U.S.C. 1261(s). The Commission's current regulations for baby walkers were issued under the FHSA. 16 CFR 1500.18(a)(6), 1500.86(a)(4). Section 2(s) of the FHSA provides CPSC with jurisdiction over unreasonable risks of children tipping over in walkers, being injured by a walker's moving or collapsible parts, or falling down stairs in walkers. However, the primary risk associated with walkers is that of children falling down stairs. The design features that may be implicated by this particular risk include, for example, the absence of an effective way to limit or stop the product's motion and its ability to fit through a standard doorway. Declaring that all walkers, or walkers that fail to meet specified criteria, are a hazardous substance because they present a mechanical hazard would trigger the banning provision of FHSA §2(q)(1)(A). This section of the act provides that the term ``banned hazardous substance'' includes ``any toy, or other article intended for use by children, which is a hazardous substance.␣.␣. .'' 15 U.S.C. 1261(q)(1)(A). This proceeding under the FHSA to determine whether baby walkers present a mechanical hazard is being conducted under sections 3(f)&hyph;(i) of the FHSA. This involves a three-stage rulemaking, commenced by the publication of this ANPR. The next stage in the rulemaking proceeding will be a decision either to publish a notice of proposed rulemaking (``NPR'') or to terminate the proceeding. If the Commission decides to continue the rulemaking proceeding after considering responses to the ANPR, the Commission must publish the text of the proposed rule, along with a preliminary regulatory analysis, in accordance with FHSA section 3(h). 15 U.S.C. 1262(h). If the Commission then wishes to issue a final rule, it must publish the text of the final rule and a final regulatory analysis that includes the elements stated in section 3(i)(1) of the FHSA. 15 U.S.C. 1262(i)(1). Before the Commission may issue a final regulation, it must make statutory findings concerning voluntary standards; the relationship of the costs and benefits of the rule; and the burden imposed by the regulation. FHSA sec. 3(i)(2), 15 U.S.C. 1262(i)(2). G. Regulatory Alternatives Under Consideration The Commission is considering alternatives to reduce the number of injuries and deaths related to baby walkers. 1. Performance or design requirement. For the reasons discussed above, it appears possible that a performance or design requirement can be developed that will reduce the risk of children falling down stairs in baby walkers. The staff is aware of the following product designs intended to address the hazard of falls down stairs: 1. Walkers with a diameter larger than the normal door opening to prevent access to stairs. 2. Walkers with a ``wheel-stop'' mechanism. 3. Walkers with mobility limited to a confined space. 4. Stationary alternatives. The Commission concludes that it is possible to develop a performance or design requirement that will allow the use of one or more of these designs to address the risk of falls down stairs. These alternatives are discussed separately below. Wide walkers. The results of the analysis of the current CPSC special study indicate that walkers with a 36-inch-diameter base theoretically could address 82 percent of the stair and step fall incidents, including almost all of the severe incidents (falls down basement stairs). A 36-inch requirement would add approximately 6 to 10 inches to the diameter of walkers currently on the market. There may be a perceived or actual loss of utility of such a product in terms of actual use by a child if it will not fit between furniture in most households. Also, there would be a loss of convenience if the walker is too large for convenient storage or for transporting to other locations by car.
