FR940128-2-00215 FR940128-2-00137 1. Identification Licensees may not expect, or rely on, NRC to identify safety problems or violations for them. The Enforcement Policy provides that the purpose of the identification factor is to encourage licensees to monitor, supervise, and audit activities in order to assure safety and compliance. By the licensee's own admission, it did not detect the problems noted in the violation during the 1.5 years that its QMP has been in existence, nor is there any evidence that the licensee identified the specific problems noted in the violation before NRC did. For example, these problems are not noted in the licensee's December 17, 1992 misadministration report, which includes a section entitled, ``Improvements and Actions Taken to Prevent Recurrence.'' Based on the above, the NRC concludes that 50 percent escalation of the base civil penalty is warranted for NRC identification. 2. Licensee Performance The NRC Enforcement Policy states that prior performance refers to the licensee's performance normally (1) within the last two years of the inspection at issue, or (2) the period within the last two inspections, whichever is longer. On this case the period covered by the last two inspections is applicable, i.e., two inspections prior to the inspection at issue. The two previous inspections to be considered are the inspection conducted on September 11, 1991, and the inspection conducted on May 21&hyph;23, 1990. The NRC did not compare the licensee's performance with other licensees. The Enforcement Policy provides that the effectiveness of previous corrective action for similar problems is a consideration in assessing the licensee performance factor. The May 1990 inspection was conducted to review the circumstances surrounding a teletherapy misadministration. The physicist performing the treatment dose calculation misinterpreted the physician's written prescription. The error continued undetected despite at least four separate opportunities for the dosimetry and physician staffs and several opportunities for the technologists to identify the problem. In its misadministration report of May 24, 1990, the licensee noted that loss of objectivity was a causative factor in that the various QA checks had not been performed as an independent review. The licensee's corrective action was to turn an existing requirement that the authorized user initial the chart before the treatment begins into a full QA check involving a review by the physician of, among other things, the calculated dose per fraction. A memorandum entitled ``Chart checking of treatment doses and calculations'' was circulated to emphasize to physicians and other key personnel the importance of vigilant and critically minded checking of doses and dose calculations. Thus, the NRC concludes that the root causes of the misadministrations are sufficiently similar to warrant escalation for past performance. The licensee also argues good past performance in that a very small percentage of its treatments were misadministrations. On the contrary, the NRC is concerned that the licensee was performing a high volume of treatments with a deficient QMP. Based on the above, 100 percent escalation of the base civil penalty is warranted for poor licensee performance. NRC Conclusion Based on its evaluation of the licensee's response, the NRC staff concludes that the violation did occur as stated, and that neither an adequate basis for a reduction of the severity level nor for mitigation of the civil penalty has been provided by the licensee. Accordingly, NRC concludes that a civil monetary penalty of $5,000 should be imposed by order. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1870 Filed 1&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
