FR941107-1-00007 FR941107-1-00003 FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE BOARD 12 CFR Part 900 Hearings on the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLBank) System and Recommendations for FHLBank Legislation AGENCY: Federal Housing Finance Board. ACTION: Notice of public hearing and request for comment. SUMMARY: The Federal Housing Finance Board (Finance Board) is hereby announcing a public hearing and requesting comment on the FHLBank System's (System) contribution to housing and community lending, the FHLBank System's potential for improving its support of community lenders and recommendations for legislation to modernize the FHLBank System. DATES: The public hearing will be held on December 8 and December 9, 1994, beginning at 9 a.m. on both days. Written requests to participate in the hearing must be received no later than November 16, 1994. ADDRESSES: The hearing will be held at the Office of Thrift Supervision Amphitheater, 1700 G Street NW, Washington, DC 20552. Send requests to participate in the hearing, written statements of hearing participants, or other written comments to Elaine L. Baker, Executive Secretariat, Federal Housing Finance Board, 1777 F Street NW, Washington, DC 20006. The submissions may be mailed, hand delivered or sent by facsimile transmission to (202) 408&hyph;2895. Submissions must be received by 5 p.m. on the day they are due in order to be considered received by the Finance Board. Late filed, misaddressed, or misidentified submissions may affect eligibility to participate in the hearing. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kerrie Ann Sullivan, External Affairs Specialist, (202) 408&hyph;2515, or K. Scott Baker, Manager, Congressional Affairs, (202) 408&hyph;2980. Federal Housing Finance Board, 1777 F Street NW, Washington, DC 20006. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to a request by Nicolas P. Retsinas, the Department of Housing and Urban Development Secretary's Designee to the Finance Board, the 12 Federal Home Loan Banks conducted public forums in August and September of 1994 to seek comment on three topics: (1) The contribution of the System and its members to housing and community development lending; (2) the capacity for the System to support community lenders and community-based lending; and, (3) appropriate System governance structure. Each FHLBank public forum discussed several related questions: (1) How can the System facilitate housing and community development lending through the existing network of community-based lenders? (2) How should the community development mission of the System be defined with regard to the types of lending and collateral requirements compatible with the safety and soundness requirements of the System? (3) How is the changing membership base affecting the System? (4) Building on the success of the Affordable Housing and the Community Investment programs, how can we demonstrate the contribution that member institutions make through the regular advances program. (5) What type of System governance structure would enable the System to better realize its public purpose potential, while ensuring continued safety and soundness? The Finance Board is interested in the views of System members, community groups, trade associations, government sponsored enterprises, federal and state agencies and others on the topics addressed in the 12 FHLBank forums. To assist interested persons in responding, summaries of the sessions held by the FHLBanks will be made available prior to the public hearing. Requests for this material may be made by writing or calling (refer to the information listed in the ADDRESSES portion of this notice). Most of these issues were also addressed in five reports on the FHLBank System submitted to Congress pursuant to the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992. Congressionally-mandated reports were submitted by the Finance Board, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the General Accounting Office, the Congressional Budget Office and a FHLBank Shareholder Study Committee.
