FR940705-2-00172 FR940705-2-00091 Section IV-B&hyph;1. General Information Each institution conducting or sponsoring recombinant DNA research which is covered by the NIH Guidelines is responsible for ensuring that the research is conducted in full conformity with the provisions of the NIH Guidelines. In order to fulfill this responsibility, the institution shall: Section IV-B&hyph;1-a. Establish and implement policies that provide for the safe conduct of recombinant DNA research and that ensure compliance with the NIH Guidelines. As part of its general responsibilities for implementing the NIH Guidelines, the institution may establish additional procedures, as deemed necessary, to govern the institution and its components in the discharge of its responsibilities under the NIH Guidelines. Such procedures may include: (i) Statements formulated by the institution for the general implementation of the NIH Guidelines, and (ii) any additional precautionary steps the institution deems appropriate. Section IV-B&hyph;1-b. Establish an Institutional Biosafety Committee that meets the requirements set forth in Section IV-B&hyph;2-a and carries out the functions detailed in Section IV-B&hyph;2-b. Section IV-B&hyph;1-c. Appoint a Biological Safety Officer (who is also a member of the Institutional Biosafety Committee) if the institution: (i) Conducts recombinant DNA research at Biosafety Level (BL) 3 or BL4, or (ii) engages in large scale (greater than 10 liters) research. The Biological Safety Officer carries out the duties specified in Section IV-B&hyph;3. Section IV-B&hyph;1-d. Assist and ensure compliance with the NIH Guidelines by Principal Investigators conducting research at the institution as specified in Section IV-B&hyph;4. Section IV-B&hyph;1-e. Ensure appropriate training for the Institutional Biosafety Committee Chair and members, Biological Safety Officer (when applicable), Principal Investigators, and laboratory staff regarding laboratory safety and implementation of the NIH Guidelines. The Institutional Biosafety Committee Chair is responsible for ensuring that Institutional Biosafety Committee members are appropriately trained. The Principal Investigator is responsible for ensuring that laboratory staff are appropriately trained. The institution is responsible for ensuring that the Principal Investigator has sufficient training; however, this responsibility may be delegated to the Institutional Biosafety Committee. Section IV-B&hyph;1-f. Determine the necessity for health surveillance of personnel involved in connection with individual recombinant DNA projects; and if appropriate, conduct a health surveillance program for such projects. The institution shall establish and maintain a health surveillance program for personnel engaged in large scale research or production activities involving viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules which require BL3 containment at the laboratory scale. The institution shall establish and maintain a health surveillance program for personnel engaged in animal research involving viable recombinant DNA-containing microorganisms that require BL3 or greater containment in the laboratory. The Laboratory Safety Monograph discusses various components of such a program (e.g., records of agents handled, active investigation of relevant illnesses, and the maintenance of serial serum samples for monitoring serologic changes that may result from the employees' work experience). Certain medical conditions may place a laboratory worker at increased risk in any endeavor where infectious agents are handled. Examples cited in the Laboratory Safety Monograph include gastrointestinal disorders and treatment with steroids, immunosuppressive drugs, or antibiotics. Workers with such disorders or treatment should be evaluated to determine whether they should be engaged in research with potentially hazardous organisms during their treatment or illness. Copies of the Laboratory Safety Monograph are available from the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, National Institutes of Health, Building 31, Room 4B11, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, (301) 496&hyph; 9838. Section IV-B&hyph;1-g. Report any significant problems, violations of the NIH Guidelines, or any significant research-related accidents and illnesses to NIH/ORDA within thirty days, unless the institution determines that a report has already been filed by the Principal Investigator or Institutional Biosafety Committee. Reports shall be sent to the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, National Institutes of Health, Building 31, Room 4B11, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, (301) 496&hyph;9838. Section IV-B&hyph;2. Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) The institution shall establish an Institutional Biosafety Committee whose responsibilities need not be restricted to recombinant DNA. The Institutional Biosafety Committee shall meet the following requirements: Section IV-B&hyph;2-a. Membership and Procedures Section IV-B&hyph;2-a-(1). The Institutional Biosafety Committee must be comprised of no fewer than five members so selected that they collectively have experience and expertise in recombinant DNA technology and the capability to assess the safety of recombinant DNA research and to identify any potential risk to public health or the environment. At least two members shall not be affiliated with the institution (apart from their membership on the Institutional Biosafety Committee) and who represent the interest of the surrounding community with respect to health and protection of the environment (e.g., officials of state or local public health or environmental protection agencies, members of other local governmental bodies, or persons active in medical, occupational health, or environmental concerns in the community). The Institutional Biosafety Committee shall include at least one individual with expertise in plant, plant pathogen, or plant pest containment principles when experiments utilizing Appendix P require prior approval by the Institutional Biosafety Committee. The Institutional Biosafety Committee shall include at least one scientist with expertise in animal containment principles when experiments utilizing Appendix Q require Institutional Biosafety Committee prior approval. When the institution conducts recombinant DNA research at BL3 or BL4, a Biological Safety Officer is mandatory and shall be a member of the Institutional Biosafety Committee (see Section IV-B&hyph;3).
