FR940325-0-00085 FR940325-0-00016 A number of commenters also objected to the Department's statement that Congress did not intend to allow trustee officials to simply restore the abstract services provided by a resource through an artificial mechanism. Some commenters asked the Department to clarify that its concern lies with creation of an artificial resource rather than use of a manufactured device to restore the injured resource. Response: As noted in the July 22, 1993, Federal Register notice, the Department did not intend to change the focus of restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources in this rulemaking. The Department has always intended restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources to involve actions taken to return a resource to baseline. Apparent inconsistencies in the rule arise because trustee officials need a means of measuring injury in order to determine when restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources is complete, and the concept of services provides that means. As was stated in the August 1, 1986, preamble to the original type B rule: Traditionally humans have valued natural resources in monetary terms on the basis of services provided by the resources. This method logically may be extended to valuing damages to an injured resource on the basis of changes in services. This rule establishes the link between measured adverse changes in the condition of the resource, the injury, and the damages through the measurement of changes in the services provided by the injured resource. 51 FR 27686. In other words, although it is the natural resource that trustee officials are restoring, rehabilitating, replacing, and/or acquiring the equivalent of, such actions cause an increase in services, and that increase in services is used to measure the level of restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources. As evidenced by the statutory provision allowing trustee officials to acquire equivalent natural resources, Congress did not envision that trustee officials would, could, or should always replicate the exact same injured resources. Therefore, the rule gives trustee officials the discretion to decide, based on consideration of designated factors, how best to provide the public with natural resources that offer the same baseline level of services. Further, trustee officials have the discretion to decide which services to consider when determining the necessary level of restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources. The Department does not believe that using baseline service levels to measure restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources fails to make the public whole. In the groundwater example offered by the commenters, the resource may well provide a service other than that of being a drinking water supply. For example, in the August 1, 1986, preamble to the original type B rule, the Department noted that one service provided by resources with low baseline concentrations of hazardous substances or oil is the service of ``being able to absorb low levels of that material without exceeding standards or without other effects.'' 51 FR 27716. Trustee officials have the discretion to consider this and other services when determining the necessary level of restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources. Also, the Department does not think that using baseline services to measure restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources violates the Ohio v. Interior holding concerning committed uses. The term ``committed use,'' which applies only to calculation of compensable values, refers to human uses of resources. The definition of ``services,'' which was not affected by this rulemaking, includes more than just functions provided by the injured resource for humans. When determining the necessary level of restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources, trustee officials have the discretion to consider services provided by the injured resource for another resource, regardless of whether there is a committed human use of those services. Finally, the Department did not intend to suggest in the July 22, 1993, Federal Register notice that trustee officials may not use manufactured devices to assist the restoration of injured resources. The Department simply meant that trustee officials should not replace injured natural resources with artificial resources.
