FR940325-0-00035 FR940325-0-00009 No changes were made to the proposed rule. VI. Environmental Impact EPA believes that the ABT program changes implemented today will not interfere with the program safeguards which are designed to ensure that overall emissions do not increase with the existence of the ABT program. These environmental safeguards are: the limit on credit life, the restrictions on averaging sets, and the discounting of banked or traded credits. This change in credit accounting will result in having more credits available for use in MY 1994&hyph;1996 than previously anticipated under the LIFO credit accounting system. 2 However, these credits represent emission reductions that have in fact occurred, and the credits themselves cannot exist longer than their limited credit life. 2 For a preliminary estimate of the number of credits affected, see ``Industry Aggregate of Credit Availabilities When Comparing the Use of LIFO vs. FIFO in MY 1992,'' Memorandum from Paulina Chen to the docket for this rulemaking (September 13, 1993). Due to the connection between credit information and confidential sales information, EPA regulations on the release of confidential business information have restricted the public's opportunity to review manufacturers' submissions of credit generation and usage. EPA is currently discussing with participating manufacturers the possibility of finding and implementing a means of allowing the public to access enough information to make general assessments of the effectiveness of the program on a regular basis. The Engine Manufacturers Association concurs that it is important to provide an ongoing opportunity for the public to evaluate the overall progress of the program. EPA and EMA expect to finalize an agreement in the near future on the periodic release of credit data in a format that would be useful to the public. VII. Economic Impact The changes made today are minor adjustments to the ABT program to remove an unintended disincentive that may inhibit manufacturers from participating fully in the ABT program. The ABT program is intended to provide the flexibility necessary for heavy-duty engine manufacturers to use a mix of emission controls in such a way that will minimize the cost of meeting the established standards. These changes should help manufacturers reduce their costs of compliance with emission standards. VIII. Administrative Designation and Regulatory Analysis Under Executive Order 12866, (58 FR 51735 (October 4, 1993)) the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to OMB review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. OMB has exempted this regulatory action from Executive Order 12866 review. IX. Impact on Small Entities The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 requires federal agencies to consider potentially adverse impacts of federal regulations upon small entities. In instances where significant impacts are possible on a substantial number of these entities, agencies are required to perform a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis. There will not be a significant adverse impact on a substantial number of small business entities due to the changes made to the Averaging, Banking, and Trading program, because the heavy-duty engine manufacturers affected by these regulations are not small business entities. Therefore, as required under section 605 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. , I certify that this regulation does not have a significant adverse impact on a substantial number of small entities. X. Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements The information collection requirements make no changes to those currently approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. and have been assigned control number 2060&hyph;0104. XI. Statutory Authority Authority for actions promulgated in this final rule are granted to EPA by sections 202, 206(a)(1), 207, 208, and 301 of the Clean Air Act as amended. XII. Judicial Review Under section 307(b) of the Clean Air Act, EPA hereby finds that these regulations are of national applicability. Accordingly, judicial review of this action is available only by filing a petition for review in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit within 60 days of publication. Under section 307(b)(2) of the Act, the requirements which are the subject of today's notice may not be challenged later in judicial proceedings brought by EPA to enforce these requirements. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 86 Administrative practice and procedure, Air pollution control, Motor vehicle pollution, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: March 17, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
