FR940524-2-00106 FR940524-2-00057 The Parties shall identify specific projects for cooperation in transportation science and technology within the above-mentioned fields. Identification of areas of cooperation and their implementation will be made as mutually agreed by the Parties, while paying due attention to the state of art of technology regarding such projects. Article III The Parties agree that cooperation may be pursued through one or several methods, as mutually agreed, including, but not limited to, the following: 1. Annual meetings, alternating between the two countries, of a panel of experts from the United States of America and Japan to present progress reports and plans, including visits to facilities where research and development is conducted, and for technical discussions. 2. Exchange of technical information such as databases, publications, drawings, and photographs. 3. Exchange of experts. 4. Joint organizations of symposia, seminars, and other meetings. 5. Joint research in scientific and managerial subjects. Article IV With regard to the cooperative activities under this Arrangement, the Parties may allow, as appropriate, the participation of other relevant governmental agencies, researchers and organizations from all sectors of the research establishment, including universities, national laboratories, and the private sector. Article V In order to coordinate the cooperative activities, each Party shall designate a representative to be responsible for determining the particular directions of cooperation and for ensuring the effectiveness of exchange. The representatives of the Parties or their designated coordinators will, by correspondence, consult with each other and define the cooperative activities and other related matters. When necessary, and as mutually agreed, they shall meet to consider matters related to the implementation of this Arrangement. The Parties shall name their respective representatives and coordinators if appropriate within thirty (30) days of the entry into force of this Arrangement. Article VI The cooperation shall be subject to the availability of appropriated funds and personnel, and to the applicable laws and regulations in each country. Article VII Specific cooperative projects and activities shall be embodied in separate agreements or plans between the Parties, which will cover the subject, procedures, and terms of cooperation to be undertaken, the entities involved, funding, and other appropriate matters related to the conditions of such cooperation. Cost-sharing arrangements shall be agreed upon on a case-by-case basis. Article VIII The Parties shall consult, as appropriate in respect of any matter that may arise from, or in connection with, the cooperation. Article IX Scientific and technical information of a non-proprietary nature derived from the cooperative activities conducted under this Arrangement may be made available to the public through customary channels and, in accordance with, the normal procedures of the Parties and other governmental entities involved in the cooperative activities. Article X The Parties agree with respect to the protection and distribution of intellectual property rights, created or furnished in the course of cooperative activities under this Arrangement, that they shall be bound by the provisions of Annex IV to the Agreement. Article XI Information transmitted by one Party to the other under this Arrangement shall be accurate to the best knowledge and belief of the transmitting Party, but the transmitting Party shall not be liable for the content or use of such information. Article XII This Arrangement shall enter into force upon signature by both parties and shall remain in force so long as the Agreement remains in force. However, either Party may at any time give written notice to the other of its intention to terminate this Arrangement, in which case this Arrangement shall terminate six (6) months after such notice has been given. Termination of this Implementing Arrangement shall not affect any activities initiated under its provisions, but not yet completed at the time of termination, unless otherwise agreed, and shall not in any way affect rights and obligations with regard to intellectual property. The Arrangement may be amended by written agreement of the Parties. Done at Washington, this 10th day of February, 1994, in duplicate, in the English and Japanese languages, both texts being equally authentic. For the Department of Transportation of the United States of America. Federico F. Peña, The Secretary of Transportation of the United States of America. For the Ministry of Transport of Japan. Shigeru Ito, The Minister of Transport of Japan. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12612 Filed 5&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;62&hyph;P
