FR940705-2-00216 FR940705-2-00091 Appendix K&hyph;VII&hyph;J. Minimization. Minimization is the design and operation of containment systems in order that any incidental release is a de minimis release. Appendix K&hyph;VII&hyph;K. Pathogen. A pathogen is any microbiological agent or eukaryotic cell containing sufficient genetic information, which upon expression of such information, is capable of producing disease in healthy people, plants, or animals. Appendix K&hyph;VII&hyph;L. Physical Barrier. A physical barrier is considered any equipment, facilities, or devices (e.g., fermentors, factories, filters, thermal oxidizers) which are designed to achieve containment. Appendix K&hyph;VII&hyph;M. Release. Release is the discharge of a microbiological agent or eukaryotic cell from a containment system. Discharges can be incidental or accidental. Incidental releases are de minimis in nature; accidental releases may be de minimis in nature. Appendix L. Release into the Environment of Certain Plants Appendix L&hyph;I. General Information Appendix L specifies conditions under which certain plants as specified below, may be approved for release into the environment. Experiments in this category cannot be initiated without submission of relevant information on the proposed experiment to NIH, review by the RAC Plant Subcommittee, and specific approval by the NIH Director. Such experiments also require the approval of the Institutional Biosafety Committee before initiation. Appendix L&hyph;II. Criteria Allowing Review by the RAC Plant Subcommittee Without the Requirement for Full RAC Review In consultation with the RAC Plant Subcommittee and without the requirement for full RAC review (Institutional Biosafety Committee review and approval is necessary), NIH/ORDA may approve the growing of plants containing recombinant DNA in the field under the following conditions: (i) The plant species is a cultivated crop of a genus that has no species known to be a noxious weed; (ii) the introduced DNA consists of well-characterized genes containing no sequences harmful to humans, animals, or plants; (iii) the vector consists of DNA from exempt host-vector systems (see Appendix C), from plants of the same or closely related species, from nonpathogenic prokaryotes or nonpathogenic lower eukaryotic plants, from plants pathogens only if sequences resulting in production of disease symptoms have been deleted, or chimeric vectors constructed from sequences of exempt host-vector systems (see Appendix C) or from sequences from plant pathogens in which the disease symptoms have been deleted. The DNA may be introduced by any suitable method. If sequences resulting in production of disease symptoms are retained for purposes of introducing the DNA into the plant, greenhouse-grown plants must be shown to be free of such sequences before such plants, their derivatives, or seed can be used in field tests; (iv) plants are grown in controlled access fields under specified conditions appropriate for the plant under study and the geographical location. Such conditions should include provisions for using good cultural and pest control practices, for physical isolation from plants of the same species outside of the experimental plot in accordance with pollination characteristics of the species, and the prevention of plants containing recombinant DNA from becoming established in the environment. Review by the Institutional Biosafety Committee should include an appraisal by scientists knowledgeable of the crop, its production practices, and the local geographical conditions. Procedures for assessing alterations in and the spread of organisms containing recombinant DNA must be developed. The results of the outlined tests must be submitted for review and approval by the Institutional Biosafety Committee. Copies of such results must be submitted to the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, National Institutes of Health, Building 31, Room 4B11, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, (301) 496&hyph;9838. Appendix M. Points to Consider in the Design and Submission of Protocols for the Transfer of Recombinant DNA Molecules Into the Genome of One or More Human Subjects Appendix M applies to research conducted at or sponsored by an institution that receives any support for recombinant DNA research from the NIH. Researchers not covered by the NIH Guidelines are encouraged to use Appendix M. Experiments in which recombinant DNA or DNA or RNA derived from recombinant DNA is introduced into one or more human subjects with the intent of stably modifying his/her genome are covered by Sections III&hyph;A&hyph;2, III&hyph;B&hyph;2, and III&hyph;B&hyph;3 (see Section V&hyph;U). Experiments in which recombinant DNA or DNA or RNA derived from recombinant DNA and that are not covered by Sections III&hyph;A&hyph;2, III&hyph;B&hyph;2, or III&hyph;B&hyph;3 and that are not considered exempt under Section V&hyph;U, are covered under Section III&hyph;C&hyph;7. This document is intended to provide guidance in preparing proposals for NIH consideration under Sections III&hyph;A&hyph;2 and III&hyph;B&hyph;2. Section III&hyph;A&hyph;2 addresses Major Actions involving the transfer of recombinant DNA or DNA or RNA derived from recombinant DNA into one or more human subjects that have been determined by NIH/ORDA, in consultation with the RAC Chair and one or more RAC members, as necessary, to: (i) Represent novel characteristics (e.g., target disease or vector), (ii) represent an uncertain degree of risk to human health or the environment, or (iii) contain information determined to require further public review. Proposals considered under Section III&hyph;A&hyph;2 will be reviewed by the RAC and approved by the NIH Director. RAC review of experiments considered under Section III&hyph;A&hyph;2 will follow publication of a precis of the proposal in the Federal Register and an opportunity for public comment. Section III&hyph;B&hyph;2 addresses Minor Actions involving the transfer of recombinant DNA or DNA or RNA derived from recombinant DNA into one or more human subjects that have been determined by NIH/ORDA, in consultation with the RAC Chair and one or more RAC members, as necessary, to qualify for the Accelerated Review process. Proposals considered under Sections III&hyph;A&hyph;2 and III&hyph;B&hyph;2 will be on a case-by-case basis. A list of actions approved under Sections III&hyph;A&hyph;2 and III&hyph;B&hyph;2 involving the transfer of recombinant DNA or DNA or RNA derived from recombinant DNA into one or more human subjects is available from the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, National Institutes of Health, Building 31, Room 4B11, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, (301) 496&hyph;9838. The list of actions to the NIH Guidelines involving the transfer of recombinant DNA or DNA or RNA derived from recombinant DNA into one or more human subjects does not include experiments considered to be exempt from RAC and NIH/ORDA review under Section III&hyph;C&hyph;7. Since the recombinant DNA or DNA or RNA derived from recombinant DNA is expected to be confined following transfer to one or more human subjects, no risk to public health or to the environment is expected. Nevertheless, Appendix M&hyph;I&hyph;B&hyph;4&hyph;b specifically asks the researchers to address this point.
