FR941205-1-00009 FR941205-1-00003 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Introduction The OTS is proposing today to simplify its current capital distributions regulation in light of both its implementation of PCA and the improved capital position of the thrift industry. The proposal reduces the regulatory burden and compliance costs associated with capital distributions and, for the healthiest savings associations, removes those costs and burden entirely to the extent permitted by statute. Adequately or well capitalized savings associations that (1) are not held by savings and loan holding companies 1 ; (2) have a composite rating of ``1'' or ``2;'' (3) are not deemed to be in ``troubled condition;'' and (4) will remain at least adequately capitalized after the proposed capital distribution are not required to provide notice to the OTS before making capital distributions. Notice is not required because these associations are in the two highest rating categories and the rule requires that savings associations continue to be adequately capitalized after the capital distribution. 1 Section 10(f) of the Home Owners Loan Act of 1933, as amended, requires that every subsidiary savings association of a savings and loan holding company give the Director of the OTS no less than 30 days advance notice of the proposed declaration by its directors of any dividend on its guaranty, permanent, or other nonwithdrawable stock. See 12 U.S.C. 1467a(f). In 1990, the OTS adopted a capital distributions regulation, 12 CFR 563.134, 55 FR 17185 (July 2, 1990), designed to apply a uniform regulatory approach to all capital distributions made by savings associations, including dividends, stock repurchases, and cash-out mergers. The OTS adopted this rule during a period when the thrift industry was considered generally undercapitalized. The rule established a ``tiered'' approach under which an association's ability to make capital distributions varied according to its level of capitalization. Associations that met their fully phased-in capital requirements had greater flexibility to make capital distributions than associations that did not. All associations were required either to provide notice to the OTS or to apply for approval before making any capital distribution. At that time, thrifts were under pressure to increase capital in order to meet rapidly rising standards and the regulation was intended to restrict capital distributions by associations that were not expected to meet the FIRREA capital requirements. In September 1992, the OTS promulgated its Prompt Corrective Action Final Rule (PCA Rule). 57 FR 44866 (September 29, 1992). The PCA Rule implemented section 131 of FDICIA, 2 which created a new statutory framework that applies to all insured depository institutions a system of supervisory actions indexed to capital levels. Well-capitalized and adequately capitalized institutions are generally not subject to PCA restrictions; 3 institutions falling into the undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically undercapitalized categories are subject to increasing levels of supervisory restrictions. Under the PCA Rule, the ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets, the ratio of core capital to risk-weighted assets, and the ratio of core capital to total average assets (the leverage ratio) 4 are used to determine a thrift's PCA category. 2 Section 131 of FDICIA added a new section 38 to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. The provision is codified at 12 U.S.C. 1831o. The OTS's implementing regulations appear at 12 CFR Part 565. 3 Under certain circumstances, an institution may be reclassified to a lower capital category or treated as if it were in a lower capital category. See 12 CFR 565.4(c). 4 Core capital, which is defined in part 567 of the OTS's regulations, is the thrift capital measure comparable to Tier 1 capital for banks. 12 CFR Part 567. In the preamble to the PCA Rule, the OTS indicated ``that the permissibility of capital distributions will be determined by the prompt corrective action regulations.'' 5 Moreover, specific regulatory incentives are now in place to encourage associations to maintain high capital levels, which was the original goal of the capital distributions regulation. Additionally, the capital tier thresholds in the current regulation have become partially obsolete as associations have met targets for the fully phased-in capital requirements under part 567. 5 See 57 FR at 44868.
