FR940804-1-00002 FR940804-1-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Commodity Credit Corporation 7 CFR Part 1413 RIN 0560&hyph;AD37 1995 Feed Grain Acreage Reduction Program AGENCY: Commodity Credit Corporation, USDA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This proposed rule would amend the regulations: to set forth the acreage reduction percentage for each of the 1995 feed grain crops; to require that producers of malting barley comply with acreage reduction requirements to maintain eligibility for feed grain loans, purchases, and payments; and to provide that a paid land diversion (PLD) program will not be in effect. Producers who participate in the Feed Grain Acreage Reduction Program (ARP) would be eligible for benefits such as price support loans and deficiency payments. This action is required by section 105B of the Agricultural Act of 1949, as amended (the 1949 Act). DATES: Comments must be received on or before September 14, 1994, in order to be assured of consideration. ADDRESSES: Comments must be mailed to Director, Grains Analysis Division, Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS), U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), P.O. Box 2415, room 3742&hyph;S, Washington, DC 20013&hyph;2415. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Philip W. Sronce, Director, Grains Analysis Division, ASCS, USDA, room 3742&hyph;S, P.O. Box 2415, Washington, DC 20013&hyph;2415 or call 202&hyph;720&hyph;4418. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Executive Order 12866 This rule is issued in accordance with Executive Order 12866. Based on information compiled by the USDA, this proposed rule has been determined to be ``economically significant'' because it would have an annual effect on the economy of more than $100 million and would materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlement, or loan programs or rights and obligations of recipients thereof. Budget outlays for deficiency payments are expected to range from $1.5 to $3.5 billion annually. This proposed rule would not adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local or tribal governments or communities; would not create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; and would not raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or principles set forth in Executive Order 12866. Regulatory Flexibility Act It has been determined that the Regulatory Flexibility Act is applicable to this proposed rule since the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) is required by section 105B(o) of the 1949 Act to request comments with respect to the subject matter of this rule. An Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis was prepared, which determined that this regulation will have no significant impact on a substantial number of small entities because the particular acreage reduction percentages considered will not affect the paperwork, reporting, or compliance burdens of the small entities in the program. CCC thus certifies that the rule will have no significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Preliminary Regulatory Impact Analysis The Preliminary Regulatory Impact Analysis describing the options considered in developing this proposed rule and the impact of the implementation of each option is available on request from the above-named individual. Environmental Evaluation It has been determined by an environmental evaluation that this action will not have a significant impact on the quality of the human environment. Therefore, neither an Environmental Assessment nor an Environmental Impact Statement is needed. Federal Assistance Program The title and number of the Federal Assistance Program, as found in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance, to which this rule applies are: Feed Grain Production Stabilization_10.055. Executive Order 12778 This proposed rule has been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12778. The provisions of this proposed rule do not preempt State laws, are not retroactive, and do not require the exhaustion of any administrative appeal remedies. Executive Order 12372 This program is not subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372, which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials. See notice related to 7 CFR part 3015, subpart V, published at 48 FR 29115 (June 24, 1983). Paperwork Reduction Act The amendments to 7 CFR part 1413 set forth in this proposed rule do not contain information collections that require clearance by the Office of Management and Budget under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 35. Public Comments Comments are requested with respect to this proposed rule and such comments shall be considered in developing the final rule. Statutory Background In accordance with section 105B of the 1949 Act, an ARP is required to be implemented for the 1995 crops of corn, grain sorghum, or barley if it is determined that the total supply of each respective feed grain would otherwise be excessive. Land diversion payments also may be made to producers if needed to adjust the total national acreage of feed grains to desirable goals. A PLD program is not being considered because, given the allowed ARP percentages, it is not needed. If an ARP is announced, the reduction shall be achieved by applying a uniform percentage reduction to the respective feed grain acreage base for the farm. In making such a determination, the number of acres placed into the agricultural resources conservation program established under subtitle D of title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985, as amended, must be taken into consideration. Producers who knowingly produce feed grains in excess of the respective permitted acreage for the farm plus any respective feed grain acreage planted in accordance with the flexibility provisions are ineligible for loans and purchases and all payments with respect to that crop on the farm. If an ARP program for the 1995 crop is in effect, the program must be announced no later than September 30, 1994. Adjustments in the announced program may be made if it is determined that there has been a significant change in the total supply of feed grains since the program was first announced. These adjustments must be made no later than November 15, 1994. In accordance with section 105B of the 1949 Act, not less than 60 days before the program is announced for a crop of feed grains, proposals for public comment on various program options for the crop of feed grains are required to be set forth. Each option must be accompanied by an analysis that includes the estimated planted acreage, production, domestic and export use, ending stocks, season average producer price, program participation rate, and cost to the Federal Government that would likely result from each option. In determining the 1995 corn ARP, the Secretary will choose a specific ARP reduction percentage from within a range established by the estimated ending stocks-to-use (S/U) ratio for the 1994/95 corn marketing year. If it is estimated that the 1994/95 ending S/U ratio in percentage terms will be:
