FR940504-0-00009 FR940504-0-00002 (c) Paying bank's and returning bank's agreement. The warranties, authorizations, and agreements made pursuant to this paragraph may not be disclaimed and are made whether or not the returned check bears an indorsement of the paying bank or returning bank. By sending a returned check to a Reserve Bank, the paying bank or returning bank_ * * * * * (2) Makes the warranties set forth in §229.34 of this title (but this paragraph does not limit any warranty by a paying or returning bank arising under state law); and * * * * * (d) Warranties by Reserve Bank. By sending a returned check and receiving settlement or other consideration for it, a Reserve Bank makes the returning bank warranties as set forth in §229.34 of this title, subject to the terms of part 229 of this title. The Reserve Bank shall not have or assume any other liability to the transferee returning bank, to any subsequent returning bank, to the depository bank, to the owner of the check, or to any other person, except for the Reserve Bank's own lack of good faith or failure to exercise ordinary care as provided in subpart C of part 229 of this title. (e) *␣*␣* The Reserve Bank may, upon the entry of a final judgment or decree, recover from the paying bank or returning bank the amount of attorneys' fees and other expenses of litigation incurred, as well as any amount the Reserve Bank is required to pay because of the judgment or decree or the tender of defense, together with interest thereon. * * * * * (h) Settlement. A subsequent returning bank or depositary bank shall settle for returned checks in the same manner and by the same time as for cash items presented for payment under this subpart. (i) Security interest. To secure any obligation due or to become due to a Reserve Bank by a paying bank, returning bank, or prior returning bank under this subpart or subpart C of part 229 of this title, the paying bank, returning bank, and prior returning bank, by sending a returned check directly or indirectly to the Reserve Bank, grant to the Reserve Bank a security interest in all of the paying bank's, returning bank's, and prior returning bank's assets in the possession of, or held for the account of, the Reserve Bank. The security interest attaches when a warranty is breached or any other obligation to the Reserve Bank is incurred. If the Reserve Bank, in its sole discretion, deems itself insecure and gives notice thereof to the paying bank, returning bank, or prior returning bank, or if the paying bank, returning bank, or prior returning bank suspends payments or is closed, the Reserve Bank may take any action authorized by law to recover the amount of an obligation, including, but not limited to, the exercise of rights of set off, the realization on any available collateral, and any other rights it may have as a creditor under applicable law. 9. Section 210.13 is revised to read as follows: §210.13 Unpaid items. (a) Right of recovery. If a Reserve Bank does not receive payment in actually and finally collected funds for an item, the Reserve Bank shall recover by charge-back or otherwise the amount of the item from the sender, prior collecting bank, paying bank, or returning bank from or through which it was received, whether or not the item itself can be sent back. In the event of recovery from such a party, no party, including the owner or holder of the item, shall, for the purpose of obtaining payment of the amount of the item, have any interest in any reserve balance or other funds or property in the Reserve Bank's possession of the bank that failed to make payment in actually and finally collected funds. (b) Suspension or closing of bank. A Reserve Bank shall not pay or act on a draft, authorization to charge (including a charge authorized by §210.9(a)(5)), or other order on a reserve balance or other funds in its possession for the purpose of settling for items under §210.9 or §210.12 after it receives notice of suspension or closing of the bank making the settlement for that bank's own or another's account. 10. Section 210.14 is revised to read as follows: §210.14 Extension of time limits. If a bank (including a Reserve Bank) or nonbank payor is delayed in acting on an item beyond applicable time limits because of interruption of communication or computer facilities, suspension of payments by a bank or nonbank payor, war, emergency conditions, failure of equipment, or other circumstances beyond its control, its time for acting is extended for the time necessary to complete the action, if it exercises such diligence as the circumstances require. By order of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, April 28, 1994. William W. Wiles, Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10645 Filed 5&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210&hyph;01&hyph;P
