FR940727-0-00137 FR940727-0-00026 §95.72 Subsequent adjustments and continuing responsibilities. (a) The closeout of an award does not affect any of the following: (1) The right of DOL to disallow costs and recover funds on the basis of a later audit or other review. (2) The obligation of the recipient to return any funds due as a result of later refunds, corrections, or other transactions. (3) Audit requirements in §95.26. (4) Property management requirements in §§95.31 through 95.37. (5) Records retention as required in §95.53. (b) After closeout of an award, a relationship created under an award may be modified or ended in whole or in part with the consent of DOL and the recipient, provided the responsibilities of the recipient referred to in §95.73(a), including those for property management as applicable, are considered and provisions made for continuing responsibilities of the recipient, as appropriate. §95.73 Collection of amounts due. (a) Any funds paid to a recipient in excess of the amount to which the recipient is finally determined to be entitled under the terms and conditions of the award constitute a debt to the Federal Government. If not paid within a reasonable period after the demand for payment, DOL may reduce the debt by paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section. (1) Making an administrative offset against other requests for reimbursements. (2) Withholding advance payments otherwise due to the recipient. (3) Taking other action permitted by statute. (b) Except as otherwise provided by law, DOL shall charge interest on an overdue debt in accordance with 4 CFR Chapter II, ``Federal Claims Collection Standards.'' Appendix A to Part 95_Contract Provisions All contracts, awarded by a recipient including small purchases, shall contain the following provisions as applicable: 1. Equal Employment Opportunity _All contracts shall contain a provision requiring compliance with E.O. 11246, ``Equal Employment Opportunity,'' as amended by E.O. 11375, ``Amending Executive Order 11246 Relating to Equal Employment Opportunity,'' and as supplemented by regulations at 41 CFR part 60, ``Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor.'' 2. Copeland ``Anti-Kickback'' Act (18 U.S.C. 874 and 40 U.S.C. 276c)_ All contracts and subgrants in excess of $2000 for construction or repair awarded by recipients and subrecipients shall include a provision for compliance with the Copeland ``Anti-Kickback'' Act (18 U.S.C. §874), as supplemented by Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR part 3, ``Contractors and Subcontractors on Public Building or Public Work Financed in Whole or in Part by Loans or Grants from the United States''). The Act provides that each contractor or subrecipient shall be prohibited from inducing, by any means, any person employed in the construction, completion, or repair of public work, to give up any part of the compensation to which one is otherwise entitled. The recipient shall report all suspected or reported violations to the Federal awarding agency. 3. Davis-Bacon Act, as amended (40 U.S.C. 276a to a-7) _When required by Federal program legislation, all construction contracts awarded by the recipients and subrecipients of more than $2000 shall include a provision for compliance with the Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. §276a to a-7) and as supplemented by Department of Labor regulations (29 CFR part 5, ``Labor Standards Provisions Applicable to Contracts Governing Federally Financed and Assisted Construction''). Under this Act, contractors shall be required to pay wages to laborers and mechanics at a rate not less than the minimum wages specified in a wage determination made by the Secretary of Labor. In addition, contractors shall be required to pay wages not less than once a week. The recipient shall place a copy of the current prevailing wage determination issued by the Department of Labor in each solicitation and the award of a contract shall be conditioned upon the acceptance of the wage determination. The recipient shall report all suspected or reported violations to the Federal awarding agency.
