FR940323-0-00112 FR940323-0-00025 (c) A researcher who is an employee of the Bureau, in addition to presenting the statement of informed consent to the subject, shall also obtain the subject's signature on the statement of informed consent, when: (1) The subject's activity requires something other than response to a questionnaire or interview; or (2) The Chief, ORE, determines the research project or data-collection instrument is of a sensitive nature. (d) A researcher who is a non-employee of the Bureau, in addition to presenting the statement of informed consent to the subject, shall also obtain the subject's signature on the statement of informed consent prior to initiating the research activity. The researcher may not be required to obtain the signature if the researcher can demonstrate that the only link to the subject's identity is the signed statement of informed consent or that there is significantly more risk to the subject if the statement is signed. The signed statement shall be submitted to the chairperson of the appropriate local research review board. §512.17 Monitoring approved research projects. The BRRB shall monitor all research projects for compliance with Bureau policies. At a minimum, yearly reviews will be conducted. §512.18 Termination or suspension. The Director, Bureau of Prisons, may suspend or terminate a research project if it is believed that the project violates research policy or that its continuation may prove detrimental to the inmate population, the staff, or the orderly operation of the institution. §512.19 Reports. The researcher shall prepare reports of progress on the research and at least one report of findings. (a) At least once a year, the researcher shall provide the Chief, ORE, with a report on the progress of the research. (b) At least 12 working days before any report of findings is to be released, the researcher shall distribute one copy of the report to each of the following: the chairperson of the BRRB, the regional director, and the warden of each institution which provided data or assistance. The researcher shall include an abstract in the report of findings. §512.20 Publication of results of research project. (a) A researcher may publish in book form and professional journals the results of any research project conducted under this rule. (1) In any publication of results, the researcher shall acknowledge the Bureau's participation in the research project. (2) The researcher shall expressly disclaim approval or endorsement of the published material as an expression of the policies or views of the Bureau. (b) Prior to submitting for publication the results of a research project conducted under this rule, the researcher shall provide two copies of the material, for informational purposes only, to the Chief, Office of Research and Evaluation, Central Office, Bureau of Prisons. §512.21 Copyright provisions. (a) An employee of the Bureau may not copyright any work prepared as part of his/her official duties. (b) As a precondition to the conduct of research under this rule, a non-employee shall grant in writing to the Bureau a royalty-free, non-exclusive, and irrevocable license to reproduce, publish, translate, and otherwise use and authorize others to publish and use original materials developed as a result of research conducted under this rule. (c) Subject to a royalty-free, non-exclusive and irrevocable license, which the Bureau of Prisons reserves, to reproduce, publish, translate, and otherwise use and authorize others to publish and use such materials, a non-employee may copyright original materials developed as a result of research conducted under this rule. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6849 Filed 3&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;05&hyph;P
