FR940913-2-00010 FR940913-2-00006 CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY Privacy Act of 1974: Amendment of CIA System of Records (CIA&hyph;72) and Elimination of CIA System of Records (CIA&hyph;15) AGENCY: Central Intelligence Agency. ACTION: Notice of amended and eliminated system of records subject to the Privacy Act. SUMMARY: The Central Intelligence Agency is providing notice of the amendment of a system of records and the elimination of a system of records in its current inventory of records systems subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552a). EFFECTIVE DATE: This action is effective October 13, 1994, unless comments are received which would result in a contrary determination. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John H. Wright, Information and Privacy Coordinator, Central Intelligence Agency, Washington, D.C. 20505, telephone: (703) 351&hyph;2083. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The record system, identified as CIA&hyph;72, is to be entitled: Inspector General Investigative Records. CIA&hyph;72 has been updated and expanded to include appropriate portions of a system of records entitled ``Employee Grievance Files'' (CIA&hyph;15), which is hereby being eliminated as a CIA record system, pursuant to the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a). Accordingly, CIA&hyph;15 (as initially published in the Federal Register on 28 August 1975 and subsequently in the Federal Register Privacy Act Issuances Compilations, Volume IV, the latest of which was published in 1991, and in an upcoming 1993 compilation) is to be deleted from the listing of CIA Privacy Act systems of records. Because changes and additions have been made throughout amended CIA&hyph;72, as published in the Federal Register on 17 April 1992, it is being published herewith in its entirety. Dated: September 8, 1994. Frank J. Ruocco, Deputy Director for Administration. Structure of This Revision This revision affects primarily the ``ROUTINE USES OF RECORDS MAINTAINED IN THE SYSTEM, INCLUDING CATEGORIES OF USERS AND THE PURPOSES OF SUCH USES:'' section of CIA&hyph;72. Minor changes are made in other sections. The structural outline of this system with notations as to which parts are changed is presented below: System Name: [Changed] Inspector General Investigative Records. System Location: [Unchanged] Categories of Individuals Covered by the System: [Changed] This section now includes ``and persons who have filed grievances with the Office of Inspector General or Agency components.'' This revision incorporates records previously included in CIA&hyph;15, Employee Grievance Files. Categories of Records in the System: [Changed] This section includes ``prior criminal or non-criminal records of individuals covered by the system, and other materials relating to employee grievances and matters of interest to or being investigated by the Office of Inspector General.'' Authority for Maintenance of the System: [Changed] Additional authorities have been added to this section. Routine Uses of Records Maintained in the System, Including Categories of Users and the Purposes of Such Uses: [Changed] Paragraphs a, b, h, and i include information from the current version of CIA&hyph;72 as well as information previously included in CIA&hyph;15. Paragraphs c, d, e, f, g, j, k, and the last sentence of paragraph i add new material concerning additional uses of records maintained and purposes of such uses.
