FR941219-0-00050 FR941219-0-00014 Comment 34: One commenter thought the critical habitat designation is defective since the data supporting the expansion of critical habitat for the delta smelt was based on personal communications not available for the public review. Service Response: The Service relied on information that has been available to the public by contacting the California Department of Fish and Game, EPA or the Service. The administrative record for the critical habitat designation is and has been available for public inspection since publication of the initial proposed rule in 1991. Comment 35: One commenter urged the Service and the EPA to exhaust all possible remedies to recover the delta smelt (e.g., by using the Delta Protection Act) before more burdens were placed on California's water users with the designation of critical habitat. Service Response: Pursuant to 50 CFR 424.12, the Service must designate critical habitat unless it is not prudent to do so. The Service has not concluded that it is not prudent to designate critical habitat. Further, critical habitat is determinable. Therefore, the requirement at section 4(b)(6)(c)(ii) to publish a final designation by not more that one year after listing applies. Comment 36: One commenter felt the proposed critical habitat designation should be withdrawn since the Service did not comply with the statutory time period for designating critical habitat for the delta smelt. The commenter cited Idaho Farm Bureau Federation v. Babbitt, 839 F.Supp. 739 (D. Idaho 1993) to support its contention. Service Response: In this rulemaking, the Service first proposed critical habitat for the delta smelt in 1991. It revised its proposal in 1994 after public comment indicated that the Service had not included important spawning habitat for the species. These facts are significantly different from those of the case cited by the commenter. As such, the Service does not apply the holding in that case to this rulemaking effort. Comment 37: One commenter thought measures implemented in the past to protect delta smelt habitat be given a ``credit'' in any future section 7 consultation or section 10 determination with the Service. Service Response: Under sections 7 and 10 of the Act, the Service assesses the merits of project proposals on a case-by-case basis. In a formal section 7 consultation, the Service evaluates the effects of an action, creating an environmental baseline (50 CFR 402.14(g)(3)). This baseline includes the past and present impacts of all Federal, State, or private actions and other human activities in the action area, the anticipated impacts of all proposed Federal projects in the action area that have already undergone formal or early section 7 consultation, and the impact of State or private actions which are contemporaneous with the consultation in process (50 CFR 402.02). Conservation actions proposed by project proponents can be considered as suitable measures to reduce the impact of incidental take, or otherwise reduce, mitigate, and compensate for project effects. Economic Issues Comment 38: Many commenters thought the economic analysis prepared for the Service by the EPA was inadequate. Service Response: The economic analysis is described and its results are summarized in this final rule. The Service believes the economic analysis is sufficient in that it adequately and appropriately identifies costs of designating critical habitat. As such, it enables the Secretary to exclude areas from critical habitat designation if the benefits of an exclusion are found to outweigh the benefits of including an area as critical habitat. Comment 39: Several commenters accused the Service of incorrectly minimizing the economic impacts in the delta smelt critical habitat designation since the impacts associated with the critical habitat designation were separated from the economic impacts attributable to the listing of the species. Service Response: Section 4(b)(2) of the Act requires the Service to consider the economic and other relevant impacts of designating critical habitat. It does not direct the Service to assess the economic impacts of both listing the species and designating its critical habitat. Section 4(b)(1)(A) of the Act explicitly precludes the Service from considering the economic impacts of listing a species as threatened or endangered. The congressional intent behind inclusion of this statutory provision was to ensure that only relevant biological criteria are used to assess the ecological status of a species. The 1994 revised proposed critical habitat designation for the delta smelt explained the economic impacts attributable to listing and to critical habitat designation. Subsequent to listing and prior to this final critical habitat designation, protective measures for the delta smelt (e.g., as provided through section 7 consultation with the Bureau) have been in place and created economic impacts not associated with critical habitat designation. In a comprehensive economic analysis prepared by the EPA and other economists for the Service, the economic impacts attributed to designating critical habitat have been evaluated. The Service has not limited the examination of economic impacts so as to minimize the economic effects of designating critical habitat. Comment 40: One commenter thought that the Service could not begin to define critical habitat until it fully considered the economic impacts of the designation. The commenter thought a proposed rule for critical habitat could not be drafted until an economic analysis was conducted, and an opportunity to comment on the analysis was provided to interested parties. Another commenter thought the public should be able to comment on a revised critical habitat designation in the event the Secretary excludes portions of habitat which were included in the revised proposed rule.
