FR941220-2-00060 FR941220-2-00037 [Release No. 34&hyph;35102; File Nos. SR&hyph;AMEX&hyph;94&hyph;59; SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;49; SR&hyph;CHX&hyph;94&hyph;27; SR&hyph;MSRB&hyph;94&hyph;17; SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;72; SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;43; SR&hyph;PHLX&hyph;94&hyph;52; SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;94&hyph;35] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Changes by the American Stock Exchange, Inc., Chicago Board Options Exchange, Incorporated, Chicago Stock Exchange, Incorporated, Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., New York Stock Exchange, Inc., Pacific Stock Exchange Incorporated, and Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to a Continuing Education Requirement for Registered Persons December 15, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on November 30 and December 1, 5, 7, 12, 13, and 14, 1994, the Chicago Stock Exchange, Incorporated (``CHX''), the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Incorporated (``CBOE''), the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (``NYSE''), the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD''), the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (``MSRB'') and the Pacific Stock Exchange Incorporated (``PSE''), the American Stock Exchange, Inc. (``AMEX''), and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. (``PHLX''), respectively, (each individually referred to herein as a ``Self-Regulatory Organization'' or ``SRO,'' and two or more collectively referred to as ``Self-Regulatory Organizations'' or ``SROs'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') the proposed rule changes as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared primarily by the SROs. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule changes from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organizations' Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Changes The SROs propose to amend their rules to establish a formal, two-part continuing education program for securities industry professionals that includes a Regulatory Element requiring uniform, periodic training in regulatory matters, and a Firm Element requiring members 2 to maintain ongoing programs to keep their registered persons 3 up-to-date on job and product related subjects. 2 As used herein, the term ``members'' refers to: members and member organizations when used with reference to the AMEX, CBOE, CHX, NYSE, and PSE; members, member organizations, participants, or participant organizations when used with reference to the PHLX; brokers, dealers, or municipal securities dealers when used with reference to the MSRB; and members when used with reference to the NASD. 3 For purposes of the proposed rules, the term ``registered person'' means any person required to be registered under the rules of the applicable SRO, including members and registered representatives, but does not include any member whose activities are limited solely to the transaction of business on the floor of a national securities exchange with other members or registered broker-dealers. When used with reference to the MSRB, however, the term ``registered person'' means any person registered with the appropriate enforcement authority as a municipal securities representative, municipal securities principal, municipal securities sales principal, or financial and operations principal pursuant to MSRB Rule G&hyph;3. II. Self-Regulatory Organizations' Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Changes In their filings with the Commission, the SROs included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule changes and discussed any comments they received on the proposed rule changes. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The SROs have prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organizations' Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Changes 1. Purpose The purpose of the proposed rule changes is to adopt uniform enabling rules for the implementation of a continuing education program for the securities industry. 2. Description of the Proposal a. Background. In May 1993, a self-regulatory organization task force (``Task Force'') was formed by the AMEX, CBOE, MSRB, NASD, NYSE, and PHLX, which included 12 representatives from a wide range of broker-dealers, to study the continuing education needs of the securities industry. In September 1993, the Task Force issued a report recommending a formal two-part continuing education program that would require uniform, industry-wide, periodic training in regulatory matters and ongoing training programs conducted by firms to keep their employees updated on job and product-related subjects. The Task Force also recommended that a permanent Council on Continuing Education, composed of broker-dealer and SRO representatives, be formed to develop the content and provide ongoing maintenance of the continuing education program. Pursuant to this recommendation, the Securities Industry/Regulatory Council on Continuing Education (``Council'') was formed in September 1993, with representatives from six SROs and 13 broker-dealers. The Council prepared draft rules to implement the continuing education program, which the SROs have filed as proposed rule changes with the Commission. 4 4 See proposed AMEX Rule 341A; proposed CBOE Rule 9.3A; proposed CHX Article VI, Rule 9; proposed MSRB Rule G&hyph;3(h); proposed Schedule C to the NASD's By-Laws, Part XII; proposed NYSE Rule 345A; proposed PHLX Rule 640; and proposed PSE Rule 9.27(c). The proposed rule changes would codify the Task Force's recommendations, enable uniform implementation of the continuing education program, and provide a means for the SROs to monitor and enforce the program's requirements. The proposal provides for a two-part continuing education program consisting of a Regulatory Element requiring uniform, periodic training in regulatory matters and a Form Element requiring firms to maintain ongoing programs to keep their employees up-to-date on job and product related subjects. b. The Regulatory Element. Satisfaction of the Regulatory Element would require all registered persons (unless exempt) to complete a prescribed training program after their second, fifth, and tenth registration anniversary dates. 5 The Regulatory Element would be administered using computer-based interactive training techniques and would consist of standardized subject matters covering generally compliance, ethics, and sales practice issues. Failure to complete the program within prescribed time-frames ( i.e., within 120 days after the occurrence of the applicable registration anniversary date, or as otherwise determined by the SROs) would result in a person's registration being deemed inactive and that person being prohibited from performing the functions of a registered person until such time as the person has completed the program. The SRO will terminate administratively the registration of anyone who is inactive for two years, provided that upon application and a showing of good cause, the SRO may allow a registered person additional time to satisfy the program requirements. 6 5 Any registered person who has terminated his or her association with a member and who, within two years of the date of termination, becomes reassociated in a registered capacity with a member, would be required to participate in the Regulatory Element at such intervals (two, five, and 10 years) as would apply based upon the individual's initial registration anniversary date rather than the date of reassociation in a registered capacity. 6 Anyone administratively terminated must requalify on the Series 7 (the General Securities Registered Representative Examination) before such person's registration could be reactivated. Persons registered for more than 10 years as of the effective date of the rule would not have to satisfy the Regulatory Element requirements. Persons registered for 10 years or less as of the effective date of the rule would be required to satisfy the Regulatory Element and complete the computer-based training program after the occurrence of the next relevant registration anniversary date and on any applicable registration anniversary date(s) thereafter. A registered person who has completed all or part of the regulatory Element of the program or otherwise is exempt from participation therein would have to reenter the Regulatory Element in the event he or she is subject to certain disciplinary actions. Such individual would have to complete the computer-based training program within 120 days of such reentry and at two, five and 10 years thereafter. The following disciplinary events would trigger such reentry:
