FR940727-0-00141 FR940727-0-00027 (i) Nontransferable Permits Comment: It was recommended that permits for existing cabins be transferable to another person at the election or death of the original permittee. Response: Nontransferability is a condition of all Service special use permits, regardless of the use being authorized. The requirement is consistent with ANILCA and is appropriate to be included in the regulations. (j) Compatibility Criteria Comment: The criteria for determining cabin compatibility should be included in the regulations. Response: Compatibility determinations are site specific and relate directly to the specific purposes for which each refuge was established. The 16 refuges established/redesignated by ANILCA have different purposes. (k) Relationship of Proposed Regulations With Policy Comment: The intent, clarifications, and directions in the Service's cabin policy should be included in the regulations or be adopted by reference. Response: The Service's cabin policy was widely distributed to the public and is available by request to all interested parties. Some of the information in the policy is of a subjective nature which is not appropriate for regulations. All elements of the Service's cabin policy that were determined to be appropriate as regulatory language were included in the regulations. (l) Environmental Protection Requirements Comment: Language should be included that recognizes there are other Federal and State regulations governing environmental compliance with activities associated with cabins (e.g., disposal of sewage and solid waste, drinking water, fuel storage, etc.). Response: Standard conditions of all special use permits issued by the Service require the permittees to follow other applicable State and Federal regulations. Therefore, the inclusion of regulatory language referencing other applicable regulations is not necessary. (m) Late Application for Existing Cabins Comment: The requirement that claimants who fail to meet application deadlines for ``existing'' cabins (within one year from the date these regulations are published) will only be allowed to apply for ``new'' cabins, no matter when the cabin was built or first used should be deleted. Response: The regulations provide a one year application period following the effective date of the regulations. The Service believes that the deadline is reasonable since regulations requiring the permits have been in place since 1981 and considerable time and effort has been expended in notifying cabin occupants. (n) Other Related Structures Comment: The definition of ``other related structures'' should be revised to clarify that the term only includes those structures in the vicinity and directly related to the operation of a cabin. The commenter also requested clarification that temporary facilities may also occur under other regulations unrelated to the cabin regulations. Response: The Service believes that the context of the definition makes it clear that the other related structures only include those associated with cabins. A statement that temporary facilities may be authorized under other regulations is irrelevant to the cabin regulations. We appreciate these comments; however, as noted, the Service did not make substantive changes to reflect such requests for revisions for the reasons stated above. The following is a section by section analysis of all substantive changes that the Service made in the final rule. Analysis of Changes Made to the Proposed Rule Section 36.33(a)␣Definitions A definition for commercial cabin was included in this section for clarification purposes. The definition of immediate family was revised in response to two public comments. The definition of guest was revised in response to one public comment. A definition for the term private recreational use was included in this section in response to one public comment. The definition of trespass cabin was deleted, in response to one comment which pointed out that the term was not used in the regulations other than as a definition. Section 36.33(b)␣All cabins. A clarification was made that the regulations only apply on public lands within refuges and do not apply to temporary facilities in response to one comment. Descriptions of the terms ``adequate notice'' for unclaimed cabins and ``administrative process'' for permit revocation were included in response to one comment. Section 36.33(c)␣Existing cabins. A provision was included in paragraph (1) regarding the privileges and rights of existing cabin users in response to one comment. The period for applications for permits for existing cabins which are not currently under a valid permit was revised from 90 days to one year following the effective date of these regulations. This was done in response to two comments. Vandalism was included in paragraph (5) as a cause to reconstruct existing cabins in response to one comment.
