FR940722-2-00057 FR940722-2-00037 [OW&hyph;FRL&hyph;5017&hyph;6] Policy for the Development of Effluent Limitations in National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permits to Control Whole Effluent Toxicity for the Protection of Aquatic Life: Notice of Availability AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Notice of availability. SUMMARY: This notice announces the availability of a final policy document entitled ``Policy for the Development of Effluent Limitations in National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permits to Control Whole Effluent Toxicity (WET) for the Protection of Aquatic Life.'' The purpose of the new policy is to promote uniform, nationwide compliance with existing statutory and regulatory requirements for the control of WET and to assist permit writers in implementing these requirements. DATES: Copies of this document are available beginning July 22, 1994. ADDRESSES: Copies of this document can be obtained from U.S. EPA, National Center for Environmental Publications and Information, P.O. Box 42419, Cincinnati, Ohio 45242&hyph;2419 (Document Number EPA 833&hyph;B&hyph;94&hyph;002). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Wendy J. Miller, Office of Water, Office of Wastewater Management, 4203, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20460, Telephone: (202) 260&hyph;3716. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Since 1984 EPA has undertaken various regulatory activities for the control of WET to protect aquatic life. In 1984, EPA published the ``Policy for the Development of Water Quality-Based Permit Limitations for Toxic Pollutants.'' 49 FR 9016 (March 9, 1984). The policy discusses such issues as integration of chemical specific and biological permit limits; chemical, physical, and biological testing requirements (including WET testing requirements); and use of data. In 1989, EPA revised the regulations governing the development of water quality-based effluent limitations, including those to control WET. 40 CFR 122.44(d)(1). The regulations impose specific requirements such as requiring effluent limits where the permitting authority finds ``reasonable potential'' to cause an exceedance of applicable water quality criteria. In 1991, EPA revised the 1985 Technical Support Document for Water Quality-based Toxics Control (TSD). The new TSD provides an explanation of the technical support for WET testing and gives detailed guidance on development of water quality-based permit limitations for WET and toxic pollutants. Based upon its accumulated experience in administering the WET control program to date, EPA decided to develop a new WET control policy to supplement existing policy. The new policy consists of eight policy statements, explanations of each policy statement, and appendices containing background materials. In part, the policy restates EPA's strong continuing commitment to existing Clean Water Act provisions and the regulatory requirements at 40 CFR 122.44(d)(1) governing the control of WET for the protection of aquatic life. It also addresses some specific areas where questions have arisen regarding the implementation of these requirements. The text of the eight statements of policy is provided below. 1. Basis for WET Controls The permitting authority should evaluate WET water quality criteria attainment for acute WET at the edge of the acute mixing zone and for chronic WET at the edge of the chronic mixing zone except where the State has different requirements for evaluating WET criteria. 1 The permitting authority will develop WET effluent limitations based upon the more stringent of the acute or chronic criterion applied at the edge of the respective mixing zone, or, alternatively, on both. 1 Throughout the policy, the term ``WET water quality criteria'' refers to State numeric water quality criteria for WET and State narrative water quality criteria for toxicity such as ``no toxics in toxics amounts'' in State water quality standards. 2. Evaluation of Dischargers for Reasonable Potential At a minimum, the permitting authority should review all major dischargers for reasonable potential to cause or contribute to exceedance of WET water quality criteria. 3. Evaluating Reasonable Potential The permitting authority will consider available WET testing data and other information in evaluating whether a discharger has reasonable potential to cause or contribute to exceedance of WET water quality criteria. 4. Consequences of Establishing Reasonable Potential Upon finding reasonable potential to cause or contribute to exceedance of WET water quality criteria, the permitting authority will impose effluent limitations to control WET.
