FR940603-1-00105 FR940603-1-00009 13. Discrepancies: Where a discrepancy appears between the sum of the Base Bids of each building and the Total Base Bid, the correct addition of the Base Bid price for each building shall control. 14. The Owner Represents: (a) If by provisions of the Proposal, the Owner shall have undertaken to furnish any materials for the construction of the Project, such materials are on hand at locations which may be determined by the bidders' inquiry of the Architect, or if such materials are not on hand, they will be made available by the Owner to the successful Bidder before the time such materials are required for incorporation into the Project. (b) Title to the property on which the Project is to be constructed has been obtained. (c) All funds necessary for prompt payment of the construction of the Project will be available. If the Owner should fail to comply with any of the undertakings contained in the foregoing representations or if any such representations shall be incorrect, the Bidder will be entitled to an extension of the time of completion of Construction for a period equal to the delay, if any, caused by the failure of the Owner to comply with such undertakings or by any such incorrect representations; provided the Bidder shall have promptly notified the Owner in writing of its desire to extend the time of completion in accordance with the foregoing, and provided further that such extension, if any, of the time of completion shall be the sole remedy of the Bidder for the Owner's failure to comply with any of the foregoing representations. XXX Owner By XXX Dated XXX Proposal To: XXX (hereinafter called the ``Owner''). The undersigned (hereinafter called the ``Bidder'') proposes to construct the building(s) listed in Section 1 of Article I (hereinafter called the ``Project''), financed XXX , not to be financed XXX , in whole or in part by a loan to the Owner by the United States of America, by the Administrator of the Rural Electrification Administration (hereinafter called the ``Administrator''), or by loans to the Owner by the United States of America and by the Rural Telephone Bank, designated XXX and to receive and install such materials and equipment as may hereinafter be specified to be furnished by the Owner, and to furnish all other materials, machinery, and equipment, water, heat, utilities, transportation and other means required to construct the Project in accordance with the plans and specifications (hereinafter called the ``Plans and Specifications''), prepared by XXX (hereinafter called the ``Architect'') and dated XXX , 19 XXX , and approved by the Rural Electrification Administration on XXX , 19 XXX , and by this reference made a part hereof. The Bidder has made a careful examination of the site(s) on which the Project is to be constructed, has become informed as to the kind of facilities required before and during the construction of the Project and has become acquainted with the labor conditions which would affect the work. The Bidder agrees that if his bid is accepted, the following terms shall govern. ARTICLE I_AMOUNT OF PROPOSAL Section 1. Bid Price: The Bidder will construct the Project for the following sum: Name or Kind and Location of Building XXX Base Bid XXX Total of Bid $ XXX Alternate Bid No. 1 (add) (deduct) $ XXX Alternate Bid No. 2 (add) (deduct) $ XXX Alternate Bid No. 3 (add) (deduct) $ XXX Alternate Bid No. 4 (add) (deduct) $ XXX Section 2. Taxes: The price quoted herein includes all amounts which the Bidder estimates will be payable by the Bidder or the Owner on account of taxes imposed by any taxing authority upon the sale, purchase or use of materials, supplies or equipment or services or labor of installation to be incorporated in the Project. The Bidder will pay all such taxes and will furnish to appropriate taxing authorities any required information and reports pertaining thereto. ARTICLE II_CONSTRUCTION Section 1. Time of Construction: (a) The Bidder, after notification in writing of approval of the Construction Contract by the Administrator, if approval of the Administrator is required, will commence construction of the Project within XXX ( XXX ) calendar days after the Owner shall have given the Bidder written notice to commence construction which notice shall be given: (1) Not later than XXX ( XXX ) calendar days after approval of the Construction Contract by the Administrator, if approval of the Administrator is required. (2) On a date to be determined by the Owner. (The Architect will cross out the inapplicable statement (1) or (2) above before requesting bids.) (b) The Bidder will prosecute diligently and complete construction of the Project in strict accordance with the Plans and Specifications and directions of the Architect within XXX ( XXX ) calendar days after the expiration of the time specified to commence construction.
