FR941003-1-00080 FR941003-1-00006 (1) Criteria of adverse effect. An undertaking is considered to have an adverse effect when it may alter characteristics of a historic property that may qualify the property for inclusion in the National Register in a manner that may diminish the integrity of the property's location, design, setting, materials, workmanship, feeling, or association. Adverse effects may be direct or indirect. Direct effects are caused by the undertaking and occur at the same time and place. Indirect effects include those caused by the undertaking that are later in time or farther removed in distance, but are still reasonably foreseeable. For the purpose of determining adverse effect, alteration to features of a property's location, setting, or use may be relevant, depending on the property's significant characteristics, and should be considered. (2) Examples of adverse effects. Adverse effects on historic properties include, but are not limited to: (i) Physical destruction, damage, or alteration of all or part of the property; (ii) Isolation of the property, from or alteration of, the character of the property's setting when that character contributes to the property's qualification for the National Register; (iii) Introduction of visual, audible, or atmospheric elements that are out of character with the property or alter its setting; (iv) Neglect of a property which may result in its deterioration or destruction; and (v) Transfer, lease, or sale of property under the jurisdiction or control of a Federal agency. (b) Request State Historic Preservation Officer concurrence. If the Agency Official believes the effect will not be adverse or proposes to carry out the undertaking in accordance with a Conditional No Adverse Effect Agreement that meets the requirements of ยง800.9(b)(2), the Agency Official shall submit the proposed finding or agreement with adequate documentation to the State Historic Preservation Officer for review and concurrence. (1) State Historic Preservation Officer response to a submitted finding of no adverse effect. (i) If the State Historic Preservation Officer concurs with the Agency Official's finding, the Agency Official may proceed and shall carry out the undertaking in accordance with ยง800.9(c)(1).
