FR940804-0-00116 FR940804-0-00024 Another commenter opined that paragraph (c), by allowing represented parties to waive the presence of counsel and speak directly to a government attorney, would authorize a violation of the represented party's constitutional rights under Miranda v. Arizona , 384 U.S. 436 (1966), and its progeny. Cases following Miranda provide that custodial interrogation must cease whenever the person in custody invokes his or her right to have counsel present. See, e.g., Edwards v. Arizona, 451 U.S. 477 (1981). However, the prohibition against further interrogation does not apply when the accused himself or herself initiates further communication, see id . at 484&hyph;86, which would need to be the case for this paragraph to apply. Paragraph (d): Waivers at the time of arrest. The previous paragraph (paragraph (c)) provides the general guidelines regarding how a represented party may waive protections otherwise provided under this regulation. This paragraph provides for a different rule dealing specifically with a waiver at the time of arrest. This paragraph provides that a government attorney may communicate directly with a represented party ``at the time of arrest of the represented party'' without the consent of that party's counsel, provided that the represented party has been fully informed of his or her constitutional rights at that time and has waived them. The government attorney need not comply with any of the additional requirements of paragraph (c) in such a situation. A substantial body of law has developed regarding waiver of constitutional rights in the immediate post-arrest setting. The Department believes that the constitutional protections established in that decisional law adequately protect represented individuals following arrest. Furthermore, the effectiveness of post-arrest interviews would be significantly curtailed if the procedural requirements of paragraph (c) applied. Accordingly, this paragraph is intended to preserve this investigative tool without adding any additional procedural requirements. The Department received two comments regarding this paragraph: one relating to the timing of the waiver, and the other relating to the terms of the waiver. A Department component commented that it would clarify the meaning of a communication ``at the time of the arrest of the represented person'' to add to the text that such communication must be made ``at the time of the arrest of the represented party before he or she is presented to a judicial officer with respect to that arrest . . . .'' The Department has decided against adopting the proposed additional language, because it would unadvisedly extend this exception beyond its proper and intended narrow limits. This exception to the general rule against post-arrest communications is designed to preserve the ability of government attorneys to interview individuals immediately (i.e., within hours) following arrest as an effective and important law enforcement tool. See, e.g. , 18 U.S.C. 3501(c). It is not intended to allow government attorneys to attempt to initiate communications with an arrested person any time before the person is presented to a judicial officer, which can extend days beyond the ``time of arrest.'' The Department believes that such an extension of this limited exception could put excessive pressure on clients and unduly intrude upon the attorney-client relationship. A United States Attorney's Office commented that proposed paragraph (d), under which the represented party must be advised of and waive ``his or her constitutional rights,'' could be construed to require the represented party to be explicitly told that he or she has a right to his or her attorney, and not just that he or she has a right to an attorney (as required by Miranda v. Arizona , 384 U.S. 436 (1966)). This paragraph is intended to apply whenever an arrested person is read his or her Miranda rights and waives those rights; it is not intended to require the represented party to be apprised of his right to counsel in any different or more specific terms than Miranda and its progeny require. To make clear that the usual Miranda warnings and waiver suffice for purposes of this section, paragraph 77.6(d) has been amended in the final rule to read as follows: ``The communication is made at the time of the arrest of the represented party and he or she is advised of his or her rights under Miranda v. Arizona , 384 U.S. 436 (1966), and voluntarily and knowingly waives them.'' Paragraph (e): Investigation of additional, different, or ongoing crimes or civil violations. The Sixth Amendment right to counsel is ``offense-specific.'' McNeil v. Wisconsin , 111 S. Ct. 2204, 2207 (1991). Thus, a defendant whose Sixth Amendment rights have attached as to one offense remains subject to questioning, whether direct or covert, regarding uncharged crimes. Id .; Maine v. Moulton , 474 U.S. 159, 180 n.16 (1985); United States v. Mitcheltree , 940 F.2d 1329, 1342 (10th Cir. 1991); United States v. Terzado-Madruga, 897 F.2d 1099, 1111&hyph;12 (11th Cir. 1990); United States v. Chu, 779 F.2d 356, 368 (7th Cir. 1985); United States v. Grego , 724 F.2d 701, 703 (8th Cir. 1984). The proposed rule employs an analogous approach, permitting ex parte contacts with a represented party if the contacts involve the investigation of offenses as to which the represented party has been neither arrested nor charged in a criminal or civil law enforcement proceeding. The Department believes this approach is wholly consistent with DR 7&hyph;104 and Model Rule 4.2 and the cases interpreting those rules. Accordingly, this section provides that communications may be made in the course of investigations of additional, different, or ongoing criminal or unlawful activity, even though the individual is represented by counsel with respect to conduct for which he or she has already been arrested or charged. Such additional criminal or unlawful conduct is typically one of three varieties: (1) conduct that is separate from the original wrongful conduct; (2) crimes or unlawful conduct that are intended to impede the administration of justice or the trial of the charged crime, such as subornation of perjury, obstruction of justice, jury tampering, or murder, assault, or intimidation of witnesses; and (3) conduct that is a continuation of the charged crime, such as a conspiracy or a scheme to defraud that continues past the time of indictment. The new or additional criminal or wrongful activity may have occurred in the past or may be ongoing at the time of the investigation. One organization objected to this section's coverage of criminal or wrongful activity that has already been completed at the time of the communication, as distinct from activity that is ongoing. However, the Department sees no basis in the policies underlying the Sixth Amendment and the Model Rules for basing the propriety of investigation into additional or different uncharged crimes on whether such activity is complete or ongoing.
