FR940223-2-00227 FR940223-2-00104 2. Program Descriptions 2.1␣Overview To implement its national and community service program, DOT has identified five specific national and community service programs that combine the goals and priorities of the National and Community Service Trust Act and the goals and priorities of DOT. Applicants may submit proposals falling within one or a combination of DOT Programs. The proposals should tailor the selected DOT Program(s) to the specific needs of the community to be served. The following is a description of the five DOT Programs: 2.2␣Rehabilitation, Reclamation, and Beautification of Transportation-Related Facilities 2.2.1␣Description of Program The DOT program for ``Rehabilitation, Reclamation and Beautification of Transportation-Related Facilities'' has been developed to implement the provisions of section 106(d) of the Act, which establishes an urban youth corps in DOT, and authorizes the Secretary of Transportation to enter into formal agreements to form partnerships with qualified urban youth corps. The Secretary may make grants of DOT funds to States (and through States to local governments) for the purpose of supporting qualified urban youth corps projects. In addition, proposals for qualified urban youth corps projects to be conducted by eligible service organizations (as defined in Section 1.4.1 of this RFP) may be included in DOT's application for funding from the National Service Corporation. These include projects that the Secretary is authorized to carry out under other authority of law involving public works resources or facilities. Section 106(d) is based on the finding of Congress that public works and transportation resources are in need of labor intensive rehabilitation, reclamation, and beautification work that has been neglected in the past and cannot be adequately carried out by Federal, State, and local government at existing personnel levels. Rehabilitation, reclamation, and beautification of public roads and public works facilities through the efforts of young people in the United States participating in urban youth corps can benefit these youths and their communities. An urban youth corps project that would qualify under this DOT Program is one that is established by an eligible service organization (as defined under Section 1.4.1 of this RFP) and that: a. Is capable of offering meaningful, full-time, productive work for individuals between the ages of 16 and 25, inclusive, in an urban public works or transportation setting; b. Gives participants a mix of work experience, basic and life skills, education, training, and support services; and c. Provides participants with the opportunity to develop citizenship values and skills through service to their communities and the United States. Although any project proposed under this Program should involve an urban youth corps in a significant portion of the work, the proposal may also include other eligible groups of community service participants that will work along with the urban youth corps. Potential projects include organizing and managing community beautification projects to plant trees and flowers adjacent to highways and transportation terminals and corridors; coordinating with railroad companies to organize clean up campaigns and work days along railroad tracks and rights of way; working with local artists to beautify terminals and facilities with art work; and clean up and beautification of roadsides, transportation corridors, and access to transportation facilities. Community service projects will be associated with at least one mode of transportation, i.e., rail, transit, or highway. All projects will need to be coordinated with the organizations having authority over the relevant transportation facilities (such as State Departments of Transportation, local Metropolitan Planning Organizations (MPOs), or transit authorities). As part of its proposal under this DOT Program, an applicant will need to show that the project is acceptable to the relevant transportation organizations. 2.2.2␣Goals and Priorities This program addresses the following national priorities established by the National Service Corporation: a. Education_Urban youth corps projects will include specific project-related and general job skills training that will prepare participants for future employment opportunities. Training will also include specific skills related to the project being undertaken, such as carpentry, landscaping, and environmental planning. b. Public Safety_Recruiting at-risk youths in urban settings for participation in youth corps activities will provide opportunities for youths to be productively involved in community activities, reducing the inclination to turn to activities such as drug dealing or other crimes. In addition, cleaner transportation facilities will make the facilities more attractive, drawing more users, and in turn, making them safer for use by all. c. Human Needs_Urban youth corps projects will provide job skills training that will help individuals become self-sufficient. Job skills will include basics such as taking responsibility for attendance, being accountable for work products, and dealing with supervisors. In addition, these projects will be targeted at improving communities and neighborhoods. d. Environment_Rehabilitation, reclamation and beautification of transportation facilities will enhance neighborhoods as well as assist in conserving and restoring the environment. 2.2.3␣Anticipated Outcomes and Results Urban youth corps projects will result in benefits to communities, neighborhoods, and transportation facilities in the form of renovated, restored, and cleaner facilities and areas. Participants will not only have the opportunity to perform community service but will learn job skills that will prepare them for future employment opportunities. 2.2.4␣Funding The Federal share of funding for urban youth corps projects may be provided from existing DOT program funds and state Federal-aid funds. DOT intends to apply for any additional funds needed for program costs, including living allowances, educational awards, health insurance, and child care costs, from the National Service Corporation. It is anticipated that direct funding for the Rehabilitation, Reclamation, and Beautification of Transportation-Related Facilities Program may be available from DOT in future years.
