FR940222-2-00019 FR940222-2-00013 6. Selection officials and reviewers must comply with the requirements of 10 CFR 1010 (a) and 1010.302(a)(1) concerning conflict of interest. Individuals who cannot meet these requirements with regard to a particular application may not review, discuss, or make an evaluation of an application in which they have a conflict of interest; and may not participate in any meeting involving the review of an application in which there is a conflict of interest. D. Project Officer/Contracting Officer Representative 1. The Project Officer will be a Federal Employee, from Headquarters or the field, assigned to review the application. The Project Officer may also be designated as the Contracting Officer Representative (COR) from an eventual contract action. This assignment will be made in writing by, or with the concurrence of, the employee's supervisor. 2. The Project Officer will be responsible for coordinating the Merit Review and providing guidance to external reviewers as described in this notice. 3. The Project Officer is responsible for conducting the initial screening. If the application does not satisfy the initial screening, the Project Officer will provide the applicant a rejection letter (informing appropriate officials) or request additional information if required. 4. The Project Officer will be responsible for compiling the information from the Merit Review and preparing the Selection Report/Justification for Acceptance for the Selection Official. This report should address the evaluation criteria including the information from the initial screening, any programmatic comments reflecting a Federal policy perspective, and the rationale for selection or rejection. 5. For solicited applications, once the Selection Official approves the Selection Report, the Contracting Officer will inform the applicant. For other applications, once the Selection Official approves the Justification for Selection, the Project Officer is then responsible for preparing the rejection letter or Procurement request documents. The Project Officer will also recommend assignment to a field office for award and implementation if the award is not made at Headquarters. E. Formal Review Mechanism There will be one mechanism available to accomplish a merit review. At least three qualified individuals will perform the review. In those instances where three or more qualified reviewers cannot be obtained to conduct a formal merit review, the selection official must issue a waiver, which is based upon a written explanation of the situation by the assigned Project Officer. In the event that the Project Officer is a reviewer and is also the selection official, this waiver shall be considered and issued by an EM official one level higher than that of the Project Officer or selection official. The formal review mechanism is as follows: 1. Review Group a. An organization of standing committees called Technical Peer Review Groups (TPRGs) will be the principal method of application review. These review groups are appropriate when required by legislation or when: (1) Sufficient number of applications on a specific topic is received on a regular basis in accordance with a predetermined review schedule. (2) Sufficient number of people is available to accept appointments, serve over reasonably protracted periods of time, and convene regularly or at the call of the chairperson. (3) Legislative authority for particular programs extends for more than 1 year. b. persons outside the cognizant program office shall constitute at least one half the reviewers unless a deviation has been approved under 10 CFR 600.18(g).
