FR941125-2-00084 FR941125-2-00063 The Bank of Montreal; Application To Engage in Nonbanking Activities The Bank of Montreal, Toronto, Canada, has applied pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) (BHC Act) and 225.23(a)(3) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.23(a)(3)) to retain its interest in Burns Fry and Timmins Holdings Inc., Chicago, Illinois (Burns Fry), and, subsequent to the merger of the operating subsidiaries of Burns Fry into Applicant's section 20 subsidiary, Harris Nesbitt Thomson Securities Inc., New York, New York (Harris Nesbitt), to continue to engage indirectly through Harris Nesbitt in the following activities: (1) providing investment and financial advice, including financial advice to Canadian federal, provincial, and municipal governments; (2) providing securities brokerage service on a discount and full-service basis; (3) underwriting and dealing in all types of bank-eligible securities; (4) acting as agent for issuers in the private placement of all types of securities; (5) appraising real estate and tangible and intangible personal property, including securities; and (6) arranging commercial real estate equity financing. Applicant proposes to conduct these activities on a nationwide basis. Section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act provides that a bank holding company may, without Board approval, engage in any activity that the Board, after due notice and opportunity for hearing, has determined by order or regulation to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. This statutory test requires that two separate tests be met for an activity to be permissible for a bank holding company. First, the Board must determine that the activity is, as a general matter, closely related to banking. Second, the Board must find in a particular case that the performance of the activity by the applicant bank holding company may reasonably be expected to produce public benefits that outweigh possible adverse effects. A particular activity may be found to meet the ``closely related to banking'' test if it is demonstrated that banks generally provide services that are so operationally or functionally similar to the proposed activity as to equip them particularly well to engage in the proposed activity, or that banks generally provide services that are so integrally related to the proposed activity as to require their provision in a specialized form. National Courier Ass'n v. Board of Governors , 516 F.2d 1229, 1237 (D.C. Cir. 1975). In addition, the Board may consider any other basis that may demonstrate that the activity has a reasonable or close relationship to banking or managing or controlling banks. Board Statement Regarding Regulation Y, 49 FR 806 (1984). Applicant states that the Board previously has determined by regulation that some of the proposed activities, when conducted within limitations established by the Board, are closely related to banking for purposes of section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act. See 12 CFR 225.25(b)(4) (providing investment and financial advice, including financial advice to Canadian federal, provincial, and municipal governments); 12 CFR 225.25(b)(15) (providing securities brokerage service on a discount and full-service basis); 12 CFR 225.25(b)(16) (underwriting and dealing in bank-eligible securities); 12 CFR 225.25(b)(13) (appraising real estate and tangible and intangible personal property, including securities); and 225.25(b)(14) (arranging commercial real estate equity financing). Applicant also states that the Board has determined by order that the remaining proposed activity, when conducted within limitations established by the Board in previous orders, is closely related to banking. See J.P. Morgan & Company Incorporated , 76 Federal Reserve Bulletin 26 (1990), and Bankers Trust New York Corporation , 75 Federal Reserve Bulletin 829 (1989) (acting as agent for issuers in the private placement of securities). In addition, Applicant maintains that Harris Nesbitt may provide execution-only services solely to a single affiliate, Nesbitt Burns Inc., Toronto, Canada, for the purchase and sale of certain exchange-traded futures contracts and options on futures contracts, pursuant to section 4(c)(1)(C) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(1)(C)). Applicant maintains that it would conduct these previously approved activities in conformance with the conditions and limitations established by the Board in prior cases. For this reason, Applicant contends that approval of the application would not be barred by section 20 of the Glass-Steagall Act (12 U.S.C. 377), which prohibits the affiliation of a state member bank with any company principally engaged in the underwriting, public sale, or distribution of securities. In order to approve the proposal, the Board must determine that the proposed activities ``can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public, such as greater convenience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency, that outweigh possible adverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking practices.'' 12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8). Applicant states that the proposal will produce public benefits that outweigh any potential adverse effects. In particular, Applicant maintains that the proposal will enhance competition and enable it to offer its customers a broader range of services. In addition, Applicant states that the proposed activities will not result in adverse effects such as an undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking practices. In publishing the proposal for comment, the Board does not take a position on issues raised by the proposal. Notice of the proposal is published solely to seek the views of interested persons on the issues presented by the application and does not represent a determination by the Board that the proposal meets, or is likely to meet, the standards of the BHC Act. Any comments or requests for hearing should be submitted in writing to William W. Wiles, Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551, not later than December 12, 1994. Any request for a hearing on this application must, as required by 262.3(e) of the Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR 262.3(e)), be accompanied by a statement of reasons why a written presentation would not suffice in lieu of a hearing, identifying specifically any questions of fact that are in dispute, summarizing the evidence that would be presented at a hearing, and indicating how the party commenting would be aggrieved by approval of the proposal. This application may be inspected at the offices of the Board of Governors or the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, November 18, 1994. Jennifer J. Johnson, Deputy Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29041 Filed 11&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210&hyph;01&hyph;F
