FR940217-2-00060 FR940217-2-00031 _The soundness of the plan for evaluating progress in achieving project objectives and outcomes. _Reasonableness of the proposed budget, soundness of the arrangements for fiscal management, effectiveness of use of personnel, and likelihood of project completion within the proposed grant period. _The extent to which the applicant will employ products and expertise of EMSC programs from other States, especially of current and former grantees of the Federal EMSC program. _The extent to which the project gives special emphasis to the issues identified in the Special Concerns section of this notice. •For Category (2) State Systems Grants only, the following additional criteria _The extent to which the applicant can ensure institutionalization of the proposed project. _The extent to which the applicant demonstrates collaboration and coordination with any trauma care systems implementation plan funded by HRSA. _Evidence that the applicant will: (1) Collaborate and coordinate with other participants in the EMSC continuum, e.g., the State Emergency Medical Services agency; the State MCH/CSHCN agency; the State Highway Safety Office; other relevant State agencies, such as mental health; tribal nations; state and local professional organizations; private sector voluntary organizations; business organizations; parent advocacy groups; consumer or community representatives; hospital organizations; and any other ongoing federally funded projects in EMS, injury prevention, and rural health; _Evidence that the applicant will integrate EMSC systems into the primary care delivery system. •For Category (4) Resource Capacity Cooperative Agreements _The adequacy of the applicant's understanding of the problem of pediatric trauma and critical illness, including the special problems of (a) CSHCN and their families; and (b) minority children and families (including Native Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Alaska Natives). This understanding includes knowledge of and experience with strategies to overcome identified problems as well as knowledge of and experience with the Title V MCH Block Grant. _The appropriateness of project objectives and outcomes in relation to the specific nature of the problems identified by the applicant. _The soundness, appropriateness, comprehensiveness, cost effectiveness and responsiveness of the proposed methodology for achieving project goals and outcome objectives. _The extent to which the proposed resources are necessary and sufficient for project activities. _The soundness of the plan for evaluating progress in achieving project objectives and outcomes. _Reasonableness of the proposed budget, soundness of the arrangements for fiscal management, effectiveness of use of personnel, and likelihood of project completion within the proposed grant period. _The extent to which the applicant is capable of successfully carrying out the project, particularly, the qualifications of proposed staff. _The extent to which the applicant will employ products and expertise of EMSC programs, especially those of current and former EMSC program grantees.
