FR941102-1-00066 FR941102-1-00018 The multiple component pricing (MCP) plan was originally proposed for Orders 30, 68 and 79 by National All-Jersey, Inc. (NAJ) and other dairy organizations. In addition, Land O'Lakes, Inc., proposed that the multiple component plan be considered for Orders 65 and 76. Most other proposals considered at the hearing were modifications of the NAJ proposal and are discussed below. The first NAJ witness stated that the current milk pricing system used in the five orders does not meet current marketing needs and should be replaced with a multiple component pricing system. Much of the general NAJ testimony in favor of multiple component pricing was later reiterated by witnesses expert in the field of economics and dairy chemistry testifying for NAJ, and a representative for Land O'Lakes. Also testifying in favor of the NAJ proposal were two dairy farmer members of the cooperative association Swiss Valley Farms Company, a representative of the Brown Swiss Cattle Breeders Association of U.S.A., Inc., and a representative of Tri-State Milk Cooperative. It was indicated in testimony that Alto Dairy Cooperative also supported the NAJ proposal. The representative for the proponents said the intent of their proposal was to: 1. Use the M-W price as the base; 2. Pay all producers on four factors_pounds of butterfat, pounds of protein, pounds of other solids, and each producer's share of the fluid differential on a per hundredweight basis; 3. Leave Class I handler obligations on a skim-butterfat basis; 4. Determine Class II and III handlers' obligations on the basis of pounds of butterfat, protein, and other solids; and 5. Change only the order provisions needed to implement the NAJ proposal. The NAJ witness said that there were five reasons for replacing the current milk pricing system with a multiple component pricing system. The first reason, according to the NAJ witness, is that the current skim-butterfat pricing system does not give dairy farmers economic incentives to produce milk high in nonfat solids, especially protein. He stated that under the current pricing system a pound of water receives the same price as a pound of protein or other solids, yet it is these solids that give milk its functional and nutritional value. The second reason given by the NAJ witness for adopting MCP was that over a period of years much of the value of milk has shifted from butterfat to the skim portion of milk. The proponent's witness said that in 1960, butterfat represented 77% of the value of the M-W price, and skim represented 23%. By 1993, he testified, these values were reversed, with butterfat representing only 23% of the value of the M-W, while the skim portion of the milk represented 77%. According to the NAJ witness, the shift in value from butterfat to skim was partially caused by the USDA decision to decrease the support price for butter and increase the support price for nonfat dry milk. The support price for butter declined from $1.53 per pound in 1981 to 65 ¢ per pound in 1993, with most of the decrease occurring since 1989. Nonfat dry milk purchase prices under the support program increased from 72.75 ¢ per pound in 1988 to $1.034 per pound in 1993. In addition, the witness said, the butterfat differential under Federal orders has been dropping since the mid-1980s because of a decline in the market price for butter. This drop was accelerated by a change in the method of computing the butterfat differential, implemented in 1990, that had the impact of reducing the butterfat differential even more. The third reason the witness gave for implementing multiple component pricing was the shift in types of dairy products consumers are purchasing. According to the witness, some of the decline in butterfat value relative to skim value has been caused by a shift in consumption from whole milk to lowfat and skim fluid milk products. The witness presented data to show that from 1970 to 1991, national fluid milk sales of lowfat and skim milk increased 232%, while sales of whole milk declined 50%. In addition, he stated, consumption of lowfat manufactured products is growing faster than consumption of relatively high-fat manufactured products. The NAJ witness discussed equity in Federal orders as the fourth reason for implementing multiple component pricing. He said that the current skim-butterfat pricing system is equitable for neither producers nor handlers since it does not properly recognize the value of protein, especially in manufactured products such as cheese. The witness provided examples to show how a producer with high protein milk may currently receive the same Federal order minimum price as a producer with low protein milk. Similarly, a cheese maker who purchases high protein milk could have a cost advantage at minimum order prices over a cheese maker who purchases low protein milk. The fifth reason presented by the NAJ witness was the existence of a number of voluntary multiple component pricing plans in the areas covered by the five orders. Data were presented to show that nearly all producers in the five orders currently are eligible to be paid under one of these voluntary multiple component pricing plans. The witness stated that many of the plans have inadequacies which contribute to disorderly marketing. According to the witness, these inadequacies would be addressed by adopting the NAJ proposal.
