FR940223-2-00123 FR940223-2-00074 Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards Subcommittee on Advanced Boiling Water Reactors; Meeting The ACRS Subcommittee on Advanced Boiling Water Reactors will hold a meeting on March 9, 1994, in room P&hyph;110, 7920 Norfolk Avenue, Bethesda, MD. The entire meeting will be open to public attendance. The agenda for the subject meeting shall be as follows: Wednesday, March 9, 1994_8:30 a.m. until the conclusion of business. The Subcommittee will review any residual issues associated with the Advanced Boiling Water Reactor (ABWR) design and prepare a proposed ACRS report on the ABWR Final Design Approval for consideration by the full Committee. The purpose of this meeting is to gather information, analyze relevant issues and facts, and to formulate proposed positions and actions, as appropriate, for deliberation by the full Committee. Oral statements may be presented by members of the public with the concurrence of the Subcommittee Chairman; written statements will be accepted and made available to the Committee. Electronic recordings will be permitted only during those portions of the meeting that are open to the public, and questions may be asked only by members of the Subcommittee, its consultants, and staff. Persons desiring to make oral statements should notify the ACRS staff member named below five days prior to the meeting, if possible, so that appropriate arrangements can be made. During the initial portion of the meeting, the Subcommittee, along with any of its consultants who may be present, may exchange preliminary views regarding matters to be considered during the balance of the meeting. The Subcommittee will hear presentations by and hold discussions with representatives of the NRC staff and other interested persons regarding this review. Representatives of the General Electric Nuclear Energy and its consultants will participate, as appropriate. Further information regarding topics to be discussed, whether the meeting has been cancelled or rescheduled, the Chairman's ruling on requests for the opportunity to present oral statements and the time allotted therefor can be obtained by contacting the cognizant ACRS staff engineer, Dr. Medhat El-Zeftawy (telephone 301/492&hyph;9901) between 7:30 a.m. and 4:15 p.m. (EST). Persons planning to attend this meeting are urged to contact the above named individual five days before the scheduled meeting to be advised of any changes in schedule, etc., that may have occurred. Dated: February 16, 1994. Sam Duraiswamy, Chief, Nuclear Reactors Branch. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3979 Filed 2&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
