FR940516-1-00091 FR940516-1-00006 Class I engines are overwhelmingly found in lawnmowers. Class II engines primarily include engines used in generator sets, garden tractors, and commercial lawn and garden equipment. Only engines used in equipment defined as handheld would be allowed to meet Class III, IV, or V emission standards. Class III includes engines used in consumer handheld products, such as small string trimmers, edgers, and brush cutters. Class IV encompasses engines used in both residential and commercial settings and includes large trimmers, edgers, blowers, and chain saws. Class V includes a majority of engines utilized in commercial chain saws. EPA is proposing five separate engine classes based on a number of factors. First, some types of equipment are currently powered exclusively by 2-stroke engines. EPA estimates that as much as 90 percent of 2-stroke engines are utilized in handheld equipment. These current handheld 2-stroke engines incorporate a technology which is inherently more polluting than current 4-stroke engine technology and which results in 2-stroke engines experiencing a higher concentration of hydrocarbons in their exhaust. EPA's view is that it is not technologically feasible to apply the nonhandheld Class I and II engine standards to handheld engines in this Phase 1 rule; therefore the need arises for Class III, IV, and V handheld engine standards. Differences in stringency between classes III, IV, and V are due to the fact that energy-specific emissions generally increase as engine size decreases. This principle is also true in the case of engines used in nonhandheld applications and meeting emission standards of either classes I or II. See discussion in the draft RSD. Finally, the engine classification approach for Phase 1 harmonizes federal small engine regulations with California's lawn and garden regulations. In summary, it is EPA's view that the emission standards proposed today for handheld and nonhandheld engines and reflected in the five engine class categories represent the greatest emission reduction achievable for this Phase 1 rule. 6. Handheld Engine Qualifications To qualify as a handheld engine under this proposal, the small SI engine would be required to meet at least one of the following three requirements: (1) The engine must be used in a piece of equipment that is carried by the operator throughout the performance of its intended function(s). This is meant to encompass such equipment as lightweight leafblowers, trimmers (both string and hedge), and cutters. (2) The engine must be used in a piece of equipment that must operate multipositionally, such as upside down and sideways, to complete its intended function(s). EPA intends this category to include all types of chain saws as well as items already listed in the first requirement. (3) The engine must be used in a piece of equipment for which the combined engine and equipment dry weight is under 14 kilograms, no more than two wheels are present, and at least one of the following attributes is also present: (a) The operator must alternately provide support or carry the equipment throughout the performance of its intended function(s). This allows lightweight snowblowers that are carried up stairs, or edgers which are picked up and supported during operation to qualify for handheld status. (b) The operator must provide support or attitudinal control for the equipment throughout the performance of its intended function(s). This attribute will allow equipment such as lightweight tillers, augers, cutoff/concrete saws, and edgers to qualify for handheld status. (c) The engine is used exclusively in a hand-portable generator or pump. For purposes of this section ``support'' would mean that the operator holds the equipment in position so as to prevent it from falling, slipping, or sinking. It would not be necessary for the entire weight of the equipment to be borne by the operator. ``Attitudinal control'' would mean that the operator regulates either the horizontal or vertical position of the equipment, or both. ``Carry'' would mean that the operator completely bears the weight of the equipment, including the engine. Section ``V.G. Definition of Handheld Engines'' provides additional discussion on this issue. EPA believes that this proposed handheld definition adequately covers those categories of engines which should be allowed to meet the less stringent handheld engine standards. EPA requests information regarding specific engine applications which are not clearly identifiable as handheld or nonhandheld under the proposed definition. EPA also requests alternative language which could be incorporated in this definition to clarify the distinction between handheld and nonhandheld. EPA is particularly concerned that manufacturers of 2-stroke lawnmowers may attempt to qualify for handheld status utilizing the second requirement_multiposition operation. It is not EPA's intent that pushing a lawnmower up and down hills would qualify as multiposition operation. 7. Standards for Classes I and II EPA is proposing to adopt one of two options under consideration for setting standards applicable to Class I and II engines. EPA requests comments on each of these options. Option 1: Phase 1 would adopt a combined HC + NO X standard for engine classes I and II. While engines in classes I and II have high HC emission rates, most currently produce extremely low levels of NO X . Due to technological constraints of all small SI engines, HC reductions would generally come at the expense of increased NO X . See ``VII. Technology Assessment'' for a discussion of this phenomenon. However, the resultant overall increase in NO X emission inventories would be slight relative to the NO X produced by sources such as nonroad large CI engines. The sensitivity of NO X emissions to HC control varies greatly between engine designs. EPA believes that a Phase 1 approach which allows incremental tradeoffs between HC and NO X controls through a combined standard would be consistent with EPA's statutory mandate that nonroad engine emission standards reflect the greatest emission reductions achievable. See ``VII. Technology Assessment'' for further discussion. To meet the combined standard, a manufacturer would add its HC emission test result to the NO X test result. This combined number would then be submitted to EPA. Individual levels of these pollutants would not be established. The manufacturer would also be required to meet this combined level during Administrator testing and the SEA enforcement program. EPA believes that this approach would be workable for a Phase 1 rule. Setting separate standards for HC and NO X would be addressed in EPA's Phase 2 regulatory negotiations. For further discussion of this issue, see ``V. M. HC + NO X Standard for Class I, II Engines.''
