FR941021-2-00056 FR941021-2-00041 Universal Service Fund Data Request Purpose of Request. This data request is begin issued in conjunction with the Federal Communications Commission's proceedings in CC Docket No. 80&hyph;286. The information will be used to study revisions or alternatives to the Commission's Part 36 rules governing high cost assistance and dial equipment minute weighting. See 47 CFR 36.601 through 36.641 and 36.125. Technical Information. This data request consists of four Lotus 1&hyph;2&hyph;3 files. All four files are provided in .WK1, .WK3, and .WK4 Lotus versions. Versions prior to .WK4 will not show the shaded areas of the worksheets. Included with the .WK1 and .WK3 versions are the associated formatting files, .FMT and .FMT3. .WK4 does not require a formatting file. All information should be submitted in hard copy form and on 3.5 ’ ’ computer diskettes in a Lotus format. Please use the Lotus file that corresponds to the most recent version of Lotus 1&hyph;2&hyph;3 in use by your company. Because responses will be electronically compiled into a consolidated database, do not insert, delete, or move any rows, columns, or text, nor enter data into any cells other than those provided for data entry in the files as transmitted to you. Organization of the Data Request. The four Lotus files request the following information: File Number One: DATAREQ. Requests included in the first Lotus file seek information regarding subscribers and rates, financial and other information about specific plant categories, usage information, information regarding revenues, return, and investment for specified services, data pertaining to study area density and other characteristics of the service area, information about regulatory programs and about various service options, and information about competitive services provided by the respondent. A separate response should be prepared for each study area. File Number Two: USF4301. The second file requests financial information pertinent to jurisdictional separations and access charges. It is structured consistently with FCC Form 43.01. A separate response should be prepared for each study area. File Number Three: ZIPCODES. The third file requests a listing of all wire centers used to provide local telephone service in each study area, as well as the corresponding United States Postal Service zipcodes. A separate response should be prepared for each study area. File Number Four: OPCODATA. The fourth file requests financial information at the telephone operating company level. A separate response should be prepared for each operating company. Completion Mandatory for Specified Companies. Completion and return of this data request is mandatory for all telephone companies that provide ``Telephone Exchange Service,'' as that phrase is defined in Section 3(r) of the Communications Act of 1934, 47 U.S.C. 153(r). Cost Companies. Companies that receive interstate settlements on the basis of their actual reported costs must complete all portions of the data request. Average Schedule Companies. Companies that receive interstate settlements on an average schedule basis (See 47 CFR 69.606) must complete designated portions of file number one (DATAREQ) and all of file number three (ZIPCODES). In the DATAREQ file, average schedule companies must complete information requests found on line numbers that are underlined. In addition, average schedule companies are encouraged to supply information requested in other portions of the DATAREQ file and in file numbers two and four (USF4301 and OPCODATA). Questions. Any questions regarding the data request or problems in completing it should be communicated to Deborah A. Dupont (202&hyph;418&hyph;0873) or to Gary Seigel (202&hyph;418&hyph;0879).
