FR940224-0-00007 FR940224-0-00001 ยง1.418 Procedure upon no request for hearing. If no hearing is requested by a party of record, the Judge shall issue an initial decision based on the written record and without further procedure or hearing. If no hearing is requested, the written record consists of papers and documents submitted during the 30-day comment period, the 10-day review period, and includes motions submitted before the Judge issues an initial decision. For purposes of a formal review of a sourcing area, the written record also consists of the papers and documents submitted during the informal review. Copies of the decision shall be served by the Hearing Clerk upon each of the parties of record. ยง1.419 Amendment of a sourcing area application. The sourcing area applicant may move to amend the sourcing area application with clarifying and technical amendments at any time prior to the Judge's initial determination if there is no hearing, or prior to the close of the hearing if there is a hearing. ยง1.420 Consent recommendation. Any time before the Judge files the decision, the parties of record may enter a consent recommendation. Such consent recommendation shall be filed with the Hearing Clerk, signed by the parties with appropriate space for signature by the Judge. The consent recommendation shall contain an admission of the jurisdictional facts, the factual and legal basis for the recommended sourcing area, the consent to the issuance of the recommended decision as the final decision of the agency without further procedure and such other admissions or statements as may be recommended by the parties. The Judge shall review the recommendation to determine whether such recommendation conforms with the Forest Resources Conservation and Shortage Relief Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 620, et seq. ), 36 CFR 223.190, 36 CFR 223.191(e) and these procedures. If the recommendation conforms to the aforementioned Act, regulations, and procedures, the Judge may enter such decision without further procedure, unless an error is apparent on the face of the document. If the Judge enters the decision, such decision shall have the same force and effect as a decision issued after full hearing and shall become final upon issuance to become effective in accordance with the terms of the decision. ยง1.421 Prehearing conferences and procedures. (a) Purpose and Scope. (1) Upon motion of a party of record or upon the Judge's own motion, the Judge may direct the parties or their counsel to attend a conference at any reasonable time, prior to or during the course of the hearing, when the Judge finds that the proceeding would be expedited by a prehearing conference. Reasonable notice of the time and place of the conference shall be given. The Judge may order each of the parties to furnish at or subsequent to the conference any or all of the following: (i) An outline of a party's position; (ii) The facts upon which the party will rely; (iii) The legal theories upon which the party will rely; (iv) Copies of or a list of documents which the party anticipates introducing at the hearing; and (v) A list of anticipated witnesses who will testify on behalf of the party. At the discretion of the party furnishing such list of witnesses, the names of the witnesses need not be furnished if they are otherwise identified in some meaningful way such as a short statement of the type of evidence they will offer.
