FR941006-0-00048 FR941006-0-00012 ยง806.18 Fee assessment. The FOIA limits charges to search, review, and duplication based on the requester's category. (a) Estimate fees if the requester asks. Do not charge an amount more than the estimate or the amount the requester agrees to unless the requester first agrees to pay more. (b) Search time includes all time spent looking for records to respond to a request. Personnel must search efficiently to minimize both the Air Force's and the requester's costs. Search efforts must be thorough and include all locations and activities most likely to have the requested records. Searches may include retired or staged records. Time spent reviewing documents to decide whether statutory exemptions apply counts as review time, not search time. For computer searches, determine the first 2 free hours against the salary scale of the person operating the computer. (1) FOIA managers may charge for search time for the appropriate category (and review time for commercial requesters only), if the requester agreed in advance to pay, even if: (i) A search does not uncover the requested records. (ii) The records found are entirely exempt from disclosure. (2) When estimated search charges exceed $25, tell the requester the estimated fees, unless the requester has already indicated a willingness to pay fees as high as the estimate. When feasible, offer the requester the opportunity to restate the request so that the search costs less. (c) Review is the process of examining documents to determine if one or more of the statutory exemptions allows withholding. It also includes the time it takes to excise information. Review does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues on exemptions. FOIA managers may only assess commercial requesters for initial review. This does not include reviews at the appeal stage for exemptions already applied, but it may include review to apply an exemption not previously cited. (d) Requesters pay only for copies of the records they actually receive. Copies may be on paper, microfiche, audiovisual, or machine-readable magnetic tape or disk, among other media. FOIA managers must try hard to ensure copies are clear. If you cannot possibly provide a clear copy, tell the requester that the copy is the best available and that he or she can make an appointment to review the master copy. For copies of computer tapes and audiovisual material, charge the actual copying cost, including the operator's time. (e) Before beginning or continuing work on a request, FOIA managers may require advance payment from requesters: (1) Who have not paid fees on time (usually within 30 calendar days) in the past. (2) Whose estimated fees are over $250, unless the requester always pays promptly. In that case, give the requester an estimate and ask the requester to ensure full payment. (f) If the requester has always paid promptly, the FOIA manager sends the records and requests payment at the same time. (g) If a requester has not paid on time in the past, FOIA managers may ask the requester to: (1) Pay (or show proof of payment of) outstanding bills, plus interest, for past FOIA requests. Consult 31 U.S.C. 3717 for interest rates and coordinate with your accounting and finance office. (2) Pay estimated fees in advance.
