FR940617-0-00083 FR940617-0-00018 12. Equipment leaks from natural gas/gasoline processing plants. 13. Petroleum refinery processes. 14. Leaks from petroleum refinery equipment. 15. Large petroleum dry cleaners. Through the negative declaration, the State of Maine is asserting that there are no sources within the State that would be subject to a rule for that source category. EPA is approving this negative declaration submittal as meeting the section 182(b)(2) and section 184(b) RACT requirements for the source categories listed. After submitting the above negative declarations, Maine then proceeded with the process of adopting regulations to control the remaining CTG categories which include surface coating processes, solvent metal cleaning, graphic arts operations, the use of cutback asphalt, and gasoline marketing operations. Maine's gasoline marketing RACT catch-up regulations are not a part of this SIP revision, and will not be further discussed in this notice. The VOC regulations that are included in Maine's January 13, 1993 SIP submittal are briefly summarized below. Chapter 100: Definitions Regulation This regulation was amended to include the following 19 newly adopted definitions: as applied, capture system, carbon adsorber, condensate, condenser, continuous emission monitor, control system, double block-and-bleed system, exempt VOC compounds, gaseous excess emissions, leak, maximum true vapor pressure, open-ended valve or line, organic compound, overall VOC emission reduction efficiency, pressure release, solvent, standard atmospheric conditions, and VOC incinerator. Chapter 129: Surface Coating Facilities This regulation contains requirements for limiting the VOC emissions from the surface coating of cans, fabric, vinyl, metal furniture, flatwood paneling, and miscellaneous metal parts and products. Surface coating facilities may comply with this regulation through the use of low VOC coatings, daily-weighted averaging, and/or add-on control equipment. Chapter 130: Solvent Degreasers This regulation contains equipment and operation standards for solvent degreasing operations. These requirements apply to cold cleaners, open-top vapor degreasers and conveyorized degreasers. Chapter 131: Cutback and Emulsified Asphalt This regulation contains prohibitions regarding the mixing, storage, use, and application of cutback and emulsified asphalts. Chapter 132: Graphic Arts-Rotogravure and Flexography This regulation contains requirements to limit the emissions from rotogravure and flexographic printing operations. Graphic arts facilities may comply with these requirements through the use of low VOC coatings, daily-weighted averaging, and/or add-on control equipment. EPA has evaluated Maine's VOC regulations and has found that they are consistent with EPA model regulations and the applicable CTG documents. As such, EPA believes that the submitted rules constitute RACT for the applicable sources. By this action, EPA is approving Maine's submittal as meeting the requirements of sections 182(b)(2) and 184(b)(1)(B) for the applicable VOC sources. Maine's regulations and EPA's evaluation are detailed in a memorandum, dated July 16, 1993, entitled ``Technical Support Document_Maine_VOC RACT Catch-ups.'' Copies of that document are available, upon request, from the EPA Regional Office listed in the ADDRESSES section of this document. Final Action EPA is approving Maine's Chapter 100 ``Definitions Regulation,'' Chapter 129 ``Surface Coating Facilities,'' Chapter 130 ``Solvent Degreasers,'' Chapter 131 ``Cutback and Emulsified Asphalt,'' and Chapter 132 ``Graphic Arts-Rotogravure and Flexography'' as meeting the requirements of sections 182(b)(2) and 184(b) of the CAA for the following categories of VOC sources: the surface coating of cans, fabric, vinyl, metal furniture, flatwood paneling, and miscellaneous metal parts and products; solvent metal cleaning; the use of cutback asphalt; and rotogravure and flexographic printing operations. EPA is also approving the negative declarations submitted by the State of Maine as meeting the requirements of sections 182(b)(2) and 184(b) of the CAA for the 15 source categories for which negative declarations were submitted. Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq. , EPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. 5 U.S.C. 603 and 604. Alternatively, EPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. As noted elsewhere in this action, EPA received no adverse public comment on the proposed action. As a direct result, the Regional Administrator has reclassified this action from Table 2 to Table 3 under the procedures published in the Federal Register on January 19, 1989 (54 FR 2214&hyph;2225). On January 6, 1989, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) waived Table 2 and Table 3 SIP revisions from the requirement of section 3 of Executive Order 12291 for a period of two years. The EPA has submitted a request for a permanent waiver for Table 2 and Table 3 SIP revisions. The OMB has agreed to continue the waiver until such time as it rules on EPA's request. This request continues in effect under Executive Order 12866 which superseded Executive Order 12291 on September 30, 1993.
