FR940817-2-00090 FR940817-2-00043 The recently finalized rule requires that manufacturers of new fuel and fuel additive products (i.e., fuel and fuel additive products not registered by their specific manufacturers as of the date of promulgation and not fitting the registrable criteria) submit all testing requirements prior to registration, including any alternative Tier 2 tests or Tier 3 tests prescribed by the Agency. As discussed above, under the fuel and fuel additive testing rule, MMT is designated as ``new'' for purposes of registration for use in unleaded gasoline. Accordingly, any data required to register MMT for use in unleaded gasoline must be submitted prior to registration. As noted above, Tier 1 requires manufacturers of designated fuels or fuel additives (or groups of manufacturers pursuant to ยง 79.56) to supply to the Administrator: (1) the identity and concentration of certain emission products of such fuel and fuel additives, (2) an analysis of potential emissions exposures, and (3) any available information regarding the health and welfare effects of the whole and specified emissions. Under the General Provision of the emission characterization requirements of Tier 1, it is stated in ยง79.52(b)(1)(ii) that the emissions shall be generated three times (on three different days) without a functional aftertreatment device and, if applicable, three times (on three different days) with a functional aftertreatment device, and each such time shall be analyzed according to the remaining provisions in this section (b). Measurement of background emissions, under ยง79.52(b)(1)(iii), states that it is required that ambient/dilution air be analyzed for levels of background chemical species present at the time of emission sampling (for both combustion and evaporative emissions) and that background chemical species profiles be reported with emissions speciation data. Ethyl has yet to provide the Agency with data on the characterization of emissions resulting from the use of MMT in unleaded gasoline which meets the requirements of Tier 1 under these subsections. Thus, to EPA's knowledge, data has not yet been collected which would fully satisfy Tier 1 requirements under ยง79.52(b)(1) (ii) and (iii). Standard Tier 2 testing includes certain specific types of short-term biological testing to screen for specific health effects endpoints, involving the exposure of laboratory animals to the whole emissions of the fuel additive (when added to a base fuel). Where appropriate, the Agency may impose an alternative Tier 2 test in lieu of a standard Tier 2 test or prescribe additional Tier 2 testing in addition to the standard Tier 2 tests. EPA's Office of Research and Development has prepared a report that specifically identifies research which would allow a more accurate evaluation of the risk involved in utilizing MMT in unleaded gasoline. 78 Some of the research described in the ORD report is intended to address toxicologic endpoints which are also addressed by standard Tier 2 tests, 79 while other research described in the report is intended to address other endpoints. EPA presently has an adequate basis to conclude that there are public health concerns associated with the potential use of MMT in unleaded gasoline, and anticipates that research addressing each of the areas identified in the ORD report will be necessary to support registration of MMT for use in unleaded gasoline. It is not necessary, and would be inefficient, to wait for the completion and submission of all of the standard Tier 2 tests in order to identify the requisite test data, and use of alternative Tier 2 procedures is therefore appropriate. 78 ORD originally reviewed the information needed to improve the risk characterization in: Preuss, P.W. (1991) ORD Document on Information Needed to Improve the Risk Characterization of Manganese Tetraoxide (Mn 3 O 4 ) and Methylcyclopentadienyl Manganese Tricarbonyl, December 12, 1991 [memorandum to Richard Wilson]. Washington, DC: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Research and Development; December 16, 1991. For further information the reader is referred to Air Docket A&hyph;93&hyph;26, II&hyph;A&hyph;16. ORD has reevaluated these information needs in light of new information. See Memo from Peter W. Preuss to Richard Wilson dated July 13, 1994, Docket A&hyph;93&hyph;26, II&hyph;A&hyph;18. 79 For example, it is clear that the standard Tier 2 neurotoxicity will not address adequately the potential neurotoxicity of inhaled manganese to humans. Although the precise mechanisms of such neurotoxicity are not fully understood, it has been shown that manganese toxicity may be associated with degeneration of certain tissues in the brain. These brain tissues include the substantia nigra which is found only in primates and not in lower mammals. Laboratory rodents typically employed in the standard Tier 2 neurotoxcity test do not physically possess this target for manganese toxicity in the brain. If Ethyl or any other party seeks to register MMT for use in unleaded gasoline, it will need to submit the required test data in addition to obtaining the required waiver. In that case, EPA expects to identify specific alternative Tier 2 tests which must be performed prior to registration. 80 In the case of endpoints addressed by the ORD report, that report will serve as the starting point for EPA in identifying appropriate alternative Tier 2 tests. In each instance where EPA does not adopt any alternative Tier 2 requirement for an endpoint which is addressed by standard Tier 2 tests, standard information or testing requirements will continue to apply. The process for establishment of alternative Tier 2 testing requirements for a product includes specific procedures for notification of the manufacturer and an opportunity for comment, and is set forth in 40 C.F.R. 79.58(c). 80 If there is any reason why Ethyl would prefer to complete the standard set of Tier 2 tests and submit such tests prior to imposition of further data requirements, EPA is willing in the alternative to impose additional testing requirements under Tier 3 procedures. Submission of any data which is required by the registration regulations prior to registration of MMT for use in unleaded gasoline is not itself a specific legal prerequisite to the granting of a waiver under section 211(f)(4). However, in these circumstances, since the Agency is declining to grant the requested waiver based on potential health effects, the Agency considers it reasonable to require that Ethyl submit the same health effects and exposure test data which will be required prior to registration of MMT for unleaded gasoline before it will consider taking favorable action on another waiver application. As the health effects testing rule indicates, EPA believes that it should exercise particular caution in registering new fuel or fuel additive products that are significantly different from, or have a usage pattern which is significantly different in scope or character from, currently registered fuel or fuel additive products. EPA also believes that the same cautious approach is appropriate in evaluating waiver applications under section 211(f)(4).
