FR940204-1-00043 FR940204-1-00003 (vii) In addition to the propulsion drive system complying with the requirements of paragraph (c)(1)(iii), the propulsion drive system, powered by more than one engine, must be designed so that torque to the propeller shaft is not interrupted after failure of any engine or element in the propeller shaft drive system; and examined in detail to determine all components and their failure modes that would be vital to continued control and operation of the propulsion drive system. (viii) For each component and its failure modes identified by this examination, it must be shown by appropriate test that such a failure is not likely to occur in the system component's service life established by these tests; or that the system is designed so continued control and operation can be accomplished after occurrence of the failure. (2) Propulsion Drive System Limitations. The propulsion drive system limitations must be established so that they do not exceed the corresponding limits approved for the engine, propeller shaft, and drive system components. (i) For the Dual Pac engine, takeoff power must be limited by_ (A) The powerplant maximum rotational speed for takeoff power, and the maximum rotational propeller shaft speed may not be greater than the values determined by the propulsion drive system type design, or the maximum value shown during type tests. (B) The time limit for the use of power, gas temperature, and speed corresponding to the limitations established in paragraph (i) of this section. (C) The powerplant maximum allowable gas temperature at maximum allowable power or torque for each engine, considering the power input limitations of the transmission with all engines operating; and (D) The powerplant maximum allowable gas temperature at maximum allowable power or torque for each engine, considering the power input limitations of the transmission with one engine inoperative. (ii) For the Dual Pac engine, continuous power must be limited by_ (A) The powerplant maximum rotational speed for continuous power. The maximum rotational propeller shaft speed may not be greater than the values determined by the propulsion drive system type design maximum value shown during type tests. (B) The powerplant maximum allowable gas temperature for continuous power and the maximum allowable power or torque for each engine, considering the power input limitations of the transmission with both engines operating; and (C) The powerplant maximum allowable gas temperature at maximum allowable power or torque for each engine, considering the power input limitations of the transmission with one engine inoperative. (3) Propulsion Drive System Instruments. Connections for the following instruments must be provided for any gearbox or transmission: (i) An oil pressure warning device for each pressure-lubricated gearbox to indicate when the oil pressure falls below a safe value; (ii) A low oil quantity warning indicator for each gearbox, if lubricant is self-contained; (iii) An oil temperature warning device to indicate unsafe oil temperatures in each gearbox; (iv) A tachometer for each propeller shaft; (v) A torquemeter for each transmission driving a propeller shaft; and (vi) A chip detecting and indicating system for each gearbox. (4) Propulsion Drive System Endurance Tests. Each part tested, as prescribed in this section, must be in serviceable condition at the end of the tests. No intervening disassembly that might affect these results may be conducted.
