FR940830-2-00072 FR940830-2-00042 Consistent with this priority ranking, in determining which applications to approve and which contracts to accept, the IHS will give priority to applications made by American Indians and Alaska Natives and to individuals recruited through the efforts of Indian tribes or tribal or Indian organizations. •With respect to priorities among the various health professions, the statute requires that of the total amount appropriated for Fiscal Year 1995 for loan repayment contracts, not less than 25 percent be provided to applicants who are nurses, nurse practitioners, or nurse midwives and not less than 10 percent be provided to applicants who are mental health professionals (other than nurses, nurse practitioners, or nurse midwives). This requirement does not apply if the number of applications from these two groups, respectively, is not sufficient to meet the requirement. •Subject to the above statutory priority for nurses and mental health practitioners, the IHS will give priority in funding among health professionals to physicians in the following priority specialties: anesthesiology, emergency room medicine, general surgery, obstetrics/gynecology, ophthalmology, orthopedic surgery, otolaryngology/otorhinolaryngology, psychiatry and radiology. The following factors are equal in weight when applied, and are applied when all other criteria are equal and a selection must be made between applicants. One or all of the following factors may be applicable to an applicant, and the applicant who has the most of these factors, all other criteria equal, would be selected. •An applicant's length of current employment in the IHS, tribal or urban program. •Availability for service earlier than other applicants (first come, first served); and •Date the individual's application was received. Any individual who enters this program and satisfactorily completes his or her obligated period of service may apply to extend the contract on a year-by-year basis as determined by the IHS, at the maximum amount of up to $30,000 per year and additional 31 percent for Federal Withholding. If funds are available, the maximum amount will be funded in this manner and will not exceed the total of the individual's outstanding eligible health professions educational loans. Any individual who owes an obligation for health professional service to the Federal Government or to a State or other entity under an agreement with such State or other entity is not eligible for the Loan Repayment Program unless such an obligation will be completely satisfied prior to the beginning of service under this program in the year that an application is made for this program. This program is not subject to review under Executive Order 12372. The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number is 13.164. Dated: July 19, 1994. Michael H. Trujillo, Assistant Surgeon General, Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21289 Filed 8&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;16&hyph;M
