FR940713-2-00100 FR940713-2-00061 United States of America and State of Florida, Plaintiffs, v. Morton Plant Health System, Inc. and Trustees of Mease Hospital, Inc., Defendants. Civ. No. 94&hyph;748&hyph;CIV&hyph;T&hyph;23E, Judge Steven D. Merryday, June 30, 1994. Competitive Impact Statement Pursuant to Section 2(b) of the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. 16 (b)&hyph;(h), the United States submits this Competitive Impact Statement relating to the proposed Final Consent Judgment (or ``the Judgment'') submitted for entry against Morton Plant Health System, Inc. (``MPHS'') and Trustees of Mease Hospital, Inc. (``TMH'') in this civil antitrust proceeding. I Nature and Purpose of the Proceeding The United States of America and the State of Florida, acting under the direction of their respective Attorneys General, filed this civil antitrust suit on May 5, 1994, alleging that the proposed combination of MPHS and TMH, owners of the two largest general acute care hospitals in North Pinellas County, Florida, violates Section 7 of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. 18. MPHS owns and operates Morton Plant Hospital in Clearwater, Florida (``Morton Plant''), the largest general acute care hospital in North Pinellas County. TMH owns and operates the Mease hospitals in Dunedin and Safety Harbor, Florida (``Mease''), which together constitute the second-largest general acute care hospital in North Pinellas County. The Verified Complaint alleges that the combination of these principal competitors under common ownership may substantially lessen competition in the provision of acute inpatient hospital services in North Pinellas County and likely increase prices for those services to health care consumers. These higher prices will be paid by health care purchasers, particularly health insurance plans, employers, and unions and ultimately result in an increase in prices individual consumers pay for health insurance coverage. The prayer for relief seeks: (1) A judgment that the proposed consolidation of MPHS and TMH violates Section 7 of the Clayton Act; (2) preliminary and permanent injunctions preventing defendants from consummating their agreement to consolidate or from going forward with any other plan by which Morton Plant would be combined with Mease; (3) attorneys fees; and (4) costs.
