FR940406-0-00034 FR940406-0-00002 (A) Has successfully completed a supervised drug rehabilitation program and is no longer engaging in the illegal use of drugs, or has otherwise been rehabilitated successfully and is no longer engaging in such use; (B) Is participating in a supervised rehabilitation program and is no longer engaging in such use; or (C) Is erroneously regarded as engaging in such use, but is not engaging in such use. (ii) Except that the Board may adopt and administer reasonable policies or procedures, including but not limited to drug testing, designed to ensure that an individual described in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) (A) and (B) of this section is no longer engaging in the illegal use of drugs. (2) Alcoholism. The term ``individual with a disability'' does not include an employee who is an alcoholic whose current use of alcohol prevents the employee from performing the duties of his or her job, or whose employment by reason of such current alcohol use, would constitute a direct threat to the property or safety of others. In this regard, alcoholics shall meet the same performance and conduct standards to which all other Board employees must satisfy, even if an unsatisfactory performance is related to the alcoholism of the employee. (3) Infectious and communicable diseases. If an individual with a disability has one of the listed diseases as determined by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12113(d)(1)) and works in or applies for a position at the Board in food handling, the Board will seek reasonable accommodation under paragraph (b) of this section to eliminate the risk of transmitting the disease through the handling of food. If the individual with a disability is a nonprobationary employee and a reasonable accommodation cannot be made, the provisions contained in paragraph (f) of this section shall apply. ยง268.304 Employment of noncitizens. (a) Definitions. The definitions contained in this paragraph (a) shall apply only to this section. (1) Intending citizen means a citizen or national of the United States, or a noncitizen who: (i) Is a protected individual as defined in 8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3); and (ii) Has evidenced an intention to become a United States citizen. (2) Noncitizen means any person who is not a citizen of the United States. (3) Sensitive information means: (i) (A) Information that is classified for national security purposes under Executive Order No. 10450 (3 CFR, 1949&hyph;1953 Comp., p. 936), including any amendments or superseding orders that the President of the United States may issue from time to time; (B) Information that consists of confidential supervisory information of the Board, as defined in 12 CFR 261.2(b); or (C) Information the disclosure or premature disclosure of which to unauthorized persons may be reasonably likely to impair the formulation or implementation of monetary policy, or cause unnecessary or unwarranted disturbances in securities or other financial markets, such that access to such information must be limited to persons who are loyal to the United States. (ii) For purposes of paragraph (a)(3)(i)(C) of this section, information may not be deemed sensitive information merely because it would be exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) but sensitive information must be information the unauthorized disclosure or premature disclosure of which may be reasonably likely to impair important functions or operations of the Board.
