FR940628-0-00027 FR940628-0-00017 Changes: None. Section 682.201(b)(7) Comments: Several commenters expressed a concern that lenders be permitted to exercise ``professional judgment'' in determining whether to make a Federal PLUS loan in spite of an initial finding of adverse credit. They stated that the lender should have the option of using this ``professional judgment'' to document the existence of extenuating circumstances. They specifically expressed concern that the NPRM, as written, restricted valid documentation of extenuating circumstances to a new credit report, a statement from the creditor, or a statement from the borrower in the event of a debt less than $500. Discussion: These commenters were addressing two different but related issues in their comments. The first issue addresses lender flexibility in determining whether to make a loan when the initial credit report includes indicators of adverse credit. The second issue relates to the documentation needed by a lender when making a determination that extenuating circumstances exist and determining to make the PLUS loan based on that determination. The NPRM, as written, states in §682.201(b)(7)(iii) that ``Unless the lender determines that extenuating circumstances existed, the lender must consider each applicant to have an adverse credit history *␣*␣*.'' This provision specifically gives the lender the flexibility to determine that some cases involve extenuating circumstances that would provide a legitimate criterion for PLUS loan approval. The NPRM further states that the lender must retain documentation demonstrating its basis for determining that extenuating circumstances existed and that the documentation may include an updated credit report, a statement from the creditor that the borrower has made satisfactory arrangements to repay the debt, or a satisfactory statement from the borrower explaining any delinquencies with outstanding balances of less than $500. The use of the word ``may'' indicates that there could be other documentation that the lender would deem sufficient to override the adverse credit determination. Changes: The Secretary has amended the language in §682.201(b)(7)(vi) of the regulations to include the phrase ``but is not limited to'' to the list of documentation to clarify that the list is not all-inclusive. Comments: Some commenters believed that the definition of adverse credit is too restrictive. The commenters believed that allowing one account that is 90 days past due to prohibit borrowing when the parent may have ten other accounts that are current is not a true indication of the borrower's payment history. The commenters recommended that the credit history have no more than an average of 30-day delinquency on all debts. Discussion: The Department views the averaging of past-due accounts to be more burdensome than the 90-day standard proposed in the regulations. Further, it is unnecessary given the discretion available to a lender to apply the extenuating circumstances criterion. Changes: None. Comments: Several commenters stated that lenders should be given the right to restrict the amount a parent borrows if the parent does not have the capacity to repay the loan. This is especially significant since Congress removed the cap on PLUS loans. Discussion: This issue was discussed in the preamble to the NPRM. While the statute does not include the ability to repay a PLUS loan as an eligibility criterion, a lender is not prohibited from maintaining a lending policy that would examine parental ability to repay in determining whether to make a loan. However, once the lender has decided to make a loan, the lender has no authority to reduce the statutory limit provided under the PLUS program. Changes: None. Comments: A few commenters expressed concern about confusion resulting from slightly different wording in Dear Colleague Letter 93&hyph;L&hyph;159, dated September 1993, and the NPRM regarding interpretation of the wording in the proposed regulation that ``*␣*␣* the applicant is considered 90 or more days delinquent on the repayment of a debt.'' The DCL indicated that one criterion for having adverse credit is that the applicant is considered 90 days or more delinquent on the repayment of a debt ``on the day of the lender's examination of the credit report.'' This was interpreted by some commenters to mean that the lender must extrapolate delinquency based on the date of the credit report and the date on which the lender examined that report.
