FR940803-0-00112 FR940803-0-00040 F. Gas Guzzler Tax Applicability to Alternative-Fueled Vehicles Statement of Proposal The Alternative Motor Fuels Act did not address the applicability of the so-called ``gas guzzler tax'' to dedicated or dual alternative-fueled vehicles. The Energy Tax Act of 1978, 26 U.S.C. 4064, authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury (after consultation with the Secretary of Transportation) to include in the gas guzzler tax program automobiles fueled with any product of petroleum or natural gas if such inclusion is consistent with the need of the nation to conserve energy. While alternative fuels thus could be included in the gas guzzler tax program, the Secretary of Treasury has not included such fuels by regulation under this section to date, and dedicated alternative-fueled automobiles thus do not appear to be currently subject to the gas guzzler tax. However, since dual-fueled automobiles can operate on gasoline, the applicability of the gas guzzler tax under current law is less clear. The EPA solicited comments regarding whether alternative-fueled automobiles or dual-fueled automobiles should be included in the gas guzzler tax program, but did not make any proposals in the NPRM. These comments were submitted to the Internal Revenue Service for their consideration. Summary of Comments Several automobile manufacturers provided comments recommending that dedicated and dual alternative-fueled vehicles not be included in the gas guzzler tax program. These manufacturers stated that the purpose of the AMFA is to facilitate widespread use of alternative fuels through incentives and that subjecting these vehicles to the gas guzzler tax program would contravene the goals of the AMFA. The Senate bill originally included a section intended to ``clarify that the lower energy content of the alternative fuels covered by this bill do not trigger the so-called 'gas-guzzler' tax provisions of current law.'' However, this section was deleted since taxes are revenue related matters that most appropriately should originate in the House of Representatives. Senator Rockefeller stated in the Congressional Record&hyph;Senate of April 15, 1988, page S. 4101: ``in deleting section 8 from S.1518 that we believe the interpretation of the law should remain exactly as it was with section 8 in the bill.'' ARCO recommended that any motor fuel tax be applied equally to all motor fuels including alternative fuels to preserve the energy conservation intent of the Energy Tax Act of 1978. ARCO suggested that dual-fueled vehicles be subject to the gas guzzler tax based on the fuel economy when operated on gasoline. This will appropriately tax vehicles that are designed to run on the alternative fuel but will most likely operate inefficiently on gasoline. The generation of CAFE credits provided by the AMFA would likely result in the production of gas-guzzling vehicles. ARCO provided an example that showed that a M85 dual-fueled vehicle which has an mpg rating of 20 while operating on gasoline and 16 while operating on M85 would have a calculated fuel economy under the CAFE credit provisions of the AMFA of 34 mpg. They state for this example, at 34 mpg, that the dual-fueled vehicle would not be taxed as a gas guzzler. However, at 20 mpg gasoline fuel economy, ARCO feels that the tax would be justifiable and consistent with the intent of the Energy Tax Act to conserve energy. NESEA stated that because of the positive attributes of alternative-fueled vehicles and the urgency of switching away from oil-fueled cars, alternative-fueled and dual-fueled vehicles should be included in the gas guzzler tax program as this is an excellent first step in acknowledging the real costs of running gasoline powered vehicles. EPA Position The EPA does not have the authority to decide which vehicles and fuels are subject to the gas guzzler tax program. This authority lies with the Department of Treasury. The IRS agreed that EPA's decision to label dual-fueled automobiles for gas guzzler tax purposes based on the fuel economy while operating on gasoline is in accordance with the law. Therefore, EPA will label dual-fueled vehicles using the current regulations for gasoline-fueled vehicles contained in 40 CFR part 600, ยง600.513. V. Technical Amendments To save the time and printing costs involved in publishing them under a separate notice, the following technical amendments to the 40 CFR parts 86 and 600 are included in this final rule. Technical amendments described under items A and B below were proposed in the NPRM. EPA received no comments on these amendments and therefore will be included in the final rule as proposed. Technical amendments described under items C, D, and E, were not included in the NPRM. By issuing these technical amendments directly as a final rule, EPA is foregoing the issuance of an NPRM and the opportunity for public comment on the proposal provided by the NPRM rulemaking process. Such a curtailed procedure is permitted by 5 U.S.C. 553(b) and section 307(d) of the Clean Air Act when issuance of a proposal and public comments would be impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest. The Agency is publishing this action without prior proposal because these are non-controversial corrections that rectify minor errors and omissions in the Part 600 regulations in a manner that does not substantively change the requirements of the final rule. The Agency finds that this constitutes good cause under 5 U.S.C. 553(b) for a determination that the issuance of an NPRM is unnecessary. A. A formaldehyde concentration term is being added to the dilution factor equation located in 40 CFR 86.144&hyph;90(c)(7)(ii) and 86.144&hyph;94(c)(7)(ii). Although the magnitude of the formaldehyde concentration is very low, it is possible that an assumption of zero concentration could lead to a slight change in calculated fuel economy. There is no reason why the formaldehyde concentration term should be left out of the equation. With this amendment, all measured carbon-containing compounds will be included in the dilution factor equation. B. The symbol ``x'' is struck from the dilution factor equation on 40 CFR 86.144&hyph;90(c)(7)(ii) and 86.144&hyph;94(c)(7)(ii) the first time it appears in the equation. The first time ``x'' appears in the equation, it is used to represent multiplication. All other occurrences of ``x'' in the equation represent the measured fuel composition parameter: C x H y O z . By dropping the first occurrence of ``x'', only the latter meaning is retained. The multiplication function can be assumed by virtue of a number adjacent to a variable enclosed in parenthesis. C. Part 600.513&hyph;91 (b)(2)(xii) currently reads ``(xii) At least 12.5 mpg, the gas guzzler tax statement shall show a tax of $7,700''. This has been mis-typed; ``At least'' should read ``Less than''. Therefore, the statement is amended to read: ``Less than 12.5 mpg, the gas guzzler tax statement shall show a tax of $7,700''.
