FR940728-1-00053 FR940728-1-00015 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Notice of 90-day Finding on a Petition to List the Dakota Skipper as an Endangered or Threatened Species. AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of 90-day petition finding. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces a 90-day finding for a petition to add the Dakota skipper ( Hesperia dacotae ) to the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants. The Service finds that the petition presents substantial information indicating that listing the species as an endangered or threatened species may be warranted. The Service solicits further information regarding occurrence and distribution of the species and threats to its continued existence and will prepare a 12-month finding. DATES: The finding announced in this notice was made on July 1, 1994. Comments and materials related to this petition finding may be submitted to the Division of Endangered Species at the address below and must be received by September 26, 1994 to be considered in the 12-month finding. ADDRESSES: Data, information, comments, or questions concerning the status of the petitioned species described below should be submitted to the Chief, Division of Endangered Species, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Bishop Henry Whipple Building, 1 Federal Drive, Fort Snelling, Minnesota 55111. The complete file for this petition finding is available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours, at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert Adair, Chief, Division of Endangered Species, at the above address (612/725&hyph;3276). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 4(b)(3)(A) of the Endangered Species Act (Act) of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ), requires that the Service make a finding on whether a petition to list, delist, or reclassify a species presents substantial scientific or commercial information indicating that the petitioned action may be warranted. To the maximum extent practicable, this finding is to be made within 90 days of the receipt of the petition, and the finding is to be published promptly in the Federal Register . If the Service finds that a petition presents substantial information indicating that the requested action may be warranted and the species is not in a current notice of review as a candidate for listing, the Service initiates a status review on that species. Section 4(b)(3)(B) of the Act requires the Service to make a finding as to whether or not the petitioned action is warranted within 12 months of receipt of a petition that presents substantial information. Brendan McManus of the Biodiversity Legal Foundation submitted to the Service a petition dated January 15, 1994, to list the Dakota skipper ( Hesperia dacotae ) as an endangered or threatened species pursuant to the Act. The petition was received January 21, 1994. The petitioner submitted biological, distributional, and other information in support of the petition. Hesperia dacotae is a Category 2 candidate species (56 FR 58804). In July 1978, the Service proposed listing the species as a threatened species under the Act (USFWS 1978); however, the proposal was withdrawn, due to the 1978 amendments to the Act. A category 2 taxon is one for which information in possession of the Service indicates that proposing to list as endangered or threatened is possibly appropriate, but for which conclusive data on biological vulnerability and threat are not currently available to support a proposed rule. The Dakota skipper is a small- to medium-sized hesperine skipper with a wingspan of 2.4 to 3.2 centimeters (cm) (0.9 to 1.3 inches (in)) and hooked antennae. The dorsal surface of the wings ranges from tawny-orange to brown (female with tawny-orange to white spots), while the ventral surface of the wings ranges from yellow-orange to gray-brown. This species has a short, stout body, and a characteristic rapid, skipping flight (Royer and Marrone 1992, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) 1993). Populations of the Dakota skipper are known to occur in Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota, and Manitoba, Canada. In addition, the species was formerly found in Illinois and Iowa. The species is currently known in 16 counties (30 population sites) in Minnesota, 16 counties (28 population sites) in North Dakota, and 11 counties (18 population sites) in South Dakota (Royer and Marrone 1992, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) 1993). Further details regarding the biological status of the species are contained in the administrative finding. Interested persons may obtain a copy of the finding by contacting the office indicated in the ADDRESSES section of this notice. The petitioner contends that the Dakota skipper should be listed as an endangered or threatened species because of the following factors: 1. Present and threatened destruction, modification, and curtailment of habitat due to loss of suitable grassland habitat; 2. Inadequacy of existing regulatory mechanisms, since there is no protection for the species or its habitat nationally or within most of the States within the species' range; and 3. Other natural or manmade factors affecting the species' continued existence, including the production of only one egg per adult female per year and the species' inability to adapt to a changing habitat. In 1993 (USFWS 1993), the Service concluded that the Dakota skipper may be threatened by the following factors: 1. Conversion of native tall-grass prairie to other land uses. 2. Management practices, including complete burns, pesticide use, grazing, detrimental haying, and wetland enhancement. 3. Habitat alteration and degradation by naturalized alien species. 4. The small number of isolated populations and individuals, which may result in a limited gene pool depressing reproductive vigor and cause the species to be vulnerable to any human-caused or natural environmental disturbance (USFWS 1993). Overgrazing, inappropriately timed fires and haying, alteration and conversion of prairie habitat to crop production, and invasion of native prairie by naturalized, alien plants are probably the greatest threats to the survival of H. dacotae, which requires undisturbed, virgin prairie habitat to survive. The Service has reviewed the petition, its supporting documents and data, as well as other available information, published and unpublished studies and reports, and agency files. All documents are on file in the office indicated in the ADDRESSES section of this notice. After reviewing the best scientific and commercial information available, the Service finds that the petitioner has presented substantial information which indicates that listing of the Dakota skipper as an endangered or threatened species may be warranted. However, the Service is in need of additional information to completely identify the status of the species in all areas of its historic range and to further identify activities that may be contributing to its decline.
