FR940524-2-00078 FR940524-2-00049 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34075; File No. SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;94&hyph;03] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of Proposed Rule Change by the Boston Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to an Interpretation to the BEACON Liability Rule May 18, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on February 22, 1994, the Boston Stock Exchange, Inc. (``BSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested person. 1 1 The Exchange has agreed to an additional 60-day period for abrogation of the instant proposed rule change to begin on such date as the proposed Competing Specialist Initiative (SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;93&hyph;12) may be approved. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Boston Stock Exchange seeks to amend its BEACON Liability Rule through the adoption of an interpretation relating to competing specialists. Specifically, the Rule will be supplemented by the following provision: .01␣In the event that there are two or more specialists competing in a given stock, the specialist to whom an order is directed (if it appears on the BEACON System's Member Firm Interface Safe-Store File) will be responsible for that order. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in sections A, B and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The purpose of the proposed rule change is to provide an interpretation to Chapter XXXIII, section 7 of the Rules of the Exchange regarding BEACON liability to clarify the impact of the Competing Specialist Initiative, which is pending approval before the Commission, on the liability rule. 2. Statutory Basis The basis under the Act for the proposed rule change is section 6(b)(5) in that the rule is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade and to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and in general, to protect investors and the public interest; and is not designed to permit unfair discrimination between customers, issuers, brokers, or dealers. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others The Exchange has neither solicited nor received comments on the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The foregoing rule change has become effective pursuant to section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act and subparagraph (e) of Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder. At any time within 60 days from May 18, 1994, 2 the Commission may summarily abrogate such rule change if it appears to the Commission that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. 2 On May 18, 1994 the Commission approved the Competing Sepcialist Initiative (SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;93&hyph;12). See note 1, infra. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the BSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;94&hyph;03 and should be submitted by June 14, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12574 Filed 5&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
