FR940223-1-00068 FR940223-1-00014 48 CFR Chapter 5 Reinventing Multiple Award Schedule Ordering Procedures AGENCY: Office of Acquisition Policy, GSA. ACTION: Request for comments. SUMMARY: The General Services Administration (GSA) plans to deregulate, streamline and unify its multiple award schedule (MAS) ordering procedures. GSA establishes MAS contracts to provide Federal agencies a cost-effective mechanism for ordering common use commercial items. Two GSA organizations award and manage MAS contracts, the Federal Supply Service (FSS) and the Information Resources Management Service (IRMS). Three different regulations contain MAS ordering procedures; i.e., the Federal Property Management Regulation (FPMR), the Federal Information Resources Management Regulation (FIRMR), and the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR). This document invites public comment on proposals to eliminate MAS ordering instructions to customer agencies from the FPMR and FIRMR. Applicable regulations, however, will retain pertinent solicitation provisions, contract clauses, and those policies and procedures that govern the Government-contractor relationship. GSA has initiated a case to make similar changes to the Federal Acquisition Regulation. In lieu of the current regulatory scheme, GSA proposes to adopt a uniform set of non-regulatory principles for MAS ordering. FSS and IRMS will issue and maintain the principles in the FSS Program Guide and FIRMR Bulletin series, respectively. This document also invites public comment on a proposal to revise the Price Reduction Clause currently used in MAS contracts and include it in the General Services Administration Acquisition Regulation (GSAR). Additionally, GSA announces its decision to eliminate regulatorily prescribed mandatory use provisions from the MAS Program. When combined, the proposed changes described in this document will result in a uniform set of principles that empower ordering activities to make ``best value'' buying decisions in a de-monopolized environment. The proposed changes are consistent with the Report on the National Performance Review (NPR) and are one part of GSA's larger plan to help create a Government that works better and costs less. DATES: Comments are due in writing on or before April 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be addressed to Carolyn Harris, Office of Multiple Award Schedule Program Management, 18th and F Streets, NW., room 4040, Washington, DC 20405. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Carolyn Harris, Office of Multiple Award Schedule Program Management, (202&hyph;501&hyph;1043). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: GSA, the General Accounting Office (GAO) and the NPR have all recently examined MAS ordering procedures and recommended improvements. Among other things, GAO found that Federal agencies do not consistently comply with existing regulations and recommended that GSA clarify its requirements. The NPR generally recommended that GSA simplify its regulations and eliminate complex administrative requirements. After reviewing the various recommendations, GSA decided to eliminate regulatorily prescribed mandatory use provisions imposed on other agencies. Solicitations that have a closing date after January 13, 1994, will reflect GSA's new position on non-mandatory use. Existing contractual obligations will not be affected by the change. GSA also proposes to ``deregulate'' MAS ordering procedures and provide agencies with non-regulatory guidance that is simpler, more customer-oriented, and less paperbound than current requirements. These principles will enable ordering officials to take advantage of competition within the scope of the MAS contracting system.
