FR940627-0-00147 FR940627-0-00019 3. Special Requirements for Non-Baseline and Atypical F/FAs EPA recognizes that many of the individual chemical species that will be present in the emissions of non-baseline and atypical F/FAs will also be present in the emissions of baseline products in the same fuel family. Non-baseline formulations, as defined in this rule, contain the same elements as baseline formulations. Thus, on a qualitative basis, the emission products from non-baseline F/FAs are expected to overlap with those of baseline F/FAs in the same fuel family. For atypical F/FAs, the main differentiating characteristic is the presence of atypical element(s) which are not included in the baseline category for a particular fuel family. The composition of the emissions for atypical products, therefore, is expected to consist mainly of those species present in the emissions of baseline F/FAs (for the same fuel family), with the addition of compounds which host the specific atypical element(s) of interest. In addition to requiring literature data on the potential health and welfare effects of the whole combustion and evaporative (where different) emissions of the particular F/FA product, Tier 1 also specifies that a literature search be conducted on each of the emission products of the tested fuel or additive/base fuel mixture. Because of the substantial overlap in the emission species of F/FAs in different categories within the same fuel family, however, this requirement could result in significant duplication of effort and waste of resources. To avoid this outcome, as authorized under CAA section 211(e)(3)(C), this final rule allows manufacturers of non-baseline and atypical F/FAs to limit the literature search done for individual emission species to only those compounds which are different from the compounds typically present in the emissions of baseline F/FAs for the same fuel family. In order to take advantage of this reduction in requirements, manufacturers of non-baseline or atypical F/FAs must compare the emission characterization results of their products with emission characterization data for baseline F/FAs. Such data may be available from private sources, in-house testing, or from publicly available literature or data bases. For example, emission characterization data for baseline gasoline are expected to be available in published literature from studies sponsored by the Auto/Oil Program. 42 The data base ``SPECIATE'' might also be useful in identifying baseline emissions species for gasoline. 43 Other applicable literature on gasoline and diesel emissions can be obtained in the NRC Report on ``Feasibility of Assessment of Health Risks from Vapor-Phase Organic Chemicals in Gasoline and Diesel Exhaust.'' 44 Emission characterization data for alternative fuels is available in a variety of CARB reports. 45,46 42 An example reference is ``The Auto/Oil Air Quality Improvement Research Program SP&hyph;920,'' (published by SAE, Inc., February 1992). Similar information may be obtained from other Auto/Oil publications. 43 ``SPECIATE_VOC/PM Speciation Data Base Management System,'' Version 1.5, EPA&hyph;454/C&hyph;93&hyph;013, October 1992. This data base can be obtained electronically from the CHIEF Bulletin Board System (modem phone no. 919&hyph;541&hyph;5742). For information on this data base, call 919&hyph;541&hyph;5285 (INFO CHIEF). 44 Published by National Academic Press, Washington, DC, 1983 (see Appendix A of Report). 45 ``Definition of Low-Emission Motor Vehicle in Compliance with the Mandates of Health and Safety Code Section 39037.05,'' CARB, May 19, 1989. 46``Proposed Reactivity Adjustment Factors for Transitional Low-Emission Vehicles,'' Technical Support Document, CARB, September 27, 1991. B. Characterization of Emissions 1. Scope The chemical analysis requirements of Tier 1 satisfy the provision in CAA section 211(b)(2)(B) requiring information ``to determine the emissions resulting from the use of the fuel or additive contained in such fuel.'' The characterization of emissions in Tier 1 will provide a useful inventory of potentially harmful F/FA emission products for further study and evaluation in support of the F/FA testing program, risk assessments, and future regulatory actions. F/FA manufacturers are responsible for the generation, collection, and sampling of the combustion and, if applicable, the evaporative emissions of their F/FAs, and for the conduct of tests to determine the identity and concentration of individual emission products. In general, the required procedures are directed toward the detection and measurement of selected chemical classes and compounds. The analyses include: (1) the measurement of basic emissions (i.e., total hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, oxides of nitrogen, and particulates), (2) the speciation of volatile hydrocarbon compounds, aldehydes, ketones, alcohols, ethers, and polycyclic aromatic compounds, and (3) the speciation of atypical emission products (when atypical elements are known to be present in the raw fuel or additive formulation). Speciation requirements are summarized in Table 1.
