FR941220-1-00053 FR941220-1-00009 (D) The State must be assured that the POU and POE devices are properly installed, maintained and monitored. (vii) Period of delivery. The PWS shall provide Alternative Water for the following time periods: (A) Alternative Water shall be provided to each infant for the period requested, which may not exceed twenty weeks from the date of initial delivery. Alternative Water delivery shall be provided for the full twenty weeks if requested, even if the infant becomes one year of age during the delivery period. (B) Alternative Water shall be provided to each traveler and new resident for the period requested, not to exceed six weeks from the date of initial delivery. (3) Public Notification/Education Program. The requirements of this section apply only in States which have authorized the Alternative Method of Compliance. The requirements apply only to those PWSs in such States which have chosen to comply with the sulfate MCL through the Alternative Method of Compliance rather than by achieving the MCL in samples taken at each entry point to the distribution system. The PWS shall implement the public notification/education program described in this subsection in lieu of ยง141.32, and shall provide the State with copies of all public notification and education materials at the same time. There are four components to the program: Notices in bills, pamphlets, signs, and notices to the media. Transient systems (e.g., campgrounds and gas stations) and non-transient, non-community systems (e.g. schools, factories) shall be required to post signs in accordance with paragraphs (r)(3)(v) of this section, but shall not be required to comply with the requirements for notices in bills, notices to the media, or pamphlets in paragraphs (r)(3) (i)&hyph;(iv) and (vi) of this section. Community water systems which are non-transient systems shall comply with all four components set forth in paragraphs (r)(3) (i)&hyph;(vi) of this section, i.e., notices in bills, pamphlets, signs, and notices to the media. (i) Newspaper, mail, hand delivery, of notices. PWSs shall give notice by publication in a daily newspaper of general circulation in the area served by the system as soon as possible, but in no case later than 14 days after sulfate in excess of the MCL has been detected in the water. The notice shall be repeated at intervals of 6 months while the sulfate concentration of the water in the distribution system continues to exceed the MCL. If the area served by a public water system is not served by a daily newspaper of general circulation, notice shall instead be given by publication in a weekly newspaper of general circulation. The notice shall define and describe the geographic location served by the system. In communities where a significant portion of the population speaks a language other than English, the text shall be published in the appropriate language(s), in addition to English. A telephone number(s) and an office location for requesting Alternative Water delivery shall be provided. The notice shall be provided at least once every six months by mail delivery (by direct mail or with the water bill), or by hand delivery, not later than 45 days after the sulfate MCL has been exceeded. (ii) Text of the Notice. The PWS shall, within 60 days of confirmed detection of sulfate in the distribution system, insert notices in each customer's water utility bill containing the following mandatory paragraph on the water bill itself in large bold print. Warning: The water being supplied to you has high levels of sulfate which can cause diarrhea in people who are not used to it. If you have visitors in your home from outside the area, or if you are expecting a baby, please read the enclosed notice for further information. The notices included in the water utility bill and those provided to the media shall also contain the following mandatory language. Any additional information presented shall be consistent with the information in these paragraphs, and in plain English that can be understood by laypersons. In communities where a significant portion of the population speaks a language other than English, the text shall be published in the appropriate language(s), in addition to English. The text shall be as follows: ``Introduction. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the [insert name of State primacy agency], and [insert name of water supplier] are concerned about sulfate in your drinking water. Sulfate salts are found naturally in soil and rock in certain areas of the country, including ours. With the exception of infants, residents of the area should be accustomed to the sulfate in our drinking water, and should not experience ill effects. However, people who are not accustomed to high levels of sulfate in their drinking water may experience diarrhea. Under Federal law, we are required to provide sensitive populations with alternative water until their bodies adapt to the sulfate concentrations in our water. This brochure explains the simple steps you can take to protect the sensitive populations: infants, visitors from outside the area, and new residents. Health Effects of Sulfate Ingestion of sulfate in high concentrations is known to cause diarrhea. The greatest risk is to infants, for whom prolonged diarrhea can be dangerous. New residents and travelers may also experience diarrhea when they first drink water with high levels of sulfate. After approximately two weeks, adult's bodies become accustomed to the sulfate, and the diarrhea stops. Available studies have not shown any long-term or chronic adverse effects from consuming sulfate in drinking water. Boiling the water will not reduce the sulfate content, and in fact, will concentrate it through evaporation of the water. The Alternative Water Program If you are expecting a baby, if you are a new resident, or expecting visitors from outside the area, please call [insert phone number of water system] to request delivery of alternative water to your home. We will provide you with sufficient water for the cooking and drinking needs for each sensitive person. We will provide you with two liters per day of bottled water for your infant for up to 20 weeks, during which time you should gradually add tap water to the bottled water. In this way, your baby will become gradually accustomed to the sulfate in the water. We will provide your out-of-town guests with two liters of bottled water per day for the period needed, up to a maximum of six weeks. We will provide new residents with two liters per person per day for up to six weeks. During that time, tap water should be gradually mixed with the bottled water. Restaurants and other establishments who are likely to serve at least some members of the target population on a continual basis may be provided individual treatment devices, depending on our evaluation of the size of the target population and other circumstances. (iii) New customers. The PWS shall provide notice of the following to new customers or billing units prior to or on the date service begins: Sulfate MCL exceedence in the water entering the distribution system, the health effect of sulfate for target populations, and the need to mix bottled water and tap water for gradual acclimation to sulfate.
