FR940406-2-00082 FR940406-2-00048 SA_Projects where Migrant and Seasonal Farmworker organizations and Indian Tribes or Indian organizations are applying specifically for set-aside funds described in Part B. NP_Grants to organizations with nationwide programs Item 12. Areas Affected by Project _List only the largest unit or units affected, such as State, county or city. Item 13. Proposed Project _The ending date should be calculated based on a 12-month project period. Item 14. Congressional District of Applicant/Project _Enter the number of the Congressional District where the applicant's principal office is located and the number of the Congressional district(s) where the project will be located. Item 15a. For purposes of this Announcement, this amount should reflect the amount requested for the entire project period. Item 15b-e. These items should reflect both cash and third-party in-kind contributions for the total project period. Item 15f. N/A. Item 15g. Enter the sum of Items 15a&hyph;15e. 2. SF&hyph;424A_``Budget Information-Non-Construction Programs'' See Instructions accompanying this page as well as the instructions set forth below: In completing these sections, the Federal Funds budget entries will relate to the requested OCS Community Food and Nutrition Program funds only, and Non-Federal will include mobilized funds from all other sources_applicants, State, and other. Federal funds other than those requested from the Community Food and Nutrition Program should be included in Non-Federal entries. Sections A and D of SF&hyph;424A must contain entries for both Federal (OCS) and non-Federal (mobilized funds). Section A_Budget Summary Line 1&hyph;4 Col. (a): Line 1_Enter OCS Community Food and Nutrition Program; Col. (b): Line 1_Enter 93.571. Col. (c) and (d): Not Applicable Col. (e)_(g): For each line 1&hyph;4, enter in columns (e), (f) and (g) the appropriate amounts needed to support the project for the entire project period. Line 5_Enter the figures from Line 1 for all columns completed, (e), (f), and (g). Section B_Budget Categories This section should contain entries for OCS funds only. For all projects, the first budget period of 12 months will be entered in Column # 1. Allocability of costs is governed by applicable cost principles set forth in 45 CFR parts 74 and 92. Budget estimates for national administrative costs must be supported by adequate detail for the grants officer to perform a cost analysis and review. Adequately detailed calculations for each budget object class are those which reflect estimation methods, quantities, unit costs, salaries, and other similar quantitative detail sufficient for the calculation to be duplicated. For any additional object class categories included under the object class other identify the additional object class(es) and provide supporting calculations. Supporting narratives and justifications are required for each budget category, with emphasis on unique/special initiatives large dollar amounts; local, regional, or other travels new positions; major equipment purchases and training programs. A detailed itemized budget with a separate budget justification for each major item should be included as indicated below:
