FR940418-2-00007 FR940418-2-00005 In 1988, another restructuring took place in which Finsider and its main operating companies (TAS, Italsider, and Nuova Deltasider) entered into liquidation and a new company, ILVA, was formed. ILVA took over some of the assets and liabilities of the liquidating companies. With respect to TAS, part of its liabilities and the majority of its viable assets, including all the assets associated with the production of electrical steel, were transferred to ILVA on January 1, 1989. ILVA itself became operational on that same day. Part of TAS' remaining assets and liabilities were transferred to ILVA on April 1, 1990. After that date, TAS no longer had any manufacturing activities. Only certain non-operating assets ( e.g., land, buildings, inventories), remained in TAS. From 1989 to 1994, ILVA consisted of several operating divisions. The Specialty Steels Division, located in Terni, produced the subject merchandise. ILVA was also the majority owner of a large number of separately incorporated subsidiaries. The subsidiaries produced various types of steel products and also included service centers, trading companies, an electric power company, etc. ILVA together with its subsidiaries constituted the ILVA Group. The ILVA Group was owned by the Istituto per la Ricostruzione Industriale (``IRI''), a holding company wholly-owned by the GOI. As of January 1, 1994, ILVA entered into liquidation and its divisions formed three companies. ILVA's former Specialty Steels Division is now a separately incorporated company, Acciai Speciali Terni, which produces electrical steel. Spin-Offs ILVA sold several ``productive units,'' as defined in the General Issues Appendix to the Final Affirmative Countervailing Duty Determination: Certain Steel Products from Austria (``GIA''), 58 FR 37225, 37265&hyph;8 (July 9, 1993), from 1990 through 1992. At verification, we established that one of the companies had been sold to a government entity and one other company had been sold by Italsider rather than ILVA. Our spin-off methodology does not apply in these situations. For the other companies, i.e., those sold to private parties, we have applied the pass-through methodology described in the GIA to calculate the proportion of subsidies received by ILVA that ``left'' the company as a result of the sales of these productive units. Period of Investigation For purposes of this final determination, the period for which we are measuring subsidies (the period of investigation (``POI'')) is calendar year 1992. We have calculated the amount of subsidies bestowed on the subject merchandise by cumulating benefits provided to Terni, TAS and ILVA from 1978 through 1992. Analysis of Programs Based on our analysis of the petition, the responses to our questionnaires, verification, and comments by interested parties, we determine the following.
