FR941007-1-00075 FR941007-1-00009 The likely respondents/recordkeepers are for-profit savings associations, including small businesses. The estimated annual burden per respondent/recordkeeper varies from two to 300 hours, depending on individual circumstances, with an estimated average of 38 hours. There will be an estimated 450 respondents averaging 136.3 hours and 1,600 recordkeepers averaging four hours. Regulatory Flexibility Act OCC: It is hereby certified that this proposed rule, if adopted as a final rule, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small banks. Accordingly, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required. This proposal would enable most small banks to avoid the data collection requirements in 12 CFR Part 25 and will encourage greater small business lending by banks of all sizes. Board: For all the reasons discussed in the joint preamble, it is hereby certified that this proposed rule, if adopted as a final rule, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small banks. This proposal would enable most small banks to avoid the data collection requirements in 12 CFR Part 228 and will encourage greater small business lending by financial institutions of all sizes. Accordingly, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required. The Board invites comment on this matter. FDIC: It is hereby certified that this proposed rule, if adopted as a final rule, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small banks. This proposal would enable most small banks to avoid the data collection requirements in 12 CFR Part 345 and will encourage greater small business lending by financial institutions of all sizes. Accordingly, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required. OTS: It is hereby certified that this proposed rule, if adopted as a final rule, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small savings associations. This proposal provides an alternative means of evaluating a small savings association's CRA requirements that would enable most such savings associations to avoid the data collection requirements in 12 CFR Part 563e and will encourage greater small business lending by savings associations of all sizes. Executive Order 12866 OCC: It has been determined that this document is a significant regulatory action. The proposal would clarify existing requirements and would exempt small banks from many of the requirements in 12 CFR Part 25. Further, the proposal will encourage greater small business lending by banks of all sizes. OTS: It has been determined that this document is a significant regulatory action. The proposal sets forth a more focused and streamlined method of evaluating savings associations' compliance with existing statutory requirements; moreover it would exempt small savings associations from many of the requirements in 12 CFR Part 563e. Further, the proposal will encourage greater small business lending by savings associations of all sizes. List of Subjects
