FR941017-2-00111 FR941017-2-00064 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20609; No. 812&hyph;9102] Jefferson-Pilot Life Insurance Company, et al. October 7, 1994. agency: Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC''). action: Notice of Application for an Order under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``1940 Act''). applicants: Jefferson-Pilot Life Insurance Company (``Jefferson-Pilot''), Jefferson-Pilot Separate Account A (``Separate Account''), Any Other Separate Account Established by Jefferson-Pilot in the Future to Support Certain Variable Annuity Contracts Offered by Jefferson-Pilot that are Materially Similar to Those Offered by the Separate Account (``Other Separate Accounts''), and Jefferson-Pilot Investor Services, Inc. (``J&hyph;P Services''). relevant 1940 act sections: Order requested under Section 6(c) of the 1940 Act granting exemptions from the provisions of Sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2). summary of application: Applicants seek an order permitting the deduction from the assets of the Separate Account of a mortality and expense risk charge in connection with the offer and sale of certain variable annuity contracts offered by Jefferson-Pilot. filing date: The application was filed on July 1, 1994. hearing or notification of hearing: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the Commission's Secretary and serving the Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the Commission by 5:30 p.m. on November 1, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the Commission's Secretary. addresses: Secretary, SEC, 450 5th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, c/o J. Gregory Poole, Esq., Jefferson-Pilot Life Insurance Company, 100 North Greene Street, Greensboro, North Carolina 27401; and Joan E. Boros, Esq. and Jane A. Kanter, Esq., Katten, Muchin, Zavis & Dombroff, 1025 Thomas Jefferson Street, NW., Washington, DC 20036. for further information contact: Yvonne M. Hunold, Senior Counsel, at (202) 942&hyph;0670, Office of Insurance Products (Division of Investment Management). supplementary information: Following is a summary of the application; the complete application is available for a fee from the Commission's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. Jefferson-Pilot is a stock life insurance company. Jefferson-Pilot is the sponsor and depositor of the Separate Account and will be the sponsor and depositor of one or more Other Separate Accounts that it may establish in the future. 2. The Separate Account, a separate account of Jefferson-Pilot, is registered under the 1940 Act as a unit investment trust. The Separate Account currently is used to fund certain individual variable annuity contracts (``contracts''), and will be used in the future to fund certain additional variable annuity contracts that are materially similar (``Other Contracts''), offered by Jefferson Pilot (Collectively, ``Contracts''). The Separate Account has filed a registration statement on Form N&hyph;4 to register the Contracts as securities under the Securities Act of 1933 (``1933 Act''). Registration statements will be filed under the 1933 Act for any Other Contracts offered in the future by Jefferson-Pilot. The Separate Account currently consists of nine sub-accounts (``Subaccounts''), of which eight are available under the Contracts. 1 Two of the available Subaccounts invest in shares of mutual funds (``JP Funds'') organized by Jefferson-Pilot Corporation as diversified, open-end management investment companies registered under the 1940 Act and those shares are registered as securities under the 1933 Act. The remaining six available Subaccounts invest solely in shares of a corresponding portfolio of the Variable Insurance Products fund (``Trust'') or the Variable Insurance Products Fund II (``Trust II'') (collectively, ``Trusts''). The Trusts are diversified, open-end management investment companies of the series type that are registered under the 1940 Act and whose shares are registered under the 1933 Act. Jefferson-Pilot may determine to create additional Subaccount(s) of the Separate Account to invest in any additional mutual fund(s) that may now or in the future be available. Similarly, Subaccounts and/or funds may be combined or eliminated from time-to-time. 1 The eight available Subaccounts include: (1) JP Capital Appreciation Fund, Inc.; (2) JP Investment Grade Bond Fund, Inc.; (3) CIPF Money Market Portfolio; (4) VIPF&hyph;II Asset Manager Portfolio; (5) VIPF Equity-Income Portfolio; (6) VIPF High Income Portfolio; (7) VIPF Growth Portfolio; and (8) VIPF Overseas Portfolio. Certain Subaccounts are subdivided further into sub-Subaccounts reflecting certain differences in unit values attributable to prior tax law provisions applicable to previously issued qualified and non-qualified Contracts. 3. JP Investment Management Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Jefferson-Pilot Corporation, is the investment adviser for the JP funds. Fidelity Management & Research Company, a nonaffiliate, is the investment adviser for the Trusts. 4. Investor Services, a wholly-owned subsidiary of JP Corporation, will be the principal underwriter of the Contracts and may, in the future, act as principal underwriter for any other Contracts offered by Jefferson-Pilot. Investor Services is registered as a broker-dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. 5. The Contracts are flexible premium variable annuity contracts offered to individuals in connection with either nontax qualified plans or under plans qualified for federal income tax advantages under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Contracts include the Alpha Account Contract and the Alpha Flex Account Contract, each of which permits premiums to vary in amount and frequency but require certain minimum initial premium payments and additional payments. The Contracts further provide for accumulation for premium payments before retirement, and the receipt of annuity payments after retirement, on a fixed basis, or on a variable basis, through use of the Separate Account.
