FR940208-2-00188 FR940208-2-00093 (2) Where a participant files a pleading that contains privileged information, the participant shall file two sets of the pleading in the following manner: (a) one set shall be filed under seal, containing the privileged information and labelled ``Privileged'', with the top of each page that contains privileged information marked with the word ``Privileged'' and with the privileged information enclosed in brackets; and (b) no later than one day following the day on which the set of pleadings referred to in subrule (a) is filed, another set not containing privileged information shall be filed and labelled ``Non-Privileged'', with each page from which privileged information has been deleted marked to indicate the location from which the privileged information was deleted. (3) Where a participant files a pleading that contains personal information, the pleading shall be filed under seal and labelled ``Personal Information''. 34. (1) Subject to subrule (2), a document containing proprietary or privileged information shall be filed under seal in accordance with rule 31 and shall be served only on the investigating authority and on those participants who have been granted access to the information under a Disclosure Order or Protective Order. (2) Where all proprietary information contained in a document was submitted to the investigating authority by one participant, the document shall be served on that participant even if that participant has not been granted access to proprietary information under a Disclosure Order or Protective Order. (3) A document containing personal information shall be filed under seal in accordance with rule 31 and shall be served only on persons or participants who have been granted access to the information under an order of the committee. 35. Where proprietary information, privileged information or personal information is disclosed to a person in an extraordinary challenge proceeding, the person shall not (a) file, serve or otherwise communicate the information by facsimile transmission; or (b) communicate the information by telephone. 36. Service on an investigating authority does not constitute service on a Party and service on a Party does not constitute service on an investigating authority. Form and Content of Pleadings 37. (1) Every pleading filed in an extraordinary challenge proceeding shall contain the following information: (a) the title of, and any Secretariat file number assigned for, the extraordinary challenge proceeding; (b) a brief descriptive title of the pleading; (c) the name of the participant filing the pleading; (d) the name of counsel of record for the participant; (e) the service address, as defined in rule 4; and (f) the telephone number of the counsel of record of the participant or, where the participant is not represented by counsel, the telephone number of the participant. (2) Every pleading filed in an extraordinary challenge proceeding shall be on paper 81/2 x 11 inches (216 millimetres by 279 millimetres) in size. The text of the pleading shall be printed, typewritten or reproduced legibly on one side only with a margin of approximately 11/2 inches (40 millimetres) on the left-hand side with double spacing between each line of text, except for quotations of more than 50 words, which shall be indented and single-spaced. Footnotes, titles, schedules, tables, graphs and columns of figures shall be presented in a readable form. (3) Every pleading filed on behalf of a participant in an extraordinary challenge proceeding shall be signed by counsel for the participant or, where the participant is not represented by counsel, by the participant. Request for an Extraordinary Challenge Committee 38. (1) Where a Party, in its discretion, files with the responsible Secretary a Request for an Extraordinary Challenge Committee referred to in Article 1904.13(a)(ii) or (iii) of the Agreement, the Party shall file the Request within 30 days after the issuance, pursuant to rule 79A of the Article 1904 Panel Rules, of the Notice of Final Panel Action in the panel review that is the subject of the Request. (2) Where a Party, in its discretion, files with the responsible Secretary a Request for an Extraordinary Challenge Committee referred to in Article 1904.13(a)(i) of the Agreement, the Party shall file the Request
