FR940314-2-00108 FR940314-2-00058 j. Required Plan. Section 3306(t)(6), FUTA, provides that a State SEA program must meet ``such other requirements as the Secretary of Labor determines to be appropriate.'' Secretary's Order No. 4&hyph;75 (40 FR 18515) gives the Department the authority to make this determination. The Department has determined that, prior to implementing a SEA program, the Department must approve a State plan. This approval process will assure an orderly start-up of the SEA program in a State. To be approved the plan must contain: (1) A description of the profiling system used to identify SEA program participants. The State has three options for choosing a profiling system: (A) Using elements of the statistical model developed by the Department for purposes of providing technical assistance in implementing Section 303(j), SSA. (Section 303(j), SSA, requires States to establish and use a system of profiling all new claimants for regular UC.) The report on the profiling model, Profiling Dislocated Workers for Early Referral to Reemployment Services by Kelleen Worden (October 6, 1993), is available from the appropriate Regional Office. If this model is used, States must re-estimate the coefficients using State data. (B) A statistical model developed by the State. (C) Another profiling method developed by the State. Regardless of which option is chosen, the State must demonstrate that its system has a high degree of accuracy for purposes of meeting the cost-neutrality requirement discussed in item 4.d. For this reason, the State must submit with its plan a baseline analysis of historical data indicating the extent to which the exhaustion rate of individuals identified by the proposed system exceeds the exhaustion rate of the population of all beneficiaries under the regular UC program. The determination of whether the system is sufficiently accurate will be made by the Department. (2) Assurances that the annual report will be submitted as required and contain such information as required by this UIPL. (3) A description of participation requirements including: (A) The structured set of services provided to individuals in the SEA program. The description must address the working relationship of the State agency with any entity (such as a State economic development agency or an agency administering the Job Training Partnership Act) providing services under the SEA program. (B) A description of what actions (such as certification procedures) the States will take to assure SEA participants are engaged ``on a full-time basis'' in self-employment activities. (4) Legislative language implementing the SEA program consistent with the requirements of this UIPL. (Draft language is provided in Attachment II and a Commentary in Attachment III.) (5) A description of the source (and amount of) funds for paying for SEA program activities such as entrepreneurial training, business counseling, and technical assistance, and assurances that Title III, SSA, funds will not be used for these activities. (6) Assurances that the payment of SEA allowances will not create any additional benefit costs to the UTF. Since no State may commence operation of a SEA program without approval of a plan by the Department, States may expedite implementation of the SEA program by submitting their plans prior to obtaining legislation. Although the Department may provide provisional approval of a plan prior to enactment, it will not approve any plan until certified copies of SEA legislation are provided by the State. Any modifications to an approved plan are to be submitted to the Department. Proposed plans and modifications to approved plans are to be submitted to the appropriate Regional Office. k. Counting of SEA Claims for EB Trigger Purposes. SEA claimants are to be included in the calculation of the insured unemployment rate (IUR) for purposes of determining whether EB is payable in a State.
