FR940707-2-00080 FR940707-2-00049 The exception to the grantee cost sharing requirement relates to applications originating from American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. Applications from these areas are covered under section 501(d) of Pub. L. 95&hyph;134, which requires that the Department waive ``any requirement for local matching funds for grants under $200,000.'' The applicant contribution must generally be secured from non-Federal sources. Except as provided by Federal statute, a cost-sharing or matching requirement may not be met by costs borne by another Federal grant. However, funds from some Federal programs benefitting Tribes and Native American organizations have been used to provide valid sources of matching funds. If this is the case for a Tribe or Native American organization submitting an application to ADD, that organization should identify the programs which will be providing the funds for the match in its application. If the application successfully competes for PNS grant funds, ADD will determine whether there is statutory authority for this use of the funds. The Administration for Native Americans and the DHHS Office of General Counsel will assist ADD in making this determination. The non-Federal share of total project costs may be in the form of grantee-incurred costs and/or third party in-kind contributions. ADD strongly encourages applicants to meet their match requirement through a cash contribution, as opposed to an in-kind contribution. For further information on in-kind contributions, refer to the instructions for completing the SF 424A_Budget Information, in Part IV. The required amount of non-Federal share to be met by the applicant is the amount indicated in the approved application. Grant recipients will be required to provide the agreed upon non-Federal share, even if this exceeds 25% (or other required portion) of the project costs. Therefore, an applicant should ensure the availability of any amount proposed as match prior to including it in its budget. The non-Federal share must be met by a grantee during the life of the project. Otherwise, ADD will disallow any unmatched Federal funds. G. Cooperation in Evaluation Efforts Grantees funded by ADD may be requested to cooperate in evaluation efforts funded by ADD. The purpose of these evaluation activities is to learn from the combined experience of multiple projects funded under a particular priority area. H. Closed Captioning for Audiovisual Efforts Applicants are encouraged to include ``closed captioning'' in the development of any audiovisual products. Part IV. Fiscal Year 1994 Priority Areas for Projects of National Significance The following section presents the final priority areas for Fiscal Year 1994 Projects of National Significance (PNS) and solicits the appropriate applications. Fiscal Year 1994 Priority Area 1: Leadership Education and Development of Individuals With Disabilities and Their Families From Culturally Diverse Backgrounds • Eligible Applicants: State agencies, public or private nonprofit organizations, institutions or agencies. • Purpose: Under this priority area, ADD will award demonstration grant funds on Leadership Education and Development of Individuals With Disabilities and Their Families From Culturally Diverse Backgrounds. The lead initiative intends to target individuals with developmental disabilities and their families from culturally diverse backgrounds to enable them to impact service delivery and fully access the services they need. This priority area is also a very inclusive one meant to cover individuals and families of all ages. However, we are particularly interested in proposals that foster the leadership development of young adults (15&hyph;25 years of age). These projects would strengthen the ability of individuals with developmental disabilities and their families from culturally diverse backgrounds to serve as leaders and advocates on critical issues in the developmental disabilities field in the nation, and in their own communities. • Background Information: Demographic trends continue to rapidly change the character of our Nation. As communities become more culturally, ethnically, and racially diverse, the need has increased to assist individuals from culturally diverse backgrounds and their families in the development and implementation of effective methods of communication that increase public awareness, inform individuals from other ethnic groups with disabilities of issues and services, and develop and implement networking strategies that improve access to community resources. Therefore, it is imperative to include persons with disabilities who are from diverse cultural and ethnic backgrounds in all aspects of service delivery.
