FR940228-0-00075 FR940228-0-00017 Current Financial Responsibility Deadlines January 24, 1989: Marketers With 1000 or More Tanks; Non-Marketers With Net Worth Greater Than $20 Million. October 26, 1989: Marketers With 100&hyph;999 Tanks. April 26, 1991: Marketers With 13&hyph;99 Tanks at More Than One Facility December 31, 1993: Marketers With 1&hyph;12 Tanks at More Than One Facility or Fewer Than 100 Tanks at One Site; Non-Marketers With Net Worth Less Than $20 Million. February 18, 1994: Local Governments and Indian Tribes IV. Final Rule EPA received 58 comments on the August 18, 1993 proposed extension. 34 commenters supported an extension for one or more groups. 21 commenters opposed any extension of the financial responsibility requirements. No commenters objected to an extended compliance deadline for Indian tribes while one commenter supported it. One commenter remained neutral on the subject and two additional comments were received regarding the proposed definition of rural, as defined by the Farmers Home Administration. Based on EPA analysis of the comments received as well as the rest of the administrative record from the proposal, the Agency is finalizing an extension to 1998 for Federally-recognized Indian tribes that own USTs on Indian lands. No other entity (petroleum marketer or local government) has been included in this 1998 compliance group. A discussion of comments relating to a 1998 compliance deadline for petroleum marketers and local governments can be found in section III C. A. Indian Tribes Based on an analysis of the administrative record for this rulemaking and lack of opposition to an extension for tribes, EPA is extending the compliance deadline for Tribally-owned USTs on Indian lands to December 31, 1998 if the USTs meet the technical compliance criterion. The Agency is sensitive to the lack of funding available to help Indian tribes pay for environmental problems and acknowledges that mechanisms used by other owners, such as state assurance funds or private insurance, may be inaccessible to tribes. The Agency has retained the technical compliance criterion in order to protect human health and the environment on Indian lands and expects that inclusion of this criterion may prompt some owners to come into compliance with the technical requirements in order to qualify for the extension. (Tanks owned by Indian tribes which are out of compliance with applicable technical requirements would not be eligible for the 1998 deadline.) The additional time will also allow the Agency to work with the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) at the U.S. Department of the Interior to explore options for solving the root problem of lack of funding for past contamination on Indian lands and further assist tribes with future technical requirements, such as tank upgrading. A compliance date of December 31, 1998 was selected for Indian tribes because this date corresponds with the final technical compliance date for tank upgrading. Tribes unable to comply with the financial responsibility requirements at that time face the more costly technical requirement of upgrading their USTs. At that point, tanks not in technical compliance would be forced to close with or without the financial assurance coverage. Conversely, owners able to meet the technical requirements at that time would be more likely to obtain an affordable assurance mechanism, such as private insurance, since the tanks would be considered an insurable, reasonable risk.
