FR940224-2-00153 FR940224-2-00094 The project should be designed to: _Introduce Israeli Arab and Jewish mayors and municipal officials to models of local government administration and leadership in the U.S., including mechanisms for cooperation and dispute resolution between municipalities or regions; _Provide for extensive dialogue between the Israeli participants and American counterparts on a range of issues, for example: How local governments accommodate the needs of various ethnic and other groups; modes of interaction between neighboring municipalities on economic development; leadership styles, and other issues of mutual interest. _Introduce participants to theories and practice of conflict prevention and conflict resolution at the local level; _Demonstrate pluralism in the United States and the interaction of interest groups representing various ethnic and other minorities; _Provide opportunities for members of the group to discuss, among themselves and with American specialists, how American models might pertain to their situation at home. Recommended Structural/Procedural Objectives _At least one exchange visit in each direction. The U.S. visit might be organized as a study tour of at least three weeks' duration, allowing a group of 8&hyph;12 Jewish and Arab mayors and municipal officials to visit several U.S. cities. _American participants should also travel to Israel for consultations, workshops or other activities with their local counterparts. _Knowledge of English on the part of the participants from Israel will not be required. Arbitration: Building Dispute Resolution Mechanisms in Palestinian Society USIA will accept proposals designed to support the development of a two-way exchange program to assist Palestinian lawyers and legal institutions in establishing internationally credible dispute and conflict resolution mechanisms in the fields of commerce, labor, and civil matters. The amount requested from USIA should not exceed $125,000. For technical information, interested organizations may contact E/P Program Specialist Charlotte Peterson at (202) 619&hyph;5319. Background/Objectives Palestinian society has traditionally depended on a dispute arbitration mechanism centered on prominent figures, such as clan or village leaders, to mediate and resolve commercial, social, and family disputes. While other Middle Eastern societies have moved beyond this traditional process of mediation_at least for resolution of commercial and legal disputes_Palestinians have, in the absence of a rational legal structure in the occupied territories, continued to rely almost exclusively on this informal, consensual process. As the peace process evolves toward Palestinian autonomy, it has become critical that Palestinians adopt internationally credible models of dispute resolution as a sine qua non for attracting the international investment essential to bolster Palestinian autonomy. The project should be designed to: _Familiarize Palestinian legal experts_many of whom are now working on the general outlines of a constitution and legal framework to govern the autonomous regions_with the types of arbitration organizations and mechanisms Americans rely on to resolve commercial, labor, and other disputes. This introduction should be squarely placed within a framework of the judicial system in the United States. _Promote cooperation between Palestinian and American experts in formulating and proposing specific dispute resolution mechanisms for the Palestinian autonomous regions. _Provide, as a third exchange component, internships with an American arbitration group for a small group of Palestinians closely involved with the evolution of dispute resolution mechanisms within the autonomous authority, so that they might learn how arbitration mechanisms actually work in American society. Recommended Structural/Procedural Objectives _A visit to the United States, to take place as early as possible, for six to eight Palestinian legal experts to become familiar with arbitration organizations and conflict resolution mechanisms. A three-week program, with visits to at least three cities. _Travel of three or four American legal experts involved in the first component of the exchange, to take place after a lapse of several months, to work for four to six weeks in Jerusalem, the West Bank, and Gaza with legal experts on formulating dispute resolution mechanisms for the Palestinian autonomous regions.
