FR940617-0-00183 FR940617-0-00026 (a) Engine intake air temperature measurement must be made within 122 cm of the engine. The measurement location must be made either in the supply system or in the air stream entering the supply system. (b) The temperature measurements shall be accurate to within #2 ○C. §89.326&hyph;96 Engine intake air humidity measurement. (a) Humidity conditioned air supply. Air that has had its absolute humidity altered is considered humidity- conditioned air. For this type of intake air supply, the humidity measurements must be made within the intake air supply system and after the humidity conditioning has taken place. (b) Nonconditioned air supply procedure. Humidity measurements in nonconditioned intake air supply systems must be made in the intake air stream entering the supply system. Alternatively, the humidity measurements can be measured within the intake air supply stream. §89.327&hyph;96 Charge cooling. For engines with an air-to-air intercooler (or any other low temperature charge air cooling device) between the turbocharger compressor and the intake manifold, follow SAE J1937. This procedure has been incorporated by reference. See §89.6. The temperature of the cooling medium and the temperature of the charge air shall be monitored and recorded. §89.328&hyph;96 Inlet and exhaust restrictions. (a) The manufacturer is liable for emission compliance over the full range of restrictions that are specified by the manufacturer for that particular engine. (b) Perform testing at the following inlet and exhaust restriction settings. (1) Equip the test engine with an air inlet system presenting an air inlet restriction at the upper limit at maximum air flow, as specified by the engine manufacturer for a clean air cleaner. A system representative of the installed engine may be used. In other cases a test shop system may be used. (2) The exhaust backpressure must be at the upper limit at maximum declared power, as specified by the engine manufacturer. A system representative of the installed engine may be used. In other cases a test shop system may be used. §89.329&hyph;96 Engine cooling system. An engine cooling system is required with sufficient capacity to maintain the engine at normal operating temperatures as prescribed by the engine manufacturer. §89.330&hyph;96 Lubricating oil and test fuels. (a) Lubricating oil. Use the engine lubricating oil for testing that meets the requirements as specified by the manufacturer for a particular engine and intended usage. Record the specifications of the lubricating oil used for the test. (b) Test fuels. (1) Use diesel fuels for testing which are clean and bright, with pour and cloud points adequate for operability. The diesel fuel may contain nonmetallic additives as follows: Cetane improver, metal deactivator, antioxidant, dehazer, antirust, pour depressant, dye, dispersant, and biocide. (2) Use only petroleum fuel meeting the specifications in Table 4 in appendix A of this subpart, or substantially equivalent specifications approved by the Administrator, for exhaust emission testing. Alternatively, petroleum fuel meeting the specifications in Table 5 in appendix A of this subpart may be used in exhaust emission testing. The grade of diesel fuel used must be commercially designated as ``Type 2&hyph;D'' grade diesel fuel and recommended by the engine manufacturer. If the fuel specified in Table 4 in Appendix A of this subpart is used, the adjustment factor specified in §89.425&hyph;96 may be applied to particulate emission values to account for the impact of sulfur in fuel on particulate emissions. (c) Other fuels may be used for testing provided they meet the following qualifications: (1) They are commercially available;
