FR940418-0-00049 FR940418-0-00012 (g) Authorization of the Postal Service to request the Postal Rate Commission to submit a recommended decision on changes in the mail classification schedule. (h) Determination of an effective date for changes in postal rates or mail classification. (i) Authorization of the Postal Service to request the Postal Rate Commission to submit an advisory opinion on a proposed change in the nature of postal services which will generally affect service on a nationwide or substantially nationwide basis. (j) Approval of any use of the authority of the Postal Service to borrow money under 39 U.S.C. 2005, except for short-term borrowings, having maturities of one year or less, assumed in the normal course of business. (k) Approval of the terms and conditions of each series of obligations issued by the Postal Service under 39 U.S.C. 2005, including the time and manner of sale and the underwriting arrangements, except for short-term borrowings, having maturities of one year or less, assumed in the normal course of business. (l) Approval of any use of the authority of the Postal Service to require the Secretary of the Treasury to purchase Postal Service obligations under 39 U.S.C. 2006(b), or to request the Secretary of the Treasury to pledge the full faith and credit of the Government of the United States for the payment of principal and interest on Postal Service obligations under 39 U.S.C. 2006(c). (m) Determination of the number of officers, described in 39 U.S.C. 204 as Assistant Postmasters General, whether so denominated or not, as the Board authorizes by resolution. (n) Compensation of officers of the Postal Service whose positions are included in Level II of the Postal Career Executive Service. (o) Selection of an independent, certified public accounting firm to certify the accuracy of Postal Service financial statements as required by 39 U.S.C. 2008(e). (p) Approval of official statements adopting major policy positions or departing from established major policy positions, and of official positions on legislative proposals having a major impact on the Postal Service. (q) Approval of all major policy positions taken with the Department of Justice on petitioning the Supreme Court of the United States for writs of certiorari. (r) Approval and transmittal to the President and the Congress of the annual report of the Postmaster General under 39 U.S.C. 2402. (s) Approval and transmittal to the Congress of the annual report of the Board under 5 U.S.C. 552b(j). (t) Approval of the annual comprehensive statement of the Postal Service to Congress under 39 U.S.C. 2401(g). (u) Approval and transmittal to the Congress of the semi-annual report of the Postmaster General under 39 U.S.C. 3013, summarizing the investigative activities of the Postal Service. (v) All other matters that the Board may consider appropriate to reserve for its decision. ยง3.4 Matters reserved for decision by the Governors. The following matters are reserved for decision by the Governors: (a) Appointment, pay, term of service, and removal of the Postmaster General, 39 U.S.C. 202(c).
