FR941021-0-00116 FR941021-0-00020 (b) Budgetary information. DOE may request and the applicant shall submit the minimum budgetary information necessary to evaluate the costs of the proposed project. (1) Applicants for research awards, other than State, local, or Indian tribal governments, will use DOE budget forms ERF 4620.1 and ERF 4620.1A. All other applicants shall use the budget formats established in the solicitation or program regulations. (2) DOE may, subsequent to receipt of an application, request additional information from an applicant when necessary for clarification or to make informed preaward determinations. (c) Continuation and renewal applications. DOE may require that an application for a continuation or renewal award (see §600.31 (b) and (c)) be made in the format or on the forms authorized by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. §600.113 Debarment and suspension. Recipients shall comply with the nonprocurement debarment and suspension common rule implementing E.O.'s 12549 and 12689, ``Debarment and Suspension,'' 10 CFR Part 1036. This common rule restricts subawards and contracts with certain parties that are debarred, suspended or otherwise excluded from or ineligible for participation in Federal assistance programs or activities. §600.114 Special award conditions. (a) If an applicant or recipient has a history of poor performance, is not financially stable, has a management system that does not meet the standards prescribed in this Subpart, has not conformed to the terms and conditions of a previous award, or is not otherwise responsible, DOE may impose additional requirements as needed, without regard to the deviation provisions of §600.4. Such applicant or recipient will be notified in writing as to the nature of the additional requirements, the reason why the additional requirements are being imposed, the nature of the corrective action needed, and the time allowed for completing the corrective actions. Reconsideration of the additional requirements may be requested at any time. Any special conditions shall be promptly removed once the conditions that prompted them have been corrected. (b) A recipient may place a special restrictive condition, as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, in a subaward. In any such case, the recipient must notify DOE in writing within 15 days of the subaward. DOE shall decide whether to notify OMB and other interested parties. §600.115 Metric system of measurement. The Metric Conversion Act, as amended by the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act (15 U.S.C. 205) declares that the metric system is the preferred measurement system for U.S. trade and commerce. The Act requires each Federal agency to establish a date or dates in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, when the metric system of measurement will be used in the agency's procurements, grants, and other business-related activities. Metric implementation may take longer where the use of the system is initially impractical or likely to cause significant inefficiencies in the accomplishment of federally-funded activities. DOE will follow the provisions of E.O. 12770, ``Metric Usage in Federal Government Programs.'' §600.116 Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. Under the Act (Pub. L. 94&hyph;580 codified at 42 U.S.C. 6962), any State agency or agency of a political subdivision of a State which is using appropriated Federal funds must comply with Section 6002. Section 6002 requires that preference be given in procurement programs to the purchase of specific products containing recycled materials identified in guidelines developed by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) (40 CFR Parts 247&hyph;254). Accordingly, State and local institutions of higher education, hospitals, and non-profit organizations that receive direct Federal awards or other Federal funds shall give preference in their procurement programs funded with Federal funds to the purchase of recycled products pursuant to the EPA guidelines. §600.117 Certifications and representations. Unless prohibited by statute or codified regulation, each Federal awarding agency is authorized and encouraged to allow recipients to submit certifications and representations required by statute, executive order, or regulation on an annual basis, if the recipients have ongoing and continuing relationships with the agency. Annual certifications and representations shall be signed by responsible officials with the authority to ensure recipients' compliance with the pertinent requirements. Post-Award Requirements Financial and Program Management §600.120 Purpose of financial and program management. Sections 600.121 through 600.128 prescribe standards for financial management systems, methods for making payments and rules for satisfying cost sharing and matching requirements, accounting for program income, budget revision approvals, making audits, determining allowability of cost, and establishing fund availability. §600.121 Standards for financial management systems. (a) Recipients shall relate financial data to performance data and develop unit cost information whenever practical. For awards that support research, it should be noted that it is generally not appropriate to develop unit cost information. (b) Except for the provisions of 600.121(f) and 600.181, recipients' financial management systems shall provide for the following:
