FR941230-2-00062 FR941230-2-00046 FINAL JUDGMENT Plaintiff, United States of America, having filed its complaint on December 5, 1994, and plaintiff and defendants, by their respective attorneys, having consented to the entry of this Final Judgment without trial or adjudication of any issue of fact or law, and without this Final Judgment constituting any evidence against or an admission by any party with respect to any such issue; NOW, THEREFORE, before the taking of any testimony and without trial or adjudication of any issue of Fact or Law, and upon consent of the parties, it is hereby ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED as follows: I Jurisdiction This court has jurisdiction over the subject matter of and the parties to this action. The Complaint states a claim upon which relief may be granted against each defendant under Section 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. ยง1. II Definitions As used in this Final Judgment: A. ``Agreement'' means any contract, combination, conspiracy, concert of action, mutual understanding, formal or informal, express or implied, with any other person; B. ``Fee'' means any proposed, suggested, recommended, or actual charge, reimbursement rate, relative value conversion factor, relative value unit, case-based payment rate, price term or condition for any inpatient or outpatient hospital service or any methodology for determining or computing any of the foregoing. The term includes any actual or possible discount off any fee relating to any case-based diagnosis related group or any policy regarding any fee in any agreement between a hospital and a third-party payer, including the use of any most favored nation clause; C. ``Fee schedule'' means any list of hospital services showing a fee, range of fees, or methodology for determining or computing fees for such services; D. ``Inpatient hospital services'' means hospital services provided to patients who stay overnight at a hospital; E. ``Integrated joint venture'' means a joint arrangement to provide hospital services in which hospitals that would otherwise be competitors pool their capital to finance the venture, by themselves or together with others, and share substantial financial risk; F. ``Long Island area'' means Queens, Nassau and Suffolk Counties in the State of New York; G. ``Most favored nation clause'' means any term or condition in an agreement between a hospital and a third-party payer that provides that the hospital will not charge any other payer a lower fee than that charged to the payer who has entered into the agreement; H. ``Negotiated fee'' means any actual or possible discount off any fee in an agreement between a hospital and a third-party payer; I. ``Per Diem'' means the reimbursement by any third-party payer of any fee for inpatient hospital services on a daily or overnight basis; and J. ``Third-party payer'' means any person or entity that regularly and pursuant to an organized plan or proposal purchases, pays or reimburses for health care services provided to any other person and includes, but is not limited to, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations, health insurance companies, prepaid hospital, medical or other health insurance plans such as Blue Shield or Blue Cross plans, government health benefits programs, self-insured health benefits programs and employers or other entities providing self-insured health benefits programs.
