FR940126-2-00104 FR940126-2-00055 Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccine (MMR) What You Need to Know Before Your Child Gets the Vaccine What are Measles, Mumps, and Rubella? MMR vaccine is named for 3 diseases: Measles, Mumps, and Rubella. Each of these diseases can lead to serious problems, even death. Your child can be protected from measles, mumps, and rubella by the vaccine. These diseases are still found in our country, mostly because some people do not get the vaccines. Measles is spread easily from person to person, causing a rash, cough, and high fever. When children catch measles, some of them also get ear infections, pneumonia, diarrhea, seizures, hearing loss, or brain damage. Mumps also is easily passed from person to person. It usually causes fever, headache, and swollen glands under the jaw. It can also cause meningitis (an inflammation of the brain and spinal cord coverings), inflammation of the brain, or hearing loss. Men can get painful, swollen testicles from mumps. Rubella is also called German measles. It also passes from person to person. It causes a mild fever, swollen glands, and a rash. Sometimes it also causes arthritis (inflamed joints), especially in women. If a pregnant woman catches rubella, it is very dangerous for her unborn baby. Many women who have rubella when they are pregnant will lose their babies or have babies born with deafness, blindness, heart disease, brain damage, or other serious problems. Should Everyone Get the MMR Vaccine? Experts believe that almost all young children should get MMR. To help your doctor/nurse know what is best for your child, please answer the following questions. ␣ 1␣ 1Yes 1No Is the person getting the vaccine: 1. Someone who had an allergic problem that required a medical visit right after MMR in the past? } } 2. Less able than others to fight infection because of: A disease such as cancer or leukemia? } } Special cancer treatments such as x-rays or drugs? } } Drugs such as prednisone or other steroids? } } An inborn or inherited disease? } } (Children with HIV infection or AIDS should get MMR) 3. Pregnant? Does she think she is pregnant or might get pregnant in the next 3 months? } } 4. Allergic to eggs or neomycin (an antibiotic)? } } Please tell your doctor/nurse if the person getting the vaccine: •Has signs of illness today. •Has a parent, brother, or sister who has had seizures. •Has ever had a seizure. •Has gotten immune globulin or other blood products (such as a transfusion) during the past several months? If the answer is ``yes'' to any of these questions, your doctor/nurse might suggest getting the shot, coming back for it later, or not getting it at all.
