FR940114-1-00084 FR940114-1-00018 The Secretary agrees with the sentiment expressed at the regional meetings and by the negotiators that conditions at the school immediately preceding its closing may cause a deterioration in the educational program that would cause a student to withdraw. A student who withdraws under these circumstances should be deemed to have been unable to complete his or her educational program because of the school's closure. For purposes of considering the borrower eligible for loan discharge, and to balance the interests of the borrower and the federal taxpayers (who ultimately must pay the cost of each cancelled loan), the Secretary proposes to limit this withdrawal period to not more than 90 days prior to the date the school closed. False Certification by a School of a Student's Eligibility To Borrow Participants in the regional meetings and the negotiators offered a wide variety of different actions by the school or the borrower that they believed should be considered a false certification of eligibility to borrow; these included virtually every express or implied representation in any way related to the FFEL Program made by the student to the school, or by the school to the lender, guarantor, accrediting agency, state authority, or the Secretary. The Secretary has not adopted these views in the proposed regulations, because the language of the statute itself and its legislative history shows that the intended scope of the authority to discharge loan obligations is considerably narrower than these commenters suggest. The statute authorizes discharge only if the school made a false ``certification of the student's eligibility,'' a term used only in the FFEL Program regulations, where it refers, only to those representations made by the school on the loan application itself regarding the status of the loan applicant (or the student for whom a parent wishes to obtain a PLUS loan) as an eligible student, 34 CFR 682.603; 682.201; and 668.7, and not to other written representations that relate to the borrower's request for a loan, the school's participation in the FFEL Program, or the quality of the school s program, facilities, or placement services. The legislative history further explains that this provision was intended to provide relief where the student was ``left without the skills needed to obtain employment'' because of the false certification of eligibility. H. R. Rep. No. 447, 102d Cong. 2d Sess. 52 (1991). The scope of the relief proposed by the Secretary here is guided by these two principles: that the false certification be that made by the school on the loan application regarding the borrower's eligibility, and that the falsity of the certification be directly related to the failure to provide necessary skills for employment. Some negotiators urged that grounds for cancellation should include such falsifications as forgery of the borrower's signature on the loan application or on the loan disbursement check. However, these representations are not part of the process of the ``certification of the student's eligibility to borrow.'' Moreover, as a practical matter, a borrower victimized by a forged loan application can be injured only if the borrower's endorsement is then forged on the loan disbursement check, or the check is negotiated without the borrower's endorsement at all. In either case, the borrower is generally not liable because such a loan is generally not legally enforceable. Therefore, not only does forgery not constitute a falsification in the loan ``certification'' process, but the borrower who is the victim of a forgery and did not receive the proceeds of the loan already has a complete defense to repayment of the loan, and needs no cancellation relief under this new section. Other negotiation participants suggested that erroneous school representations on a loan application regarding such matters as the borrower's (or student's) income, resources, family contribution, or recommended loan amount should be sufficient to constitute grounds for cancellation under this section. This kind of error could result in the borrower receiving a loan in a larger amount than he or she qualifies to receive. However, that student may nevertheless receive quality training at the school, and this kind of error or misrepresentation does not directly or invariably cause the borrower to be ``left without the skills needed to obtain employment.'' In addition, errors or misstatements of the borrower's financial need frequently result in the borrower receiving a loan either that only marginally exceeds the amount for which he or she actually qualified, or that qualified only for reinsurance but not for interest subsidies. Section 437(c) directs the discharge of the ``borrower's liability on the loan''_language that does not suggest that a partial discharge was contemplated or intended; discharging the borrower from financial obligation for the entire loan in such circumstances where the misstatement of financial need affects only part of the loan, or only the borrower's right to interest subsidies on all or part of that loan, is a remedy completely out of proportion to any injury suffered by the borrower as a result of the erroneous certification of his or her financial need. For these reasons, the Secretary concludes that erroneous representations of the borrower's financial need are not the kind of false certifications for which section 437 was intended to provide relief.
