FR940928-2-00101 FR940928-2-00067 The operation of Nine Mile Point Unit 2, in accordance with the proposed amendment, will not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The proposed changes to the primary containment air lock ACTION statements will not affect the ability of the containment to respond to an accident and limit releases to within 10 CFR Part 100 and GDC [General Design Criterion] 19 guidelines. The changes do not affect the design or performance characteristics of the containment or containment air locks but simply provide an alternative means of ensuring that only one air lock door is opened at a time. Therefore, the proposed changes do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Reference and Documents Department, Penfield Library, State University of New York, Oswego, New York 13126. Attorney for licensee: Mark J. Wetterhahn, Esquire, Winston & Strawn, 1400 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005&hyph;3502. NRC Project Director: Michael J. Case. Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation, Docket Nos. 50&hyph;220 and 50&hyph;410, Nine Mile Point Nuclear Station, Unit Nos. 1 and 2, Oswego County, New York Date of amendments request: June 9, 1994. Description of amendments request: The proposed change would revise Section 3.4, ``Response Force Capabilities,'' of the Nine Mile Point Nuclear Station Physical Security Plan with regard to the number of armed Security Force Members comprising the Response Force for each shift. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: The operation of Nine Mile Point Units 1 and 2 in accordance with the proposed amendment will not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The proposed amendment to the Physical Security Plan involves a change in the armed response force size for Units 1 and 2. Nuclear Security's ability to meet the response requirements of 10 CFR [subsection] 73.55(h) will not be significantly affected as was determined utilizing NUREG&hyph;0907 while taking into consideration several Security Program enhancements implemented since 1986 when response force size was last reviewed. The change does not affect the design, function, operation, maintenance or testing of structures, systems and components at Unit 1 or Unit 2. It does not affect safety analysis or any Technical Specification that preserves a safety analysis assumption. Therefore, the proposed amendment will neither increase the probability nor the consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The operation of Nine Mile Point Units 1 and 2 in accordance with the proposed amendment will not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The proposed amendment to the Physical Security Plan involves a change in the size of the response force for Units 1 and 2. Design, function, operation, maintenance and testing of structures, systems and components at Units 1 and 2 are not affected. Also, as demonstrated using NUREG&hyph;0907, Nuclear Security will continue to meet the requirements of 10 CFR [subsection] 73.55(h). Therefore, the proposed amendment will not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The operation of Nine Mile Point Units 1 and 2 in accordance with the proposed amendment will not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The proposed amendment to the Physical Security Plan involves a change in the size of the armed response force for Units 1 and 2. The proposed change has no impact on the physical design of the plants nor on the function or operation of their structures, systems and components. The proposed amendment does not impact and therefore does not reduce the margin of safety as defined in the basis for any Unit 1 or Unit 2 Technical Specification. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendments request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Reference and Documents Department, Penfield Library, State University of New York, Oswego, New York 13126. Attorney for licensee: Mark J. Wetterhahn, Esquire, Winston & Strawn, 1400 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005&hyph;3502. NRC Project Director: Michael J. Case. Northeast Nuclear Energy Company, et al., Docket No. 50&hyph;336, Millstone Nuclear Power Station, Unit No. 2, New London County, Connecticut Date of amendment request: September 1, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment would revise Technical Specifications concerning the Reactor Coolant System Volume (RCS). Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration (SHC), which is presented below: *␣*␣* The proposed change does not involve an SHC because the change would not: 1. Involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The proposed change to Section 5.4.2 of the Millstone Unit No. 2 Technical Specifications revises the total RCS water and steam volume to reflect the installation of new steam generators. Section 5.0 of the Millstone Unit No. 2 Technical Specifications delineates design features for Millstone Unit No. 2. The proposed change does not modify a limiting condition for operation, action statement, or surveillance requirement. Additionally, the proposed change does not revise the manner in which the plant is operated. It simply revises the value delineated for the total RCS water and steam volume. The steam generator replacement modifications were addressed in a plant design change request performed in accordance with the requirements of 10 CFR 50.59. NNECO concluded that the replacement of the steam generators did not involve an unreviewed safety question. This proposed change is a result of those modifications. Based on the above, the proposed change to Section 5.4.2 of the Millstone Unit No. 2 Technical Specifications does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. Create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously analyzed. The proposed change to Section 5.4.2 of the Millstone Unit No. 2 Technical Specifications simply revises the total RCS water and steam volume to reflect the installation of new steam generators. It does not modify the manner in which any plant equipment or systems are operated. Thus, the proposed change to Section 5.4.2 of the Millstone Unit No. 2 Technical Specifications does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously analyzed. 3. Involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. The proposed change to Section 5.4.2 of the Millstone Unit No. 2 Technical Specifications revises the total RCS water and steam volume to reflect the installation of new steam generators. This proposal simply reflects the slight change in volume due to the replacement of the steam generators. The steam generator replacement modifications were addressed in a plant design change request performed in accordance with the requirements of 10 CFR 50.59. NNECO concluded that the replacement of the steam generators did not involve an unreviewed safety question. Based on the above, the proposed change to Section 5.4.2 of the Millstone Unit No. 2 Technical Specifications does not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Learning Resource Center, Three Rivers Community-Technical College, Thames Valley Campus, 574 New London Turnpike, Norwich, CT 06360.
