FR940106-1-00114 FR940106-1-00013 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018&hyph;AC26 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Proposed Determination of Threatened Status for the Sacramento Splittail AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) proposes threatened status for the Sacramento splittail ( Pogonichthys macrolepidotus ) pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act). Sacramento splittail occur in Suisun Bay and the San Francisco Bay-Sacramento-San Joaquin River Estuary in California. The Sacramento splittail has declined by 62 percent over the last 15 years. This species is primarily threatened by large freshwater exports from Sacramento and San Joaquin River diversions, prolonged drought, loss of shallow-water habitat, introduced aquatic species, and agricultural and industrial chemicals. This proposal, if made final, would implement the protection and recovery provisions afforded by the Act for Sacramento splittail. The Service seeks all available data and comments from the public regarding this proposal. DATES: Comments from all interested parties must be received by March 7, 1994. Public hearing requests must be received by February 22, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments and materials concerning this proposal should be submitted to the Acting Field Supervisor, Sacramento Field Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 2800 Cottage Way, E&hyph;1803, Sacramento, California 95825&hyph;1846. Comments and materials received will be available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dale Pierce, Acting Field Supervisor, Sacramento Field Office (see ADDRESSES section) at 916/978&hyph;4866. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background As used in this rule, the term ``Delta'' refers to all tidal waters contained within the legal definition of the San Francisco Bay-Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta, as delineated by section 12220 of the State of California's Water Code of 1969. Generally, the Delta is contained within a triangular area that extends south from the city of Sacramento to the confluence of the Stanislaus and San Joaquin Rivers on the southeast corner and Chipps Island in Suisun Bay at the southwest corner. The term ``Estuary,'' as used in this rule, refers to tidal waters contained in the Sacramento River and San Joaquin Rivers, the Delta, and the San Pablo and San Francisco Bays. Sacramento splittail were first described in 1854 by W.O. Ayres as Leuciscus macrolepidotus and by S.F. Baird and C. Girard as Pogonichthys inaeqilobus. Although Ayres' species description is accepted, the species was assigned to the genus Pogonichthys in recognition of the distinctive characteristics exhibited by the two splittail species P. ciscoides and P. macrolepidotus (Hopkirk 1973). P. ciscoides, endemic to Clear Lake, Lake County, California, has been extinct since the early 1970s. The Sacramento splittail (hereafter splittail) represents the only extant species in its genus. The splittail is a large cyprinid that can exceed 40 centimeters (16 inches) in length (Moyle 1976). Adults are characterized by an elongated body, distinct nuchal hump, and small, blunt head, usually with barbels at the corners of the slightly subterminal mouth. The enlarged dorsal lobe of the caudal fin distinguishes the splittail from other minnows in the Central Valley of California. Splittail are dull, silvery-gold on the sides and olive-gray dorsally. During spawning season, the pectoral, pelvic, and caudal fins are tinged with an orange-red color. Males develop small white nuptial tubercles on the head. Splittail are endemic to California's Central Valley, where they were once widely distributed (Moyle 1976). Historically, splittail were found as far north as Redding on the Sacramento River, as far south as the present-day site of Friant Dam on the San Joaquin River, and as far upstream as the current Oroville Dam site on the Feather River and Folsom Dam site on the American River (Rutter 1908). Recreational anglers in Sacramento reported catches of 50 or more splittail per day prior to damming of these rivers (Caywood 1974). The species was used as part of the Central Valley Native American diet (Caywood 1974).
