FR940414-1-00025 FR940414-1-00006 (ii) The reasons for exempting this system of records from subsection (e)(1) are the same as those given in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section. (iii) The requirements of subsections (e)(4) (G) and (H) and (f) do not apply to this system for which exemption from subsection (d) of the Act has been claimed. Nevertheless, the Postal Service has published notice of its notification, access, and contest procedures since access to system records that do not compromise the objectivity or fairness of the testing or examination process or reveal the identity of a confidential source may be appropriate in some cases. (6) USPS 030.010, Equal Employment Opportunity_EEO Discrimination Complaint Investigations. This system is exempt from 5 U.S.C. 552a (d)(1)&hyph;(4), (e)(4) (G) and (H), and (f) to the extent that information in the system is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2) as material compiled for law enforcement purposes and (k)(5) as relating to the identity of a source who has furnished information to the Government in confidence as a part of an investigation conducted solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications of an individual for employment. The reasons for exemption follow. (i) To the extent that information in this system is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), application of the requirements of the exemption at (d) (1)&hyph;(4) would cause disruption of enforcement of the laws relating to equal employment opportunity (EEO). To the extent that information in this system is subject to exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), application of the provisions at (d)(1)&hyph;(4) would reveal to the EEO complainant the identity of individuals who supplied information under a promise of anonymity. It is essential to the integrity of the EEO complaint system that information collected in the investigative process not be prematurely disclosed and that witnesses be free from restraint, interference, coercion, or reprisal. (ii) The requirements of subsections (e)(4) (G) and (H) and (f) do not apply to this system for which exemption from subsection (d) of the Act has been claimed. Nevertheless, the Postal Service has published notice of its notification, access, and contest procedures since access to system records that do not compromise the investigative process or reveal the identify of confidential sources may be appropriate in some cases. An appropriate revision of 39 CFR 266.9 to reflect the proposed change will be published if the proposal is adopted. Stanley F. Mires, Chief Counsel, Legislative Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8718 Filed 4&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7710&hyph;12&hyph;M
