FR941220-1-00041 FR941220-1-00009 In Option 4, central treatment would be designated as section 1412 BAT. Central treatment would be considered economically feasible despite the financial difficulties presented to small systems, because the SDWA legislative history indicates Congress' desire that economic feasibility be determined by reference to large metropolitan water systems. Section 1415 (and corresponding State laws) provide that systems may obtain a variance only after they have applied the designated BAT technology. However, section 1415 also states that the EPA Administrator may vary the technologies identified as BAT for purposes of section 1415 variances ``depending on the number of persons served by the system or for other physical conditions related to engineering feasibility and costs of compliance with [MCLs] as considered appropriate by the Administrator.'' As a key component of Option 4, EPA would designate Alternative Water along with central treatment as BAT for purposes of section 1415 variances only. A PWS that is granted a variance would also be required to meet all of the requirements of Option 1 for public education/notification and provision of Alternative Water. Alternative Water would be designated as a section 1415 BAT because of the special need to provide bottled water which complies with EPA MCLs only to targeted populations for a limited time, which represents a special ``physical condition related to engineering feasibility'' under section 1415. To protect public health from the adverse effects of sulfate, it is necessary to protect only these specific subpopulations (infants, travelers, and new residents). It is technically infeasible to direct treated water only to those households containing these subpopulations, particularly when various households contain sensitive subpopulations at different times. However, it is technically feasible to direct public education and notification and Alternative Water only to those homes which require it. To treat water going to households with sensitive subpopulations would require a PWS to treat all water. The cost of providing treated water to everyone could be much higher than the PWS would otherwise have to incur. Option 4 would require administrative involvement by the State in reviewing variance applications. The additional administrative burden is a clear disadvantage of this option, especially because many State agencies administering the drinking water program currently have significant funding and resource problems. On the other hand, a scheme based on individually granted variances might be considered more desirable in that each PWS would need to justify to the State its individual plan for providing Alternative Water. States may also choose to grant variances in a block to many PWSs at a time, thus reducing their own administrative burden. However, the burden would remain on each system to make an application and present the details of its program to the State. For the reasons stated above with respect to Option 1, EPA has decided not to limit the availability of variances based on Alternative Water under Option 4 to smaller systems. The public education/notification requirements discussed under Option 1 would apply to those systems receiving a variance under Option 4. Making relief available to small systems only through variances presents some additional statutory constraints compared to Option 1. First, variances are only available at the discretion of the State. The State is free not to grant variances or to issue them under more stringent conditions than set by EPA. For sulfate, based on the prior State comments and input, States are seeking flexibility and relief for small systems and, therefore, might generally be expected not to be more stringent on variances than EPA. On the other hand, it is unclear whether States will be dissuaded from providing many variances by the administrative burdens presented by Option 4. Second, under section 1415, variances are available only where the State finds that they will not result in an unreasonable risk to health (``URTH''). However, EPA does not believe that this constraint will present any problems since, as a condition of receiving the variance, PWSs will be required to supply Alternative Water that complies with the sulfate MCL. Third, section 1415 requires the State to prescribe with the variance a schedule for compliance with the MCL. In this case, by providing Alternative Water to qualify for the variance, the PWS would in fact be supplying water that meets the MCL. Therefore, EPA believes it is not necessary or appropriate to prescribe any further schedules for achieving compliance with the sulfate MCL. Finally, EPA also notes that SDWA section 1415 provides for variances where a system cannot meet the MCL because of characteristics of the raw water source. Here, the raw water source is not the issue; application of Alternative Water as section 1415 BAT would achieve the MCL but would be considered not as effective as central treatment in ensuring a consistent and reliable supply of water at the MCL. EPA nevertheless believes that Option 4 is consistent with the purposes and intent of SDWA section 1415, but requests comment on this issue. As an additional option, EPA considered whether relief to small systems could be provided through exemptions under SDWA section 1416. This does not appear to be a viable approach, however. Unlike section 1415, section 1416 does not authorize EPA to vary its designation of BAT for purposes of exemptions. Instead, to qualify for indefinite exemptions, section 1415 envisions that small systems will be continuously working toward obtaining the financing necessary to install the BAT technologies identified under section 1412 (i.e., central treatment). Therefore, exemptions do not appear to be an appropriate mechanism for providing relief from the sulfate MCL to small systems. EPA solicits comment on whether exemptions do provide a mechanism for relief. g. Additional option. The Agency requests comment on the feasibility and appropriateness of the Options discussed above. The Agency is also considering an additional option, namely the traditional approach of simply relying on central treatment as BAT for all systems, with no special provisions for relief for small systems. The advantages to central treatment are that it is the easiest approach to enforce, and it is consistent with the Agency's regulatory approach for other contaminants. The disadvantages are that it is costly and would not provide flexibility or relief for small systems. In particular, under this option, drinking water that meets the sulfate MCL would need to be provided to all consumers even though only a small percentage of the population would experience adverse health effects from ingesting sulfate. Also, the Agency has concerns that this option would not be economically feasible for small systems, as discussed in section IV below. Accordingly, this option is not being offered as the preferred option in today's notice, but EPA is still considering it, and it has the potential to be adopted in the final rule. This option would be adopted, for example, if it appears that the other options would be inadequate to assure a supply of drinking water that dependably complies with the sulfate MCL (see ยง1401(1)(D) because members of the target population would fail to take appropriate action to protect themselves from an acute but temporary adverse health effect. The total national cost of this option would be identical to that for Option 4 ($147 million, see Table 8), since the economic analysis assumed that all systems would choose central treatment under Option 4. Similarly, the household cost for this option would be identical to those for Option 4 (Table 9). The Agency requests comment on whether this option, which would effectively limit methods of compliance to central treatment, should be adopted.
