FR940119-2-00093 FR940119-2-00067 Application Type: Impose and Use PFC Revenue. PFC Level: $3.00. Total Approved PFC Revenue: $5,540,745. Estimated Charge Effective Date: March 1, 1994. Estimated Charge Expiration Date: January 1, 1998. Class of Air Carriers Not Required To Collect PFC's: Part 158 air charter operators who operate aircraft with a seating capacity of less than 10 passengers. Determination: Approved. Based on information submitted by the public agency, the FAA has determined that the proposed class accounts for less than 1 percent of the total enplanements at Corpus Christi International Airport. Brief Description of Projects Approved for Collection and Use: Guidance signs and markings, Automatic switchgear and primary service upgrade, High intensity runway lighting (HIRL) on runway 17&hyph;35, Commercial apron lighting, Commercial apron rigid pavement reconstruction, Runway 13&hyph;31 pavement reconstruction. Brief Description of Projects Approved-in-Part for Collection and Use: Aircraft rescue and firefighting (ARFF) facility, communications, training center, and burn pit relocation. Determination: Approved in part. The FAA has determined that the burn pit relocation/ARFF training facility portion of the project does not enhance safety, security, or capacity, mitigate noise impacts, or furnish opportunities for enhanced competition between or among carriers. The FAA is currently implementing a policy of funding only regional ARFF training facilities. Corpus Christi International Airport (CRP) has not been designated as a regional ARFF training site by the FAA's Southwest Region Airports Division. Terminal reconstruction. Determination: Approved in part. The project elements to convert the public lobby to a USO/Chapel, construct new taxi shelters, expand parking areas, and relocate sister city garden are not AIP eligible, nor do they meet PFC-specific eligibility for gates and related areas. Brief Description of Projects Disapproved: West apron cargo improvements. Determination: Disapproved. The City states in the application that it is planning to finance this cargo building with local funds but provides no further information, such as a construction schedule. Given that the justification for this project is dependent on the cargo building, the FAA does not have sufficient information to approve the apron at this time. Equipment storage facility and storage yard. Determination: Disapproved. This project involves storage of maintenance equipment, areas for trade shops, and a central supply yard for airfield and building maintenance use. This facility does not meet the requirements of section 158.15(b)(1) and, therefore, this project is not PFC eligible.Loop road relocation. Determination. Disapproved. The financial plan for this project proposes using AIP discretionary funding for a majority of the project costs. The FAA cannot commit to this level of discretionary funding at this time. The alternate funding plan was determined not to be a viable plan. In addition, because the City was not required and did not provide a listing of alternative projects to ensure that the PFC revenue is used on approved projects. Therefore, the FAA has no assurance that PFC revenue collected for use on the subject project could be used on approved projects, in the event AIP discretionary funding were not provided. Landside roadway reconstruction. Determination: Disapproved. Section 158.33(a)(1) requires the public agency to begin implementation of a project no later than two years after receiving approval to use PFC revenue on that project. Therefore, all projects approved in this application must begin implementation no later than November 1995. The schedule submitted with the application shows an implementation date of June 1996 for this project. Brief Description of Projects Withdrawn: Vacuum sweeper, Handicap lift, Taxiways L and M lighting and widening, Purchase aircraft rescue and firefighting vehicle, Update master plan. Determination: The City withdrew these projects by telephone on November 15, 1993. Cargo building. Determination: The City withdrew this project due to airline objections. Determination Date: December 29, 1993. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ben Guttery, Southwest Region Airports Division, (817) 222&hyph;5614. Public Agency: City of Tallahassee (City), Florida. Application Type: 93&hyph;02&hyph;U&hyph;OO&hyph;TLH. Application Type: Use PFC Revenue. PFC Level: $3.00 Total Approved Net PFC Revenue: $6,715,081. Earliest Permissible Charge Effective Date: February 1, 1993. Estimated Charge Expiration Date: June 1, 1998. Class of Air Carriers Not Required To Collect PFC's: No change. Brief Description of Projects Approved for Use: Overlay runway 9/27 and taxiway, Upgrade taxiway lighting, Construct perimeter security fence, security access system, Update airport master plan and noise study, Overlay general aviation apron_existing ramp (south apron), Overlay runway 18/36 and taxiways, associated projects, Construct 10,000 square foot aircraft rescue and firefighting vehicle (ARFF) building (three bay), Construct service road west of runway 9/27 and construct perimeter road east and south of runway 9/27, Purchase quick response ARFF vehicle, Purchase 3,000 gallon ARFF vehicle. Brief Description of Project Approved-in-Part To Use PFC Revenue: Construct covered walkway and handicap ramp, other terminal improvements for American with Disabilities Act (ADA) compliance. Determination: Approved in part. Based on the description of the project in this application, the FAA has determined that the terminal public area ADA projects are not PFC eligible in accordance with Program Guidance Letter 93&hyph;3.5. PFC project formulation costs, PFC administrative costs, interest expenses, miscellaneous expenses. Determination: Approved in part. The miscellaneous expenses were not specifically identified in the City's application and therefore, are not PFC eligible. Decision Date: December 30, 1993. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Carlos E. Maeda, Orlando Airports District Office, (407) 648&hyph;6583. Public Agency: City of Long Beach, Long Beach, California. Application Number: 93&hyph;01&hyph;C&hyph;00&hyph;LGB.
