FR940713-2-00105 FR940713-2-00062 DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration [Prohibited Transaction Exemption 94&hyph;53; Exemption Application No. D&hyph;9486, et al.] Grant of Individual Exemptions; Knoxville Surgical Group Profit Sharing Plan, et al. AGENCY: Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration, Labor. ACTION: Grant of Individual Exemptions. SUMMARY: This document contains exemptions issued by the Department of Labor (the Department) from certain of the prohibited transaction restrictions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (the Act) and/or the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the Code). Notices were published in the Federal Register of the pendency before the Department of proposals to grant such exemptions. The notices set forth a summary of facts and representations contained in each application for exemption and referred interested persons to the respective applications for a complete statement of the facts and representations. The applications have been available for public inspection at the Department in Washington, D.C. The notices also invited interested persons to submit comments on the requested exemptions to the Department. In addition the notices stated that any interested person might submit a written request that a public hearing be held (where appropriate). The applicants have represented that they have complied with the requirements of the notification to interested persons. No public comments and no requests for a hearing, unless otherwise stated, were received by the Department. The notices of proposed exemption were issued and the exemptions are being granted solely by the Department because, effective December 31, 1978, section 102 of Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1978 (43 FR 47713, October 17, 1978) transferred the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury to issue exemptions of the type proposed to the Secretary of Labor. Statutory Findings In accordance with section 408(a) of the Act and/or section 4975(c)(2) of the Code and the procedures set forth in 29 CFR Part 2570, Subpart B (55 FR 32836, 32847, August 10, 1990) and based upon the entire record, the Department makes the following findings: (a) The exemptions are administratively feasible; (b) They are in the interests of the plans and their participants and beneficiaries; and (c) They are protective of the rights of the participants and beneficiaries of the plans. Knoxville Surgical Group Profit Sharing Plan (the Plan) Located in Knoxville, Tennessee [Prohibited Transaction Exemption 94&hyph;53; Exemption Application No. D&hyph;9486] Exemption The restrictions of sections 406(a), 406(b)(1) and (b)(2) of the Act and the sanctions resulting from the application of section 4975 of the Code, by reason of section 4975(c)(1)(A) through (E) of the Code, shall not apply to the: (1) the lease (the Lease) of certain real property (the Condominium) by the Plan to Knoxville Surgical Group, P.C. (the Employer), the Plan sponsor and a party in interest with respect to the Plan, following the exchange (the Swap) of real property owned by the Plan for the Condominium owned by Fort Sanders Medical Center, an unrelated party; and (2) a future exercise of (a) a certain indemnity agreement (the Indemnity Agreement) between the Employer and the Plan; and (b) a certain guarantee (the Guarantee) of Lease payments to the Plan by the principals of the Employer; provided that the following conditions are satisfied: (1) all terms and conditions of the Swap, the Lease, the Indemnity Agreement, and the Guarantee are at least as favorable to the Plan as those the Plan could obtain in an arm's-length transaction with an unrelated party; (2) the fair market value of the Condominium will be determined by an independent qualified appraiser at the time the Swap transaction is consummated; (3) with respect to the Lease, the fair market rental amount has been determined by an independent qualified appraiser, and will never be below the initial fair market annual rental amount of $75,000; (4) the Condominium will be appraised by an independent qualified appraiser each time that the Renewal option (the Renewal) on the Lease is exercised. (5) the fair market value of the Condominium will at no time exceed 25% of the Plan's total assets; (6) the Lease is a triple net lease under which the Employer is obligated for all costs of maintenance and repair, and all taxes, insurance, utilities and condominium fees related to the Condominium; (7) the fees received by the independent fiduciary for serving in such capacity, combined with any other fees derived from the Employer or related parties, will not exceed 1% of his annual income for each fiscal year that he continues to serve in the independent fiduciary capacity with respect to the transactions described herein; (8) the independent fiduciary evaluated the transactions described herein and deemed them to be administratively feasible, protective and in the interest of the Plan;
