FR940505-1-00468 FR940505-1-00012 ( 3 ) Annual reports submitted pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C)( 1 ) of this section shall include the following information. For each flight operating in the control areas during the ozone season of each area: Flight number; aircraft type and model; engine type and model; taxi/idle time by engine; APU operating time; number of passengers carried; and weight of non-passenger cargo. In addition, annual reports shall include the following information for all airports in the control areas at which the reporting operator had aircraft operations: GSE population by type; and GSE by fuel type, engine size, emission control level, and annual ozone season use hours. The annual ozone seasons for each of the three FIP areas are: ( i ) Sacramento_May through October. ( ii ) Ventura_April through October. ( iii ) South Coast_March through October. ( 4 ) Commercial aircraft operators submitting annual reports pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C)( 1 ) of this section shall calculate their total annual ozone season emissions of VOC and NO X in pounds and include this information in the annual report. EPA-approved methods for calculating aircraft emissions shall be used for determining VOC and NO X emissions during the control period. ( 5 ) Commercial aircraft operators submitting annual reports pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C)( 1 ) of this section shall calculate their annual ozone season environmental performance in pounds of VOC per passenger equivalent unit and pounds of NO X per passenger equivalent unit and include this information in the annual report. The following calculations shall be used to determine annual environmental performance: ( i ) For VOC , [control period VOC emissions] divided by [(number of passengers carried during control period) + (weight of non-passenger cargo carried during control period divided by 200)] ( ii ) For NO X , [control period NO X emissions] divided by [(number of passengers carried during control period) + (weight of non-passenger cargo carried during control period divided by 200)] ( 6 ) The accuracy of all information submitted pursuant to this section shall be certified according to the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(D) ( 1 ) through ( 4 ) of this section. ( 7 ) A commercial aircraft operator subject to the provisions of this section who fails to submit an annual report as required under paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(C)( 1 )&hyph;( 6 ) of this section will be subject to enforcement as described in paragraphs (b)(2)(vii) of this section. (D) Certification. (1 ) All permit applications submitted pursuant to this regulation shall be signed as follows: ( i ) For a corporation by a responsible corporate officer. For the purposes of this regulation, a responsible corporate officer means a president, secretary, treasurer, or vice-president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy- or decision-making functions for the corporation, or ( ii ) For a partnership or sole proprietorship by a general partner or the proprietor, respectively. ( 2 ) All annual reports and other supplemental information submitted pursuant to this regulation shall be signed by a person described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(D)( 1 ) of this section, or by a duly authorized representative of that person. For the purposes of this regulation, a person is a duly authorized representative if: ( i ) The authorization is made in writing by a person described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(D)( 1 ) of this section; ( ii ) The authorization specifies an individual or a position having responsibility for the overall operation of the regulated sources, or an individual or a position having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company; and ( iii ) The written authorization is submitted to the Administrator. ( 3 ) If an authorization submitted under paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(D)( 2 ) of this section is no longer accurate because of personnel changes or changes in authority, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(D)( 2 ) of this section must be submitted to the Administrator prior to or together with any reports or supplemental information signed by an authorized representative. ( 4 ) Any person signing a document under paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(D) ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) of this section shall make the following certification: I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed to ensure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations. ( iii) Compliance determination. (A) Compliance with paragraph ((b)(2)(i)(A) of this section shall be determined annually, using information provided in the annual report submitted pursuant to paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(C)(1 ) through ( 6 ) of this section, by comparing the reported pounds-per-PEU environmental performance to the relevant environmental performance standard from Tables 2970&hyph;1 and 2970&hyph;2. (B) Commercial aircraft operators whose reported pounds-per-PEU environmental performance exceeds the relevant environmental performance standard shall pay an emissions fee calculated according to the provisions of paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(B) of this section.
