FR940831-2-00076 FR940831-2-00055 The Bureau is proposing to contract with a third party for the preparation of a supplement to the Betze EIS that would describe the new information gathered since the Betze EIS was prepared and would describe any changes in the projected environmental impacts as a result of the new information. In addition, the Supplemental EIS will also assess the cumulative impacts of groundwater pumping to lower elevations and for longer periods of time associated with mining of other nearby deposits within the area from which groundwater would be pumped, e.g., the Deep Post and Meikle. It is anticipated that the Supplemental EIS will focus attention on five issues of special concern to the BLM: livestock operations, threatened and endangered species, wetland and riparian vegetation, wildlife and fisheries resources, and surface and groundwater resources including the potential effects from Barrick's operations on the Humboldt River. The Betze EIS Record of Decision included stipulations requiring Barrick to monitor the effect of its pumping operations on groundwater and also included stipulations specifically intended to mitigate the potential impacts of Barrick's groundwater pumping operations. The stipulations also included a requirement that Barrick establish a $1,000,000.00 fund for monitoring and mitigation of possible adverse environmental impacts that were not specifically identified in the Betze EIS. The Supplemental EIS will evaluate a range of mitigating measures to minimize these environmental impacts and to assure that Barrick's operations do not result in undue or unnecessary degradation of public lands. The special fund described above would be applied to any additional mitigation subsequently identified in the Supplemental EIS. It is important that those interested in this project participate in the scoping and commenting process. To achieve the best possible analysis, comments should be as specific as possible. The tentative project schedule is as follows: Begin Public Comment Period_September 2, 1994 Issuance of Draft Supplemental EIS_August 30, 1995 File Final Supplemental EIS_December 29, 1995 Comments on the scope of the supplemental EIS should be directed to the attention of Nick Rieger, Betze Project Leader at the Bureau of Land Management, Elko District Office, P.O. Box 831, Elko, Nevada 89803. Comments must be received by the close of business on October 3, 1994. Dated: August 25, 1994. Rodney Harris, District Manager. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21460 Filed 8&hyph;30&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;HC&hyph;M
