FR940208-2-00194 FR940208-2-00093 Form (1) Article 1904_Extraordinary Challenge Proceeding Pursuant to the United States-Canada Free Trade Agreement In the matter of: (Title of Panel Review) Secretariat File No. XXXX Request For An Extraordinary Challenge Committee Pursuant to Article 1904 of the Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement, ( the Party ) hereby requests an Extraordinary Challenge Committee review of the panel decision referenced below. The following information is provided pursuant to rules 39 and 40 of the Extraordinary Challenge Committee Rules : 1. (The name of the Party filing this Request) 2. (The name of counsel for the Party) 3. (The service address, as defined by Rule 4 of the Extraordinary Challenge Committee Rules, including facsimile number, if any) 4. (The telephone number of counsel for the Party) 5. (The title of the panel review for which an Extraordinary Challenge Committee is requested) 6. Concise statement of the allegations relied on, together with a concise statement of how the actions alleged have materially affected the panel's decision and the way in which the integrity of the panel review process is threatened. 7. Items of the record of the panel review relevant to the allegations contained in the Request, and an Index of the items are attached (see rule 40(1)). 8. Where a Request contains an allegation referred to in Article 1904.13(a)(i) of the Agreement (a) confidential annex is attached containing the identity of the panelist against whom such an allegation is made ( see subrule 39(2)), (b) items of the record of the panel review relevant to the allegations contained in the Request, and an Index of the items are attached ( see subrule 40(1)), (c) any other material relevant to the allegations contained in the Request is attached ( see subrule 40(2)(a)), and (d) if the Request is filed more than 30 days after the panel issued a Notice of Final Panel Action pursuant to rule 79A of the Article 1905 Panel Rules, an affidavit certifying that the Party gained knowledge of the action of the panelist giving rise to the allegation no more than 30 days preceding the filing of the Request ( see subrule 40(2)(b)). 9. Where the Panel Decision Was Made in Canada: (a) I intend to use the specified language in pleadings and oral proceedings (Specify one) XXXX English XXXX French (b) I request simultaneous translation of oral proceedings (Specify one) XXXX Yes XXXX No Date Signature of Counsel
