FR940525-0-00042 FR940525-0-00021 VII. Response to Comments Because of the number of items of correspondence we normally receive on Federal Register documents published for comment, we are not able to acknowledge or respond to them individually. We will consider comments we receive by the date and time specified in the ``DATES'' section of this preamble, and, if we proceed with a final rule, we will respond to comments in the preamble to that document. Specifically, we are soliciting comments concerning the requirement in new §413.24(f)(4)(ii) that cost reporting software be able to detect changes made to the electronic file after the provider has submitted it to the intermediary. We will not consider comments concerning provisions that remain unchanged from the August 19, 1991 proposed rule or provisions that were changed based on public comment. VIII. Impact Statement Unless the Secretary certifies that a final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, we generally prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis that is consistent with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) (5 U.S.C. 601 through 612). For purposes of the RFA, all hospitals and small businesses that distribute cost-report software to hospitals are considered to be small entities. Intermediaries are not included in the definition of a small entity. Section 1102(b) of the Act requires the Secretary to prepare a regulatory impact analysis if a final rule may have a significant impact on the operations of a substantial number of small rural hospitals. Such an analysis must conform to the provisions of section 603 of the RFA. For purposes of section 1102(b) of the Act, we define a small rural hospital as a hospital that has fewer than 50 beds and is located outside of a Metropolitan Statistical Area. Under the provisions of §§413.20(b) and 413.24(f), hospitals are required to submit cost reports annually, with reporting periods based on the hospital's accounting year. This is generally a consecutive 12-month period. Section 1886(f)(1)(B)(i) of the Act now requires the use of a standardized electronic cost reporting format for hospitals. There are approximately 11 national software suppliers that distribute cost report software packages to hospitals. In addition, HCFA offers a cost reporting software package that is available at no expense to any hospital that requests it. As discussed in the proposed rule, computer software suppliers and hospitals that purchased their software will not be significantly affected by these provisions. Suppliers will not need to develop new software and hospitals will not need to purchase new software but only revise the software or have the cost report portion of the software revised based on standard format requirements set by HCFA. Although the cost report portion of software packages will be exactly the same, competition among suppliers will not be adversely affected since each offers other features that make its product unique. Hospitals that will be most affected by this final rule with comment period are those that may be unable to afford the equipment to submit electronically. These hospitals might include hospitals that have very few Medicare beneficiaries and small rural hospitals. Hospitals that have access to computer equipment can utilize and benefit from HCFA's free software if they are unable to afford the software that is available from suppliers. However, as stated above, we have received only eight requests for waiver of electronic cost reporting. We believe that the small number of requests indicates that the vast majority of hospitals will not experience financial hardship due to the requirements of this final rule with comment period. In conclusion, this final rule with comment period will not have a significant effect on hospital costs since hospitals will not be required to collect any additional data beyond that which the regulations currently specify; cost-report software is available at no cost from HCFA to any hospital that requests it; and most hospitals have some type of computer equipment through which they are currently submitting electronically prepared cost reports. Hospitals will only be affected to the extent that all would be required to submit cost reports in a standardized electronic format to their respective intermediary. A hospital that does not comply with the provisions of this rule, as specified in the preamble, will be subject to sections 1815(a) and 1833(e) of the Act, which provide that no payments will be made to a hospital unless it has furnished the information requested by the Secretary that is needed to determine the amount of payments due the hospital under Medicare. This final rule with comment period will not have a significant effect on a substantial number of Medicare participating hospitals or software suppliers. Therefore, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required. We are not preparing a rural impact statement since the Secretary certifies that this final rule with comment period will not have a significant economic impact on the operation of a substantial number of small rural hospitals. In accordance with the provisions of Executive Order 12866, this regulation was not reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget.
