FR940304-1-00073 FR940304-1-00014 d. Energy Savings 1. Determination of Savings The Department forecasted energy consumption through the use of the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Residential Energy Model, which forecasted energy consumption over the period of analysis for candidate standards and the base case. The Department quantified the energy savings that would be attributable to a standard as the difference in energy consumption between the candidate standard's case and the base case. The base case represents the forecasts of outputs, e.g., prices, operating expenses, energy consumption, shipments, and manufacturer impacts in the absence of new or amended standards. The Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Residential Energy Model was used by DOE in previous standards rulemakings. The Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Residential Energy Model is explained in the Technical Support Document accompanying this notice. (See Appendix B to that document for a detailed discussion of the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Residential Energy Model.) The Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Residential Energy Model contains algorithms to project average efficiencies, usage behavior, and market shares for each product. COMMEND is the Commercial Energy End-Use Model. It was developed by the Electric Power Research Institute, to characterize energy end-use in the commercial sector. For this rulemaking, the Commercial Energy End-Use Model is being used to evaluate more stringent standards on fluorescent lamp ballasts, which are found principally in the commercial sector of the economy. The market share calculations contain the following steps: potential purchasers may purchase any competing technology within an end-use, or none. For room air conditioners, fluorescent lamp ballasts, and television sets, the decision to purchase or not is modeled, and the fraction of the total that chooses each class, e.g., F40T12 lamps, F96T12 lamps, etc., is specified exogenously. For the other products, along with the considerations above, the choice of fuel is modeled. Long-term market share elasticities have been assumed with respect to equipment price, operating expense, and income. The effects of standards are expected to be lower operating expense and increased equipment price. The percentage changes in these quantities are used, together with the elasticities, to determine changes in sales volumes resulting from standards. Higher equipment prices will decrease sales volumes, while lower operating expenses will increase them. The net result depends on the standard level selected, and associated equipment prices and operating expenses. The Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Residential Energy Model and the Commercial Energy End-Use Model (for ballasts only) are used to project energy use over the relevant time periods for seven of these products with and without amended standards, and, in the case of televisions, with and without standards. By comparing the energy consumption projection at alternative standard levels with the legislated standards, the Department estimated the amount of energy projected to be saved during the period 1996&hyph;2030. 4 The energy saved is expressed in quads, i.e., quadrillions of British thermal units (Btu). With respect to electricity, the savings are quads of source or primary energy, which is the energy necessary to generate and transmit electricity. The Act defines ``energy use'' as the quantity of energy directly consumed by a consumer product at point of use. This is generally called ``site'' energy, as opposed to ``source'' energy. There are major differences between these types of energy. From data that remains rather constant over the years, the amount of electrical energy consumed at the site is less than one-third of the amount of source energy that is required to generate and transmit the site electrical energy. 5 Therefore, it is important to identify whether the electricity involved is site or source energy. 4 Lawrence Berkeley-Laboratory Residential Energy Model and the Commercial Energy End-Use Model were programmed to analyze a single standard level or alternate standard levels over the entire period. That is, the fact that a standard might be revised during subsequent rulemakings was not considered by the model. The Department believes that it is not possible to predict what result such reviews may have, and therefore it would be speculative to model any particular result. Therefore, for purposes of this rulemaking, each standard level that was analyzed was projected to have been in place from the time of implementation to the year 2030. 5 Energy Information Administration, Electric Power Annual 1987, Tables 25 and 82, DOE/EIA&hyph;0348(87), 1987. The Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Residential Energy Model projections are dependent on many assumptions. Among the most important are responsiveness of household appliance purchasers to changes in residential energy prices and consumer income, future energy prices, future levels of housing construction, and options that exist for improving the energy efficiency of appliances. The Commercial Energy End-Use Model projections are dependent upon changes in commercial energy prices, future construction of commercial floorspace, responsiveness of building owners to future energy and equipment prices and to utility demand-side management programs, and options for improving the energy efficiency of lighting. As is the case with any complicated computer model simulation, the validity of the outputs is critically dependent on the inputs.
