FR941227-2-00090 FR941227-2-00062 Permit No. PRT&hyph;797226 Applicant: Strange Aquatic Resources, Wilseyville, California The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice voucher specimens) the conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ), longhorn fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta longiantenna ), and vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ) in vernal pools throughout the species' range in central and northern California to determine presence or absence of the species for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species. Permit No. PRT&hyph;797228 Applicant: Dr. Martin Brittan, Folsom, California The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice voucher specimens) the conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ), longhorn fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta longiantenna ), and vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ) in vernal pools throughout the species' range in central and northern California to determine presence or absence of the species for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species. Permit No. PRT&hyph;797229 Applicant: San Joaquin County Mosquito and Vector Control, Stockton, California The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice voucher specimens) the conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ), longhorn fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta longiantenna ), and vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ) in vernal pools in San Joaquin County, California to determine presence or absence of the species and to conduct vernal pool community studies for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species. Permit No. PRT&hyph;797230 Applicant: Sacramento Yolo Mosquito and Vector Control District, Elk Grove, California The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice voucher specimens) the vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ) in vernal pools in Sacramento County, California to determine presence or absence of the species and to conduct vernal pool community and phenological studies for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species and scientific research. Permit No. PRT&hyph;797231 Applicant: Dr. Richard L. Bottorff, South Lake Tahoe, California The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice voucher specimens) the conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ), longhorn fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta longiantenna ), and vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ) in vernal pools throughout the species' range in California to determine presence or absence of the species for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species.
