FR940610-1-00011 FR940610-1-00002 III. Deletion of References to Experience Factors The FDIC's assessments regulations currently permit the use of ``experience factors'' in the computation of an institution's assessment base, for the purpose of quantifying unposted debits and credits. However, under the existing regulations, the use of experience factors will no longer be permitted for assessments due after 1994. Accordingly, the FDIC proposes to delete all references to experience factors from the regulations. IV. Paperwork Reduction Act The proposed rule contains a revision to an existing collection of information. The revision has been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review and approval pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). Comments regarding the accuracy of the burden estimate, and suggestions for reducing the burden, should be addressed to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (3064&hyph;0057), Washington, DC 20503, with copies of such comments sent to Steven F. Hanft, Assistant Executive Secretary (Administration), Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, room F&hyph;400, 550 17th St., NW., Washington, DC 20429. At present, each insured depository institution is required to compute its own semiannual assessment. Under the proposed rule, assessments would be computed by the FDIC using information reported by the institution in its quarterly reports of condition. The institution would be required to certify its agreement with the assessment computation shown on the certified statement form as received from the FDIC or, alternatively, its agreement with that computation as amended in a manner specified by the institution. It is expected that, prior to certification, an institution would compare the information on the form with its own records_which it collects and maintains for purposes of filing its reports of condition_and, if necessary, indicate any amendments. This process should constitute a substantially smaller burden for the institution than preparing and reporting its own assessment computation. The requirements concerning the certified statement are found in ยง327.2 of the proposed rule. The estimated annual reporting burden for the collection of information requirement in this proposed rule is summarized as follows: Approximate Number of Respondents: 13,400. Number of Responses per Respondent: 2. Total Approximate Annual Responses: 26,800. Average Time per Response: 30 minutes. Total Average Annual Burden Hours: 13,400. V. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Board hereby certifies that the proposed rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities within the meaning of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ). Under the proposal, the FDIC would compute the assessment payments due from each depository institution, a task currently required of the institution. Thus, the proposal would reduce an existing burden. Moreover, to the extent any burden would remain, the FDIC believes that it would be proportionate to the size of the institution and, accordingly, that the proposal would not have a disparate impact of the nature contemplated by the Regulatory Flexibility Act. VI. Request for Public Comment The Board hereby requests comment on all aspects of the proposed rule. The Board particularly invites comment on the proposal to collect assessments by means of direct debits initiated by the FDIC and on the impact of the quarterly collection of assessments on insured depository institutions. Interested persons are invited to submit written comment during a 60-day comment period. Comments are not requested in this proceeding as to what measure_whether total deposits or another measure_should be used as a basis for determining an institution's assessment base. The Board expects to seek public comment on that subject in the near future, in a separate proceeding. List of Subjects 12 CFR Part 304 Bank deposit insurance, Banks, banking, Freedom of information, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 12 CFR Part 327 Assessments, Bank deposit insurance, Financing corporation, Savings associations. For the reasons stated in the preamble, the Board proposes to amend 12 CFR parts 304 and 327 as follows: PART 304_FORMS, INSTRUCTIONS AND REPORTS 1. The authority citation for part 304 continues to read as follows:
