FR940127-1-00083 FR940127-1-00019 (6) The management and protection of forest resources to retain the beneficial effects to Indian forest land of regulating water run-off and minimizing soil erosion; and (7) The maintenance and improvement of timber productivity, grazing, wildlife, fisheries, recreation, aesthetic, cultural and other traditional values. §163.4 Secretarial recognition of tribal laws. Subject to the Secretary's trust responsibilities and unless otherwise prohibited by Federal statutory law, the Secretary shall comply with tribal laws pertaining to Indian forest land, including laws regulating the environment or historic or cultural preservation, and shall cooperate with the enforcement of such laws on Indian forest land. Such cooperation does not constitute a waiver of United States sovereign immunity and shall include: (a) Assistance in the enforcement of such laws; (b) Provision of notice of such laws to persons or entities undertaking activities on Indian forest land; and (c) Upon the request of an Indian tribe, the appearance in tribal forums. Subpart B_Forest Management and Operations §163.10 Management of Indian forest land. (a) The Secretary shall undertake forest land management activities on Indian forest land, either directly or through contracts, cooperative agreements, or grants under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (Pub. L. 93&hyph;638, as amended). (b) Indian forest land management activities undertaken by the Secretary shall be designed to achieve objectives enumerated in §163.3. §163.11 Forest management planning and sustained yield management. (a) To further the objectives identified in §163.3, an appropriate forest management plan shall be prepared and revised as needed. Such documents shall contain a statement describing the manner in which the policies of the tribe and the Secretary will be applied, with a definite plan of silvicultural management, analysis of the short term and long term effects of the plan, and a program of action, including a harvest schedule, for a specified period in the future. Forest management plans shall be based on the principle of sustained yield management and objectives established by the tribe and will require approval of the Secretary. (b) Forest management planning for Indian forest land shall be carried out through participation in the development and implementation of integrated resource management plans which provide coordination for the comprehensive management of all natural resources on Indian land. If the integrated resource management planning process has not been initiated, or is not ongoing or completed, a stand-alone forest management plan will be prepared. (c) The harvest of forest products from Indian forest land will be accomplished under the principles of sustained yield management and will not be authorized until practical methods of harvest based on sound economic and silvicultural and other forest management principles have been prescribed. Harvest schedules will be prepared for a specified period of time and updated annually. Such schedules shall support the objectives of the beneficial land owners and the Secretary and shall be directed toward achieving an approximate balance between planned net growth and harvest at the earliest practical time. §163.12 Harvesting restrictions. (a) Harvesting timber on commercial forest land will not be permitted unless provisions for natural and/or artificial forestation of acceptable tree species is included in harvest plans. (b) Clearing of large contiguous areas will be permitted only on land that, when cleared, will be devoted to a more beneficial use than growing timber crops. This restriction shall not prohibit clearcutting when it is silviculturally good practice to harvest a particular stand of timber by such method and it otherwise conforms with objectives in §163.3. §163.13 Indian tribal forest enterprise operations. Indian tribal forest enterprises may be initiated and organized with consent of the authorized tribal representatives. Such enterprises may contract for the purchase of non-Indian owned forest products. Subject to approval by the Secretary the following actions may be taken: (a) Authorized tribal enterprises may enter into formal agreements with tribal representatives for the use of tribal forest products, and with individual beneficial Indian owners for their forest products;
