FR940512-2-00124 FR940512-2-00065 The use of the new pressure-temperature operating limits and the new low temperature overpressure protection curve does not change any postulated accident scenarios. The new curves do not represent any appreciable change in the current methodologies; they merely provide assurance that the Reactor Coolant System is protected from brittle fracture. No new accident or malfunction mechanism is introduced by the amendment and no physical plant changes will result from this amendment. Revision of the Reactor Vessel Material Surveillance Program Withdrawal Schedule does not introduce a new accident or malfunction mechanism. Capsule lead times are revised, and, other than changing the order of specimen removal, consistent with ASME 185&hyph;82, no physical plant changes will result from this revised schedule. Therefore, the proposed changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. C. The proposed change does not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The new pressure-temperature operating limits low temperature overpressure protection curves were generated with the currently accepted conservative methodology using capsule surveillance data. The new pressure-temperature curves were developed using industry standards and regulations (ASME Code Section III, and NRC Regulatory Guide 1.99, Revision 2) which are recognized as being inherently conservative. The use of the new pressure- temperature operating limits and low temperature overpressure protection limits would not change postulated accident scenarios. The proposed revision to the Reactor Vessel Material Surveillance Program Withdrawal Schedule would not change postulated accident scenarios. Capsule lead times are revised, and, other than changing the order of specimen removal, consistent with ASTM 185- 82, no physical plant changes will result from this revised schedule. Therefore, the proposed changes do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Wilmington Township Public Library, 201 S. Kankakee Street, Wilmington, Illinois 60481. Attorney for licensee: Michael I. Miller, Esquire; Sidley and Austin, One First National Plaza, Chicago, Illinois 60690. NRC Project Director: James E. Dyer. Commonwealth Edison Company, Docket Nos. 50&hyph;295 and 50&hyph;304, Zion Nuclear Power Station, Units 1 and 2, Lake County, Illinois Date of amendment request: March 31, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment would change the Technical Specifications (TS) to provide allowable outage times for automatic actuation channel surveillance testing and restoration time for an inoperable engineered safety feature actuation system automatic actuation channel. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: The following evaluation is provided for the three categories of the significant hazards consideration standards: a. Proposed changes to allow 8 hours for master relay and logic testing, 12 hours for slave relay testing and 6 hours to restore an inoperable ESFAS Automatic Actuation Channel prior to entering the shutdown action clock. (1) The determination that these changes are within all acceptable criteria was established in the NRC's SER prepared for WCAP&hyph;10271, Supplement 2, Revision 1. The Technical Specification changes proposed by this license amendment request conform to NRC guidance contained in the SER. The NRC found that implementation of the proposed changes is expected to result in a small and acceptable increase in ESFAS unavailability. This increase in probability results in a small increase in calculated core damage frequency and public risk. The calculated increase in core damage frequency was judged to be acceptable since the increase was small and well within the range of uncertainty associated with the analysis. The values presented in WCAP&hyph;10271 Supplement 2 Revision 1 for increase in core damage frequency were verified by Brookhaven National Laboratory as part of an audit and sensitivity analyses performed for the NRC Staff. Based on the small increase in core damage frequency as compared with the range of uncertainty in the analysis, the NRC agreed that the calculated increase is acceptable. This conclusion was documented in the NRC's SER dated February 22, 1989. The applicability of these conclusions has been verified through a plant specific review of the generic analysis in WCAP&hyph;10271, Supplement 2, Revision 1. The ESFAS Automatic Actuation Channel allowed outage and restoration times included in this license amendment request are consistent with the generic analysis. In addition, the NRC stated that the majority of the increase in unavailability was due to the decrease in frequency of surveillance testing vice the changes in allowed outage and restoration times. Therefore, considering the above information, the proposed allowed outage and restoration time changes do not involve a significant increase in the probability of occurrence or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. (2) The proposed changes do not involve the physical alteration of any plant system and do not result in a change in the manner in which the ESFAS system performs its function. The increases in allowed outage and restoration times only affects the probability of the ESFAS Automatic Actuation Channel functioning properly as described above. Therefore, the allowed outage and restoration time changes proposed in this license amendment request do not create a new or different type of accident from any previously evaluated. (3) The proposed allowed outage time and restoration time changes do not alter the manner in which safety limits, limiting safety system setpoints or limiting conditions for operation are determined. The impact of the revised ESFAS Automatic Actuation Channel allowed outage and restoration times is addressed above. Implementation of the proposed changes is expected to result in an overall improvement in safety by allowing adequate time for required ESFAS testing and quality repairs leading to improved equipment reliability due to a more appropriate restoration time. Therefore, it may be concluded that the proposed allowed outage and restoration time changes do not involve a significant reduction in margin of safety. b. Proposed change to the minimum required degree of redundancy for the High-High Containment Pressure channels in Table 3.4&hyph;1. (1) Changing the minimum required degree of redundancy in Table 3.4&hyph;1 for the High-High Containment Pressure Channels (Table 3.4&hyph;1 items II.3, III.B.3, and IV.3) provides consistency with Technical Specification 3.4.2.c which allows an inoperable High-High Containment Pressure channel to be placed in bypass. Placement of an inoperable High-High Containment Pressure Channel in bypass is preferred to reduce the probability of an inadvertent containment spray event. Also, these channels are designed with a two out of four logic so that the failed channel may be bypassed rather than tripped. With the failed channel bypassed, single failure criterion is still met because the logic is now a two out of three. Furthermore, with the one channel bypassed, a single channel failure will not inadvertently initiate a containment spray. Therefore, this change can be considered an administrative change to correct Table 3.4&hyph;1 to agree with the Action requirements of Technical Specification 3.4.2.c. As such this proposed change does not involve an increase in the probability of occurrence or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. (2) Correcting the minimum required degree of redundancy in Table 3.4&hyph;1 for the High-High Containment Pressure channels is an administrative change which does not involve the physical alteration of any plant system and does not result in a change in the manner in which the ESFAS system performs its function. Therefore, the proposed correction to Table 3.4&hyph;1 does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously analyzed. (3) Correcting the minimum required degree of redundancy in Table 3.4&hyph;1 to be consistent with the Actions of Technical Specification 3.4.2.c is an administrative change and as such does not involve any reduction in a margin of safety. c. Proposed change to the delete footnote +++ from Table 3.4&hyph;1. (1) Deleting footnote +++ from Table 3.4&hyph;1 removes the inconsistency between it and Technical Specification 3.4.2.c which states that channels other than the High-High Containment Pressure channels shall be placed in trip during testing. The change does not affect the manner in which ESFAS provides plant protection. In addition the change does not affect the functioning of ESFAS or the way Zion Station conducts channel testing. Instrument channel testing will continue to be conducted in the tripped mode with the exception of the High-High Containment Pressure channels, which can be tested in bypass because of the risk of a spurious Containment Spray event. Automatic Actuation Channel testing will be performed in accordance with the allowed outage times of new Specification 3.4.2.d. As such this proposed change does not involve any significant increase in the probability of occurrence or consequences of an accident previously evaluated.
