FR941227-2-00089 FR941227-2-00062 Endangered and Threatened Species Permit Applications AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife, Interior. ACTION: Notice of receipt of applications. The following applicants have applied for a permit to conduct certain activities with endangered species. This notice is provided pursuant to section 10(c) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531, et seq. ). Permit No. PRT&hyph;795286 Applicant: Dr. Amadeo M. Rea, San Diego, California The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by nest monitoring) the least Bell's vireo ( Vireo bellii pusillus ) throughout the range of the species in southern California to monitor nest success for the purpose of enhancement of the survival of the species. Permit No. PRT&hyph;797267 Applicant: H. T. Harvey & Associates, Alviso, California The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice voucher specimens) the conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ), longhorn fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta longiantenna ), and vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ) in vernal pools throughout the species' range in California to determine presence or absence of the species and conduct vernal pool community studies for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species. Permit No. PRT&hyph;797266 Applicant: Dr. Douglas Alexander, Chico, California The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice voucher specimens) the conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ) and vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ) in vernal pools throughout the species' range in California to determine presence or absence of the species and to conduct population, behavior, life history, and genetic studies on the species for the purpose of scientific research and enhancement of survival of the species. Permit No. PRT&hyph;787265 Applicant: Harland Bartholomew & Associates, Sacramento, California The applicant requests amendment of their permit to include take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice voucher specimens) of the conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ), longhorn fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta longiantenna ), Riverside fairy shrimp ( Streptocephalus wootoni ), and vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ) in vernal pools throughout the species' range in California to determine presence or absence of the species for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species. Permit No. PRT&hyph;797262 Applicant: Ms. Tracy Erwin, Davis, California The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice voucher specimens) the conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ), longhorn fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta longiantenna ), and vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ) in vernal pools throughout the species' range in northern California to determine presence or absence of the species for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species. Permit No. PRT&hyph;797259 Applicant: Mr. Chris Wilcox, Davis, California The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice voucher specimens) the conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ), longhorn fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta longiantenna ), and vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ) in vernal pools in Great Valley Grasslands State Park, Merced County, California to conduct population studies for the purpose of scientific research and enhancement of survival of the species. Permit No. PRT&hyph;797251 Applicant: Dr. Michael Baad, Sacramento, California The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice voucher specimens) the vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ) in vernal pools throughout the species' range in California to conduct community studies and population monitoring for the purpose of scientific research and enhancement of survival of the species.
