FR941202-1-00039 FR941202-1-00005 Topography The U.S.G.S. topographic maps submitted by the petitioner show the proposed area slopes gradually from 2,000 feet at the northern boundary to 560 feet at the southern boundary. The petitioner describes the San Gabriel mountains to the north of the proposed area as ``a great wall, from 8,000 to 10,000 feet high.'' The Jurupa Mountains to the southeast of the proposed area offer another contrast as they rise steeply from the valley floor to form part of the southern boundary. The balance of the southern boundary, the 560 foot contour line, was chosen because the area at lower elevations was poorly drained and was traditionally used for dairy farming; furthermore, the nearby Prado Dam is scheduled to be raised, so the area to the south of the 560 foot contour line will be flooded. Soil The petitioner describes the soil in the proposed area as ``alluvial valley floors, fans and terraces . . . derived from granitic rock from the San Gabriel formation in the north.'' He further states that the wine grape vineyards in the region are ``found to be located on Delhi, Hanford, Tujunga, Gorgonio and Hilmar soil series'' and ``most vineyards are nearly level to moderately sloping (0&hyph;15 O ).'' The General Soil Map for southwestern San Bernardino County describes these associations as very deep, ``dominantly brownish soils that are coarse textured throughout'' and ``somewhat excessively drained to excessively drained.'' On this map, the proposed eastern boundary in particular is distinguished by a change in the soil composition to the Hanford-Greenfield-San Emigdio association, finer textured and less well drained than the soils within the proposed area. The mountainous areas to the north and southeast of the proposed area have shallower soils over granite, schist and sandstone. Climate The petitioner states that the climate in the proposed area is ``well-suited for viticulture. *␣*␣* There are relatively few nights below freezing in the winter and summer days can be very hot, reaching temperatures over 100 degrees Fahrenheit.'' According to the petitioner, the climate is classed as Region IV, with a heat summation in the 3,501 to 4,000 degree F. range. He states this corresponds to the Ukiah, Davis and Lodi areas of California, and is warmer than the Santa Barbara, Santa Rosa and Santa Maria areas to the north and the Temecula and Rancho California areas to the south. Proposed Boundary The boundary of the proposed Cucamonga Valley viticultural area may be found on ten United States Geological Survey (U.S.G.S.) maps with a scale of 1:24000. The boundary is described in §9.150.
