FR940906-2-00109 FR940906-2-00083 I. Introduction and Background A. Introduction The objective of the Federal Radiological Emergency Response Plan (FRERP) is to establish an organized and integrated capability for timely, coordinated response by Federal agencies to peacetime radiological emergencies. The FRERP: (1) Provides the Federal Government's concept of operations based on specific authorities for responding to radiological emergencies; (2) Outlines Federal policies and planning considerations on which the concept of operations of this Plan and Federal agency specific response plans are based; and (3) Specifies authorities and responsibilities of each Federal agency that may have a significant role in such emergencies. There are two Sections in this Plan. Section I contains background, considerations, and scope. Section II describes the concept of operations for response. B. Participating Federal Agencies Each participating agency has responsibilities and/or capabilities that pertain to various types of radiological emergencies. The following Federal agencies participate in the FRERP: (1) Department of Agriculture (USDA), (2) Department of Commerce (DOC), (3) Department of Defense (DOD), (4) Department of Energy (DOE), (5) Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), (6) Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), (7) Department of the Interior (DOI), (8) Department of Justice (DOJ), (9) Department of State (DOS), (10) Department of Transportation (DOT), (11) Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), (12) Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), (13) Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), (14) General Services Administration (GSA), (15) National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), (16) National Communications System (NCS), and (17) Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). C. Scope The FRERP covers any peacetime radiological emergency that has actual, potential, or perceived radiological consequences within the United States, its Territories, possessions, or territorial waters and that could require a response by several Federal agencies. The level of the Federal response to a specific emergency will be based on the type and/or amount of radioactive material involved, the location of the emergency, the impact on or the potential for impact on the public and environment, and the size of the affected area. Emergencies occurring at fixed nuclear facilities or during the transportation of radioactive materials, including nuclear weapons, fall within the scope of the Plan regardless of whether the facility or radioactive materials are publicly or privately owned, Federally regulated, regulated by an Agreement State, or not regulated at all. (Under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 [Subsection 274.b.], the NRC has relinquished to certain States its regulatory authority for licensing the use of source, byproduct, and small quantities of special nuclear material.) D. Plan Considerations 1. Public and Private Sector Response For an emergency at a fixed nuclear facility or a facility not under the control of a Federal agency, State and local governments have primary responsibility for determining and implementing measures to protect life, property, and the environment in areas outside the facility boundaries. The owner or operator of a nuclear facility has primary responsibility for actions within the boundaries of that facility, for providing notification and advice to offsite officials, and for minimizing the radiological hazard to the public. For emergencies involving an area under Federal control, the responsibility for onsite actions belongs to a Federal agency, while offsite actions are the responsibility of the State or local government. For all other emergencies, the State or local government has the responsibility for taking emergency actions both onsite and offsite, with support provided, upon request, by Federal agencies as designated in Section II of this plan.
