FR940418-2-00136 FR940418-2-00074 The Commission staff has reviewed the Series 42 as proposed and found it to be substantively adequate. 54 Furthermore, the NASD has represented that the Series 42 was developed by the same industry participants responsible for the development and maintenance of the Series 4 ROP examination and that these individuals are ROPs at general securities firms which are members of all the options exchanges. In addition, the NASD has a written agreement with the NYSE pursuant to which selected questions from the Series 7 exam are reviewed for use in its limited product examinations and questions from NASD's limited product exam question banks are sent to the NYSE for possible inclusion in the Series 7. 55 The Commission believes that the sharing of this information ensures the comparability of the general and limited examination programs and the Commission expects this sharing agreement to continue for the NASD's Series 42 examination. Finally, by requiring successful completion of the Series 62 as a prerequisite for the Series 42, the Commission finds that the NASD has provided an examination structure which will adequately test a candidate's knowledge of the instrument that underlie options. 56 The requirement that the Series 42 be taken in conjunction with the Series 62 adequately addresses the derivative nature of the options markets. Successful completion of the Series 62 ensures that a representative will be knowledgeable about equity securities and their regulation. The knowledge required by the Series 62 exam, combined with the knowledge required by the Series 42, together would be sufficient to ensure that representatives understand the relationship between options and the markets that underlie most options transactions. 57 54 Id. 55 See NASD September 27, Letter, supra note 8. 56 In response to assertions that certain subjects should be covered by options qualifications examinations, the NASD represents that ``interest rate theory'' is covered by the Series 62 and the ``fundamentals of currency markets'' are covered by the Series 42. See NASD September 27 Letter, supra note 8. The NASD further represents that all options related areas covered on the Series 7 are tested on the Series 42 exam. See the April 11 Conversation, supra note 16. 57 To the extent that some options overlie assets other than equities or equity indexes ( e.g., currency options and interest rate options), the Series 62 and/or the Series 42 will contain questions designed to ensure that representatives understand the characteristics and risks pertaining to non-equity options. Id . The Commission does not believe that the options exchanges' failure to recognize the Series 42 will impair the examination's usefulness to NASD member firms. To the Commission's knowledge, the U.S. securities exchanges do not recognize completion of the Series 62 as being an adequate demonstration of requisite knowledge for purposes of testing the knowledge and competence of their members or the registered representatives of their member firms. Exchange members, however, are permitted, and do, provide clearing and execution services for non-exchange NASD member firms even though some of the registered representatives at these firms have only completed the Series 62. Implementation of the Series 42 should not alter this situation even if the exchanges do not recognize the Series 42. Additionally, the Series 42 should provide benefits to the NASD, and by extension, NASD members. NASD-only members are currently tested and qualified to trade options through use of the Put & Call Questionnaire which is administered in-house by member firms. Therefore, even if the exchanges do not recognize the Series 42, the Commission believes that by replacing the in-house Put & Call Questionnaire with an options specific exam administered under established testing procedures, the NASD will be better able to ensure that its members have the requisite knowledge to engage in options transitions. This may also benefit NASD-only members because the Series 42 may be viewed as being a more accurate and therefore more credible reflection of a member's knowledge of options products than the Put & Call Questionnaire. C. Investor Confusion The Commission does not believe that implementation of the Series 42 will result in investor confusion. Since the introduction of the Series 62, the NASD has not received inquiries which suggest that investors are confused by the limited registration categories. 58 Further, the Commission notes that the routine examination of NASD member firms by the NASD surveillance staff has not uncovered any particular problems in supervising or controlling marketing staffs with limited registrations, even within general securities firms. Accordingly, separate qualification standards for a limited product stockbroker should not confuse investors or result in the knowledge and capabilities of the broker being less sound than those of a stockbroker who has qualified for all products in the securities markets. For these reasons, the Commission believes that there is no factual basis at this time for supporting a requirement that limited product representatives disclose in writing that their registration is limited. 58 See supra note 46. With respect to the possibility of a limited representative dissuading an investor from certain investment products because the representative was not qualified to trade those products, such conduct could violate the representative's fiduciary obligations to his or her customer. 59 Further, the NASD's member firm compliance examinations will check for any abuses which could occur as a result of the NASD's limited registration program. In addition, customers are free to change brokers. If a customer wants to trade a product that the representative is not qualified to handle, and tries to steer the client from, the customer can switch to a different representative. Sufficient client demand for uncovered products should force a representative to broaden his or her qualifications to cover a wider product base. 59 The Series 42 is intended to enable representatives to handle options orders and not restrict them from recommending options.
