FR941117-0-00154 FR941117-0-00011 (5) Whenever use of the formula in paragraph (a)(1) of this section pursuant to the exception contained in paragraph (a)(3) of this section results in a calculated distance that is less than 5.4 kilometers (3.4 miles), the radial distance to the service area boundary is deemed to be 5.4 kilometers (3.4 miles). (6) The distance from a cell transmitting antenna to the SAB along any radial other than the eight cardinal radials is calculated by linear interpolation of distance as a function of angle. Note to paragraph (a) of §22.911: On May 13, 1994, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit instructed the FCC to vacate the provisions of old §22.903(a), now §22.911(a), insofar as they apply to cellular systems licensed to serve the Gulf of Mexico MSA (GMSA), pending reconsideration of an issue remanded to the FCC in that decision. See Petroleum Communications, Inc. v. Federal Communications Commission , No. 92&hyph;1670 and RVC Services, Inc., D/B/A Coastel Communications Company v. Federal Communications Commission , No. 93&hyph;1016, XX F.2d XX , XX (D.C. Cir. 1994). Accordingly, notwithstanding the provisions of §22.911(a), until further notice, the authorized CGSAs of the cellular systems licensed to serve the GMSA are those which were authorized prior to January 11, 1993. (b) Alternative CGSA determination . If a carrier believes that the method prescribed in paragraph (a) of this section produces a CGSA that departs significantly ( # 20% in the service area of any cell) from the geographical area where reliable cellular service is actually provided, the carrier may submit, as an exhibit to an application for modification of the CGSA (FCC Form 401), a depiction of what the carrier believes the CGSA should be. Such submissions must be accompanied by one or more supporting propagation studies using methods appropriate for the 800&hyph;900 MHz frequency range, including all supporting data and calculations, and/or by extensive field strength measurement data. For the purpose of such submissions, cellular service is considered to be provided in all areas, including ``dead spots'', between the transmitter location and the locus of points where the predicted or measured median field strength finally drops to 32 dBμV/m (i.e. does not exceed 32 dBμV/m further out). If, after consideration of such submissions, the FCC finds that adjustment to a CGSA is warranted, the FCC may grant the application. (1) The alternative CGSA determination must define the CGSA in terms of distances from cell sites to cell SABs along the eight cardinal radials, with other points along the SAB determined in accordance with paragraph (a)(6) of this section. The distances used for the cardinal radials must be representative of the coverage within the 45 ○ sectors, as depicted by the alternative CGSA determination. (2) If an uncalibrated predictive model is used to depict the CGSA, the alternative CGSA determination must identify factors (e.g. terrain roughness or features) that could plausibly account for the difference between actual coverage and that defined by the formula in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If actual measurements or a measurement-calibrated predictive model are used to depict the CGSA, and this fact is disclosed in the alternative CGSA determination, it is not necessary to offer an explanation of the difference between actual coverage and that defined by the formula in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If the formula in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is clearly inapplicable for the cell(s) in question (e.g. for microcells), this should be disclosed in the alternative CGSA determination. (3) The provision for alternative CGSA determinations was made in recognition that the formula in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is a general model that provides a reasonable approximation of coverage in most land areas, but may substantially under-predict or over-predict coverage in specific areas with unusual terrain roughness or features, and may be inapplicable for certain purposes, e.g. cells with a radial distance to the SAB less than 8 kilometers (5 miles). In such cases, alternative methods that utilize more specific models are appropriate. Accordingly, the FCC does not consider use of the formula in paragraph (a)(1) of this section with parameters outside of the limits in paragraphs (a)(3), (a)(4) and (a)(5) of this section or with data for radials other than the cardinal radials to be a valid alternative method for determining the CGSA of a cellular system. (c) CGSA extension areas. SAB extensions (areas outside of the cellular market boundary, but within the service area as calculated using the methods of paragraph (a) of this section) are part of the CGSA only under the following circumstances: (1) During the five year build-out period of the system in the cellular market containing the extension, the licensees of systems on the same channel block in adjacent cellular markets may agree that the portion of the service area of one system that extends into unserved areas in the other system's cellular market is part of the CGSA of the former system.
