FR941004-0-00025 FR941004-0-00009 CLF is concerned that by characterizing these rules as ``directionally sound,'' EPA is suggesting that they are not enforceable by citizens. EPA intended no such conclusion. The proposal expressed EPA's concern that the substitution provisions in these rules allow MA DEP to authorize different projects to substitute for those enumerated in the rules. 1 EPA believes that there is no reliable way to predict the reductions Massachusetts might achieve with these rules since their requirements might change in ways that are difficult to quantify in advance. Therefore, EPA is not prepared to give Massachusetts emissions reduction credit in the SIP for projects until they are substantially complete and a SIP revision requesting credit is submitted. 1 The Transit System Improvement Rule section 7.36(4)(a) provides that other ``transit improvement projects'' may substitute for projects listed in section 7.36(2). Whereas the HOV rule allows an ``alternative project'' to substitute in section 7.37(8)(a). In theory, MA DEP could go so far as to substitute a non-transit project for an HOV lane under the HOV rule, although it may be difficult to make the demonstration that a non-transit project achieves the equivalent mix of CO, NMHC, and NO X emissions reductions as a transit project as required under section 7.36(8)(a)1. Withholding SIP credit for these projects, however, does not mean the requirements of these rules are not enforceable by MA DEP, EPA, or citizens under the Clean Air Act. Each rule contains the kind of specific objective requirements and compliance schedules that courts have required in a SIP as a basis for a citizen suit to enforce transportation control measures (TCMs). See e.g. Wilder v. Thomas , 854 F.2d 605, 615&hyph;616 (2d. Cir. 1988). As CLF points out for example, the transit rule identifies specific mass transit improvements to be implemented by certain dates and the HOV rule establishes a series of specific steps to establish and operate HOV lanes depending on traffic conditions. 310 CMR 7.36(2) and 7.37(2)&hyph;(7). 2 EPA's concerns relate to the planning implications of a rule with specific requirements that can be revised without case-by-case EPA approval. This concern does not affect citizens' ability to enforce those specific requirements as they may appear in these SIP rules at the time of the enforcement action. 2 EPA cites these provisions as examples of specific enforceable requirements in these rules, not an exclusive or exhaustive list of enforceable requirements. 2. When Is a Project ``Substantially Complete''? In response to the uncertainty about which projects will actually be implemented under this rule, EPA proposed to grant emissions reductions credits in the SIP for projects once they are substantially complete. EPA invited comment on how to define the substantial completion of a transit project, especially in the case of projects that do not require significant construction. CLF commented that projects should be credited under the SIP either (1) When funds have been irrevocably committed to them and all government approvals are obtained, or (2) when operation begins, whichever is earlier. CLF went on to say that any actual emissions reductions should not begin to accrue until operation has commenced. CLF believes this standard should apply to both construction and non-construction projects. EPA appreciates CLF's efforts to devise an approach that would grant the Commonwealth SIP credit for funded projects as soon as possible. EPA is concerned, however, that given the length of the construction schedules involved with some transit projects and the vagaries of the transportation funding process, it will be difficult to determine what constitutes an irrevocable commitment of funds. EPA believes that it will be easier to determine objectively when a construction project is substantially complete. As for non-construction projects, EPA believes the second element of CLF's test is an appropriate clarification of the ``ready to implement'' concept EPA proposed. Massachusetts can apply for SIP credit for non-construction projects when operation begins. 3 3 Note that the limitations EPA is putting on the SIP credit for these rules is not based on any view that TCMs are not fully creditable in a SIP demonstration pursuant to a binding SIP rule. Rather, it is the substitution process in these rules that causes EPA to require substantial completion of projects before giving SIP credit. If these rules had no substitution process, thereby committing to specific TCMs by specific dates, EPA could calculate SIP credit for these measures now. 3. Are Completion Deadlines Expeditious? Finally, CLF asserts that Massachusetts must submit SIP revisions committing the Commonwealth to firm completion deadlines for these projects to obtain SIP credit as soon as possible. CLF reads Delaney v. EPA , 898 F.2d 687 (9th Cir. 1990) as creating a presumption that omitting any TCMs listed in section 108(f) of the Act delays attainment in violation of the requirement that all nonattainment areas attain as expeditiously as practicable.
