FR940621-2-00006 FR940621-2-00003 _Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (Virginia State Corporation Commission) _Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (West Virginia Public Service Commission) _Special Use Authorization (Forest Service) _Right-of-Way Authorization (National Park Service) _Section 10 Permit (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers) _Right-of-Way Easement (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers) _Consent to Easement (U.S. Army Corps of Engineers) Other authorizations may be required from a variety of Federal and State agencies. Public participation will occur at several points during the federal analysis process. The first point in the analysis was the scoping process (40 CFR ยง1501.7). The Forest Service has collected information, comments, and assistance from Federal, State and local agencies, the proponent of the aciton, and other individuals or organizations who are interested in or affected by the electric transmission line proposal. This input will be utilized in the preparation of the draft environmental impact statement. The scoping process included, (1) identifying potential issues, (2) identifying issues to be analyzed in depth, (3) eliminating insignificant issues or those which have been covered by a relevant previous environmental analysis. Public participation was solicited through contacts with known interested and/or affected groups, and individuals; news releases; direct mailings; and/or newspaper advertisements. Public meetings were also held to hear comments concerning the Appalachian Power Company proposal and to develop the significant issues to be considered in the analysis. Similar public participation opportunities will be provided throughout the federal analysis process. The draft environmental impact statement is expected to be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and available for public review by February 28, 1995. This revises the September 1, 1994 date previously announced. At that time, EPA will publish a notice of availability of the draft environmental impact statement in the Federal Register . The comment period on the draft environmental impact statement will be 45 days from the date the EPA publishes the notice of availability in the Federal Register . Reviewers need to be aware of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental impact statement review process. First, reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC, 435 U.S.C. 519, 553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the draft environmental impact statement stage but that are not raised until after completion of the final environmental impact statement may be waived or dismissed by the courts. City of Angoon v. Hodel, 803 F.2d 1016, 1022 (9th Cir. 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. v. Harris, 490 F. Supp. 1334, (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of these court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the 45-day comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in the final environmental impact statement. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues and concerns on the proposed action, comments on the draft environmental impact statement should be as specific as possible. It is also helpful if comments refer to specific pages or chapters of the draft statement. Comments may also address the adequacy of the draft environmental impact statement or the merits of the alternatives formulated and discussed in the statement. (Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR ยง1503.3 in addressing these points.) After the comment period ends on the draft environmental impact statement, the comments will be analyzed, considered, and responded to by the three federal agencies in preparing the final environmental impact statement. The final environmental impact statement is expected to be filed with the EPA and available for public review by August 1, 1995. This revises the February 1, 1995 date previously announced. The responsible officials will consider the comments, responses, environmental consequences discussed in the final environmental impact statement, and applicable laws, regulations, and policies in making a decision regarding this document. The responsible officials will document their decisions and reasons for their decisions in a Record of Decision. The responsible official for the Forest Service is Joy E. Berg, Forest Supervisor, Jefferson National Forest. The address is changed from 210 Franklin Road SW, Caller Service 2900, Roanoke, Virginia 24001 to 5162 Valleypointe Parkway, Roanoke, Virginia 24019. The responsible official for the National Park Service is changed from John Byrne to Don King, Acting Project Manager_Appalachian National Scenic Trail, National Park Service, Harpers Ferry Center, Harpers Ferry, West Virginia 25425. The responsible official for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is Colonel Earle C. Richardson, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Huntington District, 508 8th Street, Huntington, West Virginia 25701&hyph;2070. Dated: June 10, 1994. Joy E. Berg, Forest Supervisor, Jefferson National Forest. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15004 Filed 6&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
