FR941007-1-00057 FR941007-1-00009 As described more fully later in this preamble, under the revised proposal, wholesale or limited purpose banks would be subject to evaluation under the new community development test rather than under the investment test. The Service Test The December proposal would have evaluated an institution's CRA service performance primarily on the basis of the percentage of its branches located in or readily accessible to low- and moderate-income geographies. The percentage of branches that an institution would have been expected to have in or readily accessible to low-and moderate-income geographies in each service area would have depended, in part, on the number of such geographies in the service area. Under the December proposal, institutions would not have been required to expand the size of their branching network or to operate branches at a loss. The agencies would have been able to adjust an institution's service record upward or downward to reflect more accurately its branch service to lowor moderate-income geographies or individuals, but downward adjustments would have been made only in exceptional cases. In determining the appropriateness and degree of any adjustment, the agencies would have considered: (1) the institution's record of opening and closing branches; (2) whether branches_wherever located_were actually serving low- and moderate-income individuals; (3) any significant differences in the quality, quantity or types of services offered to low- or moderate-income individuals or geographies; and (4) similar factors. The agencies also could have adjusted an institution's rating upward to reflect a strong record of providing or supporting other services that promote credit availability for low- and moderate-income individuals or geographies. Particular weight would have been given to credit and home-ownership counseling, small and minority-owned business counseling, low-cost check-cashing, and low-cost deposit services. The service test contained in the revised proposal would change the service test contained in the December proposal in response to comments received by the agencies. In crafting the December proposal, the agencies were guided by a belief that ready access to branches is a critical factor in the availability of credit and deposit services in a community. However, many banking industry representatives commented that the service test placed too much emphasis on ``brick and mortar'' branches (i.e., permanent staffed banking facilities). The commenters noted that although branches are still valuable, present technology has made the need for branches less imperative to the provision of banking services. On the other hand, many consumer groups stressed that, despite changes in technology, brick and mortar branches continue to have symbolic and practical relevance to credit availability. A number of commenters emphasized, however, that evaluations based on the mere presence of brick and mortar facilities is not sufficient. Rather, the agencies must consider the actual services that are provided. In light of these comments, the agencies have decided to modify the service test so that ``brick and mortar'' branches no longer would serve as the overwhelming factor in assessing an institution's service performance, although they still would receive prominent consideration. Under the revised proposal, equal weight would be given to the actual services provided to low- and moderate-income geographies. Under the revised proposal, the agencies would evaluate an institution's systems for delivering retail banking services (where the term ``systems'' includes, among other things, branches, automated teller machines (ATMs), loan production offices, banking by telephone or computer, mobile branches, and bank-at-work or by-mail programs) by: (1) assessing the distribution of the institution's branches and ATMs among low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income geographies; (2) reviewing the institution's record of opening and closing branches and ATMs; (3) assessing the range of services provided in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income geographies; and (4) evaluating the availability of alternative systems for delivering retail banking services.
