FR940926-2-00013 FR940926-2-00010 In applying the standard from SWR from Mexico to Global Trading's challenge in this case, we have determined that (1) for the average yield per acre, the information submitted by Global Trading was not public information and (2) for U.S. price, Global Trading submitted data regarding its own purchases of the subject merchandise from four PRC exporters. Thus, we have found that neither of Global Trading's specific challenges meets the standard established in SWR from Mexico and, therefore, we have not adjusted the data from the petition based on Global Trading's allegations. We note that the petitioners used standard methodologies, which have been examined by the Department. Critical Circumstances In our preliminary determination, we found that ``critical circumstances'' exist with respect to imports of fresh garlic from the PRC. Pursuant to section 733(e)(1) of the Act, we based our preliminary determination on a finding of (1) knowledge of dumping because the estimated dumping margin for all exporters of fresh garlic in the PRC was in excess of 25 percent, and (2) massive imports over a relatively short period of time because respondents failed to respond to the Department's questionnaire. As a result, we assumed, as BIA, that imports have been massive. For the final determination, we have continued to use BIA as the basis for our determination of critical circumstances. The BIA margin exceeds the 25 percent threshold for imputing knowledge of dumping to the importers of the subject merchandise. In addition, we have adversely assumed, as BIA, a massive increase in imports because of the non-response of exporters. Accordingly, because the dumping margin is sufficient to impute knowledge of dumping, and because we have determined that imports of fresh garlic have been massive, we determine that critical circumstances do exist with respect to fresh garlic from the PRC. Continuation of Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 735(d)(1) and 735(c)(4)(A) of the Act, we are directing the Customs Service to continue to suspend liquidation of all entries of fresh garlic from the PRC, as defined in the ``Scope of Investigation'' section of this notice, that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after April 12, 1994, which is 90 days before the date of publication of the preliminary determination in the Federal Register . The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or posting of a bond equal to the estimated margin amount by which the foreign market value of the subject merchandise exceeds the United States price as shown below. The suspension of liquidation will remain in effect until further notice. ␣ 1Manufacturer/producer/exporter 1Margin percent All Manufacturers/producers/exporters 376.67 ITC Notification In accordance with section 735(d) of the Act, we have notified the International Trade Commission (ITC) of this determination. The ITC will determine, within 45 days, whether these imports are causing material injury, or threat thereof, to the industry in the U.S. producing the subject merchandise. If the ITC determines that material injury, or threat thereof, does not exist, the proceeding will be terminated and all securities posted will be refunded or cancelled. If the ITC determines that such injury does exist, the Department will issue an antidumping duty order directing Customs officials to assess antidumping duties on all imports of the subject merchandise entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the effective date of the suspension of liquidation. This determination is published pursuant to section 735(d) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.20(a)(4). Dated: September 19, 1994. Paul L. Joffe, Acting Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23767 Filed 9&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
