FR940706-2-00018 FR940706-2-00013 Part 364 Two commenters objected to the change in terminology from an individual with ``severe'' disabilities to an individual with ``significant'' disabilities. Although only one comment specifically complimenting the Department on the use of ``significant'' rather than ``severe'' was received in response to the NPRM, the IL community previously expressed overwhelming support for the change in comments to the notice of proposed rulemaking on the proposed nomenclature change published on October 27, 1993 (58 FR 57938). Therefore, the Secretary does not expect any change in the final regulations. A number of commenters suggested changes to the definitions in proposed §364.4. Two commenters were concerned that the proposed definition of ``advocacy'' may be interpreted to require an advocate to be an attorney. One of these commenters suggested a broader definition of ``advocacy.'' The proposed definition of ``advocacy'' specifically states that, to the extent permitted by State law or the rules of any agency before which an individual is appearing, a non-lawyer may engage in advocacy on behalf of another individual. The Secretary does not interpret this definition as requiring an advocate to be an attorney in all cases, but only in those situations where State law or the rules of an agency require that an advocate representing another individual be an attorney. Therefore, the Secretary does not expect any change to this definition in the final regulations. Commenters suggested that the proposed definition of ``attendant care'' be revised to make it clear that this service may be provided on the job and in the community, as well as at home. The Secretary believes the proposed definition provides adequate flexibility to allow attendant care in a variety of situations. Therefore, the Secretary does not expect any change to this definition in the final regulations. Commenters questioned why the words ``cognitive'' and ``sensory'' do not appear in the proposed definition of ``individual with significant disabilities.'' These commenters noted that the proposed definition conflicts with the proposed definition of an ``individual with a disability.'' The concepts of ``physical'' and ``mental'' impairments in the statutory definitions of ``individual with a severe disability'' and ``individual with a disability'' include the concepts of ``sensory'' and ``cognitive'' impairments, respectively. However, the Secretary agrees that the definitions of ``individual with a significant disability'' and ``individual with a disability'' should be consistent. Therefore, the Secretary anticipates adding the words ``sensory'' and ``cognitive'' to the definition of ``individual with a significant disability'' in the final regulations. In proposed §364.5, commenters objected to the limitation on reallocating expenditures after the initiation of an audit or compliance review and considered it punitive and contrary to ordinary accounting procedures. The Secretary agrees that a change is necessary to make this requirement consistent with acceptable accounting practices. Therefore, the Secretary anticipates changing §364.5 in the final regulations to allow costs that a grantee intends to use as an offset against disallowed costs, if those costs are reported on the final financial status reports within 90 days after the completion of an audit or compliance review. Commenters objected to the language in proposed §§364.6 and 364.7 regarding program income. Commenters asserted that the resource development requirement in evaluation standard 7 in section 725(b)(7) of the Act should be interpreted to permit centers to accumulate funds over several years to create, among other financial instruments, endowments and reserves. The Secretary agrees that imposing time limits on the use of program income may be inconsistent with long-term ``resource development,'' which may include endowment drives and the solicitation of gifts and bequests that may produce long-term income. Therefore, the Secretary anticipates changing the language in proposed §§364.6 and 364.7 in the final regulations to allow centers to use program income to establish endowments and other similar financial instruments, but only if the corpus and income generated from the endowment and other similar financial instruments are used solely to carry out the purposes of the Center for Independent Living (CIL) program authorized under Part C of Chapter 1 of Title VII of the Act. One commenter objected to the use of the term ``special'' when referring to reasonable accommodation and ``alternative'' modes of communication in proposed §§364.20, 364.23, and 364.56. The Secretary agrees with the commenter and anticipates substituting the word ``alternative'' for the word ``special'' in these sections of the final regulations. Commenters expressed concern regarding access to records in proposed §364.37(c) on the grounds that access to individual records may be unnecessarily intrusive and inconsistent with commitments that providers make to their consumers. The Secretary believes that access to individual case records or files or consumer service records is necessary for the proper and efficient administration and monitoring of the CIL program. Proposed §364.37(c) limits this access to the Secretary and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives. The Secretary does not believe that this access is unreasonable or that it will be abused. Therefore, the Secretary does not expect any change in the final regulations. Commenters were concerned that the references to ``legally authorized representative'' in proposed §364.51 may be interpreted to require an attorney or legal guardian. The Secretary does not intend to require that only an attorney or legal guardian may represent an individual for purposes of proposed §364.51(b)(2)(requirements pertaining to ineligibility determinations). Therefore, the Secretary anticipates adding a definition of ``legally authorized representative'' to the final regulations to clarify that an individual's authority to represent or advocate on behalf of an individual with significant disabilities is determined pursuant to State law. Two commenters objected to the absence of requirements in proposed §364.52 regarding the content of a waiver and the appropriate solicitation of a waiver. One of the commenters also was concerned that the absence of conditions on the use of waivers could allow service providers to circumvent the requirements of proposed §§364.43 (provision of IL services by the State) and 364.53 (documentation of IL services provided to individuals). One of the commenters also suggested that the regulations should require that consumers be advised of the need for an IL plan and how the IL plan helps protect the consumer's rights. The Secretary agrees in part with the commenters and anticipates adding the words ``knowingly and voluntarily'' before the word ``signs'' in §364.52(a)(2) of the final regulations. The Secretary believes this is adequate protection to prevent the possibility of service providers forcing consumers to sign ``waivers.'' The Secretary does not believe that it is necessary to add further requirements regarding the waiver of an IL plan.
