FR941019-0-00011 FR941019-0-00003 1. The authority citation for part 303 continues to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 378, 1813, 1815, 1816, 1817(a)(2)(b), 1817(j), 1818, 1819 (``Seventh,'' ``Eighth'' and ``Tenth''), 1828, 1831e, 1831o, 1831p&hyph;1(a); 15 U.S.C. 1607. 2. Section 303.0 is revised to read as follows: ยง303.0 Scope and definitions. (a) Scope. This part prescribes: (1) Where applications, requests, and notices required to be filed by statute or regulation (hereinafter, collectively, applications) should be filed; (2) The contents of the application when the application is to be made by letter; (3) The location where forms and instructions may be obtained when the application is to be made on a form. This part also prescribes procedures to be followed by both the FDIC and applicants during the process of consideration of an application; and (4) Finally, this part sets forth delegations of authority by the FDIC's Board of Directors to the Director of the Division of Supervision and the Director of the Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs, to their associate directors, to the regional directors and deputy regional directors of the Division of Supervision, and to the regional managers of the Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs to act on certain applications and other matters pursuant to the conditions, where applicable, that limit such delegations. (b) Definitions. For purposes of this part: (1) Corporation or FDIC. The terms Corporation or FDIC shall mean the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. (2) Division or DOS. The terms division or DOS shall mean the Division of Supervision, or in the event the Division of Supervision is reorganized, such successor division. (3) DCA. The term DCA shall mean the Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs, or in the event the Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs is reorganized, such successor division. (4) Director (DOS). The term Director (DOS) shall mean the Director of the Division of Supervision, or in the event the title of Director of the Division of Supervision becomes obsolete, any official of equivalent or higher authority. (5) Director (DCA). The term Director (DCA) shall mean the Director of the Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs, or in the event the title of Director of the Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs becomes obsolete, any official of equivalent or higher authority. (6) Associate director. The term associate director shall mean any associate director of the Division of Supervision or the Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs, as appropriate, or in the event the title of associate director becomes obsolete, any official of equivalent authority within the respective divisions. (7) Regional director. The term regional director shall mean any regional director of the Division of Supervision, or in the event the title of regional director becomes obsolete, any official of equivalent authority within the Division of Supervision. (8) Deputy regional director. The term deputy regional director shall mean any deputy regional director of the Division of Supervision, or in those FDIC regions where there is no deputy regional director, an assistant regional director. In the event the title of deputy regional director or assistant regional director becomes obsolete, the term deputy regional director shall mean any official of equivalent authority within the same FDIC region of the Division of Supervision. (9) Regional manager. The term regional manager shall mean any regional manager in the Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs, or in the event the title of regional manager becomes obsolete, any official of equivalent authority within the Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs. (10) Associate General Counsel for Compliance and Enforcement. The term Associate General Counsel for Compliance and Enforcement shall mean the head of the Compliance and Enforcement Section of the Legal Division of the FDIC, or in the event the title of Associate General Counsel for Compliance and Enforcement becomes obsolete, any official of equivalent authority within the Legal Division. The authority delegated to the Associate General Counsel for Compliance and Enforcement may be exercised by the Deputy General Counsel for Supervision and Legislation or a counsel in the Compliance and Enforcement Section in the Washington, D.C. office. (11) Regional counsel. The term regional counsel shall mean a regional counsel of the Legal Division, or in the event the title of regional counsel becomes obsolete, any official of equivalent authority within the Legal Division. The authority delegated to a regional counsel may be exercised by a deputy regional counsel, a counsel, or any official of equivalent or higher authority in the Compliance and Enforcement Section of the Legal Division. (12) Appropriate FDIC region, appropriate FDIC regional office, appropriate regional director, appropriate deputy regional director, appropriate regional manager, appropriate regional counsel. The terms appropriate FDIC region, appropriate FDIC regional office, appropriate regional director, appropriate deputy regional director, appropriate regional manager, and appropriate regional counsel shall refer to the FDIC region, the regional director, the deputy regional director, the regional manager, and the regional counsel, respectively, of the FDIC region in which: (i) The applicant depository institution, the proposed or newly organized nonmember bank or savings association, the insured branch of a foreign bank, the resulting or assuming depository institution, or the bank in which stock is being acquired, as appropriate, is or will be located; or (ii) A depository institution_ (A) Which is the subject of an administrative action; or
