FR940223-2-00060 FR940223-2-00036 Agreement Containing Consent Order The agreement herein, by and between Columbia Healthcare Corporation (a corporation into which Columbia Hospital Corporation was merged after the issuance of the complaint in this matter), hereinafter sometimes referred to as ``respondent,'' by its duly designated officer and attorney, and counsel for the Federal Trade Commission, is entered into in accordance with the Commission's Rule governing consent order procedures. In accordance therewith the parties hereby agree that: 1. Respondent Columbia Healthcare Corporation is a corporation organized, existing and doing business under the laws of Delaware, with its principal place of business at 201 West Main Street, Louisville, Kentucky. 2. Respondent's predecessor Columbia Hospital Corporation has been served with a copy of the complaint issued by the Federal Trade Commission charging it with violation of section 7 of the Clayton Act and section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, and has filed an answer to said complaint denying said charges. 3. Respondent admits all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the Commission's complaint in this proceeding. 4. Respondent waives: (a) Any further procedural steps; (b) The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; (c) All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the order entered pursuant to this agreement; and (d) Any claim under the Equal Access to Justice Act. 5. This agreement shall not become part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission it will be placed on the public record for a record of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify respondent, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its decision, in disposition of the proceeding.
