FR941019-0-00025 FR941019-0-00004 (2) That has an appraised value or value determined by the RTC that does not exceed the applicable dollar amount limitation for the property under paragraph (m)(2)(ii) of this section; and (3) That is not an eligible single family property. (s) Lower-income families means families and individuals whose incomes do not exceed 80 percent of area median income, as defined under 42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(2) and as determined by the Secretary of HUD, with adjustment for family size. (t) Lower-income occupancy requirement(s) means: (1) With respect to eligible multifamily property, that not less than 35 percent of all dwelling units purchased by a qualifying multifamily purchaser in a single transaction shall be made available for occupancy by, and be maintained as affordable for, lower-income families during the remaining useful life of the property in which the units are located, provided that not less than 20 percent of all units shall be made available for occupancy by, and be maintained as affordable for, very low-income families during the remaining useful life of such property. In the event that more than one eligible multifamily property is purchased as part of a single transaction, not less than 15 percent of the dwelling units in each separate property shall be made available for occupancy by and maintained as affordable for lower-income families (including very low-income families) for the remaining useful life of the property in which the units are located. (2) With respect to eligible single family property, that all eligible single family property purchased by public agencies or nonprofit organizations shall be made available for occupancy by, and be maintained as affordable for, lower-income families for the remaining useful life of the property, or be made available for purchase by any such family that agrees to occupy the property as a principal residence for at least 12 months and certifies in writing that the family intends to occupy the property for at least 12 months. (3) With respect to eligible condominium property, that, unless otherwise waived by the RTC in accordance with ยง1609.7(c)(4)(ii) of this part, each eligible condominium property purchased by public agencies, nonprofit organizations, or for-profit entities shall be made available for occupancy by, and be maintained as affordable for, lower-income families for the remaining useful life of the property, or be made available for purchase by any such family who agrees to occupy the property as a principal residence for at least 12 months and who certifies in writing that the family intends to occupy the property for at least 12 months. (4) Properties shall be affordable for lower-income and very low-income families at rent levels which do not exceed those prescribed at ยง1609.7(a)(6), (b)(4), or (c)(4) of this part, as applicable. (u) LURA means a Land Use Restriction Agreement or other form of recordable legal agreement between the RTC and the purchaser of an eligible multifamily property, eligible condominium property or eligible single family property, which sets forth the lower-income occupancy requirements and other restrictions on the property. (v) Marketing period means the period of time during which qualifying purchasers have exclusive rights to make offers to purchase eligible single family properties or eligible condominium properties and to submit expressions of serious interest in purchasing eligible multifamily properties. The marketing period begins, with respect to an eligible multifamily property, eligible condominium property or eligible single family property, on the date specified in the Notice of Marketing Period issued by the RTC for the property. The marketing period ends, with respect to an eligible single family property, three months and one week after the date so specified in the Notice of Marketing Period, except to the extent that Congress shall have appropriated funds to cover the additional costs and losses of such longer period, the marketing period shall end 180 days after the date so specified in the Notice of Marketing Period. The marketing period ends, with respect to an eligible multifamily property, three months after the date so specified in the Notice of Marketing Period; however, if the marketing period is extended in accordance with the provisions of ยง1609.7(b)(12) of this part, the marketing period will end three months after the date specified in the subsequent Notice of Marketing Period or on an earlier date, if any, specified in the subsequent Notice of Marketing Period. The marketing period ends, with respect to an eligible condominium property, 180 days after the date so specified in the Notice of Marketing Period. (w) Median income for the area has the same meaning as the term has under section 3(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)). For RTC purposes, 65 percent of area median income numbers shall be calculated on the basis of HUD's income limits for very low-income families and 115 percent of area median income numbers, on the basis of HUD's income limits for lower-income families. (x) Minority means any Black American, Native American, Hispanic American, or Asian America.
