FR940413-2-00051 FR940413-2-00030 Section 1. General The purpose of this article is to ensure the efficient operation of the Farm Credit Administration (FCA), the FCA Board (Board), and the Chief Executive Officer of the FCA (CEO) concerning operational responsibilities. This rule shall, by itself, neither preclude the CEO from bringing to the Board issues on which this rule does not require Board action, nor preclude the Board from involving itself in matters not addressed herein. The Board might, for example, be involved in operational matters that become, in the Board's view, policy matters as a result of special congressional attention. Section 2. Documents and Communications (a) CEO responsibilities. The CEO is responsible for ensuring the accomplishment of the goals set by the Board within the constraints imposed by statue, regulation, Board policy, precedents, sound management practices, and budget resource limitations. The CEO will ensure effective and efficient mechanisms that accomplish the desired goals. Those mechanisms include the development of specific objectives, action plans, budgets, procedures, administrative policies, communications with Farm Credit institution employees and directors, and other activities as needed. Proposed actions that are inconsistent with existing Board policy require Board approval. It is understood that a substantial part of the CEO's and staff's jobs requires the exercise of sound judgement in applying statutory, regulatory, Board policy, and precedential guidance to specific situations, and in most cases the Board does not expect to take part in applying existing guidance to specific situations. There may be situations where an interpretation of existing guidance would constitute the formulation of policy; the CEO should refer such interpretations to the Board. (b) Approval, review, and consultation. The FCA Board is responsible for determining the agency's position on policy matters affecting the agency's mission. The FCA Board typically expresses its position through the approval of regulations and Board Policy Statements that define the goal(s) to be accomplished. Board Policy Statements and Bookletters should be reviewed at least every five (5) years. Proposed and final FCA regulations, Board actions, and minutes of Board meetings must be approved by the Board. The promulgation of regulations adopted by the Board shall be in compliance with the requirements of the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended, and the Administrative Procedure Act. Federal Register notices must be approved by the Board, except for announcements and notices that merely make public prior actions that have been taken by the Board. The following are examples of Federal Register notices that need not be approved by the Board: Notices concerning effective dates or technical corrections of regulations, notices of meetings or hearings, notices publishing Board Orders and Policy Statements, and notices informing the public of the amendment or cancellation of Farm Credit institution charters. Bookletters, memoranda, bulletins, and other mass mailings to Farm Credit institutions (except documents listed in Attachment A) must be reviewed by the Board prior to distribution. Documents may be added to or deleted from Attachment A by Board vote. The issuance of a ``no action'' letter is a policy matter requiring Board approval. For the purposes of this statement, a ``no action'' letter is a statement to a Farm Credit institution that, notwithstanding any other provision of law or regulation, the Board will take no action against the institution solely because it engaged in conduct specified in the letter. Authority to promulgate internal administrative issuances, including FCA Policies and Procedures Manual (PPM) issuances, rests with the Chairman as CEO and may be delegated to the Chief Operating Officer. The CEO shall provide the Board with final drafts of PPM issuances and other administrative issuances for an appropriate consultative period if those issuances relate to examination and supervision, audits, internal controls, the budget, the strategic planning process, regulation development, or personnel matters relating strictly to promotion or pay.
