FR941102-0-00034 FR941102-0-00005 (B) Unlisted activities. If a notice involves a proposal to engage in an activity that is not listed in ยง225.25, the Board may extend the period required for Board action under paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section for an additional 90 days. This 90-day extension is in addition to the 30-day extension period provided in paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(A) of this section. The Board shall notify the notificant that the notice period has been extended and explain the reasons for the extension. (3) Requests for additional information. The Board or the Reserve Bank may at any time request any additional information that either believes is needed for a decision on any notice under this subpart. (4) Tolling of period. The Board or the Reserve Bank, as the case may be, may at any time extend or toll the time period for action on a notice for any period with the consent of the notificant. (5) Approval through failure to act. A notice under this subpart shall be deemed to be approved at the conclusion of the period that begins on the date the complete notice is received by the Reserve Bank or the Board and that ends 60 calendar days plus any applicable extension and tolling period thereafter. (6) Complete notice. A notice shall be deemed to be complete for purposes of this subpart at such time as it contains all information required by this subpart and all other information requested by the Board or the Reserve Bank in connection with the particular notice. (e) Expedited procedure for small acquisitions _(1) Filing notice. As an alternative to the notice procedure of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a bank holding company may satisfy the notice requirement of this section in connection with the acquisition of voting securities or assets of a company engaged in an activity listed in ยง225.25 by: (i) Providing the appropriate Reserve Bank with a description of the transaction; and either (ii) Submitting a copy of a newspaper notice in the form prescribed by the Board; or (iii) Requesting the Board to publish notice of the proposal in the Federal Register as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. (2) Contents of publication. A newspaper notice under this subsection shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the areas to be served as a result of the acquisition and shall provide an opportunity for interested persons to comment on the notice for a period of at least 10 calendar days. (3) Criteria for use of expedited procedure. The procedure in this paragraph is available only if: (i) Neither the book value of the assets to be acquired nor the gross consideration to be paid for the securities or assets exceeds the greater of: (A) $15 million; or (B) Five percent of the consolidated assets of the acquiring company up to a maximum of $300 million;
