FR940208-2-00098 FR940208-2-00072 The proposed rule change does not impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others The Exchange has not solicited, and does not intend to solicit, comments on the proposed rule change. The Exchange has not received any unsolicited written comments from members or other interested parties. III. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Room, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NYSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;93&hyph;51 and should be submitted by March 1, 1994. IV. Commission's Findings and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Proposed Rule Change For the reasons discussed below, the Commission finds that the NYSE's proposal to extend, through April 30, 1994, the pilot program providing for the Exchange's OHT facility and the pilot program for procedures regulating matched MOC orders is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, 13 and in particular, with the requirements of section 6(b)(5). 14 The Commission believes that the NYSE's proposal to extend the OHT facility pilot, comprised of Crossing Sessions I and II, is reasonably designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, and remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system. For the reasons discussed below, the Commission is also approving a three-month extension for matched MOC orders. 13 See OHT Approval Order, supra note 3, and Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 28167, 29393, 29761, and 30004, supra note 5, for a complete description of the NYSE OHT facility, the NYSE matched MOC order procedures, and the Commission's rationale for approving the proposals on a pilot basis. The discussions in those orders are incorporated by reference into this order. 14 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). (1) OHT Procedures for Crossing Sessions I and II
