FR941013-2-00148 FR941013-2-00101 Allowable costs for the program include the following: The salary and remuneration for the English Teaching Fellows are broken down below. The living allowance is variable and is to be negotiated in relation to the city/country of assignment. Basic Stipend␣$12,000 Living allowance␣$6,000 average Travel␣$3,400 average Excess Baggage/Shipping␣$400 Pre-departure Allowance␣$500 Educational Materials␣$300 Per Diem for Orientation␣$144 per day average Please refer to the Application Package for complete budget guidelines Review Process USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines stated herein and in the Application Package. Eligible proposals will be forwarded to panels of USIA officers for advisory review. All eligible proposals will also be reviewed by the Agency contracts office. Proposals may also be reviewed by the Office of the General Counsel or by other Agency elements. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the USIA Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for grant awards resides with the USIA grants officer. Technically eligible applications will be competitively reviewed according to the criteria stated below. These criteria are not rank ordered and all carry equal weight in the proposal evaluation: 1. Quality of the program idea: Proposals should exhibit originality, substance, precision, and relevance to Agency mission. 2. Program planning: Detailed agenda and relevant work plan should demonstrate substantive undertakings and logistical capacity. Agenda and plan should adhere to the program overview and guidelines described above. 3. Ability to achieve program objectives: Objectives should be reasonable, feasible, and flexible. Proposals should clearly demonstrate how the institution will meet the program's objectives and plan. 4. Multiplier effect/impact: Proposed programs should strengthen long-term mutual understanding, including maximum sharing of information and establishment of long-term institutional and individual linkages. 5. Support of Diversity: Proposals should demonstrate the recipient's commitment to promoting the awareness and understanding of diversity throughout the program. This can be accomplished through documentation (such as a written statement or account) summarizing past and/or on-going activities and efforts that further the principle of diversity within both the organization and the program activities. 6. Institutional Capacity: Proposed personnel and institutional resources should be adequate and appropriate to achieve the program or project's goals. 7. Institution's Record/Ability: Proposals should demonstrate an institutional record of successful exchange programs, including responsible fiscal management and full compliance with all reporting requirements for past Agency grants as determined by USIA's Office of Contracts. The Agency will consider the past performance of prior recipients and the demonstrated potential of new applicants. 8. Follow-on Activities: Proposals should provide a plan for continued follow-on activity (without USIA support) which insures that USIA supported programs are not isolated events. 9. Project Evaluation: Proposals should include a plan to evaluate the activity's success, both as the activities unfold and at the end of the program. USIA recommends that the proposal include a draft survey questionnaire or other technique plus description of a methodology to use to link outcomes to original project objectives. Award-receiving organizations/institutions will be expected to submit intermediate reports after each project component is concluded or quarterly, whichever is less frequent. 10. Cost-effectiveness: The overhead and administrative components of the proposal, including salaries and honoraria, should be kept as low as possible. All other items should be necessary and appropriate. 11. Cost-sharing: Proposals should maximize cost-sharing through other private sector support as well as institutional direct funding contributions. 12. Value to U.S.-Partner Country Relations: Proposed projects should receive positive assessments by USIA's geographic area desk and overseas officers of program need, potential impact, and significance in the partner country(ies). 13. TEFL/TESL Background: Must possess a proven ability to network that provides and allows for the greatest dissemination of information to and among the profession of Teachers of English as a Second or Foreign Language; must be able to provide knowledgeable, TEFL-qualified, experienced staff capable of interviewing candidates and evaluating their qualifications for teaching, and/or for developing materials, or for conducting teacher-training in the context of English as a foreign language, in accord with criteria established by USIA.
