FR940426-2-00128 FR940426-2-00078 One commenter stated that recision of the guidance would enable it to award contracts consistent with its Board's policy requiring it to consider only avoidable costs when evaluating the cost-effectiveness of private carrier proposals. This transit system argued that the avoidable cost method best measures the true cost savings achieved through the contracting of service. One commenter presented an analysis by a Columbia University professor of a report by a consulting company recommending, on the basis of a fully allocated cost methodology, that a large transit system privatize 25 percent of its transit bus service. Contrary to the cost savings projected in the report, the professor's study, using a marginal cost analysis, concluded that the proposed privatization program would produce no savings and, in fact, would cost the transit agency a considerable sum. Moreover, the commenter argued, the proposal would result in seriously fragmented service and the associated organizational, safety, and service problems evidenced in other cities that privatized on this basis. Another commenter argued that experience throughout the country indicates that forced privatization efforts have resulted in significant cost increases, serious service problems, and ridership and revenue losses. This submission provided examples of areas where privatization allegedly increased costs. In one case, an audit showed that projected savings of 30&hyph;40 percent were actually in the 3 to 4 percent range. The commenter contended that because the fully allocated cost analysis requires public agencies to include their fixed costs as part of their bottom line as well as costs incurred for buses and employees, comparisons on this basis are fundamentally flawed. They contended that fixed costs should not be included among the costs of a public transit operator because these costs will be incurred regardless of whether the particular service is offered or not. On the other hand, some commenters argued in favor of the fully allocated cost methodology. By standardizing the way costs are counted, they contended, the fully allocated cost method can reduce transactional costs, help highlight and eliminate cross-subsidies, and improve accountability and transparency. One commenter argued: (1) That permitting public transit agencies to submit cost of service bids based solely on the short-run marginal cost of service would result in calculations that ignore the costs of facilities and rolling stock and assume that the public transit agency operates its system at the least possible cost; (2) that marginal cost analysis does not permit the riding public and taxpaying public to compare the total costs of service for the transit system with and without the proposed alternative service patterns of providers of service; (3) that direct comparisons of labor productivity between the public transit agency and private contractors would be difficult or impossible since the bases for calculating costs would be different, as might the reliability and quality of the service in question; and (4) that fully allocated cost comparisons are intended to permit a transparent view of the costs of existing and proposed services and the acquisitions of assets and liabilities that may be relevant. Another commenter noted that concern about using fully allocated costs is misplaced in that the disclosure of all costs is designed to level the playing field in light of Federal and other subsidies available to public operators. This commenter further noted that the fully allocated cost method is an analytical baseline, more of a disclosure than an absolute sum, and that fully allocated costs may be discounted for costs that cannot be saved when determining the feasibility of using private contractors. 3. Institutional Barriers The current policy requires that local authorities ignore local law when considering the feasibility of using private enterprise in local transit service. That is, under the current private enterprise policy, FTA does not recognize, as legitimate barriers to private enterprise participation, local laws or policy or labor agreements that call for direct operation of mass transit service. Many commenters maintained that this position unduly restricts the prerogatives of local officials and impedes their ability to consider a broad range of transit options. They also argued that the successful negotiation of collective bargaining agreements often requires that transit officials be accorded a maximum degree of bargaining flexibility. The comments in response to this point varied: unions and certain transit systems argued for flexibility in light of unique local situations. Private operators argued in favor of a ``level playing field'' so that local arrangements are not used to bar private operators from being considered for the purpose of providing public transit services. A commenter argued that FTA must balance the two often conflicting provisions of the FT Act: the section 13(c) labor protection provisions and the private enterprise provisions. To the extent that FTA reduces the private enterprise requirements while the 13(c) requirement continues in full effect, this commenter argued, the balance will inevitably be altered and riders of public transit will be harmed by the imbalance. Another commenter noted that Federal financial assistance necessarily comes with overriding Federal requirements, e.g., procurement rules, that follow the Federal dollar. It is inconsistent, the commenter contended, for an agency to impose Federal procurement requirements on grantees, but at the same time to permit them to thwart the purposes and conditions of Federal assistance merely by agreeing with third parties such as unions. If, continued the commenter, the concern about institutional barriers is labor protection, then one must consider that section 13(c) of the Act contains express provisions for the protection of labor. If Congress intended to exempt contrary provisions of labor agreements from the private enterprise mandates of the Act, it would have done so; breaking down institutional barriers is a necessary precondition to enabling competition to develop new and more efficient means to deliver transit services. On the other hand, others argued against using the transit program to override State constitutional prohibitions, State and local laws and referenda, rulings of State regulatory bodies, and local collective bargaining agreements. This policy, they contended, has had the net effect of depriving local transportation leaders of the flexibility to determine to what extent privatization is in the best interest of their local communities. Indeed, a member of Congress commented that ``the ISTEA and prior congressional directives have emphasized that the criteria and policies for choosing among public and private providers should be left to local transit agencies and community planners and that the proper role for the Federal government should be one of neutrality on this essentially local decision.'' The proposal, the same member noted, ``properly reflects the emphasis on local decision-making which I and other architects intended in the ISTEA.'' Similarly, a United States Senator noted that ``the new language (in the Notice of Proposed Recision) properly reflects the intent of ISTEA.'' And: ``The ISTEA emphasized that the criteria for choosing among public and private transit providers should be left to local transit agencies and community officials.'' 4. Review of Existing Service The existing private enterprise policy provides that recipients should review each route every three years to determine whether the services in question could be more effectively provided by private operators. FTA noted that this represented a significant burden, particularly for major transit systems, and indicated that local authorities should determine the frequency of any such reviews.
