FR941012-0-00006 FR941012-0-00002 Comment: One commenter observed that both bonded warehouses and foreign trade zones are facilities with specific boundaries. He suggested that Customs make clear whether receipt of merchandise by bonded warehouse proprietors for the purpose of cartage constitutes receipt into a bonded warehouse and whether receipt of merchandise by a foreign trade zone operator for the purpose of cartage constitutes receipt into an activated foreign trade zone area and the conferring of foreign trade zone status. Response: Receipt of merchandise for cartage purposes to a bonded warehouse by its proprietor or to a foreign trade zone by its operator constitutes receipt into the bonded warehouse or admission into the foreign trade zone. Customs approval of such transfers will continue to be accomplished through existing local procedures. Conclusion After careful consideration of the comments received and further review of the matter, it has been determined that the proposed amendments, modified as discussed above, should be adopted. The final regulation will allow the cartage and lighterage of merchandise for all purposes by bonded carriers without the necessity of obtaining a cartage license. It will also allow bonded warehouse proprietors, foreign trade zone operators, container station operators and centralized examination station operators to engage in limited cartage and lighterage under their respective bonds and to transport merchandise to their respective facilities from anywhere in the district in which their facility is located. Regulatory Flexibility Act and Executive Order 12866 Pursuant to the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ) and based upon the information set forth above, it is certified that the regulations will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The regulations eliminate duplicative or otherwise unnecessary paperwork requirements and thus reduce the regulatory burden. Accordingly, the regulations are not subject to the regulatory analysis or other requirements of 5 U.S.C. 603 and 604. This document does not meet the criteria for a ``significant regulatory action'' as specified in Executive Order 12866. Paperwork Reduction Act The collection of information requirements contained in these final regulations have been reviewed and approved by the Office of Management and Budget in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3504(h)) under control number 1515&hyph;0193. The estimated average annual burden associated with this collection is .1666 hour per respondent and 1 hour per recordkeeper. Comments concerning the accuracy of this burden estimate and suggestions for reducing this burden should be directed to the U. S. Customs Service, Paperwork Management Branch, Room 6316, 1301 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20229, or the Office of Management and Budget, Attention: Desk Officer for the Department of the Treasury, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Washington, D. C. 20503. Drafting Information The principal author of this document was Janet L. Johnson, Regulations Branch. However, personnel from other offices participated in its development. List of Subjects 19 CFR Part 19 Customs duties and inspection, Exports, Freight, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Surety bonds, Warehouses, Wheat. 19 CFR Part 112 Administrative practice and procedure, Canada, Common carriers, Customs duties and inspection, Exports, Freight, Harbors, Mexico, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Surety bond. 19 CFR Part 113 Common carriers, Customs duties and inspection, Exports, Freight, Laboratories, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Surety bonds. 19 CFR Part 118 Customs duties and inspection, Centralized examination stations, Imports. 19 CFR Part 125 Customs duties and inspection, Freight, Government contracts, Harbors, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
