FR940317-1-00032 FR940317-1-00011 Exemptions From Regulatory Fees 1. Governmental Entities 5. Section 9(h) establishes an exemption from fees for ``governmental entities.'' For purposes of the similar exemption in section 8, we have defined a governmental entity as any state, possession, city, county, town, village, municipal corporation or similar political organization or subpart thereof controlled by publicly elected or duly appointed public officials exercising sovereign direction and control over their respective communities or programs. We propose to apply the definition contained in our application fee rules to governmental entities exempt from regulatory fees. See 47 CFR 1.1112(f). The exemptions under section 9 apply to all FCC-regulated services in which governmental entities operate. Therefore our proposed regulatory fee exemption would apply to applicants, permittees, licensees, as well as any other regulatees who qualify as governmental entities. 6. We must also adopt procedures for identifying regulatees that are governmental entities exempt from regulatory fees under section 9. Commenters should address the option of requiring entities, in lieu of the required fee, to file certifications (or other relevant information) as to their exempt status. Alternatively, for those governmental entities that have already established their governmental status for purposes of section 8 filing fees, we may determine, to the extent possible, that no additional filings are necessary. 2. Nonprofit Entities 7. Section 9(h) also establishes an exemption from regulatory fees for all ``nonprofit entities.'' In contrast, section 8(d)(1)(A), governing exemptions from application fees, exempts from application fees only those nonprofit entities licensed in Special Emergency Radio or Public Safety Radio services. Further, the statutory exemption of ``nonprofit entities'' is clearly broader than the current exemption in the mass media services covering noncommercial, educational broadcast stations and limited categories of other facilities. See 47 CFR 1.1112. 8. In applying the exemption for these nonprofit entities under section 8, we have interpreted the term ``nonprofit entities'' to mean entities that receive nonprofit, tax exempt status under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. 501. We propose, therefore, to interpret the term ``nonprofit entities'' to include all nonprofit organizations exempt under section 501. 9. Under our section 8 fee rules, an applicant claiming nonprofit status must include a current IRS Determination Letter documenting its nonprofit status. We seek to avoid unnecessary paperwork, to the extent possible, by relying on existing information in Bureau files to identify regulatees that are nonprofit entities exempt from regulatory fees under section 9. However, since the exemption under section 8(d) only applies to nonprofit entities licensed in the Special Emergency Radio or Public Safety Radio services, we propose to require any other regulatee seeking an exemption as nonprofit entity to file, in lieu of the required fee, a current IRS Determination Letter documenting its nonprofit status. 4 4 Such documentation would be filed on or before the payment due date for the relevant regulatory fee category. If proper documentation is not received or a claimed exemption is otherwise rejected, an entity failing to pay the proper fee on time may be subject to a 25 percent late-payment penalty. 3. Amateur Licensees 10. Section 9(h) also provides a specific statutory exemption for ``amateur radio operation licenses under part 97 of the Commission's regulations.'' 47 U.S.C. 159(h)(2). The Schedule of Regulatory Fees does establish a fee category for ``Amateur vanity call-signs.'' We have proposed new rules in PR Docket No. 93&hyph;305 that would allow vanity call-signs. See Notice of Proposed Rule Making, 9 FCC Rcd 105, 59 FR 558 (Jan. 5, 1994). After those rules (if adopted) become effective, amateur licensees requesting vanity call-signs will be required to pay the statutory fee under section 9. 4. Noncommercial Educational Broadcasters 11. The Schedule of Regulatory Fees in section 9(g) specifies that fees shall be collected from ``VHF Commercial '' television and ``UHF Commercial '' television licensees and permittees. 47 U.S.C. 159(g) (emphasis added). However, the schedule does not specifically provide that regulatory fees apply only to ``commercial'' AM and FM radio licensees and permittees. 5 &hyph; 6 Nevertheless, based on the legislative history, we believe that Congress intended to exempt all noncommercial educational FM and AM radio licensees and permittees from regulatory fees. 5 &hyph; 6We also note that the schedule includes Class D FM radio stations which are, by definition, noncommercial stations. See 47 CFR part 73, subpart C.
