FR941110-1-00093 FR941110-1-00011 40 CFR Part 82 is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 82_PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE 1. The authority citation for part 82 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7414, 7671&hyph;7671q. 2. Subpart A is revised to read as follows: Subpart A_Production and Consumption Controls Sec. 82.1␣Purpose and scope. 82.2␣Effective date. 82.3␣Definitions. 82.4␣Prohibitions. 82.5␣Apportionment of baseline production allowances. 82.6␣Apportionment of baseline consumption allowances. 82.7␣Grant and phased reduction of baseline production and consumption allowances for class I controlled substances. 82.8␣Grant and freeze of baseline production and consumption allowances for class II controlled substances. [Reserved] 82.9␣Availability of production allowances in addition to baseline production allowances. 82.10␣Availability of consumption allowances in addition to baseline consumption allowances. 82.11␣Exports to Article 5 Parties. 82.12␣Transfers. 82.13␣Recordkeeping and reporting requirements. Appendix A to Subpart A_Class I Controlled Substances Appendix B to Subpart A_Class II Controlled Substances Appendix C to Subpart A_Parties to the Montreal Protocol and Nations Complying with, but Not Parties to, the Protocol Appendix D to Subpart A_Harmonized Tariff Schedule Description of Products That May Contain Controlled Substances in Appendix A to Subpart A, Class I, Groups I and II Appendix E to Subpart A_Article 5 Parties Appendix F to Subpart A_Listing of Ozone Depleting Chemicals Appendix G to Subpart A_UNEP Recommendations for Conditions Applied to Exemption for Laboratory and Analytical Uses Appendix H to Subpart A_Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 Phaseout Schedule for Production of Ozone-Depleting Substances Subpart A_Production and Consumption Controls §82.1 Purpose and scope. (a) The purpose of the regulations in this subpart is to implement the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer and sections 603, 604, 605, 606, 607 and 616 of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, Public Law 101&hyph;549. The Protocol and section 604 impose limits on the production and consumption (defined as production plus imports minus exports, excluding transhipments and used controlled substances) of certain ozone-depleting substances, according to specified schedules. The Protocol also requires each nation that becomes a Party to the agreement to impose certain restrictions on trade in ozone-depleting substances with non-Parties. (b) This subpart applies to any person that produces, transforms, destroys, imports or exports a controlled substance or imports a controlled product. §82.2 Effective date. (a) The regulations under this subpart take effect January 1, 1995, unless otherwise noted herein. (b) The regulations under this subpart that were effective prior to [date of publication of the final rule] continue to apply for purposes of enforcing the provisions that were applicable prior to January 1, 1995. §82.3 Definitions. As used in this subpart, the term: Administrator means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency or his authorized representative. Article 5 allowances means the allowances apportioned under §82.9(a) of this subpart. Baseline consumption allowances means the consumption allowances apportioned under §82.6 of this subpart. Baseline production allowances means the production allowances apportioned under §82.5 of this subpart. Calculated level means the weighted amount of a controlled substance determined by multiplying the amount (in kilograms) of the controlled substance by that substance's ozone depletion weight listed in Appendix A or Appendix B to this subpart. Class I refers to the controlled substances listed in Appendix A to this subpart. Class II refers to the controlled substances listed in Appendix B to this subpart. Completely destroy means to cause the expiration of a controlled substance at a destruction efficiency of 98 percent or greater, using one of the destruction technologies approved by the Parties. Complying with the Protocol, when referring to a foreign state not Party to the 1987 Montreal Protocol, the London Amendments, or the Copenhagen Amendments, means that the non-Party has been determined as complying with the Protocol, as indicated in Appendix C to this subpart, by a meeting of the Parties as noted in the records of the directorate of the United Nations Secretariat. Consumption means the production plus imports minus exports of a controlled substance (other than transhipments, or used controlled substances). Consumption allowances means the privileges granted by this subpart to produce and import class I controlled substances; however, consumption allowances may be used to produce class I controlled substances only in conjunction with production allowances. A person's consumption allowances are the total of the allowances obtained under §§82.7 and 82.6 of this subpart and §82.10 of this subpart, as may be modified under §82.12 of this subpart (transfer of allowances). Control period means the period from January 1, 1992 through December 31, 1992, and each twelve-month period from January 1 through December 31, thereafter. Controlled product means a product that contains a controlled substance listed as a Class I, Group I or II substance in appendix A to this subpart. Controlled products include, but are not limited to, those products listed in appendix D to this subpart. Controlled products belong to one or more of the following six categories of products: (1) Automobile and truck air conditioning units (whether incorporated in vehicles or not); (2) Domestic and commercial refrigeration and air-conditioning/heat pump equipment (whether containing controlled substances as a refrigerant and/or in insulating material of the product), e.g. Refrigerators, Freezers, Dehumidifiers, Water coolers, Ice machines, Air-conditioning and heat pump units; (3) Aerosol products, except medical aerosols; (4) Portable fire extinguishers;
