FR940418-1-00014 FR940418-1-00004 This part establishes the procedures for determining the Panama Canal Universal Measurement System (hereinafter PC/UMS) Net Tonnage. The tonnage will be used to assess tolls for use of the Panama Canal. Also, the tonnage may be used, when adequate volume information is not provided, to assess the charge for admeasurement services. ยง135.2 Vessels generally to present tonnage certificate or be measured. All vessels except warships, floating drydocks, dredges, and vessels eligible for transitional relief measures, applying for passage through the Panama Canal shall present a duly authenticated International Tonnage Certificate (1969) (hereinafter ITC 69), or suitable substitute (i.e., a certificate derived from a system which is substantially similar to that which was provided for in the 1969 International Convention on Tonnage Measurement of Ships, and which contains the total volume or allows for the direct mathematical determination of total volume). Vessels without such total volume information shall be inspected by Canal authorities who will determine an appropriate volume for use in the calculation of a PC/UMS Net Tonnage of such vessels. ยง135.3 Determination of total volume. (a) The determination of total volume used in the calculation of PC/UMS Net Tonnage shall be carried out by the Panama Canal Commission. In so doing, however, the Commission may rely upon total volume information provided by such officials as are authorized by national governments to undertake surveys and issue national tonnage certificates. Total volume information presented at the Panama Canal shall be subject to verification, and if necessary, correction insofar as may be necessary to ensure accuracy to a degree acceptable to the Panama Canal Commission. (b) The Commission may, when it is deemed necessary to verify information contained on the ITC 69, require the submission of additional documents. Failure to submit the requested documentation may result in the Commission's developing a figure that accurately reflects the vessel's volume. ยง135.4 Administration and interpretation of rules. The rules of measurement provided in this part shall be administered and interpreted by the Administrator of the Panama Canal Commission. Subpart B_PC/UMS Net Tonnage Measurement ยง135.11 Tonnage.
