FR941219-0-00057 FR941219-0-00016 Background Section 941 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (Pub. L. 101&hyph;625, approved November 28, 1990) amended the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974, 12 U.S.C. 2601 et seq. (RESPA), by adding a new section 6, which addresses mortgage servicing requirements (i.e., the right to collect mortgage payments for principal, interest, and any escrow account items). Section 6 (12 U.S.C. 2605) requires disclosure to certain mortgage loan applicants of historical data regarding the transfer of mortgage servicing, as well as estimates regarding the potential transfer of servicing pertaining to the applicant's mortgage loan and other mortgage loans. Section 6 was further amended on April 10, 1991, by Dire Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act (Pub. L. 102&hyph;27), to create a transition period during which lenders and servicers would not be liable for violations of the Act. This amendment also directed HUD to publish implementing regulations effective no later than April 20, 1991. On April 26, 1991, the Department published an Interim Rule implementing Section 6 (56 FR 19505). That rule remains in effect until it is replaced by this final rule. Section 6 requires that, at the time of application for federally related mortgage loans, applicants be given information in a disclosure statement (hereafter called ``Servicing Disclosure Statement'') concerning the likelihood that the servicing of their mortgage may be transferred and information regarding the history of mortgage servicing transfers of the person making the loan. Section 6 sets forth additional notice requirements at the time of a servicing transfer (hereafter called ``Notice of Transfer'') and other rights for borrowers, and provides for the collection of damages and costs by borrowers from servicers for noncompliance. Finally, section 6 preempts any State law or regulation regarding notice to borrowers at the time of application or servicing transfer, as long as the lender or servicer complies with the relevant provisions of section 6. HUD originally complied with the requirements to promulgate a model disclosure statement and applicant's acknowledgement by publication of a notice in the Federal Register on March 20, 1991 (56 FR 11886). These requirements were restated in an Interim Rule of April 26, 1991 (56 FR 19505). HUD encourages persons covered by this new rule to implement its provisions earlier than its effective date. (The Department also recently published a related rule on escrow accounting procedures under section 10 of RESPA (59 FR 53890, October 26, 1994). Comments on Interim Rule and Responses In the interim rule the Department requested comments on the provisions of the rule. The following is a summary of comments received and HUD's position on the issues in the final rule. Questions Regarding Definitions Business day. There were two comments about the definition of ``business day.'' Both recommended that the definition be put in §3500.2, so that it would apply to the entire regulation, and that it be the same definition in Regulation X and Regulation Z (Truth in Lending). HUD response. The current RESPA rule defines a ``business day'' utilizing language conforming with the definition in Regulation Z, which implements the Truth in Lending Act. Section 6 of RESPA does not specifically define ``business day'', but in certain provisions excludes public holidays, Saturdays, and Sundays from references to ``days''. To assure uniform statutory construction, as well as to continue uniformity with related Federal regulatory statutes, the Department is applying the ``business day'' definition of the Regulation X in this rule. Therefore, business day means a day on which the offices of the business entity are open to the public for carrying on substantially all of the entity's business functions. If a day is not specified as a business day in this rule, the reference is to a calendar day. Effective date of transfer. There were three comments on this definition. One commenter approved of the definition because the date was pinpointed. Another commenter disagreed and considered the date indefinite, particularly as it relates to delinquent mortgages. The third thought the effective date of transfer should be the date the contract between the parties states that the transfer takes place. HUD response. The term ``effective date of transfer'' is defined in Section 6 of the Act as the date on which the mortgage payment of a borrower is first due to the transferee servicer (new servicer) pursuant to the assignment, sale, or transfer of the servicing of the mortgage loan. The statute controls and HUD does not have discretion to consider the suggested alternatives. Mortgage servicing loan. The Department received several comments regarding the extent and limitations of coverage under this rule. The term ``federally related mortgage loan'' was the starting point for delineating coverage and is defined in §3500.2, subject to the exemptions in §3500.5. Pursuant to section 19(a) of RESPA, at this time the Secretary has exempted from the requirements of this rule any subordinate lien federally related mortgage loans and has excluded all open-end lines of credit (home equity plans), whether secured by a first or subordinate lien, that are covered under the Truth in Lending Act and Regulation Z. The penalty provisions of the Truth in Lending Act are similar to those of Section 6 of RESPA, and the error resolution section of Regulation Z (12 CFR 226.13) provides protections similar to Section 6 of RESPA. Any other federally related mortgage loan secured by a first lien and not exempted under §3500.5, is covered by these requirements and called a ``mortgage servicing loan.'' Other Terms Four commenters asked for definitions of additional terms. One commenter suggested that ``loans made'' be distinguished from ``loans originated'', and that ``servicing transfer'' be defined. HUD response. The terms ``loans made'' and ``loans originated'' are synonymous, but the Department agrees that consistent use of terminology would avoid confusion and, therefore, has eliminated the term ``loans made.'' HUD considers a ``servicing transfer'' to be a sale, assignment, or transfer of servicing to a person or legal entity other than the maker of the loan named in the legal documents. Also, as discussed more fully later in this preamble, a servicing transfer occurs as part of a table-funding (defined in §3500.2) between the mortgage broker, as transferor, and the funding lender, as transferee. Refinancing Transactions The Department received 18 comments relating to refinancing transactions. Seven commenters recommended that refinancing be defined. Three commenters questioned the statutory authority for covering refinancing transactions. Since HUD received these comments, the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 amended RESPA to state specifically that refinancing transactions are covered. A definition of refinancing was added to part 3500 in revisions published on February 10, 1994 (59 FR 6505, concerning subordinate liens), and is applicable to this section. The impact of this definition is that transactions specifically excluded from the definition of refinancing do not require new disclosures.
