FR940527-0-00067 FR940527-0-00023 (2) An essay of up to 600 words that explains the importance of the study of the Constitution to: (i) Young students, (ii) The applicant's career aspirations and his or her contribution to public service, and (iii) Citizenship generally in a constitutional republic; (3) Applicant's proposed course of graduate study, including the name of the degree sought, the name of the required courses to be taken, and the election of an option, if available, to prepare a master's thesis, as well as information about the specific degree sought; (4) Three evaluations that attest to the applicant's academic achievements and to his or her potential to become an outstanding secondary school teacher; and (5) A copy of his or her academic transcript. §2400.22 Application deadline. Completed applications must be received by the Foundation no later than March 1st of each year preceding the start of the academic year for which candidates are applying. Applications not received by this date, with all required supporting documents, will not be considered. Subpart D_Selection of Fellows §2400.30 Selection criteria. Applicants will be evaluated, on the basis of materials in their application, as follows: (a) Demonstrated commitment to teaching American history, American government, or social studies at the secondary school level; (b) Demonstrated intention to pursue a program of graduate study that emphasizes the Constitution and to offer classroom instruction in that subject; (c) Demonstrated record of willingness to devote themselves to civic responsibility; (d) Outstanding performance or potential of performance as classroom teachers; (e) Academic achievements and demonstrated capacity for graduate study; and (f) Proposed courses of graduate study, especially the nature and extent of their subject matter components, and their relationship to the enhancement of applicants' teaching and professional activities. §2400.31 Selection process. (a) An independent Fellow Selection Committee will evaluate all valid applications and recommend to the Foundation the most outstanding applicants from each state for James Madison Fellowships. (b) From among candidates recommended for fellowships by the Fellow Selection Committee, the Foundation will name James Madison Fellows. The selection procedure will assure that at least one James Madison Fellow, junior or senior, is selected from each state in which there are at least two legally resident applicants who meet the eligibility requirements set forth in §2400.3 and are judged favorably against the selection criteria in §2400.30. (c) The Foundation may name, from among those applicants recommended by the Fellow Selection Committee, an alternate or alternates for each fellowship. An alternate will receive a fellowship if the person named as a James Madison Fellow declines the award or is not able to pursue graduate study as contemplated at the time the fellowship was accepted. An alternate may be named to replace a Fellow who declines or relinquishes an award until, but no later than, March 1st following the competition in which the alternate has been selected. (d) Funds permitting, the Foundation may also select, from among those recommended by the Fellow Selection Committee, Fellows at large. Subpart E_Graduate Study §2400.40 Institutions of graduate study. Fellowship recipients may attend any accredited university in the United States with a master's degree program offering courses or training that emphasize the origins, principles, and development of the Constitution of the United States and its comparison with the constitutions and history of other forms of government. §2400.41 Degree programs. (a) Fellows may pursue a master's degree in history or political science (including government or politics), the degree of Master of Arts in Teaching in history or political science (including government or politics), or a related master's degree in education that permits a concentration in American history, American government, or social studies. Graduate degrees under which study is excluded from fellowship support are indicated in §2400.64. (b) A master's degree pursued under a James Madison Fellowship may entail either one or two years or their equivalent of study, according to the requirements of the university at which a Fellow is enrolled. §2400.42 Approval of programs. The Foundation must approve each Fellow's program of graduate study. To be approved, the program must_ (a) On a part-time or full-time basis lead to a master's degree in history or political science, the degree of Master of Arts in Teaching in history or political science, or a related master's degree in education that permits a concentration in American history, American government, or social studies; (b) Include courses, graduate seminars, or opportunities for independent study in topics directly related to the framing and history of the constitution of the United States; (c) Be pursued at a university that assures a willingness to accept up to 6 semester hours of accredited transfer credits from another graduate institution for a Fellow's satisfactory completion of the Foundation's Summer Institute on the Constitution. For the Foundation's purposes, these 6 semester hours may be included in the required minimum of 12 semester hours or their equivalent of study of the United States Constitution; and (d) Be pursued at a university that encourages the Fellow to enhance his or her capacities as a teacher of American history, American government, or social studies and to continue his or her career as a secondary school teacher. The Foundation reserves the right to refuse to approve a Fellow's degree program at a university that will not accept on transfer the 6 credits for the Institute. §2400.43 Required courses of graduate study. (a) To be acceptable to the Foundation, those courses related to the Constitution referred to in §2400.43(b) must amount to at least 12 semester hours or their equivalent of study of topics directly related to the United States Constitution. More than 12 hours or their equivalent of such study is strongly encouraged. (b) The courses that fulfill the required minimum of 12 semester hours or their equivalent of study of the United States Constitution must cover one or more of the following subject areas: (1) The history of colonial America leading up to the framing of the Constitution; (2) The Constitution itself, its framing, the history and principles upon which it is based, its ratification, the Federalist Papers, Anti-Federalist writings, and the Bill of Rights; (3) The historical development of political theory, constitutional law, and civil liberties as related to the Constitution; (4) Interpretations of the Constitution by the Supreme Court and other branches of the federal government; (5) Debates about the Constitution in other forms and about the effects of constitutional norms and decisions upon American society and culture; and (6) Any other subject clearly related to the framing, history, and principles of the Constitution.
