FR941116-0-00053 FR941116-0-00011 ARCO further seeks clarification of when in the process a pipeline must demonstrate prudence of its costs. 31 It asserts that a pipeline should be required to demonstrate prudence only when a serious doubt is raised. In this, too, ARCO is correct. A protestor must first raise a reasonable challenge as to the prudence of the pipeline's costs, and then the pipeline will have the burden of establishing the prudence of those costs. 31 ARCO, pp. 8&hyph;9. The Commission will continue to use the Opinion No. 154&hyph;B methodology for oil pipelines seeking to use a cost-of-service methodology. C. Filing Requirements Adopted As required by Order No. 561, a pipeline seeking to change rates is required to file a transmittal letter containing the previous rate for the same movement or service, the applicable ceiling rate for the movement in question, and the new proposed rate. 32 This is all that is required to justify a rate change within the index. 32 18 CFR 342.3(b). In this rule, the Commission requires a pipeline to file additional information if it is filing for a cost-of-service rate above the indexed rate ceiling, or as support for an initial rate. This information will permit a pipeline to establish an initial case for cost-of-service rates. The additional filing requirements provide sufficient information for a preliminary cost-of-service showing. If the Commission institutes an investigation into a pipeline's rates, additional information may be required of the pipeline. The new filing requirements are set forth in new Part 346 of the Commission's regulations. Part 346 also contains the definition of the terms ``base period'' and ``test period.'' The definitions of these terms are consistent with the definitions of similar terms in the Regulations under the Natural Gas Act, 33 applicable to natural gas pipeline companies. 33 See 18 CFR 154.63(e)(2)(i). The oil pipeline must file the following statements and supporting work papers to support either an initial rate developed on a cost-of-service basis or a change in rates using the cost-of-service methodology. Statement A_Total Cost of Service This statement shows the calculation of the Total Cost of Service for a pipeline. Statement B_Operation and Maintenance This statement shows the operation, maintenance, administrative and general expenses, and depreciation and amortization expenses. Statement C_Overall Return on Rate Base This statement shows the derivation of the return on rate base consisting of deferred earnings, equity and debt ratios, weighted cost of capital, and costs of debt and equity. Statement D_Income Taxes This statement shows the calculation of the Income Tax Allowance. Statement E_Rate Base This statement shows the calculation of the return rate base required by the Opinion No. 154&hyph;B methodology to derive the cost of service. Statement F_Allowance for Funds Used During Construction This statement shows the calculation of the Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC). Statement G_Revenues This statement shows the revenues at the effective, proposed, and indexed ceiling rates. Details of the various statements and supporting schedules are found in new Part 346 of the regulations. V. Form No. 6 Revisions In the NOPR, the Commission proposed several changes to Form No. 6, the Annual Report for Oil Pipelines. These changes were proposed to provide information that would be necessary for the implementation of Order No. 561, and to update and streamline the information required of oil pipelines. A. New Schedule A new schedule, page 700, Annual Cost of Service Based Analysis Schedule, was proposed to be added to Form No. 6 showing basic information needed for a review of rate filings made within the index cap. The new schedule would require each pipeline company to report, as of the end of the reporting year and the immediately preceding year, its Total Annual Cost of Service (as calculated under the Order No. 154&hyph;B methodology), operating revenues, and throughput in barrels and barrel-miles. This schedule would permit a shipper to compare proposed changes in rates against the change in the level of a pipeline's cost of service. It would also permit a shipper to compare the change in a shipper's individual rate with the change in the pipeline's average company-wide barrel-mile rate. Underlying calculations of and supporting data for these figures need not be reported in Form No. 6. Of course, the oil pipeline will be expected to be consistent in its application of the Opinion No. 154&hyph;B methodology from year to year to permit valid comparisons of data from one year to the next. If it makes major changes in its application of the methodology, it must report that it has done so, and recalculate the prior year's cost of service to reflect such a change. While the Commission believes that the Opinion No. 154&hyph;B methodology is well-defined and for the most part generally understood in the industry, it is modifying the instructions for page 700 to require that the pipeline describe any change in application of Opinion No. 154&hyph;B made from past years in its calculation of total cost of service, and to require that the changed application be reflected on page 700 for the calculation of the total cost of service for the prior reporting year as well.
