FR940223-2-00206 FR940223-2-00101 The Department has issued regulations implementing Title VI that are applicable to all recipients of financial assistance from the Department. 34 CFR part 100. The regulations prohibit discrimination in the administration of financial aid programs. Specifically, they prohibit a recipient, on the basis of race, color, or national origin, from denying financial aid; providing different aid; subjecting anyone to separate or different treatment in any matter related to financial aid; restricting the enjoyment of any advantage or privilege enjoyed by others receiving financial aid; and treating anyone differently in determining eligibility or other requirements for financial aid. 34 CFR 100.3(b)(1); see also 34 CFR 100.3(b)(2). In addition to prohibiting discrimination, the Title VI regulations require that a recipient that has previously discriminated ``must take affirmative action to overcome the effects of prior discrimination.'' 34 CFR 100.3(b)(6)(i). The regulations also permit recipients to take voluntary affirmative action ``[e]ven in the absence of such prior discrimination *␣*␣* to overcome the effects of conditions which resulted in limiting participation by persons of a particular race, color, or national origin'' in the recipient's programs. 34 CFR 100.3(b)(6)(ii); see 34 CFR 100.5(i). The permissibility of awarding student financial aid based, in whole or in part, on a student's race or national origin involves an interpretation of the preceding provisions concerning affirmative action. The Supreme Court has made clear that Title VI prohibits intentional classifications based on race or national origin for the purpose of affirmative action to the same extent and under the same standards as the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. 5 Guardians Ass'n v. Civil Service Commission of the City of New York, 463 U.S. 582 (1983); Regents of the University of California v. Bakke, 438 U.S. 265 (1978). Thus, the Department's interpretation of the general language of the Title VI regulations concerning permissible affirmative action is based on case law under both Title VI and the Fourteenth Amendment. 5 Some commenters suggested that Native Americans and Native Hawaiians_because of their special relationship with the Federal Government_should be exempt from the restrictions outlined in the policy guidance. The Department has found no legal authority for treating affirmative action by recipients of Federal assistance any differently if the group involved is Native Americans or Native Hawaiians. Thus, the principles in this policy guidance_including Principle 2, which states that a college may award financial aid on the basis of race or national origin if authorized by Federal statute_apply to financial aid that is limited to Native Americans and Native Hawaiians. However, the policy does not address the authority of tribal governments or tribally controlled colleges to restrict aid to members of their tribes. The following discussion addresses the legal basis for each of the five principles set out in the Department's policy guidance. 1. Financial Aid for Disadvantaged Students The first principle provides that colleges may award financial aid to disadvantaged students. Colleges are free to define the circumstances under which students will be considered to be disadvantaged, as long as that determination is not based on race or national origin. As some commenters noted, the Title VI regulations prohibit actions that, while not intentionally discriminatory, have the effect of discriminating on the basis of race or national origin. 34 CFR 100.3(b)(2); see Guardians Ass'n v. Civil Service Commission of the City of New York, supra; Lau v. Nichols, 414 U.S. 563 (1974). However, actions that have a disproportionate effect on students of a particular race or national origin are permissible under Title VI if they bear a ``manifest demonstrable relationship'' to the recipient's educational mission. Georgia State Conference of Branches of NAACP v. State of Georgia, 775 F.2d 1403, 1418 11th Cir. (1985). It is the Department's view that awarding financial aid to disadvantaged students provides a sufficiently strong educational purpose to justify any racially disproportionate effect the use of this criterion may entail. In particular, the Department believes that an applicant's character, motivation, and ability to overcome economic and educational disadvantage are educationally justified considerations in both admission and financial aid decisions. Therefore, the award of financial assistance to disadvantaged students does not violate Title VI. 2. Financial Aid Authorized by Congress This principle states that a college may award financial aid on the basis of race or national origin if the use of race or national origin in awarding that aid is authorized by Federal statute. This is because financial aid programs for minority students that are authorized by a specific Federal law cannot be considered to violate another Federal law, i.e. , Title VI. In the case of the establishment of federally funded financial aid programs, such as the Patricia Roberts Harris Fellowship, the authorization of specific minority scholarships by that legislation prevails over the general prohibition of discrimination in Title VI. 6 This result also is consistent with the canon of construction under which the specific provisions of a statute prevail over the general provisions of the same or a different statute. See 2A N. Singer Sutherland Statutory Construction section 46.05 (5th ed. 1992); Radzanower v. Touche Ross and Co. , 426 U.S. 148, 153 (1976); Morton v. Mancari, 417 U.S. 535, 550&hyph;51 (1974); Fourco Glass Co. v. Transmira Products Corp., 353 U.S. 225, 228&hyph;29 (1957). 6 Of course, an individual may challenge the statute under which the aid is provided as violative of the Constitution. The statute would then be evaluated under the constitutional standards for racial classifications authorized by Federal statute that were established in Metro Broadcasting, Inc. v. FCC, 497 U.S. 547 (1990) and Fullilove v. Klutznick, 448 U.S. 448 (1980). However, as explained previously, such a suit would not be viable under Title VI, for which the Department has enforcement responsibility. Some commenters argued that the existence of congressionally authorized race-targeted financial aid programs supports the position that all race-targeted financial aid programs are permissible under Title VI. However, the fact that Congress has enacted specific Federal programs for race-targeted financial aid does not serve as an authorization for States or colleges to create their own programs for awarding student financial aid based on race or national origin. 3. Financial Aid To Remedy Past Discrimination Classifications based on race or national origin, including affirmative action measures, are ``suspect'' classifications that are subject to strict scrutiny by the courts. Regents of the University of California v. Bakke, 438 U.S. at 292. The use of those classifications must be based on a compelling governmental interest and must be narrowly tailored to serve that interest. Richmond v. J.A. Croson Co. , 488 U.S. 469 (1989); Wygant v. Jackson Board of Education , 476 U.S. 267 (1986). The Supreme Court has repeatedly held that the Government has a compelling interest in ensuring the elimination of discrimination on the basis of race or national origin. To further this governmental interest, the Supreme Court has sanctioned the use of race-conscious measures to eliminate discrimination. United States v. Fordice , XXX U.S. XXX (1992); United States v. Paradise , 480 U.S. 149, 167 (1987); Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenberg Board of Education , 402 U.S. 1, 15&hyph;16 (1971); McDaniel v. Barresi , 402 U.S. 39 (1971); Green v. County School Board of New Kent County , 391 U.S. 430, 438 (1968). Most recently, in United States v. Fordice, supra , the Court found that States that operated de jure systems of higher education have an affirmative obligation to ensure that no vestiges of the de jure system continue to have a discriminatory effect on the basis of race.
