FR940114-1-00047 FR940114-1-00008 Encourage drivers to comply with the posted limits and allow enforcement agencies to better target speeders; Be accompanied by sanctions, including court and administrative penalties, which are set by law; Be as consistent as possible with the physical and operational characteristics (actual and perceived) of the roadway; and Take into account the needs and safety of all highway users, motorists and non-motorists alike. Legislative components of an effective speed control program should: Encourage the highway safety community to develop laws, rules, and regulations that will provide for reasonable and safe speed limits; Provide appropriate legislation to allow the establishment of regulatory variable speed limits, such as the provisions of Chapter 11, Article VIII of the Uniform Vehicle Code; Provide for public information and education programs to explain how speed limits are established and to convince drivers that speed limits are realistic, reasonable, and include sanctions; and Establish sanctions for speeding violations that are reasonable, uniform, and effective as a deterrent. New devices and technology are available for use in determining appropriate speed limits and in law enforcement actions to measure the speed of vehicles. Transportation and law enforcement agencies should work closely with the SHSA to make certain new technologies can be used under existing legislation. As necessary, these groups should work together in ensuring development and adoption of legislation allowing use of new technologies. VII. Training NHTSA fully supports and encourages training for law enforcement officers in the use of speed measurement devices, model speed enforcement strategies, combined enforcement projects, and planning and implementing public information and education programs. In support of law enforcement training NHTSA will continue to publish and widely distribute training programs. These courses are related to established as well as new and emerging techniques of speed measurement and enforcement. The training courses are recommended for officers in law enforcement agencies using speed measuring devices. FHWA also provides training programs on CMV traffic enforcement. Training for law enforcement officers involved in speed enforcement should include: Proper use of devices used to measure speed; How to use data and analysis to define the speed problem, to target enforcement activities, and to evaluate the results of countermeasures; How to relate speed enforcement to public safety; How to plan and implement a PI&E program on speed enforcement; Model speed enforcement strategies including examples of combined enforcement programs; and Escorting and assisting traffic engineers and technicians in deployment and use of speed measuring equipment. Training for traffic engineers and technicians should include: Proper use and development of speed measurement equipment; and Interpreting geometric, operational and environmental data for their impact on roadway safety and user performance. VIII. Evaluation The SHSA, in conjunction with State and local law enforcement and transportation agencies should develop a comprehensive evaluation program to measure progress toward established project goals and objectives. The evaluation should measure the impact of speed control programs on traffic crashes, injuries, and deaths; and provide information for revised improved program planning. These agencies should:
