FR941025-0-00007 FR941025-0-00002 C. Technical Amendments Concerning Foreign Securities The Board proposed technical amendments to the cash account to clear up confusion resulting from its 1990 amendment allowing payment for foreign securities to be tied to the appropriate foreign settlement period. The amendments would clarify that this longer period is also used to determine when extensions of time must be obtained and when the ``90-day freeze'' may be lifted for foreign securities. Two securities trade associations point out that the cash account establishes three other situations in which settlement regularly exceeds the standard settlement cycle: unissued securities, ``when-issued'' securities, and refunded securities. 4 These commenters suggest the proposed language be revised to consistently refer to the various time periods in determining when extensions are required and when the ``90-day freeze'' may be lifted. These amendments have been redrafted to accommodate this suggestion. 4 See §220.8(b)(1)(i)(B)&hyph;(D) of Regulation T. D. De Minimis Amount The required liquidation of customer purchases for which payment has not been received within the required time currently does not apply to amounts of $500 or less. The Board proposed doubling this amount to $1000 in light of the ten years that had passed since the amount was last increased. This increase was supported by a wide variety of commenters. The increase to $1000 will still reduce the regulatory burden on broker-dealers and their examining authorities by reducing the number of extensions that must be requested and processed. II. Government Securities Two amendments were proposed to exempt most transactions in *␣*␣* government securities from Regulation T. The first exempts those brokers and dealers who effect customer transactions only in government securities (Section 15C Brokers). The second amendment effectively exempts transactions involving government securities for customers of general securities broker-dealers by allowing the transactions to be effected in a new government securities account. All of the commenters supported these two proposed amendments. A. Exemption from Regulation T for Brokers and Dealers Whose Activities are Limited to Government Securities The scope of Regulation T, as stated in section 220.1(b)(1), is ``all financial relations between a customer and a creditor.'' In order to exempt Section 15C brokers from Regulation T, the Board proposed excluding them from the definition of creditor in section 220.2(b) of the regulation. The Public Securities Association (PSA) and the Securities Industry Association (SIA) suggest that the exclusion be moved to the scope section, so that Section 15C brokers would still be defined as ``creditors'' when they are not dealing with ``customers.'' For example, the commenters point out that the term ``creditor'' is used in the broker-dealer credit account to describe permissible transactions between broker-dealers. In light of these comments, the exclusion has been moved to the scope section of Regulation T. B. Government Securities Account The second amendment proposed in the area of government securities was the creation of a new government securities account. This account would allow general broker-dealers to effect customer transactions that could be effected by Section 15C Brokers without regard to other restrictions in Regulation T. In addition to general support of the proposal, commenters focused on two areas: the regulatory language used to describe the account and whether additional securities and other financial instruments should be included in its scope. 1. Description. The government securities account was proposed for ``transactions involving government securities, provided the transaction would be permissible for a broker or dealer registered under section 15C of the act.'' The PSA and the SIA both suggest deletion of the reference to Section 15C Brokers because they believe it is confusing and unnecessary. They argue that section 15C does not establish permissible and impermissible classes of transactions in government securities. However, section 15C(b)(7) of the Act prohibits government securities brokers and dealers from effecting ``any transaction *␣*␣* in any government security in contravention of any rule under this section.'' The regulatory language for the government securities account has been redrafted to clarify that it is available for transactions involving government securities as long as the transaction is not prohibited under section 15C or any of the rules thereunder. 2. Scope. The PSA, SIA, SIA-Credit Division and one broker-dealer suggest that all exempted securities, including municipal securities, be included in the new account. A second broker-dealer would include foreign sovereign debt that meets the margin requirements of Regulation T. In addition, three of these commenters believe that all nonconvertible debt securities that meet the margin requirements of Regulation T should be eligible for the account and one of these commenters would like ``money market instruments'' such as certificates of deposit, bankers acceptances and commercial paper to be covered by the new account. All of these suggestions will be considered in the course of Board's review of Regulation T, with an opportunity for public comment. As explained in the request for public comment on the proposed government securities account, the rationale for the new account stems from the unique regulatory scheme established for U.S. government securities and brokers and dealers in that market. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Board certifies that this final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.
