FR941219-2-00159 FR941219-2-00082 [Release No. 34&hyph;35089; File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;58] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to its Rule 229 Governing Execution of PACE Orders December 12, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on December 1, 1994, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Phlx'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. On December 12, 1994, the Exchange filed with the Commission Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change. 1 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 See letter from William W. Uchimoto, Vice President and General Counsel, Phlx, to Glen Barrentine, Senior Counsel, SEC, dated December 12, 1994. Amendment No. 1 made certain clarifying changes to the proposed rule change. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc., pursuant to Rule 19b&hyph;4 of the Act, proposes to amend the Supplementary Material section to its Rule 229 respecting the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Automated Communication and Execution System (``PACE''). The text of the proposed rule change is as follows [new text is italicized; deleted text is bracketed]: Rule 229 *␣*␣* Supplementary Material *␣*␣* Execution of Market Orders .05␣ Subject to Supplementary Material Section .07, all round-lot market orders up to 500 shares and PRL market orders up to 599 shares 2 will be [executed automatically upon entry into the system; provided, however,] stopped at the PACE Quote 3 at the time of entry into the system (``Stop Price'') and be subject to a delay of up to 15 seconds from being executed in order to receive an opportunity for price improvement. If such market order is not executed within the 15 second window, the order will be automatically executed at the Stop Price. If the PACE Quote at the time of order entry into the system reflects a 1/8 point spread between the best bid and offer, that order will be executed immediately without the 15 second delay. Subject to these procedures, the specialist may voluntarily agree to execute round-lot [and PRL] market orders of a size greater than 500 shares and PRL market orders of a size greater than 599 shares [automatically] upon entry into the system. 2 The term ``PRL'' means a combined round-lot and odd-lot order. See Phlx Rule 229. 3 The term ``Pace Quote'' means the best bid/ask quote among the American, Boston, Cincinnati, Chicago, New York, Pacific, or Philadelphia stock exchanges, or the Intermarket Trading System/Computer Assisted Execution System quote, as appropriate. See Phlx Rule 229. * * * * * .07(a)␣Member organizations which enter market orders (round-lots up to 500 shares and PRL's up to 599 shares) after the opening may elect to have such orders executed (i) [automatically on the PACE Quote] in accordance with the procedures set forth in Supplementary Material Section .05 or, (ii) if such execution price would be outside the New York market high-low range for the day manually at or within the New York market high-low range of the day. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The purpose of the proposed rule change is to provide for an enhancement to PACE by providing Phlx specialists the opportunity to effect price improvement for market orders in securities sent through PACE when the spread between the PACE Quote, which reflects the consolidated national best bid and offer, exceeds 1/8 point in any PACE eligible security. The proposed rule change provides for an automatic stop of such orders and a fifteen second execution delay, allowing a Phlx specialist to manually provide for price improvement equal to or better than the stock price. 4 Specifically, all round-lot market orders of up to 500 shares and all combined round-lot and odd-lot orders of up to 599 shares will be stopped at the PACE Quote at the time of entry into PACE (stopped at the best bid for sell orders; at the best ask for buy orders) and shall be subject to a delay of up to fifteen seconds from being executed in order to provide an opportunity for price improvement by the Phlx specialist. If a particular market order is not executed within fifteen seconds, the order will be automatically executed by the system at the stop price. If the PACE Quote at the time of order entry reflects a spread between the best bid and offer of 1/8 point, PACE market orders shall be system executed immediately. 4 Accordingly to the Phlx, the proposed rule change does not apply to limit orders, including marketable limit orders, because such orders are executed manually and, therefore, already have an opportunity for price improvement. Telephone conversation between William W. Uchimoto, Vice President and General Counsel, Phlx, and Glen Barrentine, Senior Counsel, SEC, on December 9, 1994.
