FR940617-1-00107 FR940617-1-00012 (E) Preparation of volunteers. ( 1 ) Instruct the volunteers to avoid contact with antimicrobials (other than the test formulation) for the duration of the test. This restriction includes antimicrobial containing antiperspirants, deodorants, shampoos, lotions, soaps, and materials such as acids, bases, solvents. Bathing in chlorinated pools and hot tubs should be avoided. ( 2 ) Volunteers are to be provided with a kit of nonantimicrobial personal care products for exclusive use during the test. Volunteers are not to shower or tub bathe in the 24-hour period prior to the application of test material or microbial sampling. Sponge baths may be taken but the skin sites to be used in the study are to be excluded. ( 3 ) If the skin sites to be used include areas that would require shaving prior to surgery, for example, the groin site, these sites should be shaved no later than 48 hours prior to the application of test formulation or microbial sampling. ( 4 ) After volunteers have refrained from using antimicrobials for at least 2 weeks, obtain an estimate of baseline bacterial population from one groin and one abdominal site at least 72 hours prior to entering subjects into the study. Sampling and enumeration techniques described in paragraphs (b)(3)(iii)(J) and (b)(3)(iii)(K) of this section are to be used. ( 5 ) Based on the initial estimate of baseline bacterial population, select sufficient numbers of subjects with high bacterial counts per formulation being tested to satisfy the statistical criteria of the clinical trial design. (F) Study design and randomization. Subjects admitted to the study are to be identified as to whether they meet the groin portion or abdomen portion of the study, or both. Once a subject is admitted to the study, treatments are to be randomly assigned to one contralateral groin site, for subjects identified as belonging to this study group and similar treatments are to be randomly assigned to left or right side of the abdominal area, for subjects identified as belonging to the abdominal study group. This method of choosing subjects and sampling sites fits the paired comparison statistical design. Randomization of subjects to time periods and treatment to left or right side is to be accomplished in accordance with the plan similar to that presented for surgical hand scrub products. (G) Number of subjects required and statistical analysis of data. ( 1 ) Two ways to statistically evaluate effectiveness of a preoperative scrub product are presented. The first depends upon calculating the average log 10 reduction from baseline. This is accomplished by obtaining the difference in log counts for each paired sample for each subject in the appropriate sampling time frame. This will facilitate subsequent statistical evaluation of resulting data. It is usually fairly easy to enroll subjects with counts 1×10 5 or greater when working with the groin areas. It is anticipated this method will primarily be used to evaluate data collected from the groin areas. The sample size estimation equation given earlier may be used to estimate sample sizes required for this case. Standard deviations for preoperative scrub products are relatively homogeneous when inclusion criterion require counts of 1×10 5 or greater. The standard deviations extracted from files range from 0.82 to 1.72; the median standard deviation was 0.98. When counts in the range of 1×10 5 to 1×10 6 were used, the standard deviation ranged from 0.78 to 1.22, with a median value of 0.99. Using the sample size estimation equation given in paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(F) of this section and assuming the active control preoperative scrub produces an immediate mean log reduction of 2.0 and test scrub is to be within 20 percent of this, i.e., D=0.4, and S 2 =0.98, gives n=97 subjects per arm of the study. Because blocks of 6 are recommended, the sample size per treatment arm is 96 subjects. ( 2 ) The second method for evaluating the data depends upon establishing an entry target bacterial population of greater than 250 colony forming units per square centimeter and a target reduction criterion that a successful scrub reduces bacterial counts to below 25 colony forming units per square centimeter. A successful scrub product is to provide this degree of reduction in at least 90 percent of the subjects tested. Using the normal binomial confidence interval approach, it can be shown that if the standard preoperative scrub product achieves a 90 percent success rate and it is desired to rule out success rates less than 85 percent for the new product with power of 80 percent then 340 subjects per arm are required. If it is desired to rule out success rates less than 80 percent, then the sample size is only 100 per arm. Again, since blocks of 6 or some multiple thereof, are recommended, the sample size is 102 subjects per study arm. ( 3 ) In both cases described in paragraphs (b)(3)(iii)(G)( 1 ) and (b)(3)(iii)(G)( 2 ) of this section, effectiveness is judged based on calculation of 95 percent confidence intervals on the difference of the ``success rate for standard scrub product minus success rate for test scrub product.'' (H) Treatment application procedure. Apply treatment according to label directions or as stated in the proposed directions for test formulation. The control product is to be used according to the labeling directions.
