FR940110-1-00053 FR940110-1-00006 For various tax reasons, sponsors prefer to structure LIHTC projects so that the AHP direct subsidy is lent to the project for a specific long-term period, with principal and interest payments deferred until the end of such term. The lending of a direct subsidy by a sponsor raises the question whether the subsidy is being passed on to the ultimate recipient, as required under section 10(j)(9)(E) of the Act and proposed §960.4(b)(1)(i), since the subsidy ultimately is being repaid to the Bank. See 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(9)(E). The Board believes that the lending of a direct subsidy for the long-term period of income eligibility and affordability required by §960.5 of the proposed rule, with all principal and interest payments deferred until the end of such term, satisfies section 10(j)(9)(E) and proposed §960.4(b)(1)(i), because the project will have had the use of such funds for the period the project must remain occupied by and affordable for low- or moderate-income households, even though the funds may be repaid at the end of such term. As discussed below, §960.5(a)(1) of the proposed rule defines this long-term period generally as not less than 30 years for rental housing projects. Accordingly, the direct subsidy must be lent for a term of 30 years or more, with all principal and interest payments deferred until the end of such term. Section 960.4(b)(4) of the proposed rule provides that if an applicant receives a subsidized advance or a direct subsidy from a Bank, and in turn provides both a loan and a grant to a borrower and charges an origination fee for providing the loan, then any fee charged by the applicant for providing the grant may not be paid with the AHP subsidized advance or direct subsidy. The fee may not be paid with the AHP subsidized advance because the applicant has already covered the underwriting costs for the loan and the grant in its origination fee for the loan. The fee may not be paid with the direct subsidy because otherwise the entire amount of the AHP subsidy would not be passed through to the borrower, as required by section 10(j)(9)(E) of the Act and proposed §960.4(b)(1)(i). See 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(9)(E). 4. Long-term Requirements a. Owner-occupied housing units. (1) Long-term requirement. Section 10(j)(1) of the Act states that pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Board, each Bank shall establish a Program to subsidize the interest rate on advances to members engaged in lending for long-term, low- and moderate-income, owner-occupied housing at subsidized interest rates. Id. §1430(j)(1). In addition, section 10(j)(2)(A) of the Act states that the Board's regulations shall permit Bank members to use subsidized advances received from the Banks to finance homeownership by families with incomes at or below 80 percent of the median income for the area. Id. §1430(j)(2)(A). The Act permits more than one possible interpretation of the requirement that owner-occupied housing must be ``long-term.'' One way to interpret this requirement is that owner-occupied housing units assisted under the AHP must be added to and retained as part of the stock of affordable housing for a long-term period. Alternatively, the Act may be interpreted to require that under the AHP, assistance must be provided to low- or moderate-income households to make owner-occupied housing units affordable to such households for as long as they own the unit. These two possible interpretations are incorporated in options A and B described below. The Board specifically requests comments on these two options. Option A. Under option A, the long-term requirement would be met by providing that owner-occupied housing units be required to be retained as affordable units for 30 years or, at the election of the sponsor, the remaining useful life of the units, regardless of changes in occupancy. In order to enforce this retention requirement, owner-occupied units assisted with a loan or a grant under the AHP would have to be subject to a deed restriction or other legally enforceable mechanism restricting transfer of the unit to a low- or moderate-income household if the unit were sold within 30 years of the purchase, construction, or rehabilitation or prior to the end of the remaining useful life of the unit, as the case may be. A household purchasing such a unit would have to qualify as a low- or moderate-income household only at the time of purchase or at the time of closing on the financing for the unit. A household rehabilitating a unit would have to qualify as a low- or moderate-income household only at the time the household received a commitment for funding through the AHP.
