FR940817-1-00003 FR940817-1-00002 FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION [Notice 1994&hyph;11] 11 CFR Parts 100 and 113 Expenditures; Personal Use of Campaign Funds AGENCY: Federal Election Commission. ACTION: Proposed rule; request for additional comments. SUMMARY: The Federal Election Commission is seeking additional comments on new rules governing the conversion of campaign funds to personal use. The Federal Election Campaign Act, as amended, prohibits any person from converting campaign funds to his or her personal use. The Commission is considering inserting a definition of personal use into its regulations. Further information is provided in the supplementary information which follows. DATES: Comments must be received on or before October 3, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments must be in writing and addressed to: Ms. Susan E. Propper, Assistant General Counsel, 999 E Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20463. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Susan E. Propper, Assistant General Counsel, 999 E Street, NW., Washington, DC 20463, (202) 219&hyph;3690 or (800) 424&hyph;9530. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In August of 1993, the Commission published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking [``the 1993 NPRM''] seeking comment on proposed rules governing the conversion of campaign funds to personal use [``the proposed rules'']. 58 FR 45463 (August 30, 1993). The proposed rules were drafted to implement section 439a of the Federal Election Campaign Act, 2 U.S.C. 431 et seq [``FECA'']. Section 439a says that no amounts received by a candidate as contributions that are in excess of any amount necessary to defray his or her expenditures may be converted by any person to any personal use, other than to defray any ordinary and necessary expenses incurred in connection with his or her duties as a holder of Federal office. Those who wished to comment on the proposed rules were invited to do so by September 29, 1993. The Commission subsequently granted a request for a 45 day extension of the comment period, giving the regulated community until November 13, 1993 to submit their views on the proposed rules. 58 FR 52040 (Oct. 6, 1993). The Commission received 32 comments from 31 commenters in response to the 1993 NPRM. The Commission also held a public hearing on January 12, 1994, at which it heard testimony from five witnesses on the proposed rules. On May 19, 1994, the Commission held an open meeting at which it considered draft final rules on the conversion of campaign funds to personal use. The Commission also discussed several letters it had received at the time of the meeting requesting an additional opportunity to comment on the rules before they are finally promulgated. These requests correctly noted that, in an effort to address the concerns of the commenters, the draft final rules adopted a different approach to defining personal use than the proposed rules. The Commission notes that the 1993 NPRM sought comments on all of the areas addressed by the draft final rules. Thus, under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 551 et seq., it would be appropriate for the Commission to proceed to adopt final rules. Nevertheless, the Commission has decided to provide an additional opportunity to comment on the rules before they are finally promulgated. The Commission has revised the rules and is publishing the revised version [referred to as ``the revised rules''] in this NPRM in order to invite comments from the regulated community. Although this additional comment period will delay completion of the personal use rules, the Commission still intends to finalize rules this year. The Commission will maintan a schedule that will allow the rules to go into effect early in the next election cycle. The Revised Rules The revised rules would include a general definition of personal use and several enumerated examples. Section 113.1(g)(1) would indicate that, generally, personal use would be any use of funds that confers a benefit on a candidate or a member of the candidate's family that is not related to the campaign or the ordinary and necessary duties of a holder of Federal office. Section 113.1(g)(1)(i) contains examples of uses that would be personal use if they confer the kind of benefit described in the general definition. The list of examples includes mortgage, rent and utility payments, certain vehicle expenses, household food items, clothing, tuition, and funeral expenses. The list also includes salary payments to family members in excess of fair market value, legal expenses, certain travel and meal expenses, country club dues and entertainment. In addition, the revised rules would specifically indicate that the use of funds to pay the candidate a salary would be personal use. Section 113.1(g)(1)(iii) of the revised rules would indicate that the Commission will use the general definition to determine, on a case by case basis, whether other uses of campaign funds are personal use. The revised rules would also indicate that the Commission may determine that a use of funds that confers a benefit on someone other than the candidate or the candidate's family members is personal use if the benefit is not campaign or officeholder related. Revised ยง113.1(g)(2) would indicate that charitable donations are not personal use unless the candidate making the donation receives compensation from the recipient organization before the organization has used the funds donated for other purposes. Under revised ยง113.1(g)(3), transfers of campaign committee assets to the candidate would not be personal use so long as the committee receives adequate consideration. Revised ยง113.1(g)(3) also contains provisions that would ensure that the cost of the asset being transferred is properly allocated between the committee and the candidate.
