FR940505-1-00481 FR940505-1-00012 Employee transportation coordinator (ETC) means an employee appointed by an employer to develop, implement, monitor, and market a trip reduction program at a work location as required in this section. Employer means any person(s), trust, firm, business, joint stock company, corporation, partnership, association, non-profit agency or corporation, educational institution, school district, hospital or other health care facility, or federal, state, city or county government department, agency, or district, or subdivision or instrumentality thereof, or any other special purpose public agency or district that employs 100 or more employees reporting to a single work location. A city or county is a single employer for purposes of this section, not individual departments or agencies of the city or county. Individual departments or agencies of the State of California and the federal government are separate employers for the purposes of this section. Highest ranking responsible officer means the president, executive or managing director, other chief executive or operating officer, or other highest ranking employee located at a work location, who has primary responsibility for the operation and management of that work location. Maintenance plan means the plan an employer who achieves the APO target implements after that date to maintain the APO target at the work location. Peak travel period means the time period between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. inclusive, Monday through Friday. Plan means any plan an employer is required to submit to the Administrator in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section. Specific plans an employer may submit under this section include initial compliance plans, update plans, or maintenance plans. Public transportation means rail passenger service, motorbus regular route service, paratransit service, and motorbus charter service or other transportation services available to the traveling public whose purpose is to carry passengers between two or more locations. Chauffeured limousines and taxi cabs are not considered public transportation for purposes of this section. Sacramento ECO program area means the Sacramento ozone nonattainment area as defined in 40 CFR 81.305. Telecommuting means a strategy in which an employee substitutes the location at which work is performed for an entire day. Work otherwise assigned to be done at the work location is instead done at the employee's residence. Transportation management association (TMA) means a nonprofit organization that coordinates local commuter transportation services, including but not limited to public transportation, vanpools, carpools, bicycling and pedestrian modes, as well as strategies such as alternative work hours; and provides other similar services for corporations, employees, developers, individuals, and other groups. Travel demand management (TDM) means a system of actions whose purpose is to alleviate traffic-related problems through improved management of vehicle trip demand. Primarily directed at commuter travel, TDM actions are structured to reduce the dependence on and use of single occupant vehicles. Update plan means the plan submitted by an employer who has not achieved the APO target by March 1, 1999 showing what additional actions the employer will implement to achieve the target APO within 1 year. Vanpool means a group of nine to fifteen employees, including the driver, commuting to and from their work location using a vehicle that is used and maintained for the primary purpose of ridesharing. Vehicle means a highway vehicle powered by a gasoline or diesel internal combustion engine used for commuting purposes with the exception of public transportation, vanpools and vehicles used to convey disabled persons as described in paragraph (g)(4)(viii) of this section. Work location or location means an area, building, or grouping of buildings in actual physical contact or separated only by a private or public roadway or other private or public right-of-way that does not represent an impassable barrier to bicycle or pedestrian travel located within the Sacramento ECO Program Area under the ownership, operation, or control of the same employer. Businesses operated separately and distinctly shall be considered separate work locations even if they are owned by the same employer and are physically located in the same or adjacent buildings. (d) Employer requirements and exemptions. (1) Overview of employer requirements. This section requires the following seven actions of all subject employers. An employer failing to undertake any or all of these actions shall be considered in violation of this section and shall be subject to penalties in accordance with paragraph (l) of this section. (i) Register with the Administrator as an employer subject to the provisions of this section (paragraph (f) of this section). (ii) Designate an Employee Transportation Coordinator (ETC) at each work location (paragraph (i) of this section). (iii) Conduct an annual APO survey of employees at each work location to determine employees' commute patterns and report the results of the survey to the Administrator (paragraph (h) of this section). (iv) Develop and submit to the Administrator by March 1, 1997 and in subsequent years as required by this section, compliance, update, or maintenance plans that describe activities to be implemented at the location under an employee commute option (ECO) program (paragraph (i) of this section). (v) Implement the program outlined in the compliance, update, or maintenance plan (paragraph (i) of this section). (vi) No later than March 1, 1999, increase the average passenger occupancy (APO) at each location by not less than 25 percent over the average vehicle occupancy (AVO) for the Sacramento ECO program area (paragraph (g) of this section). (vii) Maintain the target APO after achieving it.
