FR940621-2-00067 FR940621-2-00045 National Park Service Final Environmental Impact Statement, General Management Plan, Development Concept Plan, Bent's Old Fort National Historic Site, Colorado AGENCY: National Park Service, Department of the Interior. ACTION: Availability of final environmental impact statement/general management plan/development concept plan for Bent's Old Fort National Historic Site. SUMMARY: Pursuant to section 102(2)(c) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, the National Park Service (NPS) announces the availability of a Final Environmental Impact Statement/General Management Plan/Development Concept Plan (FEIS/GMP/DCP) for Bent's Old Fort National Historic Site, Colorado. DATES: A 30-day no-action period will follow the Environmental Protection Agency's notice of availability of the FEIS/GMP/DCP. ADDRESSES: Public reading copies of the FEIS/GMP will be available for review at the following locations: Office of the Superintendent, Bent's Old Fort National Historic Site, Telephone: 719&hyph;384&hyph;2596 Division of Planning, Design and Construction, Rocky Mountain Regional Office, National Park Service, 12795 W. Alameda Parkway, Lakewood, CO 80225, Telephone: (303) 969&hyph;2828 Office of Public Affairs, National Park Service, Department of Interior, 18th and C Streets NW., Washington, DC 20240, Telephone: (202) 208&hyph;6843. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In December 1993, the National Park Service released, for a 60-day public review, a Draft Environmental Impact Statement/General Management Plan/Development Concept Plan (DEIS/GMP/DCP) that evaluated three alternatives. The alternatives provided for the preservation of historic and natural resources while providing for visitor use. Under the no-action alternative, existing management activities would continue. Alternative One would expand the scope of the interpretive program, creating a self-service, self-interpretation oriented visitor experience. It would maintain the historic character of the site and improve overall operational and administrative working environments, while limiting physical development of small additions of space and renovation of existing spaces. The proposal would expand the scope of the interpretive program, create an interactive interpretive atmosphere through implementation of a visitor center, maintain the historic character of the site, and improve overall operational and administrative working environments by adding appropriate facilities. The DEIS/GMP/DCP in particular evaluated the environmental consequences of the proposed action and the other alternatives on geology/soils, vegetation, prime and unique farmlands, wildlife, threatened and endangered species, water resources/quality, floodplains and wetlands, air quality, noise quality, cultural resources, visitor use, and socioeconomic resources/surrounding land uses. The environmental consequences of the proposed action and alternatives considered are fully disclosed in the DEIS/GMP/DCP. The Final Environmental Impact Statement/General Management Plan/Development Concept Plan states that the proposal, as described in the DEIS/GMP/DCP is the final plan. Also included are the results of the public involvement and consultation and coordination for this project. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: Contact Superintendent, Bent's Old Fort National Historic Site, at the above address and telephone number. Dated: May 31, 1994. W. Wayne Gardner, Regional Director, Rocky Mountain Region, National Park Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14976 Filed 6&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;70&hyph;P
