FR941128-2-00132 FR941128-2-00076 •Other measures of customer satisfaction that relate to both the outcomes attained and the service process; and •Any additional measurable, performance-based outcomes that are relevant to the proposed intervention and which may be readily assessed during the period of performance of the project. [ Note: An explanation of how such additional measures are relevant to the purpose of the demonstration program shall be included in the application.] The applicant shall include in its proposal Program Year 1993 performance data on these measures, to the extent feasible, for its regular JTPA Title III program. The proposal shall also describe how outcomes achieved by individuals using career management accounts will be compared to outcomes achieved by individuals receiving assistance through the existing JTPA Title III program service process. G. Customer feedback Provide a description of the process and procedures to be used to obtain feedback from individuals_both those served through the project and those served through the regular JTPA Title III program_on the responsiveness and effectiveness of the services provided. The description should include an identification of the types of information to be obtained, the method(s) and frequency of data collection, and how the information will be used in implementing and managing the project. It is expected that grantees may employ focus groups and surveys, in addition to other methods, to collect feedback information. H. Replicability Provide a description of the applicant's plans for continuing or replicating the project. I. Definitions Unless otherwise indicated in this announcement, definitions of terms used herein shall be those definitions found in the Job Training Partnership Act, as amended, particularly at Section 4 and Section 301. Part IV. Evaluation Criteria Prospective offerors are advised that the selection of grantee(s) for award is to be made after careful evaluation of proposals by a panel of specialists selected by DOL. Panelists will evaluate the proposals for acceptability with emphasis on the various factors enumerated below. The panel results are advisory in nature and not binding on the Grant Officer. Evaluations will be made on the basis of both what the proposed offeror intends to do during the grant period, and on the usefulness of the demonstration after the end of the grant period. A. Technical Evaluation (75 points) Services and Target Group. The responsiveness of the services to be provided, including the degree to which the services appear to meet the needs of the target population. The degree to which the services to be provided and the process for selecting eligible individuals to be served through individual career management accounts are appropriate to the objectives of this demonstration. (20 points) Career Management Account System Design. The completeness of the description of career management system. The extent to which the system creates more flexibility and individual choice for the individual worker. The extensiveness/scope of the service provider network. (30 points) Coordination and Linkages; Utilization of Resources. The extent to which the project will be integrated with other existing public and private resources, and is supported by appropriate State and local organizations. Extent to which project design clearly leverages funds from non-JTPA sources. (15 points) Evaluation and replicability. The completeness of the description of the methods which will be used to determine the performance of the project, including assessments of customer satisfaction. The likelihood that the approach may be applicable to the full range of dislocated worker programs across the country. (10 points) B. Cost Evaluation (25 points) The cost effectiveness of the project as indicated by the relationship of proposed costs to number of participants to be served, the range of services to be provided and the planned outcomes. Applicants are advised that discussions may be necessary in order to clarify any inconsistencies in their applications. Applications may be rejected where the information required is not provided in sufficient detail to permit adequate assessment of the proposal. The final decision on the award will be based on what is most advantageous to the Federal Government as determined by the ETA Grant Officer. Part V. Reporting Requirements A. Dislocated Worker Special Project Reports as required by the grant award documents. B. Quarterly Financial Reports. C. Quarterly Progress Reports. D. Final Project Report including an assessment of project performance. Appendices No. 1_Application for Federal Assistance (Standard Form 424) No. 2_Non-Construction Budget Form (Standard Form 424A) No. 3_Financial Status Report Form (Standard Form 269) Signed at Washington, D.C., this 18th day of November, 1994. Janice E. Perry Grant/Contracting Officer.
