FR940830-1-00109 FR940830-1-00015 Certain work registrants are exempted from E&T participation by State agencies and are not required to participate in the program. Food stamp recipients may also volunteer to participate in the E&T program. Current regulations at 7 CFR 273.7(d)(1)(ii) require State agencies to provide payments or reimbursements to participants in the Food Stamp E&T program for certain expenses that are reasonably necessary and directly related to participation in the E&T program. The Federal government matches half the amount State agencies spend to reimburse participants under 7 CFR 273.7(d)(1)(ii)(B) for the actual costs of transportation and other costs (excluding dependent care) that are determined by the State agency to be necessary and directly related to participation in the E&T program. Therefore, the Federal government will pay up to $12.50 of the $25 per month. State agencies may supplement this amount, but without Federal matching funds. State agencies must also provide payments or reimbursements to E&T participants for dependent care expenditures of up to $160 per dependent per month. The Federal government will pay up to $80 of the $160 per month. A reimbursement cannot be provided for a dependent age 13 or older unless the dependent is physically and/or mentally incapable of caring for himself or herself or is under court supervision. The Federal government will not reimburse more than the actual cost of dependent care expenses up to $80 per dependent per month, regardless of how many household members are participating in E&T. Finally, an E&T participant is not entitled to the reimbursement for dependent care expenditures if a member of the participant's food stamp household provides the dependent care services. Changes to Dependent Care Reimbursements Section 13922 of the Leland Act amended section 6(d) of the Food Stamp Act to remove the $160 cap on dependent care reimbursements to participants in the E&T program. In place of the cap, State agencies must reimburse the actual costs of dependent care expenses up to a limit set by the State agency. Section 13922 stipulates that the statewide limit set by the State agency cannot be less than the limit for the dependent care deduction under section 5(e) of the Act, that is, $200 per month for each dependent under age 2 and $175 per month for each other dependent. In no event may the reimbursement exceed the applicable local market rate as determined by procedures consistent with the JOBS Program. Thus, the State agency must reimburse actual costs for dependent care up to either the local market rate or the statewide limit set by the State agency, whichever is lower. The Department will continue to match State agency expenditures for reimbursements at the 50 percent level. An example will help to explain the above provision. Assume that a State agency sets a statewide limit of $250, which is higher than the dependent care deduction, on the amount of dependent care costs it will reimburse. In City A, the local market rate is also $250. Thus, the State agency would reimburse a participant in the E&T program for actual costs up to $250. In City B, the local market rate is $225. Even if the actual cost for dependent care is $250, the State agency will only reimburse the participant for $225, the local market rate, as the State agency cannot provide reimbursement payments which exceed the local market rate. In City C, the local market rate is $275. The State agency would reimburse the participant for $250, the statewide limit. In any of the scenarios above, if the actual cost of dependent care was less than the statewide limit of $250, the State agency would only reimburse the actual cost of care. Hence, the State agency must pay the lowest of the actual cost of dependent care, the local market rate, or the statewide limit. The State agency may supplement this amount, but without Federal matching funds. Persons determined by the State agency to have actual monthly expenses that are reasonably necessary and directly related to participation in the E&T program which exceed the allowable reimbursement amount (i.e., exceed the local market rate) will continue to be considered by the State agency to have good cause for nonparticipation in an E&T component.
