FR940413-2-00047 FR940413-2-00030 Section 4. Two Vacancies/Authority to Act In the event two (2) Members are not available by reason of resignation, temporary or permanent incapacitation, or death, to perform the duties of their offices, the Board hereby delegates to the remaining Member the authority to exercise, in his/her discretion, any and all authorities of the FCA granted to the Agency or the Board by statute, regulation or otherwise, except those authorities which are nondelegable. This delegation of authority does not include authority to establish general policy and promulgate rules and regulations, or any delegation expressly prohibited by statute. This delegation shall include, but shall not be limited to, the exercise of the following powers: (a) The approval of any and all actions of the Farm Credit institutions as required by statute, regulations or otherwise to be approved by the FCA or its Board; (b) The exercise of all powers of enforcement granted to the FCA by statute, including but not limited to, the authorities contained in 12 U.S.C. 2154, 2154a, 2183, 2202a, and 2261&hyph;2274; and (c) Any actions or approvals required in connection with the conduct of a receivership or conservatorship of a Farm Credit institution. Authorities delegated by this Section may be redelegated, in writing, at the discretion of the remaining Member, to other FCA officers or employees. Section 5. National Security Emergencies Pursuant to Executive Order 12656, in the event of a national security emergency, if the Chairman is unable to perform his or her duties for any reason, the following individuals, in the order mentioned and subject to being available, are authorized to exercise and perform all the functions, powers, authority and duties of the Office of Chairman: (a) Member of the Board of the Chairman's party; (b) Member of the Board of the Minority party; (c) Executive Assistant and Senior Advisor to the Chairman; (d) Director, Office of Congressional and Public Affairs; (e) Secretary to the Board; (f) Chief Operating Officer; (g) General Counsel; (h) Chief Examiner, Office of Examination; (i) Regional Director, Western Region, Office of Examination. The Chairman shall ensure that FCA has an alternative location for its headquarters functions in the event a national security emergency renders FCA's headquarters inoperative. The Chairman or Acting Chairman may establish such branch office or offices of the FCA as are necessary to coordinate its operations with those of other government agencies. Article III Voting Section 1. Affirmative Vote Required Action on any matter shall require the affirmative vote of at least two (2) Members, except as provided in Article II, Section 4. Section 2. Votes To Be Recorded The vote of each Member, including the Chairman, on a question shall be recorded in the minutes. Section 3. Notational Voting (a) Nothing in these Rules shall preclude the transaction of business by the circulation of written items (``notational votes'') to the Members, provided all Members participate, in writing, in the disposition of the item pursuant to Article III, section 3(c). (b) Matters that may be decided by notational vote. The Board may consider any matter that comes before it by use of notational voting procedures; however, it is best used only for routine and noncontroversial items. Any Member may submit an item to the Secretary for distribution as a notational vote. (c) Notational vote ballots and material. Upon submission of an item for notational vote, the Secretary shall provide each Member a complete package of all relevant information and a notational vote ballot sheet (indicating the Member making the motion, the substance of the motion, and the deadline for return of the vote) upon which each Member can indicate his/her position by voting in the following manner: (1) To approve; (2) To disapprove; (3) To abstain; or (4) Not appropriate for notational vote. (d) Modifications, amendments, and withdrawals. No partial concurrences or amendments are appropriate; however, a Member may suggest a revision to the proponent, subject to compliance with the Government in the Sunshine Act, and the proponent may withdraw his motion at any time prior to receipt by the Secretary of the votes of all Members or the end of the time period provided for on the ballot sheet. (e) Time limits to vote. Within ten (10) business days of receipt, or earlier if circumstances require, each Member shall act on the matter by returning the ballot sheet. Failure to return a ballot sheet by the date requested on the sheet will result in the vote being recorded as ``not voting'', which causes the motion to fail pursuant to Article III, section 3(a).
