FR940513-1-00113 FR940513-1-00022 What evidence exists to support a finding that such exposures are particularly hazardous, or detrimental to the health or well-being of young workers, or that they are at risk in the absence of work prohibitions? Are other governmental safeguards, i.e., standards established by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), sufficient to protect minors? As above, would an occupation/industry-specific approach, in contrast to a generic formulation, be more feasible, and, if so, why? 6. Student-Learner Exceptions Another area of the regulations under review concerns the student-learner provisions in §570.50(c). Certain of the HOs (HO 5, 7, 10, 12, 14, 16, and 17) contain an exemption for the employment of student-learners between the ages of 16 and 18. For the exemption to apply, §§570.50(c)(2)(i) and (ii) require a written agreement which provides that the work of the student-learner in a vocational training program involving these otherwise prohibited occupations and activities must be ``incidental'' to the training and that the work is ``intermittent and for short periods of time.'' The Department is seeking comment on whether there is a need for changes to these two requirements for student-learners participating in programs under statewide School-to-Work Opportunities systems advocated by the School-to-Work initiative jointly sponsored by the Departments of Education and Labor (see 59 FR 5266 (February 3, 1994) and 59 FR 11154 (March 9, 1994)). Programs developed under this initiative are intended to give youth access to education and training opportunities that will prepare them for high-skill, high-wage careers. The Department solicits public comment on whether any changes are needed to these two requirements in order to facilitate this objective. The changes being considered would be limited to student-learners under School-to-Work Opportunities programs and would affect only those HOs which have traditionally included a student-learner exception. School-to-Work Opportunities programs would remain subject to the requirements that the activity be performed under the direct and close supervision of a qualified and experienced person, that safety instructions be given by the school and correlated by the employer with on-the-job training, and that a schedule of organized and progressive skill development activities be prepared. Also, work done in prohibited occupations would be an essential and integral part of the student-learner's training program. If there are no changes made to the student-learner exception, would this significantly foreclose school-to-work training opportunities? If this were the case, what other alternatives should the Department consider to facilitate the effectiveness of employment in the School-to-Work Opportunities program? III. General In soliciting comments on the above or any other aspects of the child labor regulations considered appropriate by commenters, such as the HO 10 exemption for bacon-slicing machines, the Department is specifically interested in data, reports, cost-benefit analyses, studies and other documentation which support the positions taken or otherwise relate to the Department's objective to develop updated, realistic health and safety standards for today's young workers. Any impact on school-to-work transition programs should also be discussed. This document was prepared under the direction and control of Maria Echaveste, Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration, U.S. Department of Labor. List of Subjects in 29 CFR Part 570 Child labor, Child labor occupations, Employment, Government, Intergovernmental relations, Investigations, Labor, Law enforcement, Minimum age. Signed at Washington, DC, on this 4th day of May, 1994. Maria Echaveste, Administrator, Wage and Hour Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9947 Filed 5&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;27&hyph;P
