FR940912-0-00017 FR940912-0-00005 However, the General Accounting Office (GAO) has recently recommended that the bank and thrift Federal regulatory agencies establish a set of minimum standards for real estate evaluations where the use of State-sanctioned appraisers and compliance with USPAP are not required. 14 The FCA, by previously adopting and publishing the requirements of ยง614.4250 of the regulations, has addressed similar concerns for the System institutions' valuation of real, personal, and intangible property in general. 14 GAO Report (GAO/GGD&hyph;94&hyph;144), May 25, 1994, Better Guidance Is Needed For Real Estate Evaluations. In addition, the OCC has recently published proposed revisions to its lending limit regulations that would require appraisals/evaluations of collateral used to secure loans where the lender requires collateral (including personal property) to support lending in excess of the 15-percent lending limit. This position is also consistent with the regulatory standards and guidance previously established by the FCA in the collateral evaluation regulations. The FCA's willingness to adopt a 25-percent lending limit for FCBs and direct lender associations is supported by the recognition that collateral evaluation requirements serve as an essential control (58 FR 40311, July 28, 1993). The FCA has also reviewed concerns previously expressed by the System, which pertain to the required use of the income approach for real estate evaluations in excess of the de minimis level (whether an appraisal is required or not). The FCA has clarified in the regulations that the income approach is one of the three prescribed methods of valuing collateral under USPAP. Therefore, whenever USPAP standards are employed the income approach must be considered. If it is not used as a valuation method, there must be an explanation of why it was not used, accompanied by the development of the initial income-producing information to support its lack of relevance as a valuation method. In ยง614.4265(d) the FCA requires the institution to develop and document, as part of the supporting information for the credit analysis, the income-producing capacity of the subject real estate as well as the operations of the business. This information may or may not be derived directly from the real estate evaluation process, but is required as part of the credit analysis to support the debt repayment analysis. Such information is intended to assist in identifying debt coverage shortages that must be addressed by other sources of income. However, the FCA strongly suggests that the income approach be used on agricultural properties where the loan transaction exceeds the $250,000 de minimis level. The income analysis requirement contained in the regulation does not apply to loan transactions at the $250,000 de minimis level and below. However, prudent business practices may dictate the development and use of such information in a much wider range of loan transactions. The institutions have the responsibility to identify those instances where the credit risk and the associated credit decision would require the support of the income and debt coverage analysis. V. Summary The present revisions of the FCA collateral evaluation requirements will benefit the System institutions by allowing them to enjoy a competitive playing field with the commercial banking industry and relieving some requirements that have been identified as burdensome and unnecessary. The FCA Board believes that these revisions can be made without undermining the basic collateral evaluation requirements or jeopardizing safety and soundness. Therefore, the FCA Board is able to increase the flexibility of the regulations in order to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of the System's collateral evaluation practices. List of Subjects 12 CFR Part 614 Agriculture, Banks, banking, Foreign trade, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Rural areas. 12 CFR Part 618 Agriculture, Archives and records, Banks, banking, Insurance, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Rural areas, Technical assistance.
