FR941206-1-00106 FR941206-1-00008 The EPA also evaluated the potential of add-on VOC control devices (i.e., carbon adsorbers and incinerators). Although no cases are known where add-on controls are used for outdoor painting at shipyards, they have been used to reduce spraybooth emissions by many other industries. Most coating operations at shipyards take place outdoors, primarily because of the size of parts painted. This makes capture of emissions difficult and expensive. Use of add-on controls for outdoor painting was not selected as the basis for MACT for these reasons. It should be noted, however, that a portable enclosure that will contain particulate and VOC during abrasive blasting and coating of ships' hulls is under commercial development. Should these enclosures prove technically and economically feasible, their performance should be considered by any State or the Federal Government in developing future rules for this industry. Two types of coating operations at shipyards where emissions are more available to capture were examined more closely for the feasibility of add-on controls: indoor coating operations and painting inside of ship's tanks or other internal enclosed spaces. Based on a brief screening analyses, using the limited available data that assumes all spray areas are continually drafted to the control device (whether painting operations are underway in all areas or not), add-on control was estimated to be on the order of $150,000/Mg of VOHAP removed. The EPA believes that this cost is not reasonable for this source category. As a result, add-on controls were not investigated further nor selected as the basis for MACT. In reality, the amount of VOC and HAP controlled at a site is dependent on the rate of paint application, the concentration of these compounds in the exhaust air stream during the painting operation, the flow rate of the air stream flowing into the add-on control unit and a host of other factors. The suitability of add-on controls can only be determined on a case-by-case basis. After review of alternatives more stringent than the MACT floor, the EPA is proposing to set the MACT standard at the floor based on the California marine coatings rule which is for both new and existing sources. The costs of the control option for new and existing sources is expected to be the same. The Agency solicits comments on this determination. ``Models'' of shipyards were developed to help determine the need to differentiate among classes of shipyards in identifying the MACT.'' Models were developed for classes of yards based on market segment (yards that construct ships versus those that only repair) and size (large versus medium). The EPA concluded there is no basis for differentiating among classes of major source shipyards, but specifically solicits comments on whether this category should be subcategorized; and if so, how. 2. Handling, Transfer, and Storage of VOHAP Containing Material Based on information received from industry, a variety of ``work practice'' measures are used to reduce evaporative losses of VOC from transfer, handling, and storage of solvent and paint wastes. These include spill minimization techniques (use of spouts, funnels, or catch basins during transfer of liquids from one container to another), the use of normally closed containers or piping to transport liquids, and the use of close-fitting or tight covers on containers for solvent, wet rags, and waste. Many more than five facilities employ some type of work practice measures. Facilities in California are subject to regulations to minimize evaporative emissions; other facilities employ such measures to decrease solvent usage or to minimize exposure of workers. However, data to quantify accurately the emission reductions achievable by different work practice measures is unavailable. The beneficial effect of a specific change is largely a function of the previous plant practice being remedied. As a result, even though such activities obviously reduce emissions, there is no way to distinguish between the ``best controlled source'' and the ``best performing five existing sources.'' Therefore, the EPA has designated the same select work practice measures as the MACT floor for control of emissions from handling and transfer of VOHAP containing material at both new and existing facilities. For emissions from storage containers, the MACT floor is use of tight-fitting covers that must be normally closed; that is, in place except when materials are being added to or withdrawn. The Agency believes that this is a reasonable approach. Because work practice measures typically entail negligible cost, any emission reduction that is achieved is believed to be worthwhile. The EPA specifically solicits comments on this determination.
