FR941004-2-00153 FR941004-2-00088 [Release No. 34&hyph;34729; File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;94&hyph;16] Self Regulatory Organizations; National Securities Clearing Corporation; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change Modifying Comparison Procedures for Corporate Bond and Unit Investment Trust Transactions and Modifying the Fee Structure for Correction Fees September 27, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on August 9, 1994, the National Securities Clearing Corporation (``NSCC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared primarily by NSCC. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change will modify NSCC's trade comparison procedures for corporate bond and unit investment trust (``UIT'') transactions and corresponding correction fees. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, NSCC included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. NSCC has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and the Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change Since 1993, NSCC has been redesigning its bond comparison system to accelerate the processing ( i.e., submission and comparison) of bond transactions to achieve higher rates of trade comparison at earlier points in the comparison process. NSCC believes accelerated processing will help to increase certainty and reduce risk in the clearance and settlement of debt transactions. The first phase of this redesign process enhanced the processing of transactions in municipal securities and was implemented by NSCC on August 13, 1993. 2 The primary purpose of the current proposed rule change is to expand the accelerated comparison system to include the processing of transactions in corporate bonds and UITs. the proposed rule change also will permit NSCC to provide comparison services for baby bonds ( i.e., corporate bonds having a par value of less than $1,000) and new issue trading. The proposed rule change also will modify the fee structure for correction fees. 2 For a detailed description of the municipal securities phase of the bond comparison system, refer to Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32747 (August 13, 1993), 58 FR 44530 [File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;93&hyph;2] (order approving a proposed rule change establishing a program relating to comparison procedures for municipal securities transactions). Under the proposed rule change, the cutoff time for submission of original trade input for all corporate bond and UIT transactions will be moved from 1:00 p.m. on the day following trade date (``T+1'') to 2:00 a.m. on T+1. These trades will be reported back to members by 8:00 a.m. on T+1. Adjustments to original trade input will have to be made prior to the time specified by NSCC on T+1, which will be 6:00 p.m. NSCC will accept trade input for trade-for-trade processing of corporate baby bonds. If transactions are submitted as a mixed lot ( i.e., submissions including baby bonds and round lots), the baby bond and the round lot portions of the transaction will be separated by NSCC upon input. At the option of members, corporate bond and UIT transactions will be compared when the net buy side and sell side aggregate principal amounts can be matched for a particular security, even if the relevant principal amounts are specified in more than one buy side and/or more than one sell side submission, if the transactions would have been compared had such buy side and sell side principal amounts each been specified on a single submission.
