FR941205-0-00066 FR941205-0-00019 The Postal Service, which believes that special bulk third-class rates are properly chargeable for third-class matter and not other classes of mail, does not have the unilateral authority to establish new postage rates or classes of mail. Classes of mail are specified in the Domestic Mail Classification Schedule (DMCS). Special bulk third-class rates are available only to qualified organizations when their mailings consist of at least 200 pieces or 50 pounds of mail properly presorted. The minimum of 200 pieces or 50 pounds was established because it is cost-effective for the Postal Service to verify, accept, and process such mailings. The minimum-volume requirement is established in section 300.021 of the DMCS, and the Postal Service may not change the requirements of the DMCS or change postage rates except by undertaking the procedures set forth in 39 U.S.C. 3621&hyph;3625. In addition to its consistency with the language of 39 U.S.C. 3629, the determination that the special rates be restricted to bulk third-class matter is also in line with subsequent legislative events. During 1993, the U.S. Senate introduced an amendment to the Treasury and the United States Postal Service Appropriations bill to authorize voting registration officials to mail at ``a rate which is one-half the applicable rate for First-Class Mail'' instead of mailing at the special bulk third-class rate as provided by the NVRA, 139 Cong. Rec., S10186, August 3, 1993. The conferees deleted the Senate amendment, stating: ``The conferees are aware, however, of the concerns of some election officials who believe that the bulk third-class mail rate will not be sufficient to include all of the mailing requirements of the Act.'' H.R. Rep. 102&hyph;256, 103d Cong., 1st Sess., September 24, 1993, at 43. Suggestions that the Postal Service permit voting materials to be mailed free or adopt a new rate for such mail, such as a percentage of the First-Class rate, are beyond the scope of the Act and outside the authority of the Postal Service. Free or reduced rate mailing privileges may not be adopted unilaterally by the Postal Service; they are effected only by congressional statute. Other than 39 U.S.C. 3406 and 3629, Congress has not enacted such privileges for election-related mailings. One comment noted that the Postal Service misinterpreted the law regarding applicability of the National Voter Registration Act by stating that the law applies only to states or local voting registration officials in those states and the District of Columbia that require a voter to register to vote before the date of voting in a general election for public office. The commenter stated: ``Section 4 of the NVRA exempts states which had enacted a law on or before March 11, 1993, which allows all voters to `register to vote at the polling place at the time of voting in a general election for Federal office.' Any state that enacts an election-day registration law after March 11, 1993, will be subject to the provisions of the NVRA and, therefore, should be entitled to the preferential postal rates.'' The comment refers to information in the supplementary information section of the proposed rule, which reads as follows: The law (NVRA) applies only to state or local voting registration officials in those states and the District of Columbia that require a voter to register to vote before the date of voting in a general election for public office. Three commenters expressed strong concerns about the procedures for obtaining authorizations to mail at the special rates. These commenters: (1) Opposed the requirement that the local voting registration official submit PS Form 3624 at each post office where the official will mail materials at the special bulk third-class rates; (2) Suggested that PS Form 3624 be changed to indicate that the state or local voting registration official is the applicant, to be consistent with the Act;
