FR941019-1-00042 FR941019-1-00004 I. Multiple Safe Harbors Some suggest that if private actions were to be reduced or eliminated, some issuers would be willing to make additional filings with the Commission, either in connection with current periodic reports or on a new disclosure form, and be subjected to greater Commission oversight with lower thresholds for Commission enforcement actions and greater restrictions on information that can be provided orally. Other issuers may find these protections unnecessary, but would benefit from a safe harbor that simply made certain types of antifraud claims more difficult to prosecute successfully. Would it be reasonable to provide for or make available different types of safe harbors tailored to the particularized needs of differently situated issuers? Specifically, does the need for heightened protections of statements to analysts, whether oral or written, vary with the size and/or reporting history of the issuer? Should a different, more rigorous, safe harbor be made available to companies conducting an initial public offering, than that made available to companies with reporting histories? For example, are smaller issuers potentially affected differently than larger issuers so that different safe harbors should be available? Should the existing safe harbors in the Trust Indenture Act and the Public Utility Holding Company Act also be modified and, if so, why? J. Possible Alternatives or Supplements to a Safe Harbor Commenters also may wish to discuss whether there are alternatives to a safe harbor that would accomplish the same goal of promoting enhanced disclosure of forward-looking information. For example, are there reforms with regard to the content and/or presentation of soft information_whether within or outside of Commission filings_that would obviate the need for a safe harbor or the need to change the current safe harbor? Are there litigation reforms relating more broadly to the scope of antifraud liability under the securities laws that would obviate the need for the safe harbor? For example, could an issuer be presumed to have no liability for forward-looking statements otherwise eligible for the safe harbor unless the named plaintiff or group of plaintiffs represents at least a minimum percentage (say 10%) of the affected shareholder class? To the extent that the current safe harbor is strengthened in favor of issuers, should there be concomitant strengthening of other safeguards for investors? In this regard, commenters may wish to discuss the practicality of accomplishing any such reforms, and the likelihood that any such reforms would succeed. In lieu of or in addition to revising the existing safe harbor, should the Commission redefine one or more elements of a private Rule 10b-5 claim ( e.g. , scienter, materiality and reliance)? VI. Public Hearings The issues addressed in this release have attracted the interest of investors, registrants, analysts and other market participants, as well as lawyers, accountants, federal legislators and academics. In view of this broad interest, as well as the importance and complexity of these issues, the Commission intends to authorize public hearings to be conducted after the close of the comment period. Among other matters, these hearings will explore the assumptions underlying the different views expressed by these and other members of the public. Testimony from witnesses will be elicited about the efficacy and potential effects of different safe harbor approaches, the costs and benefits of each approach, the design of any safe harbor and issues that may be raised by the comment letters. After these hearings, the Commission will determine whether to propose amendments to the rules regarding forward-looking information. The hearings will begin at 10 a.m. on February 13, 1995 at 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549 room 1C30. The agenda and format for the hearings, as well as the schedule of witnesses will be announced in a subsequent release to be issued shortly before the hearings commence. Members of the public interested in testifying at the hearing should notify the Commission in writing of their intention to appear no later than December 31, 1994. The written notification should include a brief summary of the individual's intended testimony. Any person who does not wish to appear at the hearing may submit written testimony to be included in the hearing record. Such written testimony should be received by the Commission no later than January 11, 1995. All written notifications, testimony and comment letters should be addressed in triplicate to Jonathan Katz, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549 and should refer to the comment file number of this release [S7&hyph;29&hyph;94]. All written submissions and a transcript of the hearings will be made available for public inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. The hearings will be open to the public. Dated: October 13, 1994. By the Commission. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary.
