FR941121-0-00088 FR941121-0-00009 (ii) The PRO review decision is subject to the appeals procedures set forth in part 473 of this chapter. (2) Any determination regarding services that were furnished by the HMO or CMP, either directly or under arrangement, for which the enrollee has no further liability for payment are not subject to appeal. (3) Services included in an optional supplemental plan (see §417.440(b)(2)) are subject only to a grievance procedure under §417.436(a)(2). (4) Physicians and other individuals who furnish items or services under arrangement with an HMO or CMP have no right of appeal under this subpart. (5) The provisions of subpart R of 20 CFR part 404 dealing with representation of parties under title II of the Act are, unless otherwise provided in this subpart, also applicable to appeals under this subpart. (b) Responsibility for establishing appeals procedures. The HMO or CMP is responsible for establishing and maintaining the appeals procedures that are specified in §§417.604 through 417.638. * * * * * 6. A new §417.605 is added to read as follows: §417.605 Immediate PRO review of a determination of noncoverage of inpatient hospital care. (a) Right to review. A Medicare enrollee who disagrees with a determination made by an HMO, CMP, or a hospital that inpatient care is no longer necessary may remain in the hospital and may (directly or through his or her authorized representative) request immediate PRO review of the determination. (b) Procedures. For the immediate PRO review process, the following rules apply: (1) The enrollee or authorized representative must submit the request for immediate review_ (i) To the PRO that has an agreement with the hospital under §466.78 of this chapter; (ii) In writing or by telephone; and (iii) By noon of the first working day after receipt of the written notice of the determination that the hospital stay is no longer necessary. (2) On the date it receives the enrollee's request, the PRO must notify the HMO or CMP that a request for immediate review has been filed. (3) The HMO or CMP must supply any information that the PRO requires to conduct its review and must make it available, by phone or in writing, by the close of business of the first full working day immediately following the day the enrollee submits the request for review. (4) In response to a request from the HMO or CMP, the hospital must submit medical records and other pertinent information to the PRO by close of business of the first full working day immediately following the day the HMO or CMP makes its request. (5) The PRO must solicit the views of the enrollee who requested the immediate PRO review (or the enrollee's representative). (6) The PRO must make a determination and notify the enrollee, the hospital, and the HMO or CMP by close of business of the first working day after it receives the information from the hospital, or the HMO or CMP, or both. (c) Financial responsibility_ (1) General rule. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the HMO or CMP continues to be financially responsible for the costs of the hospital stay until noon of the calendar day following the day the PRO notifies the enrollee of its review determination. (2) Exception. The hospital may not charge the HMO or CMP (or the enrollee) if_ (i) It was the hospital (acting on behalf of the enrollee) that filed the request for immediate PRO review; and
