FR941028-2-00031 FR941028-2-00023 Reconfiguration of the Nuclear Weapons Complex AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice to Separate the Current Reconfiguration Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (PEIS) into Two Separate Analyses: Tritium Supply and Recycling, and Stockpile Stewardship and Management. SUMMARY: In January 1991, the then Secretary of Energy announced that the Department would prepare a programmatic environmental impact statement (PEIS) examining alternatives for the reconfiguration of the nuclear weapons complex (the Complex). The framework for the Reconfiguration PEIS was described in the January 1991 Nuclear Weapons Complex Reconfiguration Study (Reconfiguration Study), a detailed examination of alternatives for the future Complex. Because of the significant changes in the world since January 1991, especially with regard to projected future requirements for the United States' nuclear weapons stockpile, the Department has concluded that the framework described in the Reconfiguration Study does not exist today. Contributing factors to this conclusion include public comments at the September-October 1993 PEIS scoping meetings, the fact that no new nuclear weapons production is required for the foreseeable future, budget constraints, and the Department's decision to prepare a separate PEIS on Storage and Disposition of Weapons-Usable Fissile Nuclear Materials. As a result of these changed circumstances, the Department is proposing to separate the Reconfiguration PEIS into two PEISs: (1) a Tritium Supply and Recycling PEIS to be completed in November 1995; and (2) a Stockpile Stewardship and Management PEIS. Stockpile stewardship includes activities required to maintain a high level of confidence in the safety, reliability, and performance of nuclear weapons in the absence of underground testing, and to be prepared to test weapons if directed by the President. Stockpile management activities include maintenance, evaluation, repair or replacement of weapons in the existing stockpile. To define a new stockpile stewardship and management proposal, the Department is reviewing its nuclear weapons complex stockpile stewardship and management activities. This review will take into account the latest information concerning current and projected future stockpile requirements. To assist the Department in defining a new proposal, the Department intends to hold a public meeting in early 1995 to receive comments on how to conduct the scoping process for the Stockpile Stewardship and Management PEIS, and to have preliminary discussions on potential alternatives. This will be followed by public scoping meetings later in 1995. In the meantime, the Department will continue to evaluate alternatives for tritium supply and recycling in a Tritium Supply and Recycling PEIS. While the focus of this PEIS will be on alternatives for a long-term, assured supply of tritium, the PEIS also will include an assessment of the environmental and institutional impacts associated with using one or more commercial light water reactors for tritium production as a contingency in the event of a national emergency. Specific commercial reactors will not be identified in this PEIS. The purpose of this notice is to provide the public with an update regarding DOE's intentions for National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) review of elements of the future Complex, and to request comments on the Tritium Supply and Recycling PEIS proposal. An Implementation Plan (IP) for the Tritium Supply and Recycling PEIS will be issued after comments on this notice have been received and considered. The IP will explain more fully the scope of the Tritium Supply and Recycling PEIS. DATES: Comments, whether written, recorded on the program's toll-free telephone number, or submitted electronically, must be postmarked or received by November 28, 1994 to ensure consideration. Late comments will be considered to the extent practicable. The program's toll-free telephone number is 1&hyph;800&hyph;776&hyph;2765. Instructions on submitting comments electronically can be found in the Supplementary Information section of this notice. ADDRESSES: Written comments on the Tritium Supply and Recycling PEIS proposal, requests for further information on the Tritium Supply and Recycling program, requests for copies of the revised Tritium Supply and Recycling PEIS Implementation Plan (IP) (when available), and requests regarding the Stockpile Stewardship and Management PEIS should be sent to: Stephen Sohinki, Director, Office of Reconfiguration, U.S. Department of Energy, P.O. Box 3417, Alexandria, VA 22302, (202) 586&hyph;1300.
