FR940902-0-00030 FR940902-0-00010 With regard to the question on whether vendor goods or services could be customized or modified, the Department believes that the package may be modified to meet JTPA requirements if the vendor modifies its goods or services for other customers and if it remains substantially the same as those goods or services regularly offered. An indication of whether vendor goods or services are substantially the same as those regularly offered is whether the price does not increase when it is modified. No change is made to the definition in the final rule. The Major Changes in Part 627_General Provisions Governing Programs Under Titles I, II, and III of the Act are as follows Subpart B_Program Requirements Governor/Secretary Agreement Section 627.200 was amended in the interim final rule to require that guidelines, interpretations, and definitions adopted by the Governor be published. A few commenters raised the question of what constituted ``published''. The word ``published'' is removed in the final rule and the word ``issued'' is substituted. Also, language is added to indicate that such guidelines, interpretations, and definitions adopted by the Governor are to be those that actually have been imposed or utilized, consistent with section 124 of the Act. The word ``issued'' is used to better reflect the purpose of the requirement that the guidelines, interpretations and definitions on which the Governor relies are to be made public prior to their effective date and to assure that they are actually being used in the administration of the JTPA programs. How the Governor chooses to inform the public may vary and may depend upon the nature of the action. It may include means such as issuance of written directives or letters, inclusion in an electronic network or bulletin board, publishing in a newspaper, or other public announcement in which the effective date is indicated. Waivers In the interim final rule, the Department requested comments on the feasibility of authorizing waivers to the JTPA regulatory requirements. Recently, it has been suggested that some of the administrative burden or unintended effect of regulatory requirements may be reduced through the granting of waivers_specifically waivers of regulatory requirements. This was recommended in the recent report of the National Performance Review, ``Creating a Government That Works Better and Costs Less.'' The Department believes that there is merit in this concept and incorporates a waiver provision in these regulations. Therefore, a new ยง627.201 is added which permits the Governor to request, and the Secretary to approve, waivers of the regulations for up to four years. The request from the Governor must be consistent with the provisions of the Act and demonstrate how the waiver will meet one of the criteria listed in the regulation. Absent specific statutory authorization, the Secretary has no authority to waive statutory requirements. The Secretary may, however, waive provisions of the regulations which expand upon, interpret or explicate statutory requirements. The new regulation is intended to permit waivers of any regulatory provision as long as the waiver does not affect the basic statutory requirements and if it is shown that the waiver will improve services, increase skill or educational attainment, promote coordination or substantially improve the job placement outcomes of the JTPA program. For example, a State may seek a waiver of the 25% disregard for social security income for older workers since that rule is not mandated by the Act. To obtain such a waiver, a state would have to demonstrate that it would not reduce services to those most in need. On the other hand, a state could not obtain a waiver of the regulatory prohibition on using JTPA funds to support employment generating activities since that regulation simply repeats a clear statutory requirement. In a more complicated situation, a state could request a waiver of some of the detailed requirements of the procurement regulation (ยง617.420) if those requirements conflicted with its own procurement system. In order to obtain such a waiver, however, the state would have to show that its system adequately addresses all of the minimum requirements listed in section 164(a)(3) of the Act and that it would promote coordination with other programs or would result in either better quality services or better employment outcomes if the same procurement system were used by those programs. The Department assumes that the States and SDA's/SSG's are more aware than is DOL of what waivers they may need. Thus, the Department does not intend to provide immediate general guidance on what waivers may or may not be requested. As the Department determines which waiver requests it will grant and which waivers lead to greater coordination or better program results, guidance will be issued to enable the JTPA system to better understand the waiver process and to learn about what practices work. Public Service Employment Prohibition No comments were received on this section. Section 627.205 remains unchanged, except for extending the public service employment prohibition to include title II&hyph;C funds. Nondiscrimination and Equal Opportunity The JTPA Amendments amended section 167 of the Act to require that the Secretary issue final regulations which would clarify the application of the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity provisions of the JTPA and provide uniform procedures for implementing these provisions. On January 15, 1993, the Directorate of Civil Rights (the DOL agency responsible for enforcing the various Federal nondiscrimination and equal opportunity statutes applicable to federally assisted programs) promulgated a final rule to implement the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements of the JTPA (29 CFR part 34; 58 FR 4742). Throughout these final regulations, all of the Department's nondiscrimination and equal opportunity regulations (29 CFR parts 31, 32, and 34) are cited since they are all applicable to JTPA federally assisted programs. In order to eliminate the burden of complying with overlapping regulatory requirements, 29 CFR part 34 provides that compliance by JTPA recipients with part 34 constitutes compliance with the Department's Civil Rights Act of 1964, title VI regulations (29 CFR part 31) and with specified portions of the Department's Rehabilitation Act section 504 federally assisted program regulations. 29 CFR part 32, subparts A, C, and E. A few commenters, in connection with ยง627.210(a)(3), questioned the cost category to which expenses for ``accessibility'' and ``reasonable accommodation'' should be charged. This matter is treated in the discussion of ยง627.440, Cost classification. In addition, a commenter noted that this provision of the regulations should not be construed to otherwise relieve a recipient or subrecipient from their responsibility under the law to provide for ``accessibility and ``reasonable accommodation''. The Department agrees and the final rule is modified to indicate that the provision applies only with regard to needs for the JTPA program.
