FR940304-1-00077 FR940304-1-00014 When these rates were applied to Whirlpool Corporation's estimates, the resulting weighted-average, real, after-tax rate incurred by consumers in appliance purchases was approximately 6 percent. The Department, then, used 6 percent for the consumer discount rate in the analyses, with sensitivities at 4 and 10 percent. The Department believes that this range of discount sensitivities will capture the real, after-tax rates that consumers encounter in financing the purchase of an appliance. The Department recognizes however, that there remains considerable uncertainty in this estimate of the average consumer discount rate. There are numerous possible financial interactions that could be involved in the purchase of an appliance. For example, a credit card purchase could be paid in full within the customary billing grace period, thereby being exempt from finance charges, and, in effect, resembling a cash purchase. This would tend to put downward pressure on the weighted-average range of purchase financing choices. On the other hand, a cash purchase may actually be financed, indirectly, by an increase in credit card debt. This would tend to put upward pressure on the weighted-average range of purchase finance rates. Furthermore, this analysis does not take into account varying consumer perceptions of the value of reducing current consumption in favor of longer- term financial gains. For these reasons, the Department continues to solicit data that might provide a more complete basis for the derivation of a consumer discount rate used in these analyses. Furthermore, while financing rates may indicate the direct financial impact to consumers of an investment in increased efficiency, they do not reflect either other types of investments available to them, or varying consumer perceptions of the value of reducing current consumption in favor of longer-term financial gains. For example, what value of energy savings does a consumer need to receive from an investment in an energy efficient refrigerator in order to justify reducing savings, increasing debt, or delaying the purchase of other consumer goods? The costs of consumer financing does not indicate whether there are similar investment opportunities, available to most consumers, that produce higher rates of return. For example, are there home improvements or other investments that could be made by most consumers that would have higher rates of return than an investment in an energy-efficient appliance? Also, a consumer discount rate based on consumer financing expenses does not fully account for the risks of individual consumer investments in improved appliance efficiency. For example, the actual rates of return experienced by individual consumers may vary widely depending on energy prices, appliance usage and useful life. Some have argued that implicit discount rates estimated through an examination of actual consumer purchases of appliances and related consumer equipment would be a better basis for the consumer discount rate used under this program. Various studies have indicated that these implicit discount rates range from 3 percent to as high as 100 percent (or more) for certain appliances. However, because implicit discount rates are based on actual consumer purchase behavior, they also reflect the extent to which the numerous potential market failures in energy efficiency investments occur, such as inadequate information, conflicting owner/renter incentives, and second party (builder/contractor) purchases. One of the major reasons why Federal appliance efficiency standards were originally established was to overcome these market failures regarding investment in energy efficiency. Consequently, DOE does not believe unadjusted (i.e., not corrected for potential biases) discount rates derived from actual consumer behavior should be used in evaluating the economic impact of proposed standards on consumers. This conclusion appears to be supported by court rulings affecting the program. In Natural Resources Defense Council v. Herrington, 768 F.2d 1355, 1406 (DC Cir. 1985), the court stated that ``the entire point of a mandatory program was to change consumer behavior'' and ``the fact that consumers demand short payback periods was itself a major cause of the market failure that Congress hoped to correct.'' The Department believes that the intent of the legislation which established the appliance standards program is to achieve energy savings which are being foregone because of market failures which distort consumer decision-making (and behavior) from investing in energy efficiency. However, if information were available on the implicit discount rates revealed by consumer decision-making in the absence of any significant market- failure biases, it might provide a better basis for the discount rates to be used in assessing the impacts on consumers of proposed appliance efficiency standards. Another approach might be to examine the rate of return consumers would require from other fixed investments of comparable risk and liquidity. The Department solicits information on the results of any analyses that could support the derivation of discount rates using either of these approaches.
