FR940524-1-00017 FR940524-1-00006 OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET Office of Federal Procurement Policy 48 CFR Chapter 99 Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Rewrite AGENCY: Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget. ACTION: Request for comments. SUMMARY: In response to the report of the National Performance Review (NPR), the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy has established a Board of Directors comprised of senior level individuals from the Executive Branch to implement the recommendation pertaining to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR). The underlying objective of the recommendation is to convert the FAR from rigid rules to guiding principles. DATES: Written comments must be received in the Office of Federal Procurement Policy on or before June 23, 1994. ADDRESSES: Susan E. Alesi, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, 725 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20503. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Susan E. Alesi, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, 202&hyph;395&hyph;6803. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On September 7, 1993, the Vice President released the report of the NPR which, among other things, required the Administration to simplify the procurement process by rewriting the FAR, shifting from rigid rules to guiding principles. According to the report, the FAR, the government's principal set of procurement regulations, is too process oriented, changes too often, minimizes discretion of procurement professionals, and stifles innovation. The report tasks the Administration to develop a plan which includes goals, resources and milestones to rewrite the FAR to move from a system of rigid rules to guiding principles, promote decision making at the lowest level, eliminate unnecessary regulatory requirements, and facilitate innovative contracting. As a first step, the Board has drafted a set of core guiding principles intended to define and guide the Government's general vision and goals for the Federal acquisition process. It is anticipated that, when approved by the Board, this set of principles will be issued as a policy statement by the Office of Federal Procurement Policy. These principles and the accompanying discussion will be used by the rewrite teams as parts of the FAR are rewritten. As a parallel action, drafting principles are being formulated which will provide the rewrite team with the methodology by which each part will be restructured to accommodate the NPR recommendation. These drafting principles will be published for comment in a separate Federal Register notice. The Board requests comments on the following set of core guiding principles and the accompanying discussion. The Board also requests comment on whether the statement of the principles should be included in a preface to the FAR, one part to the FAR or merely referenced in the FAR. Acquisition Guiding Principles The Acquisition Team includes the customer and the technical, supply, procurement, and vendor communities. The Vision for the Federal Acquisition System is to deliver, on a timely basis, the best value product or service to the customer, while maintaining the public's trust. The Goals of the Acquisition System are to meet the VISION by balancing the interests below: •Satisfying the customer in terms of cost, quality, and timeliness of the delivered product or service; •Minimizing administrative operating costs; •Conducting business with integrity, fairness, and openness; •Using commercial products and services in preference to government-unique specifications; •Using vendors that have demonstrated by past performance or who demonstrate a current superior ability to perform; and •Fulfilling public policy. The Role of each member of the Acquisition Team is to exercise personal initiative and sound business judgment in providing the best value product or service to meet the customer's needs. The system will empower the Team to fulfill its role. The Success of the Acquisition System will be measured by: •The level of customer satisfaction;
