FR940202-2-00021 FR940202-2-00011 Intent To Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement for Proposed Disposal And Reuse of Naval Air Station Glenview, Glenview, IL Pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act as implemented by the Council on Environmental Quality regulations (40 CFR parts 1500&hyph;1508), the Department of the Navy announces its intent to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) to evaluate the environmental effects of the disposal and reuse of Naval Air Station (NAS) Glenview, Glenview, Illinois. In accordance with recommendations of the 1993 Base Closure and Realignment Commission, the Navy plans to close NAS Glenview in 1995. Operations conducted at NAS Glenview will be disestablished or relocated to other Department of Defense locations. The proposed action involves the disposal of land, buildings, and infrastructure of NAS Glenview for subsequent reuse. The Navy intends to analyze the environmental effects of the disposal of NAS Glenview based on the reasonably foreseeable reuse of the property, taking into account uses to be identified by the Glenview Naval Air Station Community Reuse Planning Group. It is anticipated that reuse alternatives for NAS Glenview may include, but not be limited to: Aviation, housing, education or institutional, light industry, office space, wildlife preserve, recreational, or a combination of those uses. The ``no action'' alternative of Navy retention of NAS Glenview land, buildings, and infrastructure in caretaker status will also be addressed in the EIS. However, because of the process mandated by the Base Closure and Realignment Act, selection of the ``no action'' alternative would be considered impracticable for the Navy to implement. Major environmental issues that will be addressed in the EIS include, but are not limited to: Air quality, water quality, wetlands, endangered species, cultural resources, and socioeconomic impacts. The Navy will initiate a scoping process for the purpose of determining the scope of issues to be addressed and for identifying the significant issues related to the proposed reuse alternatives. The Navy will hold a public scoping meeting on Thursday, February 17, 1994, beginning at 7 p.m., at the Lyceum Conference Room, Glenbrook South High School Auditorium, 4000 West Lake Avenue, Glenview, Illinois. This meeting will be advertised in area newspapers. A brief presentation will precede request for public comment. Navy representatives will be available at this meeting to receive comments from the public regarding issues of concern to the public. It is important that federal, state, and local agencies and interested individuals take this opportunity to identify environmental concerns that should be addressed during the preparation of the EIS. In the interest of available time, each speaker will be asked to limit oral comments to five minutes. Agencies and the public are also invited and encouraged to provide written comment in addition to, or in lieu of, oral comments at the public meeting. To be most helpful, scoping comments should clearly describe specific issues or topics which the commenter believes the EIS should address. Written statements and/or questions regarding the scoping process should be mailed no later than 3 March 1994 to: Commanding Officer, Southern Division, Naval Facilities Engineering Command, P.O. Box 190010, Charleston, SC 29419&hyph;9010 (Attn: Mr. Thomas Burst, Code 203), telephone (803) 743&hyph;0590. Dated: January 28, 1994. Michael P. Rummel, LCDR, JAGC, USN, Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2349 Filed 2&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3810&hyph;AE&hyph;M
