FR940805-1-00069 FR940805-1-00013 (iv) unusual inmate behavior; (v) staff witnesses; (vi) disposition of any physical evidence; (vii) any immediate action taken, including the use of force; (viii) reporting staff member's signature; and (ix) date and time the report is made. (6) Disciplinary process . Inmates shall receive notification of the rules violated, a formal statement of the charge, a description of the incident and notice of the date and time of hearing. The administrator or designee shall advise inmates of their rights to be present at the hearing, to call witnesses on their behalf, to make a statement, to present documentary evidence, and to ask for assistance from staff in representing them at the hearing. An impartial person or panel of persons shall conduct the hearing. (7) Pre-hearing detention . The administrator shall provide for the pre-hearing segregation of inmates who are charged with a rule violation if the safety of the inmate, other inmates, staff or the security of the facility is at stake. (8) Disciplinary detention . The administrator or designee shall place inmates in disciplinary detention for a rule violation only after a hearing. (9) Record of disciplinary hearing . The persons conducting the disciplinary hearing shall make a written copy of the decision and its disposition and shall provide copies to the inmate and administrator for review. Inmates shall have the right to appeal the decision to the administrator or the next level of authority. The disciplinary report shall be removed from all files of inmates found not guilty of an alleged rule violation. (d) Special management and segregation _(1) Types . When special management units exist, the administrator shall govern the supervision of inmates in the following categories: administrative segregation, disciplinary segregation, protective custody and medical segregation. (2) Immediate segregation . The administrator or designee may order immediate segregation when it is necessary to protect the inmate or others. This action shall be reviewed within three working days by the classification, disciplinary or appropriate authority, depending on the type of segregation ordered. (3) Administrative segregation and protective custody . The administrator or designee shall classify inmates to special management for administrative segregation or protective custody only when there is documentation that this action is warranted and that no reasonable alternatives are available. (4) Medical/mental health segregation . The administrator shall classify inmates to special management for medical reasons only at the direction of the health authority. (5) Review of special management status and inmates . The administrator or designee shall review the status of special management inmates every five working days. A supervisor shall visit inmates in special management daily; program staff shall visit on request. (6) Release from special management . A review process shall be used to release an inmate from special management. (7) Supervision . A detention officer shall personally observe all special management inmates at least every fifteen minutes on an irregular schedule. A detention officer shall personally observe inmates who are violent, mentally disordered, have medical conditions requiring a higher degree of supervision, or who demonstrate unusual or bizarre behavior, more frequently. A detention officer shall continuously observe suicidal inmates. The facility shall maintain a permanent log of significant events and activities in the special management unit. (8) Special management operations . The administrator or designee shall give all inmates in special management the opportunity to shave and shower at least three times a week and to write and receive correspondence on the same basis as inmates in general population. The administrator or designee shall grant inmates in special management access to legal and reading materials, telephone access to their legal representative and to family members in emergencies as defined by the administrator or designee. Inmates in special management shall receive the same meals as inmates in general population and shall retain the right to practice their religion, subject only to the limitations necessary to maintain institutional order and security. (9) Privileges (all special management inmates) . Unless there are substantial, documented reasons for withholding these privileges, the administrator or designee shall provide to all inmates in special management linen, clothing, bedding, barbering and hair care services on the same basis as inmates in general population. Inmates in special management shall be allowed opportunities for visiting, shall receive a minimum of one hour of exercise a day, outside their cells, five days a week, and shall be granted access to their legal representative. (10) Privileges (non-disciplinary detention) . Unless there are substantial, documented reasons for withholding these privileges, all inmates in special management except for those in disciplinary detention shall have telephone privileges approved by the administrator and shall have access to the same type of programs and services as are available to inmates in general population. (11) Deprivation of activity or item . Whenever an inmate in special management is deprived of any usually authorized item or activity, the supervisor shall complete a report of the action and forward it to the administrator within one working day. (e) Inmate rights _(1) Access to courts, counsel and legal materials . Inmates shall have the right to have access to attorneys, legal representatives, the courts and legal materials and to address uncensored communications to governmental authorities. (2) Freedom from discrimination . Inmates shall have the right to be free from discrimination based on race, religion, national origin, tribal affiliation, sex, disability, political beliefs, favoritism or nepotism. Inmates shall have the right to equal access to programs and work assignments as provided in the classification program. (3) Equal access for women . Male and female inmates shall have the right to equal access to programs and services. (4) Right to communicate . Inmates shall have the right to receive visits and to communicate or correspond with persons or organizations, subject only to the limitations necessary to maintain order and security. (5) Protection from harm . Inmates shall have the right to protection from personal abuse, corporal punishment, personal injury, disease, property damage and harassment, by either staff or inmates.
