FR941103-1-00017 FR941103-1-00008 Statutory Authority The National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act of 1966, as amended (NWRSAA) (16 U.S.C. 668dd), and the Refuge Recreation Act of 1962 (RRA) (16 U.S.C. 460k) govern the administration and public use of national wildlife refuges. Specifically, Section 4(d)(1)(A) of the NWRSAA authorizes the Secretary to permit the use of any areas within the National Wildlife Refuge System (Refuge System) for any purpose, including but not limited to hunting, fishing, public recreation and accommodations, and access, when he determines that such uses are compatible with the purposes for which each refuge was established. The Service administers the Refuge System on behalf of the Secretary. The RRA gives the Secretary additional authority to administer refuge areas within the Refuge System for public recreation as an appropriate incidental or secondary use only to the extent that it is practicable and not inconsistent with the primary purposes for which the refuges were established. In addition, prior to opening refuges and allowing recreational uses not directly related to the purposes and functions for which an area was established, the Secretary is required to determine that funds are available for the development, operation, and maintenance of the permitted forms of recreation. Opening Package In preparation for this opening, the refuge unit has included in its ``openings package'' for Regional review and approval from the Washington Office the following documents: a fishing plan; an environmental assessment; a compatibility determination; a Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI); a Section 7 evaluation or statement, pursuant to the Endangered Species Act, that this opening will have no effect on a listed species or critical habitat; a letter of concurrence from the affected States; and refuge-specific regulations to administer the fishing program. From a review of the totality of these documents, the Secretary has determined that the opening of Humboldt Bay National Wildlife Refuge to sport fishing is compatible with the principles of sound wildlife management and will otherwise be in the public interest. In accordance with the NWRSAA and the RRA, the Secretary has also determined that this opening for sport fishing is compatible and consistent with the primary purposes for which the refuge was established, and that funds are available to administer the programs. A brief description of the hunting program is as follows:
