FR940323-2-00146 FR940323-2-00113 DGPS improves upon GPS signals by using a local reference receiver to correct errors in the standard GPS signals. An ``all in view'' GPS receiver is located at a site which has been geodetically surveyed. The receiver monitors all visible satellites and measures the pseudorange to each satellite. Since the satellite signal contains information on the precise satellite orbits and the reference receiver knows its position, the true range to each satellite can be calculated. By comparing the calculated true range and the measured pseudorange, a correction term can be determined for each satellite. These corrections are then broadcast to the user over the communications network, and can be received by the user with a DGPS receiver. The Coast Guard will be using selected marine radiobeacons to transmit the corrections to users. The corrections are then applied to the pseudorange measurements within the user's receiver, achieving a position accurate within 10 meters, with 95% probability. One advantage of DGPS is that it will provide radionavigation accuracy that is not possible with existing systems. It will also reduce the integrity check of satellites from hours to seconds, and will even allow for use of satellites considered unhealthy. By knowing its position, the reference station can detect immediately when a satellite may be sending erroneous data. DGPS accuracies cannot be achieved with either the GPS Standard Positioning Service, with Selective Availability on or off, or Precise Positioning Service. The Coast Guard will also implement an integrity monitoring system which will verify the accuracy of the corrections that it transmits on the selected radiobeacon. The Coast Guard's DGPS Service will be implemented for harbor and harbor approach areas of the continential U.S., Great Lakes, Puerto Rico, and most of Hawaii and Alaska by 1996. Information Availability Operational status and other information about GPS is available to worldwide users of GPS through the Coast Guard's GPS Information Center (GPSIC). The GPSIC sends GPS operational status information to civil users through Operational Advisory Broadcasts (OAB). These broadcasts contain the following general categories of GPS performance data: Current constellation status, Recent (past) outages, Scheduled (future) outages, and Almanac data. The OAB is disseminated or made available through the following media: GPSIC Computer Bulletin Board System (BBS) GPSIC 24-Hour Status Recording WWV/WWVH worldwide high-frequency radio broadcasts U.S. Coast Guard Marine Information Broadcasts (MIB) DMAHTC Broadcast Warnings DMAHTC Weekly Notice to Mariners DMA Navigation Information Network (NAVINFONET) NAVTEX Data Broadcast Through a duty watchstander and an electronic bulletin board service (BBS), both available 24 hours per day, GPSIC also makes the following information available: _Operational status of GPS as provided by DOD _Precise GPS orbit data from the National Geodetic Survey _Technical information on GPS _Operational status and information on other Coast Guard operated radionavigation systems _Instructions on the access and use of GPSIC services The U.S. Air Force Second Space Operations Squadron (2SOPS), which operates the GPS Master Control Station (MCS) in Colorado Springs, CO, provides the following GPS information for the GPSIC:
