FR941205-0-00176 FR941205-0-00029 (6) Identification of the individual responsible for the overall underwriting decision (chief underwriter), and the individual responsible for project management, loan servicing and property disposition (housing management director). These functions may not be contracted out by the HFA. The HFA may contract with outside sources for technical processing and loan servicing services. However, the application must demonstrate internal staff capacity to review and evaluate the work product of the contract sources and to make final underwriting, servicing, and property disposition conclusions. (7) A description of oversight by State or local governmental agencies. (8) A copy of the HFA's administrative manual covering its investment policies and overall business and financial practices. (9) A statement containing the number of units the HFA proposes to process to firm approval letter during the period specified in the relevant Federal Register Notice published pursuant to ยง266.10 of this part. Note: The Federal Fiscal Year begins on October 1st, and ends on September 30th. (10) HFA declaration of the risk-sharing arrangement it has selected i.e., Level I, Level II, or both Level I and Level II. (11) Documentation containing: (i) For HFAs that carry the designation of ``top tier'' or its equivalent, as evaluated by Standard and Poors or any other nationally recognized rating agency, evidence of such designation; (ii) For HFAs that currently receive an overall rating of ``A'' for their general obligation bonds from a nationally recognized rating agency, evidence of such a rating; or (iii) For any other HFA, evidence, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, that demonstrates its capacity as a sound and experienced agency based on, but not limited to, its experience in financing multifamily housing, fund balances, administrative capabilities, investment policy, internal controls and financial management, portfolio quality and State or local support.
