FR940816-1-00054 FR940816-1-00009 The tribe has requested a continuous Canada (including brant), snow and white-fronted goose hunting season, beginning approximately October 1 and ending on December 18, 1994. The dark goose daily bag limit would be 2 Canada geese and 1 white-fronted goose. For white geese, the daily bag limit would be 10. Possession limits for geese are twice the daily bag limit. A special extended goose season is proposed within the Yankton Sioux Reservation for both tribal and nontribal members. This season would begin at the close of the regular goose season (December 19, 1994) and continue through January 8, 1995. During this extended season, hunting for geese would be allowed only in the special hunting zone established by the Yankton Sioux Tribe in the area commonly known as the Chalk Rock Colony (Goose Hunting Unit 2). Bag limit and other regulations information, as well as maps, for this zone would be available at the Bureau of Indian Affairs Office in Wagner, South Dakota. All hunters would have to be in possession of a valid tribal license while hunting on Yankton Sioux trust lands. Tribal and nontribal hunters would have to comply with all basic Federal migratory bird hunting regulations in 50 CFR Part 20, regarding shooting hours and manner of taking. Special regulations established by the Yankton Sioux Tribe also apply on the reservation. The Service proposes to concur with the Yankton Sioux proposal for the 1994&hyph;95 hunting season, and requests that the tribe continue to monitor and report the harvest of Canada, snow and white-fronted geese. 13. Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes, Flathead Indian Reservation, Pablo, Montana For the past several years, the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes and the State of Montana have entered into cooperative agreements for the regulation of hunting on the Flathead Indian Reservation. The State and the Tribes are currently operating under a cooperative agreement signed in 1990 that addresses fishing and hunting management and regulation issues of mutual concern. This agreement enables all hunters to utilize waterfowl hunting opportunities on the reservation. Reservation proposed special regulations for waterfowl hunting were submitted to the Service in a May 20, 1994, letter and would follow regulations for the Montana area of the Pacific Flyway, included in final Federal frameworks. As in the past, tribal regulations for non-tribal duck and goose hunters would be at least as restrictive as for the Pacific Flyway portion of the State and, if circumstances warrant, would provide for early closure of goose hunting. Early closure may occur on December 4, 1994, in the special goose management unit that will be described in a later rulemaking. Shooting hours for waterfowl hunting on the Flathead Reservation are sunrise to sunset over the dates to be specified in the final regulations.
