FR941116-2-00003 FR941116-2-00002 Hells Canyon National Recreation Area Comprehensive Management Plan Amendment, Wallowa-Whitman National Forest, Baker and Wallowa Countries in Oregon and Adams, Idaho, and Nez Perce Counties in Idaho AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given that the USDA, Forest Service will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) to amend the Land and Resource Management Plan to incorporate new and modified management direction in the Hells Canyon National Recreation Area (HCNRA) Comprehensive Management Plan (CMP). The EIS will tier to the Wallowa-Whitman Land and Resource Management Plan (Forest Plan) & Final EIS for the Wallowa-Whitman National Forest. The HCNRA CMP is incorporated into the Forest Plan. The need for action is based on: Forest Service monitoring and evaluation reports indicating a need for change in programmatic direction to ensure resource protection pursuant to the HCNRA Act; alignment of programmatic direction with new private and public land use regulations (36 CFR part 292); revised Forest Service directives; changed social values; and agency emphasis on ecosystem sustainability. The purpose of the action is to amend existing programmatic direction within the Forest Plan and CMP to align management goals, objectives, standards and guidelines, management area direction, and monitoring and evaluation with the intent of the Act establishing the Hells Canyon NRA (Pub. L. 94&hyph;199). The Wallowa-Whitman National Forest invites written comments and suggestions on the scope of the analysis in addition to comments already received as a result of local and regional public participation activities (meetings, newsletters, surveys) in the past. The agency also gives notice of the full environmental analysis and decision-making process that will occur on the proposal so that interested and affected people are aware of how they may participate and contribute to the final decision. DATES: Comments concerning the scope and implementation of this proposal must be received by December 16, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit written comments and suggestions concerning this proposal to Kurt Wiedenmann, Planning Team Leader, Wallowa-Whitman National Forest, P.O. Box 907, Baker City, Oregon 97814. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Direct questions about the proposed action and EIS to Kurt Wiedenmann, Planning Team Leader, telephone (503)&hyph;523&hyph;1296. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Wallowa-Whitman National Forest proposes to amend the Forest Land and Resource Management Plan (Forest Plan) to modify management direction for the Hells Canyon National Recreation Area (HCNRA) and affirm continuation of other existing management direction. The planning process will be guided by the National Environmental Protection Act (NEPA) with implementation scheduled for January 1, 1996. This modified or affirmed management direction will provide programmatic management direction for the next 10 to 15 years. The changes will reflect the intent of the Hells Canyon National Recreation Area Act (HCNRA Act) (Pub. L. 94&hyph;199), public and private land use regulations (LUR) (36 CFR part 292), Forest Service directives, changing social values, agency emphasis on ecosystem sustainability, new information and research findings, and results from the monitoring and evaluation process. The Eastside Ecosystem Management Project, (EEMP) headquartered in Walla Walla, Washington, is expected to produce management direction on a large landscape scale based upon ecosystem management concepts. The Wallowa-Whitman National Forest expects to coordinate with the EEMP project managers to ensure that those concepts are brought forward for analysis in this NEPA process. The scope of the proposed action focuses on only those specific items identified for needing change through the monitoring and evaluation process. Reviewers are encouraged to review the CMP Monitoring and Evaluating Report (on file at the Forest Supervisors Headquarters) for a complete understanding of the existing CMP management direction that is affirmed or proposed for change or deletion. The proposed action recognizes the resolution of issues through recent NEPA decisions for the Wild and Scenic Snake River Recreation Management Plan, Imnaha Wild and Scenic River Management Plan, Noxious Weed Management, Prescribed Natural Fire Program, and Outfitting and Guiding for Cougar and Bear that provide improved management direction for the HCNRA. The issues surrounding these previous decision will not be considered in this EIS unless specifically addressed in the proposed action or the scoping or analysis process identifies new issues not resolved in those previous NEPA analyses. The proposed action would integrate management direction for the HCNRA within the framework of Forest Plan decisions and would establish: Management Goals Goals are a concise statement that describe a desired condition to be achieved sometime in the future (36 CFR 219.3). Goal statements form the principal basis from which objectives are developed. Goal statements are intended to implement and perpetuate the intent of the HCNRA Act and LUR. Management Objectives HCNRA management objectives would be established to describe the incremental progress that is expected to be made over a ten-year period toward the management goals/desired conditions listed above. These objectives would provide a basis to estimate quantities of services and accomplished acres that are expected during the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act (RPA) ten-year planning periods (36 CFR 219.11 (b)) to achieve the desired conditions. Standards and Guidelines Standards and guidelines (S&Gs) are principles that specify desired conditions or levels of environmental quality that facilitate the achievement of management goals and objectives of the HCNRA Act and LUR. Specific management goals, management objectives, and standards and guidelines are presented as follows in relationship to the objectives set forth in Section 7 of the HCNRA Act: HCNRA Act Section 7. *␣*␣* the Secretary shall administer the recreation area in accordance with the laws, rules and regulations applicable to the national forests for public outdoor recreation in a manner compatible with the objectives set forth in Section 7 of the HCNRA Act.
