FR940613-2-00006 FR940613-2-00002 5. Referring any difficulties arising from activities with APHIS under the Memorandum of Understanding (FSM 1543.14) for resolution by the Regional Forester. 6. When needed, requesting training in animal damage management techniques by APHIS. 7. Ensuring that licensing and certification of Forest Service personnel performing animal damage management activities comply with applicable federal and state regulations. Only certified pesticide applicators may use or supervise the use of restricted-use pesticides on National Forest System lands (FSM 2150). 2650.6_Cooperation in Animal Damage Management Activities. Both the Forest Service and Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS)_Animal Damage Control unit have a responsibility for limiting damage caused by wildlife, consistent with other wildlife values and resource management objectives. APHIS responsibilities are generally directed toward the management and control of animals causing damage to livestock, agriculture, wildlife, human health and safety. Forest service responsibilities are related to the management of National Forest System resources. See FSM ยง1543.14 for the text of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Forest Service and APHIS for animal damage management activities. The role of APHIS (7 CFR 2.51(41)) is as follows: 1. Evaluate animal damage management needs and conduct predator control in cooperation with the Forest Service, state agencies, and permittees. 2. Serve as lead agency for preparing environmental documentation on animal damage management activities initiated by APHIS on National Forest System lands. 3. Develop and update animal damage management work plans in cooperation with the Forest Service and appropriate state and federal agencies, and interested publics to ensure compliance with forest plans. 4. Inform the Forest Service about animal damage management requests, management activities, and results on a timely basis. 5. Provide the Forest Service with technical information on recommended animal damage management tools and techniques. 6. Conduct animal damage management training sessions for Forest Service personnel, when requested. 2651_Wildlife and Fish Damage Management 2651.1_Threatened and Endangered Species. Follow specific species control plans for federally listed species (for example, grizzly bear and wolf) cleared through consultation with the Fish and Wildlife Service and National Marine Fisheries Service. 2651.2_Game and Furbearers. Control damage caused by game animals and furbearers through hunting or trapping, where practicable, in cooperation with the state fish and wildlife agencies, and APHIS, where appropriate. 2651.3_Nongame Species. Control damage caused by nongame species on National Forest System lands in close cooperation with the state fish and wildlife agencies, or other involved state or federal agencies. 2651.4_Birds. Where birds damage reforestation or other resources or where they create health hazards, nonlethal repellents, frightening devices, pesticides, or physical barriers may be used to prevent or reduce resource damage or hazards. Obtain permits from the Fish and Wildlife Service for any lethal control of species protected under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. Consult the Fish and Wildlife Service for permit requirements and procedures. 2651.5_Fish and Aquatic Animals. States or other responsible agencies have the authority to control undesirable fish and aquatic animals in National Forest System waters. The Forest Service is responsible for coordinating with the responsible agencies to develop a work plan to ensure control activities are consistent with direction provided in forest plans. Control activities conducted by the Forest Service must meet appropriate environmental analysis requirements and be consistent with forest plan direction. 2651.6_Wildlife and Fish Damage Management in Wilderness Areas. Follow direction in FSM 2151, FSM 2323, and FSM 4063 for management of wildlife or fish damage in wilderness and Research Natural Areas. Animal damage management is permitted in wilderness when it was used prior to wilderness designation; when it conforms with direction in FSM 2323.33 on resource management in wilderness; and when it is needed for the recovery of federally listed threatened or endangered species. 2652_Reports. Report pesticide uses annually following direction in FSM 2158. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14306 Filed 6&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
