FR940527-2-00211 FR940527-2-00152 In addition to the standard submission requirements, to receive maximum points, Small Cities applicants must submit information that demonstrates that CDBG funds are needed for the proposed project or activity. HUD will evaluate this material as part of its Eligibility Review prior to considering an application for funding in the FY 1994 competition. The following is a discussion of some of the factors HUD will consider in assessing projects in these key areas: (i) The appropriate determination. HUD requires that economic development activities undertaken with CDBG funds be appropriate to carry out an economic development project. Applicants should attempt to demonstrate that each economic development project has a reasonable likelihood of success. Applicants must document the financial analysis of the project's need for assistance, as well as public benefit factors that were considered in making its determination that assistance is appropriate. The applicant is expected to provide clear documentation on how the decision was reached. The written documentation of the financial analysis of the project's need should use the following steps: 1. Reasonableness of Proposed Costs. _The applicant must review each project cost element and determine that the cost is reasonable and consistent with third-party, fair-market prices for that cost element. The general principle is that the level of CDBG assistance cannot be adequately determined if the project costs are understated or inflated. 2. Commitment of Other Sources of Funds. The applicant shall review all projected sources of funds necessary to complete the project and shall verify that all sources (in particular private debt and equity financing) have been firmly committed to the extent practicable, and are available to be invested in the project. Verification means ascertaining that: the source of funds is committed; that the terms and conditions of the committed funds are known; and the source has the capacity to deliver. 3. No Substitution of CDBG Funds for Private Sources of Funds. The applicant shall financially underwrite the project and ensure to the extent possible that CDBG funds are not being substituted for available private debt financing or equity capital. The analysis must be tailored to the type of project being assisted (i.e. real estate, user project, capital equipment, working capital, etc.). Real estate projects require different financial analysis than working capital or machinery and equipment projects. Applicants should ensure that both a significant equity commitment by the for-profit business exists, and that the level of certainty of the end use of the property or project is sufficient to ensure the achievement of national objectives within a reasonable period of time. 4. Establishment of CDBG Financing Terms. The amount of CDBG assistance provided to a for-profit business ideally should be limited to the amount, with appropriate repayment terms, sufficient to go forward without substituting CDBG funds for available private debt or cash equity. The applicant should structure its repayment terms so that the business is allowed a reasonable rate of return on invested equity, considering the level of risk of the project. It should be remembered that equity funds generally should bear the greatest risk of all funds invested in a project. 5. Assessing Public Benefit. The extent of public benefit expected to be derived from the economic development project must be assessed. While no standards have been promulgated in a final rule, the assessment of public benefit should consider such factors as the number and type of jobs to be created or retained, in relation to the needs of low- and moderate-income persons who are likely to be employed, the extent to which a business provides essential services to low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, and increases to the tax base including property, sales and income taxes in the area. These factors are not all inclusive. (ii) CDBG assistance must minimize business and job displacement. Each applicant will evaluate the potential of each economic development project for causing displacement of existing businesses and lost jobs in the neighborhood where the project is proposed to be located. When the grantee concludes that the potential exists to cause displacement, given the size, scope or nature of the business, then the grantee must, to the extent practicable, take steps to minimize such displacement. The project file must document the grantee's review conclusions and, if applicable, the steps the grantee will take to minimize displacement. (iii) Section 105(a)(17) requirements. Section 105 (a)(17) of the HCD Act requires that an activity assisted under that section achieve one of the following criteria: (1) Creates or retains jobs for low- and moderate-income persons (note that a project which meets the national objective of principally benefitting low- and moderate-income persons by creating or retaining jobs, 51 percent of which are for low- and moderate-income persons, will be deemed to have met this criterion without any additional documentation); (2) Prevents or eliminates slums or blight (note that a project which meets the national objective of aiding in the prevention or elimination of slums or blight on an area basis will be deemed to have met this criterion without any additional documentation); (3) Meets an urgent need (note that a project which meets the national objective of meeting community development needs having a particular urgency will be deemed to have met this criterion without any additional documentation); (4) Creates or retains businesses owned by community residents; (5) Assists businesses that provide goods or services needed by and affordable to low- and moderate-income residents; (6) Provides technical assistance to promote any of the activities under (1) through (5) of this subsection.
