FR940616-0-00012 FR940616-0-00003 For purposes of this regulation, a lot is considered to be imported when it is released by the Customs Service for entry into commercial markets or other channels. Lots that are exempt from maturity requirements of the import regulations are not subject to the inspection and certification requirements in such regulations. An imported lot intended for normal commercial channels, or any portion of such a lot, that fails established maturity requirements, could be disposed of in exempt outlets, as specified in the pertinent avocado import requirements. The third copy of the form will accompany the exempt lot to its intended destination. The receiver will then certify that the lot has been received and it will be utilized in an exempt outlet. After the certification is signed by the receiver, the form is to be returned to MOAB by the receiver, within 15 days of receipt of the lot. The information collection requirements contained in this final rule have been previously approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 [44 U.S.C. Chapter 35], and have been assigned OMB numbers 0581&hyph;0078 for avocados grown in South Florida and 0581&hyph;0167 for imported avocados. In accordance with section 8e of the Act, the USTR has concurred with the issuance of this final rule. This final rule reflects the committee's and the Department's appraisal of the need to make the specified changes. The Department's view is that this action will have a beneficial impact on producers and handlers since it will help ensure that only mature avocados are shipped to fresh markets. The committee considers that maturity requirements for Florida grown avocados are necessary to improve grower returns and promote orderly marketing conditions. Although compliance with these maturity requirements will affect costs to handlers, these costs will be offset by the benefits of providing the industry and consumers with mature avocados. This final rule also reflects the Department's appraisal of the need to reinstate the suspended avocado import maturity requirements, with the specified revisions, as hereinafter set forth, in accordance with section 8e of the Act. Based on the above, the Administrator of the AMS has determined that this final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. After consideration of all relevant matter presented, the information and recommendations submitted by the committee, and other information, it is found that this final rule as hereinafter set forth, will tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553, it is also found and determined that good cause exists for not postponing the effective date of this action until 30 days after publication in the Federal Register because: (1) The shipping season for South Florida avocados is expected to begin in late May; (2) avocado handlers are aware of this action which was unanimously recommended by the committee; (3) notice of the proposed rules were published in the Federal Register , and no comments were received during the 30-day comment period. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 915 Avocados, Marketing agreements, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 944 Avocados, Food grades and standards, Grapefruit, Grapes, Imports, Kiwifruit, Limes, Olives, Oranges. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 7 CFR parts 915 and 944 are amended as follows: 1. The authority citation for 7 CFR parts 915 and 944 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 601&hyph;674. PART 915_AVOCADOS GROWN IN SOUTH FLORIDA 2. Section 915.332 is revised to read as follows: ยง915.332 Florida avocado maturity regulation. (a) No handler shall handle any variety of avocados, except Hass, Fuerte, Zutano, and Edranol, grown in the production area unless: (1) Any portion of the skin of the individual avocados has changed to the color normal for that fruit when mature for those varieties which normally change color to any shade of red or purple when mature, except for the Linda variety; or (2) Such avocados meet the minimum weight or diameter requirements for the Monday nearest each date specified, through the Sunday immediately prior to the nearest Monday of the specified date in the next column, for each variety listed in the following TABLE I: Provided, that avocados may not be handled prior to the earliest date specified in column A of such table for the respective variety; Provided further, There are no restrictions on size or weight on or after the date specified in column D; Provided further, That up to a total of 10 percent, by count to the individual fruit in each lot may weigh less than the minimum specified or be less than the specified diameter, except that no such avocados shall be over 2 ounces lighter than the minimum weight specified for the variety: Provided further, That up to double such tolerance shall be permitted for fruit in an individual container in a lot.
