FR941230-2-00133 FR941230-2-00072 •Coordinate prevention and intervention programs with the implementation of community-oriented policing. •Commit to citywide reengineering and quality public service. Support Families and Protect Children •Provide teen pregnancy prevention and prenatal services to high-risk mothers and fathers. •Strengthen families through parent training, family support, and family preservation services. •Prevent child abuse. •Develop health services for high-risk youth and their families, including drug and alcohol counseling and treatment and mental health screening and treatment where necessary. •Provide services to juvenile victims of and witnesses to violence. Ensure Education •Expand readiness-to-learn strategies for children, including Head Start and other programs. •Create safe havens. •Assist youth with learning problems by providing specialized educational services and tutoring. •Address truancy and school dropouts through prevention, intervention, and alternative education. •Encourage the development of positive values and teach critical social skills including conflict resolution and peer mediation. Expand Opportunities •Give children and young people guidance and consistent discipline and rewards through the use of mentors. •Offer opportunities for healthy recreation and cultural awareness. •Promote leadership qualities by involving young people in planning and decision-making activities, particularly concerning quality of life and public safety problems. •Provide youth vocational training and meaningful job opportunities. Effective Juvenile Justice •Respond appropriately to abuse and neglect reports made to child protective services and juvenile and family courts. •Intervene with youth when delinquent behavior first occurs. •Establish a broad spectrum of graduated sanctions that provides for accountability to the victim and community, enhances community safety, and provides a continuum of services to respond appropriately to the needs of each juvenile offender. •Offer intensive, carefully monitored aftercare services. •Control the small segment of serious, violent, and chronic juvenile offenders.
