FR940819-2-00052 FR940819-2-00027 Reasonable Costs of Arbitration Under the Randolph-Sheppard Act The Secretary proposes that the reasonable costs of arbitration under 20 U.S.C. 107d&hyph;2(d) are the following: (a) Stenographic Record. (1) General Provisions. The Department will pay the costs of the services of the official reporter assigned to the arbitration, including preparation of the official transcript of the hearing and six copies thereof. The official transcript and one copy thereof must be submitted to the Department. The remaining five copies of the transcript must be distributed among the parties as determined by the arbitration panel chairperson. Costs of the services of the official reporter may not exceed the reasonable and customary costs for those services in the locality in which the services are furnished. (2) Cancellation. The official reporter may charge the Department its customary fee for cancellation of an arbitration proceeding in situations in which a proceeding is canceled within 24 hours of its scheduled date and time. (b) Fees of Arbitrators. (1) Per Diem. The Department will pay a per diem fee to arbitration panel members, who are not otherwise employed by the Federal or State Government, for their services during the course of the arbitration. The per diem fee to be paid by the Department must be the lesser of_ (i) The customary fee charged by the individual panel member; or (ii) The reasonable and customary fee charged by arbitrators in the locality where the arbitration will be held. (2) Postponement or Cancellation within 48 hours. If a scheduled arbitration proceeding is postponed or canceled within 48 hours of its scheduled date and time, panel members may charge the Department_ (i) A predetermined, customary, and reasonable postponement or cancellation fee; and (ii) That portion of the arbitrator's per diem fee proportional to the actual time the panel member expended in preparing for the proceeding. (3) Other Postponements or Cancellations. If a scheduled arbitration proceeding is postponed or canceled more than 48 hours prior to its scheduled date, panel members may charge the Department only that portion of the per diem fee proportional to the actual time expended in preparing for the proceeding. (4) Notice. The customary per diem and predetermined fees charged by a panel member must be included in a biographical sketch that is to be sent to the Department following his or her appointment to the panel. (c) Travel, Lodging, and Meal Expenses of Arbitrators and Witnesses. (1) Arbitrators. Notwithstanding that the Secretary urges the parties to appoint panel representatives from the locality in which the dispute arose and the hearing is to be held, the Department will reimburse the travel, lodging, and food expenses of the arbitration panel members incurred for the purpose of attending hearings and for the purpose of attending any pre- or post-hearing conferences that cannot be conducted by telephone. These expenses will be reimbursed at the rate applicable to Federal Government employees traveling on government business to the hearing location. The Secretary urges the two panel representatives appointed by the parties to select a neutral chairperson from the locality in which the dispute arose and the hearing is to be held. (2) Witnesses. The Department will reimburse the travel, lodging, and food expenses of witnesses for the purpose of testifying at hearings, if the witness does not reside at the locality of the arbitration proceeding and the testimony of the witness is deemed by the arbitration panel chairperson to be essential to the proper resolution of the dispute. These expenses will be reimbursed at the rate applicable to Federal Government employees traveling on government business to the hearing location. (d) Responsibility of Parties. Attorneys' fees are not considered part of the reasonable costs of arbitration supported by the Department, but are the responsibility of each party to the arbitration. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 107d&hyph;2(d)) [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20147 Filed 8&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
