FR940930-0-00083 FR940930-0-00016 Comment: Two commenters stated that a ``screening mammogram'' is no different from a ``diagnostic mammogram'' and therefore should be paid at the same level. Response: A screening mammogram and a diagnostic mammogram are similar in many respects, but the purposes of the two tests are distinctly different. A screening mammogram is a routine medical check; a diagnostic mammogram is made to diagnose a specific complaint or medical problem already identified by the patient or her attending physician. Section 1834(c)(4)(A) of the Act clearly establishes a $55 overall limit applicable to a screening mammography procedure in 1991 with increases in subsequent years limited to the percentage increase in the Medicare Economic Index for the subsequent year. Section 1834(b)(4)(B) of the Act authorizes the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (the Secretary) to reduce this limit, after appropriate review, but does not authorize the Secretary to raise the limit. If we decide to establish the same payment for the two procedures, we might have to lower the payments for most diagnostic mammograms. Comment: Two commenters recommended that the interim final rule be amended to waive the beneficiary's copayment liabilities so that older women will not have to bear out-of-pocket costs for the screening mammography procedure. Response: A waiver of copayment liabilities would have to be authorized by the Congress. Section 1834(c)(1)(C) of the Act specifically limits Medicare payments to 80 percent of the least of the actual charge, the radiologist fee schedule or the physicians' fee schedule established under section 1848 of the Act as applicable, or the statutory limit for the service. Comment: One commenter stated that insufficient payment levels should not be a deterrent to women having access to screening mammography services and that the relationship between current charges, payment levels, and access to the service should be taken into consideration in determining payment levels. Response: We have to apply the overall payment limit established in section 1834(c)(4) of the Act. There is no provision for exceptions to ensure access to these services in special circumstances. Comment: One commenter believed that it is critical that any changes to the Medicare Part B payment system not be counter to physician payment reform. The existence of an overall national payment limit concerned another commenter who believed that the limit is inconsistent with the premise of a resource-based relative value scale payment schedule adjusted for geographic cost variations.
