FR940722-0-00099 FR940722-0-00019 34. If we should decide in the future to use sequential oral or sequential electronic bidding for relatively homogeneous licenses, we will employ a single combined auction design. Under this approach, the Commission will combine bidding for all licenses in the same band with the same amount of spectrum and same geographic service area. 11 Licenses will be awarded market by market to the highest bidders until all the available licenses are exhausted, e.g. , two relatively homogeneous licenses would be awarded to the two highest bidders. Because broadband PCS licenses may not be perfectly homogeneous ( i.e. , bidders may prefer one frequency over another within the same geographic region for purposes of efficient aggregation), winning bidders will be given the opportunity to choose among licenses for which bidding is combined in descending order of their bid amounts ( i.e. , the highest bidder will pick first). 11 This approach was proposed by Bell Atlantic. See comments of Bell Atlantic Personal Communications Inc., Attachment by Barry Nalebuff and Jeremy Bulow at 4&hyph;5. Single combined auctions are used by the U.S. Department of the Treasury to sell U.S. securities. 3. Combinatorial Bidding 35. In general terms, combinatorial bidding allows bidders to bid for multiple licenses as all-or-nothing packages. 12 Combinatorial bidding can be implemented with either simultaneous or sequential auction designs. Although we recognized in the Second Report and Order that there may be significant benefits associated with combinatorial bidding, especially in terms of efficient aggregation of licenses, we concluded that simultaneous multiple round auctions offer many of the same advantages without the same degree of administrative and operational complexity and without biasing auction outcomes in favor of combination bids. See Second Report and Order at ¶¶ 101&hyph;105. On balance, we believe that the advantages of combinatorial bidding appear unlikely to outweigh the disadvantages. While broadband PCS licenses are likely to be worth more to some bidders as a part of a package, we believe that simultaneous multiple round bidding will provide these bidders with ample opportunity to express the value of interdependent licenses. Moreover, we conclude that there will not be any extreme discontinuity in value if some licenses in a package are not obtained. We believe that the opportunity to acquire licenses in post-auction transactions and the ability to withdraw bids (upon payment of the bid withdrawal penalty) will limit the risks associated with failing to acquire all of the licenses in a desired package. Nevertheless, if, based on our experience with the initial simultaneous multiple round auctions and auction experiments, we determine that such auctions do not result in efficient aggregation of licenses, and if there are significant advances in the development of combinatorial auctions, we may, by public notice prior to a specific auction, choose to use combinatorial bidding techniques in conjunction with simultaneous multiple round auctions. 12 In combinatorial bidding, if a bid for a group of licenses exceeds the sum of the highest bids for the individual licenses that comprise the package, then the package bid would win. In the Second Report and Order we also indicated that if we were to utilize combinatorial bidding we might institute a premium so that the combinatorial bid would win only if it exceeded the sum of the bids for individual licenses by a set amount. See Second Report and Order at ¶ 114. NTIA is the main advocate of combinatorial bidding. See comments of NTIA, and ex parte submission of NTIA in PP Docket No. 93&hyph;253, February 28, 1994. C. Bidding Procedures 1. Grouping of Licenses 36. In the Second Report and Order , the Commission concluded that highly interdependent licenses should be grouped together and put up for bid at the same time in a multiple round auction. See Second Report and Order at ¶¶ 106&hyph;107. This will facilitate awarding licenses to the bidders who value them most highly because it will provide bidders information about the prices of complementary and substitutable licenses while such licenses are still up for bid. The magnitude of the benefit of auctioning a group of licenses together in a simultaneous multiple round auction increases with the degree of interdependence among the licenses. On the other hand, the Second Report and Order also noted that the cost and complexity, both for the FCC and for bidders, of auctioning a very large number of interdependent licenses simultaneously may outweigh the informational and bidding flexibility advantages. See Second Report and Order at ¶ 107. Accordingly, although we believe that all broadband PCS licenses are interdependent, we will not auction them all simultaneously. Instead, we will divide the licenses into three groups by combining those licenses that are most closely related so that there will be limited interdependence across groups. Then we will sequentially conduct a separate simultaneous multiple round auction for each group. We formed the three groups in two conceptual steps. First, we separated the ``entrepreneurs''' blocks (C and F) from all other blocks. 13 Then, we separated the large unrestricted blocks (A and B, with 30 MHz of spectrum and MTA geographic scope) from the small ones (D and E, with 10 MHz of spectrum and BTA geographic scope). 13 As explained in more detail below, we establish economic eligibility criteria for bidders in blocks C and F. 37. In the first auction, the 99 available MTA licenses in blocks A and B will be put up for bid. In the second auction, the 986 BTA licenses in blocks C and F will be put up for bid. And in the last auction, the 986 BTA licenses in blocks D and E will be put up for bid. As explained below, we believe that this grouping strikes a proper balance among the competing concerns of awarding licenses to the parties who value them most highly, keeping the auction process simple and manageable, minimizing administrative delay, and fostering designated entity participation.
