FR940526-2-00119 FR940526-2-00063 Appendix 2._ Market Basket Descriptions 1␣ 1␣ Food at Home: Ground Beef Price per Lb of regular ground beef. Average size package. Loose, pre-packaged. Do not price lean. Round Steak, boneless Price per Lb. Average size package. 1st choice: Boneless top round steak. 2nd choice: Boneless bottom round steak. Round Roast, boneless Price per Lb. Average size package. 1st choice: Top round roast. 2nd choice: Rolled rump roast. Pork Chops, bone in Price per Lb. Average size package. 1st choice: Center cut, rib chops. 2nd choice: Loin chops. Bacon, sliced Price for 16 Oz (1 Lb) package Oscar Mayer regular sliced bacon. Chicken, whole Price per Lb of 1 whole fryer chicken. If whole fryer not available, price a whole fryer chicken, cut-up. Fish filet, frozen Price per Lb of frozen ocean whitefish filet. 1st choice: Cod or haddock. 2nd choice: Regional fish. Please record fish type in comment section. Tuna, canned Price for 6.13 Oz can chunk light, packed in water. (Not fancy style.) 1st choice: Star Kist. 2nd choice: Chicken of the Sea. Lunch meat Price for 8 Oz pkg., Oscar Mayer. 1st choice: bologna. 2nd choice: cotto salami or all-beef bologna. Ham, canned Price for 3 Lb tin of canned ham. 1st choice: Hormel. 2nd choice: Dubuque. Do not price Hormel's supreme cut ham. Frankfurters Price for 16 Oz (1 Lb) package, Oscar Mayer all beef frankfurters. Eggs, large Price for one dozen. Fish, fresh Price per Lb of a salmon steak. Milk, 2% Price for one gallon (128 fl. Oz), 2%. Lowest priced store brand. Cheddar Cheese Price per Lb. 1st choice: Kraft Cracker Barrel, mild cheddar cheese. 2nd choice: Kraft Cracker Barrel, sharp yellow cheddar cheese. Ice Cream Price for 1/2 gallon of Sealtest vanilla ice cream. Do not price ice milk. Bread, white Price for 16 Oz loaf of a regional brand of sliced white bread. Do not price store brand. Please record brand in comment section. Spaghetti, dry Price for 16 Oz box or bag of spaghetti. 1st choice: Creamettes. 2nd choice: Muehler's. 3rd choice: Golden Grain. 4th choice: American Beauty. Cereal Price for box of Kellogg's Corn Flakes. 1st choice: 18 Oz box. 2nd choice: Different size box of Kellogg's Corn Flakes. Cookies Price for 16 Oz package of Nabisco Oreo Cookies. Frozen Waffles Price Kellogg's Eggo Waffles, price 12 waffle package. Hamburger Buns Price for 12 OZ (340 G) package of 8 sliced regional brand enriched white hamburger buns. Do Not Price Store Brand. Please record brand in comment section. Donuts Price for box of 12 Hostess glazed donuts. Apples, fresh Price per LB of Red Delicious apples. If apples are priced by the bag, report the price and weight of the bag_use the store's scale if necessary. Price medium-size apples if possible. Bananas, fresh Price per LB. If bananas are priced by the bunch, report the price and weight of the bunch-use the store's scale if necessary. Tomatoes, fresh Price per LB. Price medium-size tomatoes if possible. Do Not Price Organic or `Hydro' Fresh Tomatoes. Potatoes Price for 10 LB bag of lowest priced white potatoes. If 10 LB bag is not available, substitute nearest size sack. Please price potatoes by the bag since potatoes priced by the pound are not comparable to bagged potatoes. Frozen Orange Juice Price for 12 FL OZ (makes 48 FL OZ) can of Minute Maid frozen orange juice concentrate. Tomato Juice Price for 16 FL OZ can of tomato juice. 1st choice: Campbell's. 2nd choice: Libby's. Peaches, canned Price for 16 OZ can of sliced yellow cling peaches. 1st choice: Del Monte. 2nd choice: Libby's. Peas, frozen Price for 16 OZ pkg. of Green Giant frozen peas. Do Not Price Peas With Sauce. Green Beans, canned Price for 16 OZ can of cut Del Monte green beans. Oranges, fresh Price per LB of Florida oranges. If oranges are priced by the bag or by the orange, report the price and weigh a bag _using the store's scale if possible. Price naval medium-size oranges if possible. Lettuce, fresh Price for 1 head of iceberg lettuce. If lettuce is priced by weight, report the price and also report the weight of an average head. Celery, fresh Price for 1 bunch of celery. Do Not Price Celery Hearts. Fruit Drink Price for 46 FL OZ can. 1st choice: Hawaiian Punch. 2nd choice: HI-C, regular. Soft Drink Price of 2 L (liter) plastic bottle. 1st choice: Coca-Cola. 2nd choice: Pepsi. Coffee, ground Price for 13 OZ can of ground coffee. 1st choice: Folger's Drip Grind. 2nd choice: Maxwell House. Canned Soup Price for one can Campbell's soup. 1st choice: Vegetable 101/2 OZ. 2nd choice: Chicken Noodle 103/4 OZ. Snack Food Price for 6 OZ bag or box of potato chips. 1st choice: Ruffles. 2nd choice: Lays Dip Chips. Salt Price for 26 OZ box of iodized salt. 1st choice: Morton. 2nd choice: Ivory 3rd choice: Private Label. Ketchup Price for 28 OZ plastic squeeze bottle of ketchup. 1st choice: Heinz. 2nd choice: Del Monte. Cooking Oil Price for 48 FL OZ bottle. 1st choice: Crisco. 2nd choice: Wesson. Margarine Price for 1 LB, four sticks. 1st choice: Blue Bonnet. 2nd choice: Parkay. Frozen Dinner Price for 11.5 OZ (326 G) Swanson- Turkey, whipped potatoes, peas, and fruit compote, frozen dinner. Jello Gelatin Price for 3 OZ box of Jello Gelatin dessert. Baby Food Price for one 4.0 OZ jar of Gerber Second Foods strained vegetable or fruit. Candy Bar Price for one 2.07 OZ Snickers candy bar. If not available, price most popular brand of same size. Sugar, granulated Price for 5 LB bag of granulated cane or beet sugar, lowest price available. Do Not Price Generic Sugar. Bottled Water Price for one gallon (store brand) (128 FL OZ) bottled spring water. Do Not Price Sparkling or Distilled Water. Food Away From Home: Breakfast Price for typical breakfast, such as, bacon and 2 eggs or waffles, coffee and juice. Report percentages added for tax, tip and service charge. Lunch Price for typical lunch, such as, chef's salad or cheeseburger platter and small soft drink. Report percentages added for tax, tip and service charge. Dinner Price for typical dinner, such as, New York strip or seafood platter and coffee. Report percentages added for tax, tip and service charge. Fast Food Lunch/Dinner Average price of a meal at a fast food establishment. Price for typical meal, such as, Big Mac or Whopper, medium french fries and medium coke. Ice Cream Cone Price for regular (one scoop) vanilla ice cream cone. Tobacco: Cigarettes, king size Price for 1 carton (200 cigarettes) of Winston filter-kings soft pack. Do Not Include Sales Tax. Alcohol: Beer at Home Price for a six-pack of 12 OZ cans of Budweiser (Puerto Rico_10 OZ). Do Not Price Refrigerated Beer. Wine at Home Price for 750 ML of Gallo white chablis blanc. Beer Away Price for glass of Budweiser/Miller Lite beer. List percent for tax. Wine Away Price of house white wine. List percent for tax. Furnishings, Household operations: Appliance repair Price to replace oven thermostat control for Maytag Model # CRE9400. Include hourly rate, trip charge and parts cost. Part Number # 7430P010&hyph;60. Housekeeping Services Price per hour for bi-weekly cleaning. House approximately 2,000 sq. ft. Family size four. Please complete items in the Comment Section. Services include the following: Bathroom(s)_Sanitize walls, floor, counter tops, bathtub, stool Kitchen_Sanitize walls, floor, counter tops, cabinets, appliances Living Room & Dining Room_Dust, polish furniture and vacuum Bedrooms_Dust, polish furniture and vacuum. If other services are included, please note. Moving Price per hour for a within-city move, two men with enclosed van. Include any van rental fees. Toilet Tissue Price for a 4 roll pack 1st choice: Cottonelle. 2nd choice: Northern. Pen Price for 10 pack Bic round stic medium pen. Postage Price for First Class postage for a letter. Laundry Soap Price for 100 FL OZ of liquid household laundry detergent. 1st choice: Tide. 2nd choice: Cheer. Plant Food Price for 8 OZ container of indoor plant food. 1st choice: Miracle Grow. 2nd choice: Peters. Bed Sheet Set Price for one set queen-size no-iron cotton & polyester percale sheets (180 thread count). One set consists of one fitted sheet, one flat sheet and two pillowcases. Do not price designer sheet sets. Price sheet sets with minimum design. Bath Towell Price for a 27x50 inch Cannon Portofino bath towel made of 100% cotton. Living Room Chair Price for a recliner chair, that is button backed with base construction of 15 zigzag springs. 1st choice: Lane. 2nd choice: Lazy Boy. Do Not Price Special Order Fabric. Bedroom Group Price for nightstand, headboard, 5-drawer chest, triple dresser with mirror. Solid wood top, front mirror frame and headboard. Veneer sides. Drawer construction should have French dovetail joints and dust plate. Dining Room Table Price for table with center pedestal and four standard double rung chairs. Table should have veneer top and double runners for leaves with both portions of the table moveable. Washing Machine Price for large capacity washing machine with 4 water temperatures, 3 wash cycles (regular, permanent press & knits/delicate), white porcelain tub, self-clean lint filter, fabric softener dispenser and 2 speed combinations. 1st choice: Maytag Model # LAT7793. 2nd choice: General Electric Model # WWA7600R. 3rd choice: Whirlpool Model # LLR6233A. Kitchen Range Price for 30-inch electric range with upswept cooktop, removable coil elements, electronic clock with timer, oven light, delay-start cook control, storage drawer, selfcleaning oven with two oven racks and a porcelain enamel broiler pan. 1st choice: Maytag Model # CRE9400. 2nd choice: General Electric Model # JBP5565. 3rd choice: Whirlpool Model # RF385PXYW. Refrigerator Price for no-frost top-mount 21 cubic ft. refrigerator with reversible doors and energy saver switch, 4 split glass shelves, fixed glass crisper shelf with 2 sealed/moisture controlled crisper drawers, double wall meat drawer. Door contains 2 covered dairy compartments, 1 deep fixed bin, 4 deep adjustable bins. Freezer has 2 adjustable wire shelves, 2 deep fixed door bins and 4 ice trays. 1st choice: Maytag Model # RTD2100CAE. 2nd choice: General Electric Model # TBX22PAS. 3rd choice: Whirlpool Model # ET22RKXZ. Vacuum Price for upright vacuum cleaner with 6.5 amps, 120 volts, six above-the-floor attachments, height adjustment, regular bag and 20-foot cord. 1st choice: Eureka Model # 9334AT. 2nd choice: Hoover Model # U4671&hyph;910. Two-slice Toaster Price for two-slice toaster, chrome body, wide slot with pastry defrost setting. 1st choice: Proctor-Silex Model # T620B. 2nd choice: Black & Decker Model # T200. Casserole Dish Set Price for Corning-Ware trio casserole set with 1 QT, 1.5 QT, and 2 QT dishes and 3 covers (two plastic covers and one glass). China Price for the Corelle Impressions line Abundance pattern tableware set. Set consists of 20 pieces: 4 dinner plates, 4 luncheon plates, 4 bowls, 4 cups, and 4 saucers. The pattern is beige with a fruit and flower motif. Electric Drill Price for 6.0 volt reversible cordless electric drill with overnight recharge. 1st choice: Black & Decker Model # CD2000. 2nd choice: Skil Model # 2305. Lawn Trimmer Price for gas powered 31 CC two-cycle engine single line lawn trimmer with a 17 inch wide cut. Red Roses, Fresh Cut Price for one dozen long stemmed, fresh cut red roses. Hammer Price for Stanley curved claw hammer with a 16 OZ head, wood handle, high carbon steel head, black finish. Overall length 131/4''. 1st choice: Model # 51616. 2nd choice: Model # 51416. Window Shade Price 371/2 inch wide window shade. Toilet Lid Cover Price for Cannon Portofino standard toilet lid cover made of 100% nylon. Clothing: Man's Suit Price for two-piece single-breasted business suit of the type generally worn to the office. Conservatively colored and styled with a fabric blend of 45% wool and 55% polyester. Man's Jeans Price of straight leg regular fit jeans. 1st choice: Levi's # 505. 2nd choice: Lee regular fit. Do Not Price Bleached Jeans. Man's Dress Shirt Price for white or solid color, long sleeve, button cuff, plain collar dress shirt, approximately 35% cotton, 65% polyester. A dress shirt will have exact collar and sleeve sizes. Example: 151/2 collar, 34 sleeve. Possible brands: Arrow, Van Heusen. Man's Jacket Price for unlined Levi's jean jacket. Cotton denim with button front, two chest pockets and two side pockets. Boy's Jeans Price of loose fit jeans (size 8&hyph;14). 1st choice: Levi's # 560. 2nd choice: Lee loose fit. Boy's Shirt Price for screen-printed t-shirt commonly worn by boys ages 8 through 10 years (size 7&hyph;14). Pullover with crew neck, short sleeves and polyester/cotton blend. Possible brand: Ocean Pacific. Man's Undershirt Price for white 100% cotton undershirts with short sleeves, set of three. If not in set of three, report the number of undershirts in package. Possible brands: Hanes, Fruit of the Loom. Woman's Dress Price of misses mid-sleeve shirt waist dress appropriate for office attire. Exclude any unusual ornamentation. The dress should be unlined and 100% rayon. Possible brands: Stewart Allen, Lesley Fay. Woman's Blouse Price of 100% polyester, white, long sleeve, button front blouse with minimum trim. Possible brands: Wrapper, Girls, Girls, Girls. Woman's Slacks Price for misses unlined slacks appropriate for office attire. The slacks should be a blend of cotton and polyester without a belt. Possible brands: Donnkenny, Alfred Dunner. Woman's Sweater Price for 100% cotton, crew neck sweater with rib knit cuffs and bottom. Exclude any unusual ornamentation or patterns. Woman's Jacket Price for unlined windbreaker. Woman's Accessories Price for split-grain, cowhide leather, checkbook clutch wallet. Possible brands: Michael Stevens, Mundi. Girl's Dress Price of cotton blend long-sleeve dress appropriate for school. Exclude extra ornamentation. For girls ages 8 through 10 (size 7&hyph;14). Possible brands: Carter's. Girl's Jeans Price of Levi's # 902 basic relaxed taper jean, two back pockets and two front pockets. For girls ages 8 through 10 (size 7&hyph;14). Girl's Blouse Price of cotton blend, white or solid color, long sleeve, button front blouse. For girls ages 8 through 10 (size 7&hyph;14). Possible brands: This Side Up. Infant's Sleeper Price for one-piece sleeping garment with legs, covering the body including the feet. Possible brands: Gerber, Playskool. Disposable Diaper Price for 44 count package Pampers, (child 12&hyph;18 LBS). Do Not Price Larger Size Diapers. Man's Shoes Price for 100% leather wing tips. Possible brands: Bostonian, Johnson and Murphy. Woman's Shoes Price for woman's pump style shoes with enclosed heel and toe, leather uppers and the rest of man-made materials. Heel height should be approximately two inches. Possible brands: 9 West, Candies. Jewelry Price for one pair 6mm 14k gold ball earrings for pierced ears. Coin Laundry Price for one load of laundry using a regular size, top loading commercial washing machine. DO NOT INCLUDE COST OF DRYING. Dry Clean Man's Suit Price to dry clean a man's 2-piece business suit of typical fabric. Domestic Service: Day-Care Price for one month of day-care for a three-year-old child (5 days a week, about 8 hours per day). If monthly rate is not available, price per week. Babysitter, per hour Average hourly rate for one child, age four years, evening, before midnight. (Teenager in your home.) Do Not Price Babysitting Service. Special Instructions: If typical for your area, you may wish to obtain quotes from friends/acquaintances in your area who use teenager babysitters. Professional Services: Legal Services Hourly rate for general counsel. Accounting Services Hourly rate for individual tax work (not business). Personal Care: Woman's Cut and Styled Blow Dry ``Regular service'' price for a woman's cut and styled blow dry. Include wash. NO CURLING IRON IF EXTRA CHARGE. Man's Haircut Price of a man's typical haircut. Do not include wash. Lipstick Price for one tube of Revlon lipstick. 1st choice: Moondrops. 2nd choice: Super Lustrous. Shampoo Price for 15 Fl Oz bottle of Revlon Flex shampoo for normal hair. Recreation: Bowling Price for 1 game of open (nor non-league) bowling on Saturday night. Exclude cost of shoe rental. Golf Price for 18 holes of golf on a weekend. If only 9 hole rate is available, report twice the price. If only daily rate is available (unlimited number of holes), report the Saturday or Sunday rate. Movie Theater Typical adult price for regular length evening film. Report weekend evening price if different from weekday. Health Club Price for regular individual membership for 1 year for existing member. Do not include any initial fees assessed only to new members. If yearly rate is not available, price per month. Piano Lessons Price for private lesson for a beginner one-half hour in length. Video Rental Price to rent one video tape of recently released movie, Saturday night (1 day) rate. Non-member fee. Video Recorder Price for VCR with 4 video heads, double azimuth, unified TV/VCR remote, one-year eight event timer, auto tracking, LED display, and HI-FI stereo. 1st choice: Zenith Model # VRL4110. 2nd choice: Sony Model # SLV700HF. Compact Disk Regular price for a current best-selling CD. No sale Price. Do not price double CD. Example: Janet by Janet Jackson, Unplugged by Rod Stewart. Please record title in comment section. Compact Disk Player Price 5 disc CD player with rotary changer system, 10 key access, 32 track programming, 8 times oversampling, and a remote. 1st choice: Sony Model # CDPC535. 2nd choice: Panasonic-Technics Model # SLPD847. Color Television Price for 20 ’ ’ table model color TV with a remote, auto channel search, closed captions, sleep timer, on-screen channel/time and menus, channel flashback, and 181 channel tuning. 1st choice: Zenith Model # SLS2049. 2nd choice: Sony Model # KV20TS29. Basic Cable Service Price for one month of basic cable channel TV. Do Not Include Hookup Charges or Premium Chanels Veterinary Services Typical fee for general office visit for a heartworm test for a small dog. Include the cost of the office visit. Pet Food Price of 5.5 OZ can of cat food. 1st choice: Purina. 2nd choice: 9 Lives. Film Developing Price to process and print 35 millimeter, 24 exposure, 100 ASA color. Single Prints Only Please. Camera Film Price for 35 millimeter, 24 exposure, 100 ASA Kodak camera film. Tennis Balls Price for can of three heavy-duty felt, yellow, tennis balls. 1st choice: Wilson. 2nd choice: Penn. Board Game Price for Monopoly board game by Parker Brothers. Do Not Price Deluxe Edition. Book Price for top ten best selling paperback book. Magazine Price for a single copy of Time magazine. Local Newspaper Price for one year of the most common DAILY paper (including Sunday edition) distributed in the area. Report the name of the newspaper in the comment section. Miscellaneous expense component: Pain Reliever Price for 60 tablets of extra-strength Tylenol. Do Not Price Caplets or Gelcaps. Tetracycline, prescription Price of 40 capsules of tetracycline, 250 milligram strength. Report price for most common national brand sold. Optometrist, office visit Typical fee for visual analysis including tonometry, refraction and glaucoma screening. Dentist, clean and check teeth Charge for x-rays, exam and prophylaxis (light scaling and polishing) or ``cleaning of teeth'' without special treatment of gums or teeth. Do Not Price Initial Visit. Doctor, office visit Typical fee, after the initial visit, for an office visit when medical advice or simple treatment is needed. Do not include the charge for a regular physical examination, injections, medication or lab tests (routine brief visit). Price General Practitioner. Do Not Price Specialist. Hospital Room Daily charge for a private room. Include food and routine care. Exclude cost of operating room, surgery, medicine and lab fees. Housing-related component: Bathroom Caulking Please price an 8-ounce tube of white bathroom caulking, most popular brand. Computation of Electric Bill Average monthly consumption: Customer service charge (single phase service): Cost for first KWH: Cost for over first KWH: Other items included on bill: Comments: Computation of Gas Bill Average monthly consumption: Customer service charge: Cost for first Cu. Ft.: Cost for over first Cu. Ft.: Other items included on bill: Comments: Computation of Water Bill Average monthly consumption: Customer service charge: Cost for first XXX Gallons: Cost for over XXX Gallons: Other items included on bill: Comments: Electrical Outlet Please price a 2-plug grounded electrical outlet. Medium priced. Price blister pack or cardboard mounted (individually packaged). Do Not Price Loose Electric Outlet. Possible brands: GE, Levitron. Electrical Work Price to add circuit breaker for dishwasher. Cut 3/4 inch hole in wooden floor for cable. Connect dishwasher directly to power box (power box is easy to reach). Exclude Cost of Materials. Fire Extinguisher Please price a fire extinguisher with a UL rating of 10BC, 2.5 pound size. Suggested brand: Kidde. Interior Painting Price to paint 12 ’ 14 ’ living room with 8 ’ ceilings. Walls are plaster or drywall in good repair. Two standard sized sash windows, one picture window, one standard wood door. Rooms have simple wood baseboards and trim. Existing paint is latex, flat white, smooth finish, about three years old. Trim paint is latex, white, gloss enamel, about three years old. Walls and trim require no surface preparation. Obtain labor rate per hour, flat charge if any, and estimated time to complete job. Latex Interior Paint Please price one gallon white, interior flat latex paint. Price a national brand with one coat coverage. Possible brands: Dutch Boy, Glidden. Pest Control Price for basic pest control maintenance (one visit). Price follow-up maintenance only, not the initial application. Unclog Drain Price to unclog kitchen sink drain by mechanical means (snake, auger, etc.). Only include pipe removal to access trap if necessary. Kitchen Faucet Price a Peerless single control chrome-plated faucet with spray. Faucet is solid brass and stainless steel quality construction with copper waterways, washerless design and triple chrome plating. Warrantied for as long as the home is owned. Real Estate Taxes Call the local tax assessor office and/or local tax collector/treasurer for each living community in the report. Request the current real property tax rate, any special charges that are added to the tax bill and any homestead credits that might be deducted from the bill. Ask when properties were last assessed and what base year tax rate should be applied to. Request information as to what month rates are certified and when bills are mailed. Verify any significant increases or decreases from previous records. Long Distance Telephone Price the cost of a 10 minute call received on a weekday, at each location at 8:00 p.m. (local time); direct dial from the location being surveyed to each of the following cities; New York, Chicago and Los Angeles. Include any federal, state, local or excise tax that is applicable. Telephone Service Obtain monthly cost for unmeasured service, for touchtone service, and for tax. Homeowner Insurance For each living community surveyed based on income level, secure the annual premium for HO&hyph;2 type coverage. If the company does not refer to the coverage as HO&hyph;2, obtain the cost for a mid-level coverage (i.e., in-between a comprehensive coverage and a basic coverage), contents not at replacement cost, that covers ``named perils on building and contents.'' Some companies refer to this as their ``standard homeowner's coverage.'' Renter Insurance For each living community surveyed based on income level, provide renter housing profile and insurance cost (semiannual or other). Assume HO&hyph;4-type coverage. Homeowners The profiles for each of the home sizes costed are as follows: Low 900 (Sq. Ft.) Mid 1,300 (Sq. Ft.) High 1,700 (Sq. Ft.) The worksheet components for data collection are as follows: (1) Address (2) Selling Price (3) Sale Date (4) Age (5) Room Count (broken down into bedrooms and baths) (6) Square Footage (7) Price Per Square Foot Information was collected through various sources_Real Estate Professionals, Appraisers, MLS data, assessors' offices and private sources. Data Collection for Aged Mortgages The worksheet components for data collection for aged mortgages are as follows: (1) Address (2) Selling Price (3) Sale Date (4) Age (5) Room Count (broken down into bedrooms and baths) (6) Square Footage (7) Price Per Square Foot Transportation Component Vehicles 1993 Honda Civic DX four door sedan, 1.5 liter 4 Cylinder. ␣ 1993 Ford Taurus GL four door sedan, 3.0 Liter 6 Cylinder. ␣ 1993 Chevrolet S10 Blazer Two Door, four wheel drive, 4.3 Liter 6 Cylinder. Base Price Obtain the base price (Manufacturer's Suggested Retail Price) for each vehicle. Options For each vehicle, price the following options: air conditioning, AM/FM stereo radio, power steering, tinted glass, power disc brakes, rustproofing and other options. Fees For each vehicle, price the following options: destination charge, shipping charge, dealer markup, documentation fees and other one-time fees. Taxes For each vehicle, price the following taxes: excise tax, import/customs tax, use tax, sales tax and other one-time taxes. Specifications For each vehicle, obtain the following information: length, wheelbase, tires, curb weight, horsepower, fuel type and fuel performance (mpg). Depreciation For each vehicle, compute the residual value after 12, 24, 36 and 48 months respectively. Gasoline For each station name/brand, price regular unleaded self-service. Tune-up For each vehicle, price a basic tune-up. Include parts and labor for the following: replace spark plugs, PCV value, fuel filter, air filter, and breather filter. Check distributor cap, rotor, timing, and idle. Oil Change For each vehicle, price an oil change. Include parts and labor for the following: drain old oil, replace oil filter and refill with five quarts of 10W30 SG grade oil. If SG grade is unavailable, price SF grade oil. Change Automatic Transmission Fluid For each vehicle, price to change automatic transmission fluid. Include parts and labor for the following: remove transmission pan, drain transmission fluid, replace transmission filter, replace transmission pan gasket, replace transmission fluid, and test vehicle. Coolant Flush and Fill For each vehicle, price to flush and fill engine coolant. Include parts and labor for the following: remove old coolant, flush contaminants, and replace with new coolant. Muffler System For each vehicle, price a complete muffler system. Include parts and labor for the following: install all parts after the catalytic converter. These parts include midpipes, clamps, muffler, and tailpipes. In Hawaii and the Virgin Islands, obtain parts costs from a NAPA dealer in the appropriate area. Obtain installation/labor costs from service stations or vehicle dealerships. C.V. Joint Boots For each vehicle, price C.V. (Constant Velocity) Joint Boot replacement. Price should include parts and labor for the following: replace two front rubber boots. Cost does not include joint replacement. Miscellaneous Tax For each vehicle, price miscellaneous tax. Tell how rate is determined, give formula for new vehicle purchase, give formula for subsequent year (2 to 5) and explain billing. Tires Price a P175/70R13 for the Honda Civic. Price a P205/70R14 for the Ford Tauraus L. Price a P235/R15 for the Chevrolet S10 Blazer in DC area. In Guam, Goodyear tires were unavailable, used the average of two comparable brands. License and Registration For each vehicle, price title fee, passenger vehicle registration fees, plate fees, inspection fees, administration/clerical/other fees and local added fees. Specify if one-time or annual. List any exceptions if the Blazer is not registered as a passenger vehicle. Automobile Finance Obtain the rate for a four-year loan based on a downpayment of 20 percent. Assume the loan applicant is a current bank customer who will make payments by cash/check and not by automatic deduction from the account. Automobile Insurance For each vehicle, price insurance coverage identified below. Assume that vehicles are used in commuting 15 miles/day, 12,000 miles/year and that the driver is a 35-year-old married male with no accidents or violations in the last five years. When there is a geographic difference, obtain rates for two different living communities. Include related expense fees and taxes. Bodily Injury␣$100,000/$300,000. Property Damage␣$25,000. Medical␣$15,000 or Personal Injury Protection $50,000. Uninsured Motorist␣$100/$300,000 (unavailable in Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico). Comprehensive␣$100 Deductible. $Collision␣$250 deductible. Round-Trip Airfare Price for lowest cost round-trip ticket to Los Angeles, CA. Disregard restrictions.
