FR940506-1-00058 FR940506-1-00014 (f)(1) Contracting officers shall, where the nature of the work permits, write contract statements of work and pricing arrangements that allow contractors to deliver, and receive invoice payments for, discrete portions of the work as soon as completed and found acceptable by the Government (see 32.102(d)). (2) Unless specifically prohibited by the contract, the contractor is entitled to payment for accepted partial deliveries of supplies or partial performance of services that comply with all applicable contract requirements and for which prices can be calculated from the contract terms. (3) Under some types of contracts, such as many cost-reimbursement contracts, partial payments cannot be made because the invoice price cannot be determined until after settlement of total contract costs and other contract-wide final arrangements. However, interim payments or contract financing payments may be made in accordance with the terms of the contract. (g) Discounts for prompt payment offered by the contractor shall be taken only when payments are made within the discount period specific by the contractor. (h) Agencies shall pay an interest penalty, without request from the contractor, for late invoice payments or improperly taken discounts for prompt payment. The interest penalty shall be absorbed within funds available for administration or operation of the program for which the penalty was incurred. The temporary unavailability of funds to make a timely payment does not relieve an agency from the obligation to pay interest penalties or the additional interest penalties discussed in 32.903(i) and 32.907&hyph;1(g). (i) For contracts awarded after October 1, 1989, if the interest penalty is not paid within 10 days after it is due and the contractor makes a written demand for payment within 40 days after payment of the principal amount due, agencies shall pay an additional penalty amount, which shall be calculated in accordance with 32.907&hyph;1(g). (j) If the contractor has assigned a contractor identifier (such as an invoice number) to an invoice or financing request, each payment shall use the contractor identifier (in addition to any Government or contract information) in describing any payment made. 5. Section 32.904 is revised to read as follows: 32.904 Responsibilities. (a) Agency heads_ (1) Shall establish policies and procedures to implement this subpart; (2) May prescribe additional standards for establishing due dates on voice payments (32.905) and contract financing payments (32.906) necessary to support agency programs and foster prompt payment to contractors; (3) May adopt different payment procedures to accommodate unique circumstances, provided such procedures are consistent with the policies in this subpart; and (4) Shall inform contractors of points of contact within their cognizant payment offices to enable contractors to obtain status of invoices. (b) Contracting officers, in drafting solicitations and contracts, shall identify for each contract line item number, subline item number, or exhibit line item number_ (1) Which of the applicable Prompt Payment clauses applies to each item when the solicitation or contract contains items which will be subject to different payment terms; and (2) The applicable Prompt Payment food category ( i.e. , which item numbers are meat or meat food products, which are perishable agricultural commodities, etc.), when using the clause at 52.232&hyph;25 which contains multiple payment terms for various classes of foods and edible products. 6. Section 32.905 is revised to read as follows: 32.905 Invoice payments. (a) Except as prescribed in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, the due date for making an invoice payment by the designated payment office shall be as follows: (1) The 30th day after the designated billing office has received a proper invoice from the contractor (except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section); or the 30th day after Government acceptance of supplies delivered or services performed by the contractor, whichever is later. (i) On a final invoice where the payment amount is subject to contract settlement actions, acceptance shall be deemed to have occurred on the effective date of the contract settlement.
