FR940516-1-00088 FR940516-1-00006 This rule's information requirements are similar to those proposed in the nonroad large compression-ignition (CI) rule, 2 but reduced from the on-highway program requirements. EPA requests comment on whether patterning the small SI engine information requirements after the nonroad large CI rule is appropriate for the manufacturers of small nonroad engines. In particular, EPA request comments on whether there are more efficient or more effective ways than those proposed for manufacturers to create, maintain, and report this information; whether electronic data interchange (EDI) is a common practice within this industrial sector; and whether EPA should consider using EDI or any other technology in its information collection to reduce the burden and costs of compliance. 2 See Control of Air Pollution; Emissions of Oxides of Nitrogen and Smoke From New Nonroad Compression-Ignition Engines at or above 50 Horsepower, 58 FR 28809 and 51595 (May 17, 1993). EPA is authorized under section 217 of the CAA to establish fees to recover compliance program costs associated with section 206 and 207. EPA will propose to establish fees for today's nonroad compliance program at some future time, after this rule has been promulgated and associated costs are determined. C. Program Description and Rationale This section describes several features of EPA's proposed Phase 1 small SI engine, vehicle and equipment compliance program and EPA's rationale for including these features in the program. Specific issues related to the proposed program which require in- depth discussion are presented in ``V. Discussion of Issues.'' 1. Applicability This rule would apply to new nonroad spark-ignition engines that have a gross power output at or below 19 kW and are manufactured after August 1, 1996 for use in the United States. New engines that would be covered by this rule are used in a large and varied assortment of vehicles and equipment including lawnmowers, string trimmers, edgers, chain saws, commercial turf equipment, small construction equipment, and lawn and garden tractors. EPA estimates that in the first year of regulation approximately 16,525,000 new engines, or approximately 19.4 percent of the in-use fleet, would be subject to this regulation. See Chapter 4 of the draft Regulatory Support Document (hereafter, draft RSD) for this rulemaking. 3 3 A copy of the draft RSD may be found in the docket for this rulemaking. EPA is proposing to require certification of new small SI engines, not the vehicle or equipment which houses such engines. First, small SI engines are used in a variety of applications. EPA believes it is inappropriate to mandate that a specific SI engine be manufactured for any given application. Second, the number of manufacturers and the diversity of vehicles and equipment in which small SI engines are used would present clear administrative problems. Regulating primarily by vehicle or equipment type would dramatically increase administrative cost associated with this rule with no comparable reduction in emissions. EPA is, however, proposing to require that vehicle and equipment manufacturers and importers use the appropriate certified nonroad engines in their vehicles and equipment. This requirement is discussed in ``V.H. Requirements Applicable to Vehicle and Equipment Manufacturers.'' EPA also considered, but rejected, the idea of including SI engines above 19 kW in this Phase 1 rule. Engines above the proposed 19 kW cutoff tend to exhibit different operating cycle characteristics than small SI engines. This difference necessitates the development of additional test procedures. EPA does not have sufficient data to undertake such a development within the timeframe of this Phase 1 rule. As part of the Sierra Club v. Browner settlement, EPA will determine by November 1996 whether to undertake a rulemaking which targets emissions from SI engines over 19 kW. Certain small SI engines which otherwise would be subject to this rule would be explicitly excluded from regulation: (1) Engines used to propel marine ``vessels'' as such term is defined in 1 U.S.C. 3 (1992). EPA is not including these engines because they are currently subject to safety regulations by the U.S. Coast Guard (See 46 U.S.C. 331 and 46 U.S.C. 4302.), and EPA is developing a separate rulemaking which will propose appropriate methods of regulating emissions from these engines. (2) Engines regulated by the Mining Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) for underground use. EPA is not including in this proposal engines that are used in underground mining or engines used in underground mining equipment as regulated by MSHA under the authority of 30 CFR parts 7, 31, 32, 36, 56, 57, 70, and 75. MSHA is responsible for protecting miners from unhealthy levels of air pollution in underground mines and has issued air quality standards for mines and standards for NO X and CO emissions from some types of mining equipment. Although EPA considered applying EPA regulations to these engines, EPA chose not to include them at this time in order to avoid dual regulation of these engines. (3) Engines used in motorcycles and regulated in 40 CFR part 86, subpart E. EPA has regulated emissions from motorcycles since 1978. A motorcycle means any motor vehicle with a headlight, taillight, and stoplight and having two wheels or three wheels and a curb mass less than or equal to 680 kilograms.
