FR940616-0-00009 FR940616-0-00003 This rule finalizes two proposed rules: the first proposed revisions in the maturity and reporting requirements for avocados grown in Florida; the second proposed reinstatement and revision of maturity requirements for imported avocados. Both proposed rules were published in the April 4, 1994, Federal Register [59 FR 15658 and 15661] and provided 30 days to interested persons to file comments. No comments were received. However, several typographical and printing errors were identified in both proposed rules as published. This final rule corrects the errors in Table I of both rules: (1) For the Booth 8 variety after October 10, the minimum diameter is changed from 33/16 to 31/16 inches; (2) for the Chica variety after October 3, the minimum diameter is changed from 31/16 to 34/16 inches. The Avocado Administrative Committee (committee) works with the Department in administering the order, and it meets prior to and during each season to consider recommendations for modification, suspension, or termination of the regulatory requirements for Florida avocados. The committee met December 8, 1993, and unanimously recommended that the shipping schedules for avocados be revised and that certain reporting requirements be temporarily suspended. Committee meetings are open to the public and interested persons may express their views at these meetings. The Department reviews committee recommendations, information submitted by the committee and other information, and determines whether modification, suspension, or termination of the regulatory requirements would tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act. Maturity requirements for avocados grown in Florida, based on minimum weights, diameters, and skin color, are specified in ยง915.322 [7 CFR 915.322], and are in effect on a continuous basis. These maturity requirements specify minimum weights and diameters for specific shipping periods for some 60 varieties of avocados, and color specifications for those varieties which turn red or purple when mature. The maturity requirements for the various varieties of avocados are different, because each variety has different characteristics. The maturity requirements for each avocado variety are based on maturity test results. These maturity requirements are designed to prevent shipments of immature avocados to the fresh market, especially during the early part of the harvest season for each variety. Providing fresh markets with mature fruit is an important aspect of creating consumer satisfaction and is in the interest of both producers and consumers. Fresh shipments of Florida avocados usually begin with light shipments of early varieties in May, and they continue until the following March or April, with heaviest shipments occurring from July through December.
