FR940831-2-00018 FR940831-2-00012 Notice of Intent To Prepare a Draft Environmental Impact Statement for Proposed Construction at the Massachusetts Military Reservation (MMR) AGENCY: Department of the Army, Department of Defense. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: This Notice of Intent is for the preparation of a Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for proposed Army and Air National Guard projects at the Massachusetts Military Reservation. The proposal includes renovation and rehabilitation of existing facilities, range improvements, demolition and construction of facilities, and development of ranges. Lead Agencies are: The Massachusetts Military Division and the National Guard Bureau. Various alternatives have been developed for consideration regarding the proposed projects at the Massachusetts Military Reservation. The following constitutes a list of those alternatives to be considered in the DEIS: (1) No action; (2) Relocation of actions on-site and (3) Alternative locations off-site. Resource categories that will be analyzed include: physical environment, water quality, groundwater, air quality, biological resources, land use, socioeconomic, noise, and cultural resources. SCOPING: The Massachusetts Military Division will conduct a public scoping meeting relating to the proposed actions. Public participation in the DEIS process is essential to assist the decision maker in defining the scope of analysis considered in the DEIS. Interested individuals, governmental agencies, and private organizations are invited to submit information and comments on this proposed action for consideration by the National Guard Bureau. Information that would assist the National Guard Bureau in analyzing the potential significant environmental consequences are solicited. This includes information on other environmental studies planned or completed in the area of the Massachusetts Military Reservation; other alternatives; potential impacts associated with the proposed action; and recommended mitigation measures. Concerned individuals and agencies may express their views either by writing to the designated point of contact or participating in a public scoping meeting to be held at a convenient location near the Massachusetts Military Reservation. The date, time and location for the meeting will be announced through letters, public notices, display advertisements and released to newspaper of general circulation a minimum of 15 days prior to the meeting. Those wishing to provide information or data relevant to the environmental analysis of the proposed actions or alternatives are encouraged to do so at the public scoping meetings. Upon completion, the DEIS will be available to the public. The availability of this document will be announced by means of public notices so that all interested parties may review and comment on the document. A public hearing to solicit public response to the analysis will also be scheduled. ADDRESSES: Interested parties can also furnish written comments or materials to Mr. Ernest B. Keating, Massachusetts National Guard, Chief Administrator, Unified Environmental Planning Function, Bldg 1204, Camp Edwards, MA 02542, (508) 968&hyph;5824 or 5908. Dated: August 3, 1994. Raymond J. Fatz, Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army (Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health) OASA (IL&E). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21525 Filed 8&hyph;30&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;08&hyph;M
