FR940513-0-00150 FR940513-0-00034 The Commission agrees that the requirements should direct consumers to the lumen disclosure, and facilitate consumers' understanding of the meaning of the various terms. In the Commission's experience, this will be facilitated by using simple, understandable language and putting the most important information first. Accordingly, the amended rule specifies that the required disclosures appear in the following order: (1) The term ``light output'' followed by the lumens figure, and, in close proximity to either of these, the term ``lumens;'' (2) The term ``energy used'' followed by the wattage figure, and, in close proximity to either of these, the word ``watts;'' and (3) The term ``life'' followed by the life in hours figure and, in close proximity to either of these, the word ``hours.'' In addition, the disclosures must conform to the following type size requirements: (1) The three numerical figures must be of equal size; (2) The terms ``light output,'' ``energy used'' and ``life'' must be of equal size; and, (3) The terms ``lumens,'' ``watts,'' and ``hours,'' must be of equal size but only approximately 50% of the size of the terms ``light output,'' ``energy used,'' and ``life,'' while still clear and conspicuous. See ยง305.11(e)(1)(B) and appendix K in ``Text of Amendments,'' below. The rules require that lamp packages contain an Advisory Disclosure to educate purchasers how to select the most efficient lamp that meets their needs. The required Advisory Disclosure is: To save energy costs, find the bulbs with the light output you need, then choose the one with the lowest watts. This statement must appear on the primary display panel of the lamp package, along with the required disclosures of lumens, watts and life. The Commission is not specifying the type size or style of this reference, but it must be clearly and conspicuously displayed. See ยง305.11(e)(1)(F) in ``Text of Amendments,'' below. 6. Disclosures in Catalogs In the NPR, the Commission proposed that required information be disclosed both on packages and in catalogs from which the lamp products may be purchased. 151 EPCA authorizes the Commission to require that information required on labels be contained in catalogs. 42 U.S.C. 4296(a) (1988). For consumers who purchase lamps through catalogs for either residential or commercial use, the catalog serves the same informational function as a package does for those who purchase the product off a store shelf. 151 58 FR at 60154&hyph;56. Most of those who commented on this issue generally supported the Commission's proposal. NEMA originally recommended against the Commission's proposal, arguing that the disclosures that NEMA had proposed were uniquely suited to the size and space constraints of packages, and did not necessarily translate well to disclosures in catalogs. 152 In its final comment, however, NEMA recommended requiring disclosure of all required information in catalogs, except lumens per watt and number of bulbs in the package. 153 OR DOE and WA SEO recommended that all required disclosures be required in ordering catalogs. 154 Home Depot recommended that the Commission clearly define ``catalog'' to differentiate between manufacturers' catalogs and retailers' advertising catalogs or circulars from which lamps can be ordered. 155 152 NEMA, G&hyph;3, 46&hyph;47. 153 NEMA (Supp.), G&hyph;10, 14. 154 OR DOE, GG&hyph;13, 9 (labeling disclosures for all products should also be required in catalogs from which these products are sold, whether at retail or wholesale; where a labeling requirement applies to entire categories of products in the catalog, the disclosure could be made once, prominently, at the very least on each page); WA SEO, GG&hyph;18, 4. 155 Home Depot, GG&hyph;5, 2. The Commission has concluded that the required disclosures are important to both commercial and residential purchasers of these two types of lamps, whether they are purchasing the lamps in a store or through a catalog. The Commission has determined, therefore, to require that all disclosures that ยง305.11(e) requires on packaging be made clearly and conspicuously in catalogs from which the lamps can be ordered, with the exception of the number of lamps in a package. The Commission is not requiring this last disclosure in catalogs because catalogs often offer lamps packaged in different ways. In some cases, lamps are offered in cartons containing smaller packages of several bulbs apiece. In others, lamps are offered in bulk quantities and the lamps are not shipped in retail-store-type packages. In both cases, the catalogs clearly disclose price and quantity with respect to the lamps described on their pages. In contrast, in some instances at point of sale, without actually opening a package, it is not clear how many lamps are inside.
