FR940407-2-00036 FR940407-2-00025 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission [Docket No. CP94&hyph;260&hyph;000] Algonquin Gas Transmission Co.; Intent To Prepare An Environmental Assessment for the Proposed Canal Lateral Project and Request for Comments on Environmental Issues April 1, 1994. The staff of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC or the Commission) will prepare an environmental assessment (EA) that will discuss environmental impacts of the construction and operation of facilities proposed in the Canal Lateral Project. 1 This EA will be used by the Commission in its decision-making process to determine whether an environmental impact statement is necessary and whether or not to approve the project. 1 Algonquin Gas Transmission Company's (Algonquin) application was filed with the Commission under section 7(c) of the Natural Gas Act. Summary of the Proposed Project Algonquin proposes to construct, own, and operate 4 miles of 18-inch-diameter pipeline, a meter station, valve site, and tap. Algonquin would use the facilities to transport up to 75,000 MMBtu of natural gas from Algonquin's existing G&hyph;111A valve site in Barnstable County, Massachusetts, to a valve site that would interconnect with nonjurisdictional facilities planned to be built by Canal Electric Company (CEC). CEC would construct 0.9 mile of nonjurisdictional 18-inch-diameter pipeline and a regulator station. The facilities would supply an electric generating station operated by CEC and Montaup Electric Company (MEC) in Sandwich, Massachusetts. The general location of these facilities is shown in appendix 1. 2 2 The appendices referenced in this notice are not being printed in the Federal Register . Copies are available from the Commission's Public Reference Branch, room 3104, 941 North Capitol Street, NE., Washington, DC 20426, or call (202) 208&hyph;1371. Copies of the appendices were sent to all those receiving this notice in the mail. Land Requirements for Construction The proposed lateral would be built adjacent and parallel to existing rights-of-way. Algonquin intends to use a construction right-of-way that would vary between 40 and 50 feet during construction within roads, 70 feet for crossing wetlands and waterbodies, 80 feet for upland areas, and 85 feet where additional spoil pile placement would be required due to site specific constraints. About 50 feet of the planned widths would use existing right-of-way; however, about 25 feet of new clearing would be required in many areas. Following construction, about 30 feet of the construction right-of-way would be allowed to revert to its former land use. Additional working space would be required adjacent to the planned construction right-of-way at road and stream crossings. The EA Process The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requires the Commission to take into account the environmental impacts that could result from an action whenever it considers the issuance of a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity. NEPA also requires us to discover and address concerns the public may have about proposals. We call this ``scoping''. The main goal of the scoping process is to focus the analysis in the EA on the important environmental issues. By this Notice of Intent, the Commission requests public comments on the scope of the issues it will address in the EA. All comments received are taken into account during the preparation of the EA. The EA will discuss impacts that could occur as a result of the construction and operation of the proposed project under these general headings: •Geology and soils. •Water resources, fisheries, and wetlands. •Vegetation and wildlife. •Endangered and threatened species. •Land use. •Cultural resources. •Hazardous waste. We will also evaluate possible alternatives to the proposed project or portions of the project, and make recommendations on how to lessen or avoid impacts on the various resource areas. Our independent analysis of the issues will be in the EA. Depending on the comments received during the scoping process, the EA may be published and mailed to Federal, state, and local agencies, public interest groups, interested individuals, affected landowners, newspapers, libraries, and the Commission's official service list for this proceeding. A comment period will be allotted for review if the EA is published. We will consider all comments on the EA before we recommend that the Commission approve or not approve the project.
