FR940902-1-00062 FR940902-1-00011 (i) A firearm may be used to take beaver with a trapping license in Unit 8 from Nov. 10&hyph;Apr. 30. (ii) [Reserved]. ␣ 1Harvest limits 1Open season HUNTING DEER: Unit 8_that portion of Kodiak Island north of a line from the head of Settlers Cove to Crescent Lake (57 ○ 52' N. lat., 152 ○ 58' W. long.), and east of a line from the outlet of Crescent Lake to Mount Ellison Peak and from Mount Ellison Peak to Pokati Point at Whale Passage, and that portion of Kodiak Island east of a line from the mouth of Saltery Creek to the mouth at Elbow Creek, and adjacent small islands in Chiniak Bay_1 deer; however, antlerless deer may be taken only from Oct. 25&hyph;Oct. 31 Aug. 1&hyph;Oct. 31. Unit 8_that portion of Kodiak Island and adjacent islands south and west of a line from the head of Terror Bay to the head of the south-western most arm of Ugak Bay_5 deer; however, antlerless deer may be taken only from Oct. 1&hyph;Dec. 31 Aug. 1&hyph;Dec. 31. Remainder of Unit 8_5 deer; however, antlerless deer may be taken only from Oct. 1&hyph;Dec. 31; no more than 1 antlerless deer may be taken from Oct. 1&hyph;Nov. 30 Aug. 1&hyph;Dec. 31. FOX, RED (including Cross, Black and Silver Phases): No limit Nov. 10&hyph;Mar. 31. HARE (Snowshoe and Tundra): No limit July 1&hyph;June 30. PTARMIGAN (Rock, Willow, and White-tailed): 20 per day, 40 in possession Aug. 10&hyph;Apr. 30. TRAPPING BEAVER: 30 beaver per season Nov. 10_Apr. 30. FOX, RED (including Cross, Black and Silver Phases): No limit Nov. 10&hyph;Mar. 31. MARTEN: No limit Nov. 10&hyph;Jan. 31. MINK AND WEASEL: No limit Nov. 10&hyph;Jan. 31. MUSKRAT: No limit Nov. 10&hyph;June 10. OTTER: No limit Nov. 10&hyph;Jan. 31 (9) Unit 9. (i) Unit 9 consists of the Alaska Peninsula and adjacent islands including drainages east of False Pass, Pacific Ocean drainages west of and excluding the Redoubt Creek drainage; drainages into the south side of Bristol Bay, drainages into the north side of Bristol Bay east of Etolin Point, and including the Sanak and Shumagin Islands: (A) Unit 9(A) consists of that portion of Unit 9 draining into Shelikof Strait and Cook Inlet between the southern boundary of Unit 16 (Redoubt Creek) and the northern boundary of Katmai National Park and Preserve; (B) Unit 9(B) consists of the Kvichak River drainage; (C) Unit 9(C) consists of the Alagnak (Branch) River drainage, the Naknek River drainage, and all land and water within Katmai National Park and Preserve; (D) Unit 9(D) consists of all Alaska Peninsula drainages west of a line from the southernmost head of Port Moller to the head of American Bay including the Shumagin Islands and other islands of Unit 9 west of the Shumagin Islands; (E) Unit 9(E) consists of the remainder of Unit 9; (ii) In the following areas, the taking of wildlife for subsistence uses is prohibited or restricted on public lands: (A) Katmai National Park is closed to all subsistence uses; (B) The use of motorized vehicles, excluding aircraft, boats, or snowmobiles used for hunting and transporting a hunter or harvested animal parts, is prohibited from Aug. 1&hyph;Nov. 30 in the Naknek Controlled Use Area, which includes all of Unit 9(C) within the Naknek River drainage upstream from and including the King Salmon Creek drainage; however, this restriction does not apply to a motorized vehicle on the Naknek-King Salmon, Lake Camp, and Rapids Camp roads and on the King Salmon Creek trail, and on frozen surfaces of the Naknek River and Big Creek. (C) A firearm may be used to take beaver in Unit 9(B) under a trapping license from April 1&hyph;May 31. (D) Unit 9(B) (Nondalton residents only) is open to brown bear hunting by Federal registration permit in lieu of a resident tag; no resident tag is required for taking a brown bear in Unit 9(B), provided that the hunter has obtained a Federal registration permit prior to hunting. (E) The taking by residents of Nondalton of up to 6 bull moose per regulatory year in Unit 9(B) is allowed for ceremonial potlatches, under the terms of a Federal registration permit. Bull moose may be taken from July 1 through June 30. Permits will be issued to individuals only at the request of a local organization. This 6 moose limit is not cumulative with that permitted for potlatches by the State.
