FR940414-2-00129 FR940414-2-00080 8. The Applicants have adequate facilities in place to ensure implementation of the methodology and procedures for calculating the net asset value and dividends and distributions of the various classes of shares and the proper allocation of expenses among the classes of shares and this representation has been concurred with by the Independent Examiner in an initial report referred to in condition (7) above and will be concurred with by the Independent Examiner, or an appropriate substitute Independent Examiner, on an ongoing basis at least annually in the ongoing reports referred to in condition (7) above. The Applicants will take immediate corrective action if the Independent Examiner, or appropriate substitute Independent Examiner, does not so concur in the ongoing reports. 9. The prospectus of the Trust will include a statement to the effect that a salesperson and any other person entitled to receive any compensation for selling or servicing Trust shares may receive different compensation with respect to one particular class of shares over another in the Trust. 10. The Distributor will adopt compliance standards as to when shares of a particular class may appropriately be sold to particular investors. The Applicants will require all persons selling shares of the Trust to agree to conform to these standards. 11. The conditions pursuant to which the exemptive order is granted and the duties and responsibilities of the Trustees of the Trust with respect to the Multi-Class Plan will be set forth in guidelines that will be furnished to the Trustees. 12. Each Series will disclose the respective expenses, performance data, distribution arrangements, services, fees, sales loads, CDSCs and exchange privileges applicable to each class of shares in every prospectus, regardless of whether all classes of shares are offered through each prospectus. Each Series will disclose the respective expenses and performance data applicable to each class of shares in every shareholder report. The shareholder reports will contain, in the statement of assets and liabilities and statement of operations, information related to the Series as a whole generally and not on a per class basis. Each Series' per share data, however, will be prepared on a per class basis with respect to the classes of shares of the Series. To the extent any advertisement or sales literature describes the expenses or performance data applicable to any class of shares, it will disclose the respective expenses and/or performance data applicable to all classes of shares. The information provided by the Applicants for publication in any newspaper or similar listing of the Series' net asset values and public offering prices will present each class of shares separately. 13. The Applicants acknowledge that the grant of the exemptive order requested by the application will not imply Commission approval, authorization or acquiescence in any particular level of payments that the Trust may make pursuant to any of its Rule 12b&hyph;1 Plans in reliance on the exemptive order. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9018 Filed 4&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
