FR940525-1-00086 FR940525-1-00008 (g) Fruits and vegetables and cancer _(1) Relationship between substances in diets low in fat and high in fruits and vegetables and cancer risk. (i) Cancer is a constellation of more than 100 different diseases, each characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells. Cancer has many causes and stages in its development. Both genetic and environmental risk factors may affect the risk of cancer. Risk factors include a family history of a specific type of cancer, cigarette smoking, alcohol consumption, overweight and obesity, ultraviolet or ionizing radiation, exposure to cancer-causing chemicals, and dietary factors. (ii) Although the specific roles of the numerous potentially protective substances in plant foods are not yet understood, many studies have shown that diets high in plant foods are associated with reduced risk of some types of cancers. These studies correlate diets rich in fruits and vegetables and nutrients from these diets, such as vitamin C, vitamin A, and dietary fiber, with reduced cancer risk. Persons consuming these diets frequently have high intakes of these nutrients. Currently there is not scientific agreement as to whether the observed protective effects of fruits and vegetables against cancer are due to a combination of the nutrient components of diets rich in fruits and vegetables, including but not necessarily limited to dietary fiber, vitamin A as beta -carotene, and vitamin C, to displacement of fat from such diets, or to intakes of other substances in these foods which are not nutrients but may be protective against cancer risk. (2) Significance of the relationship between consumption of diets low in fat and high in fruits and vegetables and risk of cancer. (i) Cancer is ranked as a leading cause of death in the United States. The overall economic costs of cancer, including direct health care costs and losses due to morbidity and mortality, are very high. (ii) U.S. diets tend to be high in fat and low in fruits and vegetables. Studies in various parts of the world indicate that populations who habitually consume a diet high in plant foods have lower risk of some cancers. These diets are generally low in fat and rich in many nutrients, including but not limited to, dietary fiber, vitamin A as beta -carotene, and vitamin C. Current dietary guidelines from the Federal Government and nationally recognized health professional organizations recommend decreased consumption of fats (less than 30 percent of calories), maintenance of desirable body weight, and increased consumption of fruits and vegetables (five or more servings daily), particularly those fruits and vegetables which contain dietary fiber, vitamin A, and vitamin C. (3) Requirements. (i) All requirements set forth in §381.414 shall be met. (ii) Specific Requirements. (A) Nature of the claim. A health claim associating diets low in fat and high in fruits and vegetables with reduced risk of cancer may be made on the label or labeling of a poultry product described in paragraph (g)(3)(ii)(B) of this section; Provided, That: ( 1 ) The claim states that diets low in fat and high in fruits and vegetables ``may'' or ``might'' reduce the risk of some cancers; ( 2 ) In specifying the disease, the claim uses the terms ``some types of cancer'' or ``some cancers''; ( 3 ) The claim characterizes fruits and vegetables as foods that are low in fat and may contain vitamin A, vitamin C, and dietary fiber; ( 4 ) The claim characterizes the product bearing the claim as containing one or more of the following, for which the product is a ``good source'' under §381.454: Vitamin A (as beta -carotene), vitamin C, or dietary fiber; ( 5 ) The claim indicates that the development of cancer depends on many factors; ( 6 ) The claim does not attribute any degree of cancer risk reduction to diets low in fat and high in fruits and vegetables; ( 7 ) In specifying the fat component of the labeled product, the claim uses the terms ``total fat'' or ``fat''; ( 8 ) The claim does not specify types of fats or fatty acids that may be related to cancer risk; ( 9 ) In specifying the dietary fiber component of the labeled product, the claim uses the terms ``fiber,'' ``dietary fiber,'' or ``total dietary fiber''; and ( 10 ) The claim does not specify types of dietary fiber that may be related to risk of cancer. (B) Nature of the food. ( 1 ) The product shall contain a fruit or vegetable; ( 2 ) The product shall meet the requirements for ``low fat'' as defined in §381.462, except that the product may meet the total fat and cholesterol criteria for ``extra lean'' in §381.462; and ( 3 ) The product shall meet the requirements for a ``good source'' of at least one of the following: Vitamin A (as beta -carotene), vitamin C, or dietary fiber as defined in §381.454 prior to any nutrient addition, except the basis for meal-type products as defined in §381.413(l) shall be per labeled serving size. (4) Optional information. (i) The claim may identify one or more of the following risk factors for development of cancer: Family history of a specific type of cancer, cigarette smoking, alcohol consumption, overweight and obesity, ultraviolet or ionizing radiation, exposure to cancer-causing chemicals, and dietary factors. (ii) The claim may include information from paragraphs (g) (1) and (2) of this section, which summarizes the relationship between diets low in fat and high in fruits and vegetables and some types of cancer and the significance of the relationship. (iii) The claim may use the word `` beta -carotene'' in parentheses after the term vitamin A when the vitamin A in the product bearing the claim is beta -carotene.
