FR941012-2-00149 FR941012-2-00099 Kraft discussed a container's ability to be used in the ``hot packing'' process as a possible indicator that a particular container was of a kind used for the packing or conveyance of goods. However, it is Customs understanding that most glassware is capable of being used in the ``hot packing'' process. Therefore, whether a particular container is capable of being used in the ``hot packing'' process, is of limited utility when determining whether it is classifiable as a container of a kind used for the packing or conveyance of goods. Customs proposes to continue to apply the standards outlined above with one addition. The proposed addition involves glass containers imported without their corresponding caps or lids. Based on observations of importations, Customs proposed position is that ``glass containers imported without their corresponding caps or lids'' is an additional physical characteristic that indicates that particular containers will be used for the conveyance or packing of goods. We realize that subheading 7010.90.50, HTSUS, provides for containers imported with or without their lids. However, Customs proposed position is that whether containers are, or are not, imported with lids is a distinct indication of their use. Preserving Jars of Glass Customs present position regarding the class ``preserving jars of glass'' is that it provides for various articles which are the typical size and shape of ``Mason-type'' jars. Whether a particular glass jar is a preserving jar is presently determined on a case-by-case basis. Customs does, however, consider volumes of between .23 liters and 2.2 liters and a shape and height of a typical Mason jar (e.g., not multi-sided) to be indicative, but not conclusive, physical characteristics of a preserving jar. This understanding is based on relevant HRLs and the ENs. In HRL 087727, dated September 21, 1990, Customs ruled that the class ``preserving jars of glass is limited to merchandise in the sizes and shapes of typical `Mason-type' preserving jars which hold the volumes typical of preserve jars (i.e., one half pint to one half gallon).'' Additionally, EN 70.10 pg. 933&hyph;934, states, in pertinent part, that ``[t]he heading also includes preserving jars of glass''. Preserving jars are not defined in the heading or ENs. A tariff term that is not defined in the HTSUS or in the ENs is construed in accordance with its common and commercial meaning. Nippon Kogasku (USA) Inc. v. United States, 69 CCPA 89, 673 F.2d 380 (1982). Common and commercial meaning may be determined by consulting dictionaries, lexicons, scientific authorities and other reliable sources. C.J. Tower & Sons v. United States, 69 CCPA 128, 673 F.2d 1268 (1982). The term ``preserving'' is described, in pertinent part, as ``[t]o prepare food for future use, as by canning or salting; to treat fruit or other foods so as to prevent decay''. Webster's II New Riverside University Dictionary, (1984). Based upon the above definition, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Extension Service, Complete Guide to Home Canning: Guide 1 Principles of Home Canning (Agricultural Information Bulletin No. 539&hyph;1, May 1989), and consultation with members of the home canning trade, Customs proposed position is that the principal use for the class ``preserving jars of glass'' is jars purchased and used for home canning only. Further, Customs understands that there are identifiable characteristics that are indicative, but not conclusive of the principal use of glass jars classifiable as ``preserving jars of glass''. These would include: Glass articles of any shape that are between .23 and 2.2 liter sizes, and are regular and wide-mouth ``Mason-type'', threaded, home-canning jars with self-sealing lids. Generally, the standard jar mouth opening is about 23/8 inches with wide mouth jars having 3 inch openings. ``Mason-type'' jars have narrower sealing surfaces and are tempered less than most commercial pint and quart-size jars. The common self-sealing lid consists of a flat metal lid held in place by a metal screw band during processing. The flat lid is crimped around its bottom edge to form a trough, which is filled with a colored gasket compound. These physical criteria are based on Customs understanding of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Extension Service, Complete Guide to Home Canning: Guide 1 Principles of Home Canning (Agricultural Information Bulletin No. 539&hyph;1, May 1989), pgs. 14&hyph;15 and discussion with members of the trade. Additionally, on page 11 of the above mentioned bulletin, under the subtitle ``Equipment and methods not recommended'', this publication indicates that jars with wire bails and glass caps and one-piece zinc porcelain lined caps are not recommended for home canning. We note that these ``non Mason-type'' jars are often advertised and sold in sets of varying sizes for use in the storage of goods in the home. Thus, it is Customs proposed position that they are classifiable under subheading 7013.39, HTSUS.
