FR940318-0-00086 FR940318-0-00015 C. Treatment of Accrued Interest on Qualified Indebtedness The proposed (and final) regulations generally provide that stock received by a creditor counts toward the 50 percent threshold of section 382(l)(5) only to the extent that the creditor receives the stock in full or partial satisfaction of qualifying indebtedness held for the requisite period. In response to a comment, the final regulations clarify that such indebtedness held by a creditor includes interest accrued thereon. D. Effective Date The proposed regulations were to apply to ownership changes occurring on or after the date the Treasury decision adopting the regulations was filed with the Federal Register. The preamble to the proposed regulations expressed an intent that taxpayers not be disadvantaged by the withdrawal of the earlier proposed regulations and requested comments on ways to achieve that result. The final regulations apply to ownership changes occurring on or after the date the Treasury decision adopting the proposed regulations is filed with the Federal Register. As commentators recommended, however, the final regulations allow elective retroactive application of the rules of the regulations to ownership changes that occurred on or after January 1, 1987. If the loss corporation elects retroactive application, it may also revoke any prior election made under section 382(l)(5)(H) to not have section 382(l)(5) apply. Special Analyses It has been determined that this Treasury decision is not a significant regulatory action as defined in Executive Order 12866. It has also been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these regulations, and therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Code, the notice of proposed rulemaking was submitted to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration for comment on its impact on small business. Drafting Information The principal author of these regulations is Diana MacKeen Fulton, Office of Assistant Chief Counsel (Corporate), Internal Revenue Service. However, other personnel from the IRS and Treasury Department participated in their development. List of Subjects 26 CFR Part 1 Income taxes, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 26 CFR Part 602 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Adoption of Amendments to the Regulations Accordingly, 26 CFR parts 1 and 602 are amended as follows: PART 1_INCOME TAXES
