FR941216-0-00032 FR941216-0-00011 Previous Federal Action The arroyo toad was first included by the Service as a category 2 candidate species in the September 18, 1985, Notice of Review of Vertebrate Wildlife (50 FR 37958). Category 2 applies to taxa for which information now in the possession of the Service indicates that proposing to list as endangered or threatened is possibly appropriate, but for which conclusive data on biological vulnerability and threat are not currently available to support proposed rules. The subspecies also was included as a category 2 candidate in the January 6, 1989, and November 21, 1991, Animal Notices of Review (54 FR 554 and 56 FR 58804, respectively). After publication of the most recent Notice of Review, the Service obtained substantial information on the biological vulnerability and the environmental threats to elevate this species to category 1. Category 1 species are those for which the Service possesses sufficient data to support proposals for listing. Most of the new information and analyses came from Dr. Samuel Sweet, University of California, Santa Barbara; Dr. Mark Jennings, California Academy of Sciences; and staff of the Los Padres National Forest. On December 30, 1992, (not January 12, 1993, as indicated in proposed rule (58 FR 41232)) the Service received a petition from Dr. Sweet and Dr. Mark Jennings to list the arroyo toad as endangered (Sweet and Jennings 1992). Section 4(b)(3)(A) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq ), requires to the maximum extent practicable, that the Secretary make a finding within 90 days of receipt of a petition, as to whether or not substantial information indicates the requested action may be warranted. If such a finding is made, the Service is directed to commence a review of the status of the species. Within 12 months of receipt of a petition found to present substantial information, the Secretary is further directed to make a finding that the petitioned action is warranted, not warranted, or warranted but precluded. In this instance, the preparation of the proposed rule was nearly complete at the time the petition was received, thus alleviating the need to commence the status review that the Service would typically start in response to a petition. On August 3, 1993, the Service published a proposed rule in the Federal Register (58 FR 41231) to list the arroyo toad as endangered. That proposal was based primarily on information provided by the petitioners, published literature, and contacts with various herpetologists. Summary of Comments and Recommendations In the August 3, 1993, proposed rule and associated notifications all interested parties were requested to submit factual reports or information relevant to a final decision on the listing proposal. Appropriate state agencies, county governments, Federal agencies, scientific organizations, and other interested parties were contacted and requested to comment. Notice of the publication of the proposal was published in the Santa Barbara News Press , Los Angeles Times , and the San Diego Union Tribune . Requests for a public hearing were received from four parties: the California Cattlemen's Association, the Newhall Land and Farming Company, Public Lands for the People, and United Water Conservation District. On September 9, 1993, the Service published a notice in the Federal Register announcing the hearing and extending the comment period until October 15, 1993 (58 FR 47428). The Service conducted a hearing on October 4, 1993, at the Minerals Management Service in Camarillo, California. Thirteen parties presented testimony. During the comment period, the Service received written and oral comments from 27 parties, including those of three Federal agencies, three State agencies, and 19 individuals or groups. The Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area (National Park Service), U.S. Forest Service, the U.S. National Biological Survey's National Ecology Research Center, Southwestern Herpetologists Society, Keep the Sespe Wild Committee, and the Environmental Defense Center were some of the eight commenters expressing support for the listing proposal. Sixteen commenters opposed the listing of the arroyo toad. Eight were neutral on the proposal but offered clarification or additional information. Written and oral statements obtained during the public hearing and comment period are combined in the following discussion. In addition, information submitted by the commenters, including updated locality and population data from the Cleveland, San Bernardino, and Los Padres National Forests, has been incorporated into this final rule. Opposing comments and other comments questioning the rule have been organized into specific issues. These issues and the Service's response to each are summarized as follows: Issue 1: One of the petitioners noted that the common name for the species, Bufo microscaphus , is southwestern toad, whereas the common name of the subspecies, B. microscaphus californicus , is arroyo toad. In the proposed rule the Service referred to B. microscaphus californicus as the arroyo southwestern toad. Service Response: The Service acknowledges the nomenclatural confusion in the proposed rule. The Service prefers to utilize common names of subspecies that also reflect the species to which it is presently assigned; such usage allows the general public to find information on both the full species and the listed subspecies. The common name of the subspecies appears as the ``arroyo southwestern toad'' in the rule but is usually referred to as the ``arroyo toad'' in the preamble text. Issue 2: Several commenters believed that there was insufficient scientific evidence to list the arroyo toad; that all the data on the species came from a single ``biased'' source; and that more studies should be conducted before a final decision on listing could be made.
