FR940617-2-00233 FR940617-2-00118 Personnel_Line 6a. Enter the total costs of salaries and wages of applicant/grantee staff. Do not include the costs of consultants, which should be included on line 6h, ``Other.'' Justification: Identify the project director, if known. Specify by title or name the percentage of time allocated to the project, the individual annual salaries, and the cost to the project (both Federal and non-Federal) of the organization's staff who will be working on the project. Fringe Benefits_Line 6b. Enter the total costs of fringe benefits, unless treated as part of an approved indirect cost rate. Justification: Provide a break-down of amounts and percentages that comprise fringe benefit costs, such as health insurance, FICA, retirement insurance, etc. Travel_6c. Enter total costs of out-of-town travel (travel requiring per diem) for staff of the project. Do not enter costs for consultant's travel or local transportation, which should be included on line 6h, ``Other.'' Justification: Include the name(s) of traveler(s), total number of trips, destinations, length of stay, transportation costs and subsistence allowances. Equipment_Line 6d. Enter the total costs of all equipment to be acquired by the project. For State and local governments, including Federally recognized Indian Tribes, ``equipment'' is non-expendable, tangible, personal property having a useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost of $5,000 or more per unit. For all other applicants, the threshold for equipment is $500 or more per unit. The higher threshold for State and local governments became effective October 1, 1988, through the implementation of 45 CFR part 92, ``Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and local governments.'' Justification: Equipment to be purchased with Federal funds must be justified. The equipment must be required to conduct the project, and the applicant organization or its subgrantees must not have the equipment or a reasonable facsimile available to the project. The justification also must contain plans for future use or disposal of the equipment after the project ends. Supplies_Line 6e. Enter the total costs of all tangible expendable personal property (supplies) other than those included on line 6d. Justification: Specify general categories of supplies and their costs.
