FR940118-1-00022 FR940118-1-00006 (3) A list of all persons expected to attend the meeting and their affiliation. §251.15 Transcripts of closed meetings. (a) All meetings closed to the public shall be subject either to a complete transcript or, in the case of §251.13(h) and at the discretion of the Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel, detailed minutes. Detailed minutes shall describe all matters discussed, identify all documents considered, summarize action taken as well as the reasons for it, and record all roll call votes as well as any views expressed. (b) Such transcripts or minutes shall be kept by the Copyright Office for at least 2 years, or for at least 1 year after the conclusion of the proceedings, whichever is later. Any portion of transcripts of meetings which the chairperson of a CARP does not feel is exempt from disclosure under §251.13 will ordinarily be available to the public within 20 working days of the meeting. Transcripts or minutes of closed meetings will be reviewed by the chairperson at the end of the proceedings of the Panel and, if at that time he or she determines that they should be disclosed, he or she will resubmit the question to the Panel to gain authorization for their disclosure. §251.16 Requests to open or close meetings. (a) Any person may request a Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel to open or close a meeting or disclose or withhold information. Such request must be captioned ``Request to Open'' or ``Request to Close'' a meeting on a specified date concerning a specific subject. The person making the request must state his or her reasons, and include his or her name, address, and telephone number. (b) In the case of a request to open a meeting that a CARP has previously voted closed, the Panel must receive the request within 3 working days of the meeting's announcement. Otherwise the request will not be heeded, and the person making the request will be so notified. An original and three copies of the request must be submitted. (c) For a CARP to act on a request to open or close a meeting, the question must be brought to a vote before the Panel. If the request is granted, an amended meeting announcement will be issued and the person making the request notified. If a vote is not taken, or if after a vote the request is denied, said person will also be notified promptly. Subpart C_Public Access to and Inspection of Records §251.21 Public records. (a) All official determinations of a Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel will be published in the Federal Register in accordance with §251.7 and include the relevant facts and reasons for those determinations. (b) All records of a CARP, and all records of the Librarian of Congress assembled and/or created under 17 U.S.C. 801 and 802, are available for inspection and copying at the address provided in §251.1 with the exception of: (1) Records that relate solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of the Copyright Office or the Library of Congress; (2) Records exempted by statute from disclosure; (3) Interoffice memoranda or correspondence not available by law except to a party in litigation with a CARP, Copyright Office or Library of Congress; (4) Personnel, medical or similar files whose disclosure would be an invasion of personal privacy; (5) Communications among arbitrators of a Panel concerning the drafting of decisions, opinions, reports, and findings on any Panel matter or proceeding;
