FR940705-2-00234 FR940705-2-00091 Appendix P&hyph;II&hyph;D&hyph;2&hyph;c&hyph;(1). An individual supply and exhaust air ventilation system shall be provided. The system shall maintain pressure differentials and directional airflow as required to assure inward (or zero) airflow from areas outside of the greenhouse. Differential pressure transducers shall be used to sense pressure levels. If a system malfunctions, the transducers shall sound an alarm. A backup source of power should be considered. The supply and exhaust airflow shall be interlocked to assure inward (or zero) airflow at all times. The integrity of the greenhouse shall have an air leak rate (decay rate) not to exceed 7 percent per minute (logarithm of pressure against time) over a 20-minute period at 2 inches of water gauge pressure. Nominally, this is 0.05 inches of water gauge pressure loss in 1 minute at 2 inches water gauge pressure. Appendix P&hyph;II&hyph;D&hyph;2&hyph;c&hyph;(2). Exhaust air from the greenhouse facility shall be filtered through high efficiency particulate air/HEPA filters and discharged to the outside and dispersed away from occupied buildings and air intakes. Filter chambers shall be designed to allow in situ decontamination before filters are removed and to facilitate certification testing after they are replaced. HEPA filters shall be provided to treat air supplied to the greenhouse facility. HEPA filters shall be certified annually. Appendix P&hyph;II&hyph;D&hyph;2&hyph;d. Other (BL4&hyph;P) Appendix P&hyph;II&hyph;D&hyph;2&hyph;d&hyph;(1). Sewer vents and other ventilation lines contain high efficiency particulate air/HEPA filters. HEPA filters shall be certified annually. Appendix P&hyph;II&hyph;D&hyph;2&hyph;d&hyph;(2). A pass-through dunk tank, fumigation chamber, or an equivalent method of decontamination shall be provided to ensure decontamination of materials and equipment that cannot be decontaminated in the autoclave. Appendix P&hyph;II&hyph;D&hyph;2&hyph;d&hyph;(3). Liquid effluent from sinks, floors, and autoclave chambers shall be decontaminated by heat or chemical treatment before being released from the maximum containment greenhouse facility. Liquid wastes from shower rooms and toilets may be decontaminated by heat or chemical treatment. Autoclave and chemical decontamination of liquid wastes shall be evaluated by appropriate standard procedures for autoclaved wastes. Decontamination shall be evaluated mechanically and biologically using a recording thermometer and an indicator microorganism with a defined heat susceptibility pattern. If liquid wastes are decontaminated with chemical disinfectants, the chemicals used must have demonstrated efficacy against the target or indicator microorganisms. Appendix P&hyph;II&hyph;D&hyph;2&hyph;d&hyph;(4). If there is a central vacuum system, it shall not serve areas outside of the greenhouse facility. In-line high efficiency particulate air/HEPA filters shall be placed as near as practicable to each use point or vacuum service cock. Other liquid and gas services to the greenhouse facility shall be protected by devices that prevent back-flow. HEPA filters shall be certified annually. Appendix P&hyph;III. Biological Containment Practices Appropriate selection of the following biological containment practices may be used to meet the containment requirements for a given organism. The present list is not exhaustive; there may be other ways of preventing effective dissemination that could possibly lead to the establishment of the organism or its genetic material in the environment resulting in deleterious consequences to managed or natural ecosystems. Appendix P&hyph;III&hyph;A. Biological Containment Practices (Plants) Appendix P&hyph;III&hyph;A&hyph;1. Effective dissemination of plants by pollen or seed can be prevented by one or more of the following procedures: (i) Cover the reproductive structures to prevent pollen dissemination at flowering and seed dissemination at maturity; (ii) remove reproductive structures by employing male sterile strains, or harvest the plant material prior to the reproductive stage; (iii) ensure that experimental plants flower at a time of year when cross-fertile plants are not flowering within the normal pollen dispersal range of the experimental plant; or (iv) ensure that cross-fertile plants are not growing within the known pollen dispersal range of the experimental plant. Appendix P&hyph;III&hyph;B. Biological Containment Practices (Microorganisms) Appendix P&hyph;III&hyph;B&hyph;1. Effective dissemination of microorganisms beyond the confines of the greenhouse can be prevented by one or more of the following procedures: (i) Confine all operations to injections of microorganisms or other biological procedures (including genetic manipulation) that limit replication or reproduction of viruses and microorganisms or sequences derived from microorganisms, and confine these injections to internal plant parts or adherent plant surfaces; (ii) ensure that organisms, which can serve as hosts or promote the transmission of the virus or microorganism, are not present within the farthest distance that the airborne virus or microorganism may be expected to be effectively disseminated; (iii) conduct experiments at a time of year when plants that can serve as hosts are either not growing or are not susceptible to productive infection; (iv) use viruses and other microorganisms or their genomes that have known arthropod or animal vectors, in the absence of such vectors; (v) use microorganisms that have an obligate association with the plant; or (vi) use microorganisms that are genetically disabled to minimize survival outside of the research facility and whose natural mode of transmission requires injury of the target organism, or assures that inadvertent release is unlikely to initiate productive infection of organisms outside of the experimental facility. Appendix P&hyph;III&hyph;C. Biological Containment Practices (Macroorganisms) Appendix P&hyph;III&hyph;C&hyph;1. Effective dissemination of arthropods and other small animals can be prevented by using one or more of the following procedures: (i) Use non- flying, flight-impaired, or sterile arthropods; (ii) use non-motile or sterile strains of small animals; (iii) conduct experiments at a time of year that precludes the survival of escaping organisms; (iv) use animals that have an obligate association with a plant that is not present within the dispersal range of the organism; or (v) prevent the escape of organisms present in run-off water by chemical treatment or evaporation of run-off water. Appendix Q. Physical and Biological Containment for Recombinant DNA Research Involving Animals Appendix Q specifies containment and confinement practices for research involving whole animals, both those in which the animal's genome has been altered by stable introduction of recombinant DNA, or DNA derived therefrom, into the germ-line (transgenic animals) and experiments involving viable recombinant DNA-modified microorganisms tested on whole animals. The appendix applies to animal research activities with the following modifications:
