FR940616-0-00095 FR940616-0-00011 Response. The Department believes that part of the confusion concerning §9.152 results from the fact that the subheadings were inadvertently omitted at the time of publication of the part 9 proposed rule. Paragraph (a) of §9.152 should be titled ``Substantial Alterations,'' and paragraph (b) of this section should be titled ``Other Alterations.'' The final rule includes these subheadings which indicates the extent of the provider's responsibility to modify existing housing. The Department believes that no further revisions to this section are necessary. The issue raised by the commenter, like the issue in the preceding comment, was the subject of considerable public comment at the time of publication of the proposed part 8 rule. ( See 24 CFR 20224.) The Department believes that the lack of substantial public comment on §9.152(b), which is identical to §8.23(b), indicates that the provisions of this section are not confusing for the majority of HUD program participants. Accordingly, except for the inclusion of the subheadings, the Department declines to amend the language in this section. Distribution of Accessible Dwelling Units (§9.153) This section requires accessible units to be distributed throughout projects ``to the maximum extent feasible and subject to reasonable health and safety requirements''. Comment: Eliminate Language Concerning ``To the Maximum Extent Feasible''. Two commenters recommended that the Department delete the language beginning ``to the maximum extent feasible.'' The commenters stated that the Fair Housing Act prohibits segregating all tenants with disabilities into one area or into one part of a building. Response. The language in §9.153 is identical to the language in §8.26 of HUD's section 504 regulation for federally assisted programs. Section 8.26 was the subject of considerable public comment following publication of the part 8 proposed rule. ( See 53 FR 20226.) The commenters on the part 8 rule expressed concerns similar to those expressed by the commenters on this rule. In the preamble to the part 8 proposed rule, the Department stated that this provision does not allow ``the unnecessary segregation of qualified individuals with disabilities'' (53 FR 20226). The Department reaffirms that prohibition here, and notes that this prohibition is contained in §9.130(b)(1)(iv), which prohibits the agency from providing different or separate housing, aid, benefits, or services to individuals with disabilities, or to any class of individuals with disabilities than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified individuals with disabilities with housing, aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others. Occupancy of Accessible Dwelling Units (§9.154) Section 9.154(b) provides that when offering an accessible unit to an applicant who is not disabled and does not require the accessibility features of the unit, the Department may require the applicant to agree (and may incorporate this agreement in the lease) to move to a non-accessible unit when available. Comment: Department Should Require All Leases to Incorporate ``Agreement to Move'' Clause as Standard Practice. One commenter recommended that the Department incorporate this provision in the lease as standard practice. Response. The Department believes that it is unnecessary to require that this provision be incorporated in the lease as standard practice. The Department believes that the language in §9.154, which provides that this provision may be incorporated in the lease is adequate. The Department notes that this language was contained in §8.26 of HUD's part 8 interim rule published on May 6, 1983 (48 FR 20655) and was retained in §8.27(b) of the part 8 final rule, published on June 2, 1988 (53 FR 20240). Because this provision has been in HUD's section 504 regulations for approximately 10 years, the Department believes that HUD managers are aware that they are legally empowered to_and will_require an applicant without disabilities to agree to move to a non-accessible unit when one becomes available. Housing Adjustments (§9.155) This section requires the Department to modify its housing policies and practices to ensure that they do not limit the participation of tenants with disabilities. Comment: New Housing Policies Implemented In Response to Fair Housing Act Should be Included in §9.155. One commenter stated that since the passage of both section 504 and the Fair Housing Act, HUD has changed some of its housing policies, as for example, making FHA mortgages available to non-profit organizations for the purchase of single-family homes that are to be used by groups of unrelated tenants with disabilities. The commenter recommended that these new policies be listed in the regulation. Response. The Department does not believe that the part 9 rule is the proper place to enunciate any policy revisions resulting from the Fair Housing Act. All new policies have been or will be announced in a more appropriate forum. Comment: Section 9.155(a) Should Include Reference to Reasonable Accommodation. Four commenters stated that the last sentence of §9.155(a) discusses fundamental alterations and undue financial and administrative burdens but not reasonable accommodation, which indicates that HUD has no duty to reasonably accommodate an individual's disability. Response. Again, the appropriate term, generally, for purposes of section 504 is ``reasonable modification.'' The reasonable modification issue has been raised in connection with other sections of the part 9 rule. The Department refers the commenters to its previous response on this issue as set forth in this preamble. Communications (§9.160) Section 9.160 would require HUD to take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with personnel of other Federal entities, applicants, participants and members of the public.
