FR941207-0-00010 FR941207-0-00002 The Department disagrees with the commenters that stated that the FOB price and the fee-for-service price represent the same figures. The FOB price represents the processor's cost of producing an item prior to shipment and delivery. FOB pricing includes the cost of all ingredients used in the manufacture of the product; the price reduction for donated food is not reflected in the FOB price. Fee-for-service, on the other hand, represents the cost of ingredients (other than donated food) labor, packaging, overhead, and other costs incurred in the conversion of the donated food into the specified end product. The net case price (the FOB price minus the commodity discount or refund for the donated food) and fee-for-service are equivalent prices. The Department believes that the definition of fee-for-service is correct as written in the proposed rule, and therefore, the definition is adopted without change in the final rule. Four comments, all in favor, were received in response to section 250.30(c)(4)(viii)(D) of the proposed rule which would require the value credits of any by-products to be listed on the end product data schedule. Two of these commenters stated that they currently require this information to be part of the processing agreement. This provision is adopted without change in the final rule. Only one comment, which was favorable, was received on section 250.30(e)(1)(iv) of the proposed rule which would establish new fee-for-service billing procedures. Distributing agencies have been using the proposed fee-for-service billing procedures for a number of years without problem pursuant to a policy memo dated March 22, 1989. Therefore, this final rule contains these procedures as proposed. Two commenters were in favor of section 250.30(e)(3) of the proposed rule which would restrict the sale of end products containing both substitutable and non-substitutable (meat and/or poultry) donated food through distributors to either the refund, hybrid, or alternate value pass-through system and nine commenters were opposed. Those who were opposed to the proposal wanted to have the option to approve the sale of end products containing both substitutable and non-substitutable donated food under fee-for-service arrangements. Additionally, several commenters were opposed to the use of the term ``sold'' in section 250.30(e)(3) of the proposed rule in regard to end products being ``sold'' to recipient agencies through distributors. They stated that fee-for-service end products should be delivered but not sold to a distributor. One commenter stated that the word ``sold'' implied that any quantity of end product can be purchased by any recipient agency. That commenter further said that this is in contrast to the actual availability of a commodity and the allocation process that is associated with non-substitutable commodities that is used by FCS and distributing agencies. Four comments were received on the impact that the proposal would make on end products manufactured from both substitutable and non-substitutable donated food and delivered through distributors. However, only one commenter provided a possible alternative to the proposed rule. That commenter stated that since distributing agencies, and ultimately recipient agencies, receive specific allocations of meat and poultry, the quantity of meat and poultry made available to a processor should be pre-assigned, based on a fair share apportionment and the recipient agency's choice. The pre-assigned end products may then be returned to the recipient agency through a distributor. This fee-for-service billing process through a distributor for all end products containing meat or poultry which are sold through a distributor would be accomplished by either: 1) a dual billing system through which the recipient agency is billed by the processor for the fee-for-service and the distributor bills for the storage and delivery of end products or 2) a system through which the processor bills separately for the fee-for-service and the distributor's storage and delivery charges. If these end products should also contain substitutable foods, that portion of the value pass-through could be handled as a refund or discount, indicated on the processor's invoice. Both types of information could be shown on the end product data schedule. The other three commenters pointed out the impact that the proposal would have without proposing alternatives. Their comments are as follows: 1) if the proposed rule results in prohibiting end products containing protein from being sold via a distributor, unless specified by a value pass-through system, it could result in processors leaving the program; 2) this proposed change may result in meat and poultry processors choosing not to utilize donated flour, oil, or other donated foods because they would be required to choose a value pass-through system other than fee-for-service; 3) the use of fee-for-service is necessary in the production of end products made with donated meat and poultry because of the difficulty in replacing the donated product and the prohibition against substitution; and 4) it is uncertain as to how the use of a refund or discount system instead of a fee-for-service could assure that there was no substitution of commercial food for non-substitutable donated food. Due to the concerns raised by the commenters opposed to the proposal, section 250.30(e)(3) of the proposed rule will not be adopted in the final rule, and processing contracts may continue to be made under fee-for-service arrangements when such end products are delivered and sold through distributors, regardless of whether they are manufactured with both substitutable and non-substitutable donated foods.
