FR941027-2-00011 FR941027-2-00008 Award Criteria and Proposal Review Process The criteria used to evaluate proposals submitted to the ATP and the proposal review process are documented in the Proposal Preparation Kit. Negotiation of Cooperative Agreements NIST reserves the right to negotiate project scope and funding levels with ATP cooperative research agreement recipients. Submission of Revised Proposals An applicant may submit a full proposal that is a revised version of a full proposal submitted to a previous ATP competition. NIST will examine such proposals to determine whether substantial revisions have been made. Where the revisions are determined not to be substantial, NIST reserves the right to score and rank, or where appropriate, to reject, such proposals based on reviews of the previously-submitted proposal. Transfer of Proposals NIST reserves the right to transfer a full proposal received in response to a General Competition invitation to a Program Competition underway in the same general timeframe if the subject matter of the proposal clearly falls within the scope of the Program Competition. NIST will not transfer proposals from Program Competitions to General Competitions. Applicants will be notified if and when a proposal is transferred from a General Competition to a Program Competition. Other Requirements, Requests, and Provisions No award of Federal funds shall be made to an applicant or recipient who has an outstanding delinquent Federal debt until either the delinquent account is paid in full, a negotiated repayment schedule is established and at least one payment is received, or other arrangements satisfactory to the Department are made. All for-profit and nonprofit applicants are subject to a name check review process. Name checks are intended to reveal if any key individuals associated with the applicant have been convicted of or are presently facing criminal charges such as fraud, theft, perjury, or other matters which significantly reflect on the applicant's management honesty or financial integrity. Unsatisfactory performance under prior Federal awards may result in an application not being considered for funding. If applicants incur any costs prior to an award being made, they do so solely at their own risk of not being reimbursed by the Government. Notwithstanding any verbal or written assurance that may have been received, there is no obligation on the part of the Department of Commerce to cover pre-award costs. Primary Applicant Certification All primary applicants must submit a completed form CD&hyph;511, ``Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters; Drug-Free Workplace Requirements and Lobbying,'' and the following explanation is hereby provided: a. Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension_Prospective participants, as defined at 15 CFR part 26, section 105 are subject to 15 CFR part 26, ``Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension'' and the related section of the certification form prescribed above applies; b. Drug-Free Workplace_Grantees (as defined at 15 CFR part 605) are subject to 15 CFR 26, subpart F, ``Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants)'' and the related section of the certification form prescribed above applies; c. Anti-Lobbying_Persons (as defined at 15 CFR part 28, section 105) are subject to the lobbying provisions of 31 USC 1352, ``Limitations on use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracting and financial transactions,'' and the lobbying section of the certification form prescribed above applies to applications/bids for grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts for more than $100,000, and loans and loan guarantees for more than $150,000, or the single family maximum mortgage limit for affected programs, whichever is greater; and, d. Anti-Lobbying Disclosures_Any applicant that has paid or will pay for lobbying using any funds must submit an SF&hyph;LLL, ``Disclosure of Lobbying Activities,'' as required under 15 CFR part 28, Appendix B. Lower Tier Certification_Recipients shall require applicants/bidders for subgrants, contracts, subcontracts, or other lower tier covered transactions at any tier under the award to submit, if applicable, a completed Form CD&hyph;512, ``Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion_Lower Tier Covered Transactions and Lobbying'' and Form SF&hyph;LLL, ``Disclosure of Lobbying Activities.'' Although the CD&hyph;512 is intended for the use of primary recipients and should not be transmitted to NIST, the SF&hyph;LLL submitted by any tier recipient or subrecipient should be forwarded in accordance with the instructions contained in the award document. A false statement on any application for funding under ATP may be grounds for denial or termination of funds and grounds for possible punishment by a fine or imprisonment as provided in 18 U.S.C. 1001. The ATP does not involve the mandatory payment of any matching funds from state or local government and does not affect directly any state or local government. Accordingly, the Department of Commerce has determined that Executive Order 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs'' is not applicable to this program. Recipients and subrecipients are subject to all Federal laws and Federal and Department of Commerce policies, regulations and procedures applicable to financial assistance awards. Applicants are hereby notified that any equipment or products authorized to be purchased with funding provided under this program must be American-made to the maximum extent feasible in accordance with Public Law 103&hyph;317, section 607 (a) and (b). Adequate justification will be required for any proposed purchase of equipment or products that are not American-made. Dated: October 21, 1994. Arati Prabhakar, Director, NIST. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26658 Filed 10&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;13&hyph;M
