FR940826-0-00092 FR940826-0-00017 Polyolefin Chemical Blend A is an acceptable substitute for CFC&hyph;11, CFC&hyph;12 and CFC&hyph;114 in polyolefin foams . Polyolefin Chemical Blend A is a proprietary combination of blowing agents submitted by a polyolefin foam manufacturer. (c) HFC&hyph;152a/Saturated Light Hydrocarbons C3&hyph;C6 Blends._HFC&hyph;152a/Saturated Light Hydrocarbons C3&hyph;C6 blends are acceptable substitutes for CFC&hyph;11, CFC&hyph;12 and CFC&hyph;114 in polyolefin foams. Both HFC&hyph;152a and saturated light hydrocarbons C3&hyph;C6 are flammable. Plant modifications may be necessary to accommodate this characteristic. Saturated light hydrocarbons C3&hyph;C6 are volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and are subject to control as such under Title I of the Clean Air Act. (d) Electroset Technology._The Electroset Manufacturing Technology is an acceptable substitute for CFC&hyph;11 blown rigid polyurethane and polyisocyanurate laminated boardstock foams. See discussion above. C. Solvent Cleaning 1. New Listing Decisions a. Acceptable Substitutes (1) Metals Cleaning (a) Trans-1,2-dichloroethlyene._Trans-1,2-dichloroethylene is acceptable as an alternative to MCF and CFC&hyph;113 in metals cleaning. (b) Volatile Methyl Siloxanes._Octamethylcyclotetrasiloxanes and decamethylcyclopentasiloxanes are acceptable alternatives to MCF and CFC&hyph;113 in metal cleaning. Evaluation of other VMS's is ongoing. (2) Electronics Cleaning (a) Trans-1,2-dichloroethlyene._Trans-1,2-dichloroethylene is acceptable is acceptable as an alternate to MCF and CFC&hyph;113 in electronics cold cleaning. (b) Volatile Methyl Siloxanes._Octamethylcyclotetrasiloxanes and decamthylcyclopentasiloxanes are acceptable alternatives to MCF and CFC&hyph;113 in electronics cleaning. Evaluation of other VMS's is ongoing. (3) Precision Cleaning (a) Trans-1,2-dichloroethlyene._Trans-1,2-dichloroethylene is acceptable as an alternative to MCF and CFC&hyph;113 in precision cleaning. (b) HCFC&hyph;123._HCFC&hyph;123 is an acceptable substitute for CFC&hyph;113 and MCF in precision cleaning. New toxicity data has led to an upward revision of the company set workplace exposure limit (AEL) of 30 ppm. The Agency believes that under normal conditions of use this limit is attainable. (c) Volatile Methyl Siloxanes._Octamethylcyclotetrasiloxanes and decamethylcyclo pentasiloxanes are acceptable alternatives to MCF and CFC&hyph;113 in precision cleaning. Evaluation of other VMS's is ongoing. D. Fire Suppression and Explosion Protection 1. Weight and Volume Equivalence of Halon Substitutes In the SNAP Rulemaking published March 18, 1994 (59 FR 13043), EPA included weight and volume equivalence data in the discussion of halon substitutes. This data was derived from either of two sources. EPA used manufacturer data when available, otherwise the data was taken from the background document entitled ``Characterization of Risk from the Use of Substitutes for Class I Ozone-Depleting Substances: Fire Extinguishing and Explosion Protection (Halon Substitutes).'' While this data was presented in the Rulemaking for informational purposes only to establish a relative concept, the variability of methodologies for calculating these values has generated some confusion in the regulated and user community. Therefore, at EPA's request, the Technical Committee of the Halon Alternatives Research Corporation has developed an agreed upon set of data for determining weight and volume equivalence of halon substitutes. The following table presents weight and volume equivalents for certain halon substitutes when compared to Halon 1301. The equivalents were calculated using a single, fuel-specific design concentration (heptane); therefore, they do not represent the exact weight or volume of the agent needed to protect any specific space against any specific hazard. The information used to calculate the equivalents was obtained from agent manufacturers and NFPA 2001, ``Standard on Clean Agent Fire Extinguishing Systems.'' Equivalents are included for general comparison and informational purposes only. Fire suppression agents must be evaluated in the context of the fire extinguishing system equipment with which they are used. Design concentration, and weight and volume equivalents are only meaningful when evaluated in specific system hardware configurations. This is especially important when comparing storage volume where storage container fill density varies with the equipment used. Agent fire suppression performance will vary with the system used and the detailed design of the system. Therefore, fire suppression agent manufacturers do not generally recommend design concentration as these are also a function of the system hardware in which they are used. Hence, these data are provided for general guidance only and do not reflect a recommendation for system design or a basis for rigorous quantitative comparison.
