FR941013-1-00097 FR941013-1-00014 In assessing the potential costs and benefits_both quantitative and qualitative_of these proposed regulations, the Secretary has determined that the benefits of the proposed regulations justify the costs. The Secretary has also determined that this regulatory action does not unduly interfere with State, local, and tribal governments in the exercise of their governmental functions. To assist the Department in complying with the specific requirements of Executive Order 12866, the Secretary invites comment on whether there may be further opportunities to reduce any potential costs or increase potential benefits resulting from these proposed regulations without impeding the effective and efficient administration of the Title IV, HEA programs. 2. Clarity of the Regulations Executive order 12866 requires each agency to write regulations that are easy to understand. The Secretary invites comments on how to make these regulations easier to understand, including answers to questions such as the following: (1) Are the requirements in the regulations clearly stated? (2) Do the regulations contain technical terms or other wording that interferes with their clarity? (3) Does the format of the regulations (grouping and order of sections, use of headings, paragraphing, etc.) aid or reduce their clarity? Would the regulations be easier to understand if they were divided into more (but shorter) sections? (A ``section'' is preceded by the symbol ``ยง'' and a numbered heading; for example, ยง682.410 Fiscal, administrative and enforcement requirements. ) (4) Is the description of the proposed regulations in the ``Supplementary Information'' section of this preamble helpful in the understanding of the proposed regulations? How could this description be more helpful in making the proposed regulations easier to understand? (5) What else could the Department do to make the regulations easier to understand? A copy of any comments that concern whether these proposed regulations are easy to understand should also be sent to Stanley Cohen, Regulations Quality Officer, U.S. Department of Education, 600 Independence Avenue, SW., (Room 5100 FB&hyph;10), Washington, D.C. 20202. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification The Secretary certifies that these proposed regulations would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Certain reporting, recordkeeping, and compliance requirements are imposed on guaranty agencies, lenders, schools, and States by the regulations. These requirements, however, would not have a significant impact because the regulations would not impose excessive regulatory burdens or require unnecessary Federal supervision. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 There are no information collection requirements contained in these proposed regulations. Invitation To Comment Interested persons are invited to submit comments and recommendations regarding these proposed regulations. All comments submitted in response to these proposed regulations will be available for public inspection, during and after the comment period, in room 4310, Regional Office Building 3, 7th and D Streets, SW., Washington, DC, between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday of each week except federal holidays. Assessment of Educational Impact The Secretary particularly requests comments on whether the proposed regulations in this document would require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. List of Subjects in 34 CFR Part 682 Administrative practice and procedure, Colleges and universities, Education, Loan programs-education, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Student aid, Vocational education. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.032, Federal Family Education Loan Program) Dated: September 30, 1994. Richard W. Riley, Secretary of Education.
