FR941006-2-00161 FR941006-2-00113 The Guideline establishes four deadlines for scholarship requests: November 1, 1994 for training programs beginning between February 1, 1995 and April 30, 1995; February 1, 1995 for programs beginning between May 1, 1995 and July 31, 1995; May 1, 1995 for programs beginning between August 1, 1995 and October 31, 1995; and August 1, 1995 for programs beginning between November 1, 1995 and January 31, 1996. Renewal Grants . There are two types of renewal grants available from SJI: Continuation grants (see sections III.G., V.C. and D., and IX.A.) and On-going support grants (see sections III.H., V.C. and D., and IX.B.). Continuation grants are intended to support limited duration projects that involve the same type of activities as the original project. On-going support grants may be awarded for up to a three-year period to support national-scope projects that provide the State courts with critically needed services, programs, or products. The Guideline establishes a target for renewal grants of no more than $3 million, a little more than 25% of the total amount available for grants in FY 1995. See section IX. Grantees should accordingly be aware that the award of a grant to support a project does not constitute a commitment to provide either continuation funding or on-going support. An applicant for a continuation or on-going support grant must submit a letter notifying the Institute of its intent to seek such funding, no later than 120 days before the end of the current grant period. The Institute will then notify the applicant of the deadline for its renewal grant application. See section IX. Special Interest Categories The Guideline contains 12 Special Interest categories, i.e., those project areas that the Board has identified as being of particular importance to the State courts. Four new categories have been added this year: ``Children and Families in Court'' (section II.B.2.e.); ``Resolution of New Evidentiary Issues'' (section II.B.2.g.); ``Eliminating Race and Ethnic Bias in the Courts'' (section II.B.2.i.); and ``Improving the Courts' Response to Gender-Related Crimes of Violence'' (section II.B.2.k.). The Guideline also solicits proposals to conduct two major national conferences: The National Symposium on Reducing Litigation Delay noted above and a National Symposium on Sentencing Issues. See section II.B.2.b.iv. Courts in States permitting capital punishment should also note the Institute's interest in testing the effectiveness of using special capital litigation law clerks to assist trial judges hearing cases involving the death penalty. See section II.B.2.l. Consultant Rates The Institute is committed to assuring that the compensation paid to consultants working under SJI grants is reasonable in terms of both the total amount paid to an individual consultant, and the amount paid for individual tasks. A recent internal review of consultant rates found that the number of consultants charging in excess of $300 a day has risen significantly in recent years. Although no changes in the Grant Guideline are required, the Institute will be undertaking changes in procedure (including Board participation in the review process and more detailed reports from applicants and grantees) to assure that the compensation paid consultants is commensurate with the nature and quality of the services to be performed; reasonable, in terms of the tasks performed and in total; and consistent with the public service mission of the Institute. Recommendations to Grant Writers
