FR940816-1-00093 FR940816-1-00012 The Secretary believes that earning a high school diploma or GED certificate should be the primary basis for qualifying to receive Title IV, HEA program assistance. The Secretary further believes that students who do not have those credentials and qualify to receive such assistance by taking a test should demonstrate through that test a level of verbal and quantitative skills at least comparable to the typical range of performance of students in those other two categories. To demonstrate this comparability, the Secretary proposes to establish as the passing score for each approved test one standard deviation below the mean (average) score achieved by students with high school diplomas who have taken the test within three years before the date on which the test was submitted to the Secretary for approval. (In very broad terms, the standard deviation describes the typical range of performance around the mean scores on a test.) The Secretary acknowledges that during negotiated rulemaking, the Secretary had proposed that the passing score would be the mean score of high school graduates who have taken the test within three years of the test being submitted for approval. Many of the regulatory negotiators had indicated that this passing score was too high for comparability purposes. Accordingly, in view of these comments, for the purpose of this proposed rule, the Secretary has proposed a lower passing score. The Secretary welcomes specific comments on the appropriate passing score that should be included in this regulation. Section 668.147␣ Additional criteria for the approval of performance based tests, tests for non-native speakers of English, modified tests for persons with disabilities, and computer-based tests; Section 668.148␣ Special provisions for the approval of assessment procedures for special populations for whom no tests are reasonably available; and Section 668.153␣ Administration of tests for students whose native language is not English or for persons with disabilities. The Secretary believes that special provisions should be made for both persons with documented disabilities and students whose native languages are not English. Therefore, the Secretary is proposing that, under certain circumstances, special testing procedures or instruments can be used for testing persons with disabilities and for testing students whose native languages are not English. These tests, of course, would have to be independently administered. Independent Administration of Tests In general, the Secretary has proposed a scheme under which approved tests are administered independent of the institutions that use the tests and test results to establish the eligibility of their students for Title IV, HEA program assistance. The Secretary has proposed an interlocking network of agreements between test publishers, test administrators, and institutions to achieve this result. The Secretary proposes that the test publishers will have primary responsibility for ensuring that their tests are independently administered. Under the proposed scheme, a test publisher will give its test directly or offer it through test administrators that it certifies. The test publisher will certify a test administrator when it determines the test administrator has the necessary training, knowledge, and skills to give its test and the ability and capacity to keep the test secure from release or disclosure. The test publisher will not provide its test to institutions or allow test administrators to provide its test to institutions. The test administrator may give a test only to a student who is attending, or is scheduled to attend, an institution that is independent of the test administrator. The test publisher will score the test and provide the student and the student's institution with a notice indicating whether the student has passed the test and the student's test score. The institution will be able to use the notice from the test publisher to determine whether the student qualifies as an eligible student for Title IV, HEA program assistance. Section 668.149␣ Agreement between the Secretary and a test publisher. The Secretary is proposing that if a publisher's test is approved, the test publisher would be required to enter into an agreement with the Secretary before an institution would be able to use the test to determine the eligibility of a student for Title IV, HEA program funds. The agreement between the Secretary and the test publisher would articulate the responsibilities of the test publisher with respect to ensuring the integrity and proper administration of the test. The agreement would provide that the test approved by the Secretary could be given to students only by those test administrators who are certified by the test publisher. Under the agreement, the test publisher would directly administer its test or would enter into agreements for test administration with test administrators who it determines are properly trained and possess the knowledge and skills necessary to test students in accordance with the test publisher's procedures and instructions. The test publisher would agree to score the test and maintain and make available for the Secretary's review the records of tests given by the test administrators it certifies. In addition, the test publisher would agree to provide the Secretary with an analysis of the test scores of tests given by test administrators for the purpose of determining whether the test scores produced any irregular pattern indicating that the test may not have been properly administered. If the test publisher finds, through an analysis of the test scores or by other means, that a test administrator did not properly give the test to students or failed to secure the test, the test publisher would be required to decertify the test administrator. Similarly, the Secretary would terminate the agreement with the test publisher if the test publisher failed to carry out the terms of the agreement.
