FR940902-0-00108 FR940902-0-00010 (c) On-the-job training payments to employers. (1) On-the-job training payments to employers are deemed to be in compensation for the extraordinary costs associated with training participants and in compensation for the costs associated with the lower productivity of such participants. Employers shall not be required to document such extraordinary costs or lower productivity (section 141(g)(1)). (2)(i) On-the-job training payments to employers shall not, during the period of such training, average more than 50 percent of the wages paid by the employer to OJT participants. (ii) On-the-job training payments to employers may be based upon scheduled raises or regular pay increases. (iii) On-the-job training payments may not be based on overtime, shift differential, premium pay and other nonregular wages paid by the employer to participants. (iv) On-the-job training payments may not be based upon periods of time such as illness, holidays, plant downtime or other events in which no training occurs. (3) Employers which provide classroom or vestibule training to meet the specific training needs of JTPA participants to equip them with education and knowledge necessary to the OJT occupation may be separately reimbursed for training costs, such as instructors and training material. (d) On-the-job training agreements. (1) Each OJT agreement shall, at a minimum, specify the occupation(s) for which training is to be provided, the duration of the training, the number of participants to be trained in each occupation, wage rates to be paid, the rate of reimbursement, the maximum amount of reimbursement, a job description or training outline that reflects what the participant will learn, and any other separate classroom training that may be provided. (2) The agreement shall provide that the employer will maintain and make available time and attendance, payroll and other records to support amounts reimbursed under OJT contracts. (e) Labor standards. OJT participants shall be compensated by the employer at the same rates, including periodic increases, as similarly situated employees, but in no event less than the higher of the minimum wage specified under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended or the applicable State or local minimum wage. Participants must receive the same benefits and have the same working conditions as similarly situated employees. (f) Suitability of participants. (1) Only those participants who have been assessed and for whom OJT has been determined as an appropriate activity in the participant's ISS may be referred to an employer for participation in OJT. (2) An individual referred to the JTPA program by an employer may be enrolled in an OJT program with such employer only upon completion of the objective assessment and individual service strategy in which OJT with such employer has been determined to be an appropriate activity and only if the employer has not already hired such individual. (3) OJT with the participant's previous or current employer in the same, a similar, or an upgraded job is not permitted. (g) Monitoring. (1) OJT agreements shall be monitored periodically on-site by the entity issuing the contract to assure that the validity and propriety of amounts claimed for reimbursement are substantiated by payroll and time and attendance records and that the training is being provided as specified in the agreement. (2) Brokering contractors shall conduct on-site monitoring of the OJT employers and other subcontractors to verify compliance with subcontract terms before making payments. (3) Nothing in this paragraph (g) shall relieve recipients and SDA's from responsibility for monitoring expenditures under the Act. (h) Employer eligibility. (1) OJT agreements shall not be entered into with employers which, under previous agreements, have exhibited a pattern of failing to provide OJT participants with continued long-term employment as regular employees with wages, benefits and working conditions at the same level and to the same extent as similarly situated employees. This prohibition does not apply to OJT agreements for youth in the program under title II&hyph;B who are returning to school. (2) Governors shall issue procedures and criteria to implement the requirement in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, which shall specify the duration of the period of loss of eligibility. The procedures and criteria shall provide that situations in which OJT participants quit voluntarily, are terminated for cause, or are released due to unforeseeable changes in business conditions will not necessarily result in termination of employer eligibility. (i) Brokered OJT. Each agreement with an OJT employer that is written by a brokering contractor (not written directly by the SDA/SSA or recipient) shall specify and clearly differentiate the services to be provided by the brokering contractor (including but not limited to outreach, recruitment, training, counseling, assessment, placement, monitoring, and followup), the employer and other agencies and subcontractors, including services provided with or without cost by other agencies or subcontractors. (j) Youth OJT. OJT conducted under title II&hyph;C shall meet the requirements of subpart H of part 628 of this chapter (628.804), as well as the requirements of this section. Where OJT is provided to youth concurrently enrolled under titles II&hyph;B and II&hyph;C, the source of funding for the OJT shall govern which requirements apply. (k) Employment and employee leasing agencies. (1) Definition. The terms employment agency and employee leasing agency mean an employer that provides regular, on-going employment (i.e., not probationary, temporary, or intermittent employment) in a specific occupation and, for a fee, places employees at the worksite of another employer to perform work for such employer. (2) Employment and employee leasing agencies that meet the other requirements of this section may be eligible for OJT agreements when the agreement specifies the source of training and specifies that the payments are for the extraordinary training costs of the entity providing the training. ยง627.245 Work experience. (a) Definition._Work Experience means a short-term or part-time training assignment with a public or private nonprofit organization for a participant who needs assistance in becoming accustomed to basic work requirements. It is prohibited in the private for-profit sector.
