FR940119-1-00026 FR940119-1-00007 (2) The use of motorized and mechanical equipment is permissible on designated National Forest trails subject to terms and conditions necessary for the safe use of such facilities and if such use is compatible with the management objectives set forth in Section 7 of the Act. (3) Use of mechanical equipment off designated Forest Service access roads, National Forest trails, and existing airstrips is permissible subject to terms and conditions necessary for the safe use of such equipment and if such use is compatible with the management objectives set forth in Section 7 of the Act. (4) Use of motorized equipment is prohibited off designated Forest Service access roads, National Forest trails, and existing airstrips unless it is reasonably necessary to attain one or more of the management objectives set forth in Section 7 of the Act. (b) Wilderness Lands. Except as provided for in Sections 4 (c) and (d) of the Wilderness Act and regulations at 36 CFR parts 261 and 293, the use of motorized and mechanical equipment is prohibited on Wilderness Lands. ยง292.45 Use of motorized and non-motorized rivercraft. The standards and guidelines of this section apply to the use of motorized and non-motorized rivercraft on the Wild and Scenic Rivers within the HCNRA. (a) The use of non-motorized rivercraft may be permitted subject to restrictions on numbers, duration, seasons, or other matters which may be deemed by the Ranger necessary to protect and enhance the values for which the rivers were designated wild and scenic or to ensure the safe use and enjoyment of the rivers. (b) The use of motorized rivercraft is prohibited, except on the Snake River. (c) The use of motorized and non-motorized rivercraft is subject to all Federal and State boating registration and safety laws. (d) The use of motorized or non-motorized rivercraft on the Snake Wild and Scenic River requires prior written authorization from the Ranger and may be subject to limitations on numbers, duration, seasons, or noise limits, or other restrictions which may be deemed by the Ranger necessary to protect and enhance the values for which the Snake River was designated wild and scenic or to ensure the safe use and enjoyment of the river. (e) In authorizing the use of motorized and non-motorized rivercraft on the Snake Wild and Scenic River, the Ranger must reasonably accommodate both private and commercial users of each type of rivercraft. (f) In authorizing the use of motorized and non-motorized rivercraft on the Snake Wild and Scenic River, the Ranger must ensure that the user capacity of the river is not exceeded. (g) In authorizing the use of motorized and non-motorized rivercraft on the Snake Wild and Scenic River, the Ranger shall seek to minimize, where practicable, conflicts between motorized and non-motorized rivercraft users and between both types of rivercraft users and all other users of the river. ยง292.46 Timber harvesting activities. (a) Other Lands. The standards and guidelines of this section apply to timber harvesting activities in the Other Lands category of the HCNRA. (1) Timber may be harvested in order to protect and enhance ecosystem health, wildlife habitat, or recreational uses; to reduce the risk of harm posed by hazard trees; or to respond to natural events such as wildfire, flood, earthquake, volcanic eruption, high winds, and disease or pest infestation. (2) Where authorized, trees may be removed by selective or intermediate cuttings. Openings created by the timber harvesting activity must be limited in size and number to the minimum necessary to accomplish the purpose of the harvest, and must blend with the natural landscape to the extent practicable. (b) Wilderness Lands. Except as provided for in Sections 4 (c) and (d) of the Wilderness Act and regulations at 36 CFR part 293, timber harvesting is prohibited on Wilderness Lands. ยง292.47 Mining activities. (a) Other Lands. The standards and guidelines of this section apply to mining activities in the Other Lands category of the HCNRA. (1) All mining activities are prohibited subject to valid existing rights. (2) The impact of mining activities including, but not limited to, drilling and the development of ingress and egress routes, must be minimized and directed away from Wilderness Lands and Wild and Scenic Rivers to the extent practicable.
