FR940418-2-00054 FR940418-2-00022 •Identification of and information from any other EIS or similar study (previous, on-going, or planned) relevant to the proposed licensing activities in the subject river basin. •Existing information and any data that would aid in describing the past and present effects of the project(s) and other developmental activities on the physical/chemical, biological, and socioeconomic environments. For example, fish stocking/management histories in the subject river, historic water quality data and the reasons for improvement or degradation of the quality, any wetland habitat loss or proposals to develop land and water resources within the basin. •Identification of any federal, state or local resource plans and future project proposals that encompass the subject river or basin. For example, proposals to construct or operate water treatment facilities, recreation areas, or implement fishery management programs. •Documentation that would support a conclusion that the project(s) does not contribute, or does contribute to adverse and beneficial cumulative effects on resources and therefore should be excluded for further study or excluded from further consideration of cumulative impacts within the river basin. Documentation should include, but not limited to: how the project(s) interact with other projects within the river basin or other developmental activities; results from studies; resource management policies; and, reports from federal, state, and local agencies. Comments concerning the scope of the environmental document should be filed by the deadline date. 5 a. Type of Application: Minor License. b. Project No.: 11433&hyph;000. c. Date filed: September 8, 1993. d. Applicant: Town of Madison, Department of Electric Works. e. Name of Project: Sandy River Hydroelectric Project. f. Location: On the Sandy River in the Towns of Starks and Norridgewock, Somerset County, Maine. g. Filed Pursuant to: Federal Power Act 16 U.S.C. 791 (a)&hyph;825(r). h. Applicant Contact: George Stoutamyer, Superintendent, P.O. Box 190, Madison, ME 04950, (207) 696&hyph;4401. i. FERC Contact: Mary C. Golato (202) 219&hyph;2804. j. Deadline Date for Interventions and Protests, and also for Comments, Recommendations, Terms & Conditions, and Prescriptions: June 6, 1994. k. Status of Environmental Analysis: This application is accepted for filing and is ready for environmental analysis at this time_see attached D4. l. Description of Project: The proposed project consists of the following features: (1) An existing dam 331.4 feet long and 14.9 feet high; (2) an existing reservoir with a surface area of 150 acres, a drainage area of 578 square miles, and a gross storage capacity of 1,050 acre-feet; (3) an existing intake canal; (4) an existing powerhouse containing two existing turbine-generator units with a total installed capacity of 547 kilowatts; (5) an existing 7.2- kilovolt transmission line; and (6) appurtenant facilities. The average annual generation for the project is 3,000,000 kilowatthours. The owner of the project facilities is the Town of Madison, Department of Electric Works. This is an unlicensed project. m. Purpose of Project: All project energy generated would be utilized by the applicant for sale to its customers. n. This notice also consists of the following standard paragraphs: A2, A3, A9, B1, and D4. o. Available Locations of Application: A copy of the application is available for inspection and reproduction at the Commission's Public Reference and Files Maintenance Branch, located at 941 North Capitol Street NE, room 3104, Washington, DC 20426, or by calling (202) 219&hyph;1371. A copy is also available for inspection and reproduction at Mr. George Stoutamyer, P.O. Box 190, Madison, Wisconsin 04950, at (207) 696&hyph;4401. p. Scoping Process: In gathering background information for preparation of the environmental document for the issuance of a Federal hydropower license, staff of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, is using a scoping process to identify significant environmental issues related to the construction and operation or the continued operation of hydropower projects. The staff will review all issues raised during the scoping process and identify issues deserving of study and also deemphasize insignificant issues, narrowing the scope of the environmental assessment as well. If preliminary analysis indicates that any issues presented in the scoping process would have little potential for causing significant impacts, the issue or issues will be identified and the reasons for not providing a more detailed analysis will be given. q. Request for Scoping Comments: Federal, state, and local resource agencies; licensees, applicants and developers; Indian tribes; other interested groups and individuals, are requested to forward to the Commission, any information that they believe will assist the Commission staff in conducting an accurate and thorough analysis of the site-specific and cumulative environmental effects of the proposed licensing activities of the project(s). Therefore you are requested to provide information related to the following items: •Information, data, maps or professional opinion that may contribute to defining the geographical and temporal scope of the analysis and identifying significant environmental issues. •Identification of and information from any other EIS or similar study (previous, on-going, or planned) relevant to the proposed licensing activities in the subject river basin. •Existing information and any data that would aid in describing the past and present effects of the project(s) and other developmental activities on the physical/chemical, biological, and socioeconomic environments. For example, fish stocking/management histories in the subject river, historic water quality data and the reasons for improvement or degradation of the quality, any wetland habitat loss or proposals to develop land and water resources within the basin. •Identification of any federal, state or local resource plans and future project proposals that encompass the subject river or basin. For example, proposals to construct or operate water treatment facilities, recreation areas, or implement fishery management programs.
