FR941025-2-00027 FR941025-2-00022 Arbitration Panel Decision Under the Randolph-Sheppard Act AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of Arbitration Panel Decision Under the Randolph-Sheppard Act. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given that on July 31, 1991, an arbitration panel rendered a decision in the matter of Minnesota Department of Jobs and Training, State Services for the Blind and Visually Handicapped v. Department of Veterans Affairs (Docket No. R-S/87&hyph;8). This panel was convened by the Secretary of Education pursuant to the Randolph-Sheppard Act (the Act), 20 U.S.C. 107d-1(b), upon receipt of a complaint filed by the Minnesota Department of Jobs and Training, State Services for the Blind and Visually Handicapped on January 15, 1987. The Randolph-Sheppard Act creates a priority for blind individuals to operate vending facilities on Federal property. Under section 107d-1(b), the State licensing agency (SLA) may file a complaint with the Secretary if the SLA determines that an agency managing or controlling Federal property fails to comply with the Act or regulations implementing the Act. The Secretary then is required to convene an arbitration panel to resolve the dispute. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: A copy of the full text of the arbitration panel decision may be obtained from George F. Arsnow, U.S. Department of Education, 600 Independence Avenue, S.W., Room 3230, Switzer Building, Washington, D.C. 20202&hyph;2738. Telephone: (202) 205&hyph;9317. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the TDD number at (202) 205&hyph;8298. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to the Randolph-Sheppard Act, 20 U.S.C. 107d-2(c), the Secretary publishes a synopsis of arbitration panel decisions affecting the administration of vending facilities on Federal property. Background The Minnesota Department of Jobs and Training, the SLA, filed an arbitration complaint under the Act stating that it had provided vending machine services at the St. Cloud Veterans Administration Hospital since 1977 pursuant to a contract with the Veterans Canteen Service (VCS) under which the SLA paid commissions to VCS. The contract expired in June 1986, and the SLA requested from VCS that it be given a priority to operate the vending machines under the Act. Subsequently, the SLA submitted to the Veterans Administration (now the Department of Veterans Affairs (DVA)) a non-competitive bid that did not include the payment of commissions to DVA by blind vendors. DVA denied the permit application on the grounds that the Act does not apply to DVA medical and domiciliary facilities served by the VCS, and, therefore, all potential contractors, including the SLA, had to comply with the DVA's competitive bidding procedures. On June 19, 1987, the U.S. Department of Education (ED), Rehabilitation Services Administration (RSA), convened an arbitration panel to hear this dispute. In conjunction with the filing of the arbitration complaint against DVA/VCS, the SLA obtained a Federal court injunction. On July 2, 1987, the court enjoined VCS from awarding a vending machine contract to anyone other than the SLA pending the completion of the arbitration panel's decision. In an Opinion and Order dated September 2, 1988, the arbitration panel convened by the Secretary (1) rejected DVA's claim that medical facilities served by VCS were exempt from the priority provisions of the Act, finding that the narrow exemption afforded VCS (and the military exchanges) from the income-sharing requirements of the statute did not incorporate a broader exemption from the priority provisions; and (2) found that both the Act and the VCS statute serve important public purposes and that the two statutes could be harmonized. The panel issued additional findings, conclusions, and orders as follows: the priority requirement of the Act is met when prior right or an opportunity exists for a licensed blind person to operate a vending facility. Normally this is accomplished through a permit application and approval process. However, in particular instances negotiated arrangements other than the standard permit application and approval process might be used that are mutually acceptable to all parties. While holding that VCS is not required to approve the SLA's permit application for vending machine services at the Medical Center, the arbitration panel maintained that VCS could not deny the SLA a priority for a licensed blind person to provide these services. The panel also held that the 17 percent commission rate on gross sales payable by the blind vendor, considering his income, was inequitable. Because of insufficient basis or guidelines in the record, the panel withheld prescribing any specific commission rate and ordered DVA to continue without interruption the existing arrangement under which the blind vendor provided vending machine services at the Medical Center. However, the panel ruled that commission payments were to be suspended until the SLA and the DVA could reach a new agreement or, in the absence of an agreement, until the panel issued a final award. The panel retained jurisdiction during a mandated six-month negotiation period. On February 10, 1989, DVA requested the panel to reconsider its decision, arguing that arbitration panels have no authority to issue binding rules and orders against Federal agencies and that contracting decisions made by the VCS Administrator are committed by law to that Administrator's sole discretion and are judicially unreviewable. On November 30, 1989, the panel issued an Interim Opinion and Directive. In this opinion, the panel rejected DVA's challenge to its authority to issue orders. The panel concluded that its powers under the Act were not limited to mere declaratory findings. The panel further ordered the parties to continue negotiations and to report back within 45 days if there were any unresolved issues at that time. The parties were specifically directed to present to the panel a joint submission of issues, if any, that remained unresolved.
