FR940930-2-00170 FR940930-2-00059 (4) Non-Native American-controlled organizations without a Native American advisory process. In the event such an organization is designated, it must develop a Native American advisory process as a condition for the award of a grant. The Chief, DINAP, will make determinations regarding hierarchy, geographic service areas, eligibility of new applicants and the timeliness of submissions. He may convene a task force to assist in making such determinations. The role of the task force is that of a technical advisory body. The Chief, DINAP, will ultimately advise the Grant Officer in reference to which position an organization holds in the designation hierarchy. Within the regulatory time constraints of the designated process, the Chief, DINAP, will utilize whatever information is available. The applying organization must supply sufficient information to permit the determination to be made. Organizations must indicate the category which they assume is appropriate and must adequately support that assertion. VI. Use of Panel Review Procedure A formal competitive process may be utilized under the following circumstances: (1) The Chief, DINAP, advises that a new applicant qualified for the second category of the hierarchy appears to be potentially significantly superior overall to an incumbent Native American-controlled, community-based organization with significant local Native American community support, and the incumbent has not been granted a waiver. (2) The Chief, DINAP, advises that more than one new applicant is qualified for the second category of the hierarchy, and the incumbent grantee has not reapplied for designation. (3) The Chief, DINAP, advises that two or more organizations have equal status in the third or fourth categories of the hierarchy, when there are no applicants qualified for the first and second categories, and no waivers have been granted. When competition occurs, the Grant Officer may convene a review panel of Federal Officials to score the information submitted with the Notice of Intent. The purpose of the panel is to evaluate an organization's capability, based on its application, to serve the area in question. The panel will be provided only the information described at 20 CFR 632.11 and submitted with the final Notice of Intent. The panel will not give weight to simple assertions. Any information must be supported by adequate and verifiable documentation, e.g., supporting references must contain the name of the contact person, an address and telephone number. The factors listed below will be considered in evaluating the capability of the applicant. In developing the Notice of Intent, the applicant should organize his documentation of capability to correspond with these factors. (1) Operational Capability_40 points. (20 CFR 632.10 and 632.11) (a) Previous experience in successfully operating an employment and training program serving Indians and Native Americans of a scope comparable to that which the organization would operate if designated_20 points. (b) Previous experience in operating other human resources development programs serving Indians or Native Americans or coordinating employment and training services with such programs_10 points. (c) Ability to maintain continuity of services to Indian or Native American participants with those previously provided under JTPA_10 points. (2) Identification of the training and employment problems and needs in the requested area and approach to addressing such problems and needs_20 points. (20 CFR 632.2) (3) Planning Process_20 points (20 CFR 632.11) (a) Private sector involvement_10 points. (b) Community support as defined in Part IX (1), Designation Process Glossary, and documentation as provided in Part I (5), General Designation Principles_10 points. (4) Administrative Capability_20 points. (20 CFR 632.11) (a) Previous experience in administering public funds under DOL or similar administrative requirements_15 points. (b) Experience of senior management staff to be responsible for a DOL grant_5 points.
