FR940810-1-00040 FR940810-1-00007 (b) Return of unnecessary reserve funds. (1) The Secretary may initiate a process to recover unnecessary reserve funds under paragraph (a)(1) of this section if the Secretary determines that a guaranty agency's reserve fund ratio under ยง682.410(a)(10) for each of the two preceding Federal fiscal years exceeded 2.0 percent. (2) If the Secretary initiates a process to recover unnecessary reserve funds, the Secretary requires the return of a portion of the reserve funds that the Secretary determines will permit the agency to_ (i) Have a reserve fund ratio of at least 2.0 percent under ยง682.410(a)(10) at the time of the determination; and (ii) Meet the minimum reserve fund requirements under ยง682.410(a)(10) and retain sufficient additional reserve funds to perform its responsibilities as a guaranty agency during the current Federal fiscal year and the four succeeding Federal fiscal years. (3)(i) The Secretary makes a determination of the amount of the reserve funds needed by the guaranty agency under paragraph (b)(2) of this section on the basis of financial projections for the period described in that paragraph. If the agency provides projections for a period longer than the period referred to in that paragraph, the Secretary may consider those projections. (ii) The Secretary may require a guaranty agency to provide financial projections in a form and on the basis of assumptions prescribed by the Secretary. If the Secretary requests the agency to provide financial projections, the agency shall provide the projections within 60 days of the Secretary's request. If the agency does not provide the projections within the specified time period, the Secretary determines the amount of reserve funds needed by the agency on the basis of other information. (c) Notice. (1) The Secretary or an authorized Departmental official begins a proceeding to order a guaranty agency to return a portion of its reserve funds, or to direct the return of reserve funds or assets subject to return, by sending the guaranty agency a notice by certified mail, return receipt requested. (2) The notice_ (i) Informs the guaranty agency of the Secretary's determination that the reserve funds or assets must be returned; (ii) Describes the basis for the Secretary's determination and contains sufficient information to allow the guaranty agency to prepare and present an appeal; (iii) States the date by which the return of reserve funds or assets must be completed; (iv) Describes the process for appealing the determination, including the time for filing an appeal and the procedure for doing so; and (v) Identifies any actions that the guaranty agency must take to ensure that the reserve funds or assets that are the subject of the notice are maintained and protected against use, expenditure, transfer, or other disbursement after the date of the Secretary's determination, and the basis for requiring those actions. The actions may include, but are not limited to, directing the agency to place the reserve funds in an escrow account. If the Secretary has directed the guaranty agency to require the return of reserve funds or assets held by or under the control of another entity, the guaranty agency shall ensure that the agency's claims to those funds or assets and the collectability of the agency's claims will not be compromised or jeopardized during an appeal. The guaranty agency shall also comply with all other applicable regulations relating to the use of reserve funds and assets. (d) Appeal. (1) A guaranty agency may appeal the Secretary's determination that reserve funds or assets must be returned by filing a written notice of appeal within 20 days of the date of the guaranty agency's receipt of the notice of the Secretary's determination. If the agency files a notice of appeal, the requirement that the return of reserve funds or assets be completed by a particular date is suspended pending completion of the appeal process. If the agency does not file a notice of appeal within the period specified in this paragraph, the Secretary's determination is final. (2) A guaranty agency shall submit the information described in paragraph (d)(4) of this section within 45 days of the date of the guaranty agency's receipt of the notice of the Secretary's determination unless the Secretary agrees to extend the period at the agency's request. If the agency does not submit that information within the prescribed period, the Secretary's determination is final. (3) A guaranty agency's appeal of a determination that reserve funds or assets must be returned is considered and decided by a Departmental official other than the official who issued the determination or a subordinate of that official. (4) In an appeal of the Secretary's determination, the guaranty agency shall_ (i) State the reasons the guaranty agency believes the reserve funds or assets need not be returned; (ii) Identify any evidence on which the guaranty agency bases its position that the reserve funds or assets need not be returned; (iii) Include copies of the documents that contain this evidence; (iv) Include any arguments that the guaranty agency believes support its position that the reserve funds or assets need not be returned; and (v) Identify the steps taken by the guaranty agency to comply with the requirements referred to in paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section. (5)(i) In its appeal, the guaranty agency may request the opportunity to make an oral argument to the deciding official for the purpose of clarifying any issues raised by the appeal. The deciding official provides such an opportunity promptly after the expiration of the period referred to in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. (ii) The agency may not submit new evidence at or after the oral argument unless the deciding official determines otherwise. A transcript of the oral argument is made a part of the record of the appeal and is promptly provided to the agency. (6) The guaranty agency has the burden of production and the burden of persuading the deciding official that the Secretary's determination should be modified or withdrawn. (e) Third-party participation. (1) If the Secretary issues a determination under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Secretary promptly publishes a notice in the Federal Register announcing the portion of the reserve fund to be returned by the agency and providing interested persons an opportunity to submit written information relating to the determination within 30 days after the date of publication. The Secretary publishes the notice no earlier than five days after the agency receives a copy of the determination. (2) If the guaranty agency to which the determination relates files a notice of appeal of the determination, the deciding official may consider any information submitted in response to the Federal Register notice. All information submitted by a third party is available for inspection and copying at the offices of the Department of Education in Washington, D.C., during normal business hours.
