FR940826-0-00084 FR940826-0-00017 c. CFC&hyph;13, R&hyph;13B1, and R&hyph;503 Industrial Process Refrigeration. This end-use differs from other types of industrial refrigeration only in the extremely low temperature regimes that are required. Although some substitutes may work in both these extremely low temperatures and in systems designed to use R&hyph;502, they are acceptable only for this end-use because of global warming and atmospheric lifetime concerns. These concerns are discussed more fully below. 2. Corrections from the March 18, 1994 FRM In the FRM, the components of two refrigerants, R&hyph;404A and R&hyph;507, were inadvertently reversed. R&hyph;507 consists of HFC&hyph;125 and HFC&hyph;143a and R&hyph;404A consists of HFC&hyph;125, HFC&hyph;143a, and HFC&hyph;134a. These blends were listed as acceptable for the same end-uses, so the reversal had no effect on the acceptable status of either refrigerant. Also in the FRM, EPA listed HFC&hyph;134a as acceptable in several CFC&hyph;12 end-uses. In the descriptive text, EPA wrote ``while HFC&hyph;134a is compatible with most existing refrigeration and air conditioning equipment parts, it is not compatible with mineral oils currently used in such systems. An ester-based lubricant should be used rather than mineral oils.'' EPA's intention was to alert users to the need to use lubricants other than current mineral oils, rather than to recommend a particular type of new oil. While it remains true that mineral oils are incompatible with HFC&hyph;134a, it is not true that polyol ester oils are the only replacement. Polyalkylene glycol oils are also available, and are in fact the predominant choice of the automobile manufacturers. Therefore, the portion of each listing for HFC&hyph;1234a should have read ``An appropriate ester-based, polyalkylene glycol-based, or other type of lubricant should be used.'' In addition, specifically in the Motor Vehicle Air Conditioning end-use the listing for HFC&hyph;134a should have included the recommendation to consult the original equipment manufacturer or the retrofit kit manufacturer for further information. For clarity, these changes have been incorporated into the listing for HFC&hyph;134a in Motor Vehicle Air Conditioning in the NPRM. 3. Substitutes for Refrigerants Substitutes fall into eight broad categories. Seven of these categories are chemical substitutes used in the same vapor compression cycle as the ozone-depleting substances being replaced. They include hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), hydrocarbons, refrigerant blends, ammonia, perfluorocarbons (PFCs), and chlorine systems. The eighth category includes alternative technologies that generally do not rely on vapor compression cycles. Please refer to the final SNAP rule (59 FR 13044) for more discussion of these broad categories. 4. Listing Decisions a. Acceptable Substitutes . These determinations are based on data submitted to EPA and on the risk screen described in the draft background document entitled ``Risk Screen on the Use of Substitutes for Class I Ozone-Depleting Substances: Refrigerants''. In accordance with the guiding principles for SNAP, substitutes were compared both to the substance they replace and to each other. EPA believes the use of all acceptable substitutes presents lower overall risk than the continued use of an ozone-depleting substance. Not all substitutes will necessarily be appropriate choices for all systems within an end-use. Engineering decisions must take into account factors such as operating temperatures and pressures, ambient conditions, and age of equipment, especially during retrofits. For example, substitutes listed under industrial process refrigeration may be listed as acceptable for retrofits for both CFC&hyph;12 and R&hyph;502 systems. However, these substances exhibit significantly different thermodynamic characteristics, and a substitute for one may not be appropriate for use as a substitute for the other. EPA believes such decisions are most appropriately made by the equipment owner, manager, or contractor. Users of HCFCs should be aware that an acceptability determination shall not be construed to release any user from compliance with all other regulations pertaining to class II substances. These include: (a) The prohibition against venting during servicing under section 608, which was effective July 1, 1992; (b) recycling requirements under section 608, which were effective July 13, 1993; (c) section 609 regulations regarding MVACS which were effective August 13, 1992; and (d) the revised production phaseout of class II substances under section 606, which was published on December 10, 1993. In addition, users of refrigerants that do not contain chlorine should be aware that an acceptability determination shall not be construed to release any user from compliance with the venting prohibition under section 608(c)(2), which takes effect November 15, 1995, at the latest. Substitutes are listed as acceptable by end-use. These substitutes have only been found acceptable for use in the specific end-uses for which they have been reviewed, as described in this section. Users of blends should be aware that EPA has evaluated and found acceptable in each case only the specific percentage composition submitted for review; no others have been evaluated. EPA strongly recommends that users of alternative refrigerants adhere to the provisions of ASHRAE Standard 15_Safety Code for Mechanical Refrigeration when applicable. ASHRAE Standard 34_Number Designation and Safety Classification of Refrigerants is a useful reference on refrigerant numerical designations. Users are also strongly encouraged to contain, recycle, and reclaim all refrigerants. (1) R&hyph;500 Centrifugal Chillers, Retrofit (a) R&hyph;406A ._ R&hyph;406A, which consists of HCFC&hyph;22, HCFC&hyph;142b, and isobutane, is acceptable as a substitute for R&hyph;500 in retrofitted centrifugal chillers . Because HCFC&hyph;22 and HCFC&hyph;142b contribute to ozone depletion, this blend is considered a transitional alternative. Regulations regarding recycling and reclamation issued under section 608 of the Clean Air Act apply this blend. HCFC&hyph;142b has one of the highest ODPs among the HCFCs. The GWPs of HCFC&hyph;22 and HCFC&hyph;142b are somewhat high. Although HCFC&hyph;142b is flammable, the blend is not. After significant leakage, however, this blend may become weakly flammable. (2) CFC&hyph;11, CFC&hyph;12, and R&hyph;502 Industrial Process Refrigeration, Retrofit Please note that different temperature regimes may affect the applicability of substitutes within this end-use. (a) HCFC&hyph;123 ._ HCFC&hyph;123 is acceptable as a substitutes for CFC&hyph;11, CFC&hyph;12, and R&hyph;502 in retrofitted industrial process refrigeration . Because HCFC&hyph;123 contributes to ozone depletion, it is considered a transitional alternative. Since it poses much lower ozone-depleting risk than continued use of CFCs, EPA has determined that its use is acceptable for certain end-uses. In addition, HCFC&hyph;123's GWP and atmospheric lifetime are significantly lower than almost all other alternatives. HCFC&hyph;123 is not flammable. EPA strongly recommends that users of HCFC&hyph;123 adhere to any requirements provided in ASHRAE Standards 15 and 34. Worker-monitoring studies conducted by EPA demonstrate that in office building equipment rooms, HCFC&hyph;123's 8-hour time-weighted average concentration can be maintained at or under 1 ppm (less than the industry-established AEL of 30 ppm), provided that such standards are followed. HCFC&hyph;123 is acceptable for use in commercial building chillers and should pose no hazard in industrial uses. (b) R&hyph;406A ._ R&hyph;406A, which consists of HCFC&hyph;22, HCFC&hyph;142b, and isobutane, is acceptable as a substitute for CFC&hyph;11, CFC&hyph;12, and R&hyph;502 in retrofitted industrial process refrigeration. See the discussion on R&hyph;406A under retrofitted R&hyph;500 centrifugal chillers. (c) R&hyph;407A and R&hyph;407B ._ R&hyph;407A and R&hyph;407B, which consist of HFC&hyph;134a, HFC&hyph;32, and HFC&hyph;125, are acceptable as substitutes for CFC&hyph;11, CFC&hyph;12, and R&hyph;502 in retrofitted industrial process refrigeration . None of the components contribute to ozone depletion. However, HFC&hyph;125 has a very high GWP and HFC&hyph;134a has a moderate GWP. EPA strongly encourages recycling and reclamation of this blend in order to reduce its direct global warming impact. Although HFC&hyph;143a is flammable, the blend is not. Leak testing has demonstrated that its composition never becomes flammable.
