FR940106-0-00009 FR940106-0-00003 Illustrative Independent Auditors' Management Letter March 15, 19x6 Board of Directors [ Name of Borrower ] [ City, State ] We have audited the financial statements of [ Name of Borrower ] for the year ended December 31, 19x5, and have issued our report thereon dated March 15, 19x6. We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, Government Auditing Standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United States, and 7 CFR part 1773, Policy on Audits of Rural Electrification Administration (REA) Borrowers. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. In planning and performing our audit of the financial statements of [ Name of Borrower ] for the year ended December 31, 19x5, we considered its internal control structure in order to determine our auditing procedures for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the financial statements and not to provide assurance on the internal control structure. A description of the responsibility of management for establishing and maintaining the internal control structure and the objectives of and inherent limitations in such a structure is set forth in our independent auditors' report on the internal control structure dated March 15, 19x6, and should be read in conjunction with this report. Our consideration of the internal control structure would not necessarily disclose all matters in the internal control structure that might be material weaknesses under standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. A material weakness is a condition in which the design or operation of the specific internal control structure elements does not reduce to a relatively low level the risk that errors or irregularities in amounts that would be material in relation to the financial statements being audited may occur and not be detected within a timely period by employees in the normal course of performing their assigned functions. However, we noted no matters involving the internal control structure and its operation that we consider to be a material weakness as defined above. [ If a material weakness was noted, refer the reader to the independent auditors' report on internal control structure. ] 7 CFR 1773.34 requires comments on specific aspects of the internal control structure, compliance with specific REA loan and security instrument provisions, and other additional matters. We have grouped our comments accordingly. In addition to obtaining reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatements, at your request, we performed tests of specific aspects of the internal control structure, of compliance with specific REA loan and security instrument provisions, and of additional matters. The specific aspects of the internal control structure, compliance with specific REA loan and security instrument provisions, and additional matters tested include, among other things, the accounting procedures and records, materials control, compliance with specific REA loan and security instrument provisions set forth in 7 CFR 1773.34 (e)(1), [ for telephone borrowers, 7 CFR 1773.34 (e)(2)], related party transactions, and depreciation rates. [ For electric borrowers :] The additional matters tested also include a schedule of deferred debits and credits, upon which we express an opinion. In addition, our audit of the financial statements also included the procedures specified in 7 CFR 1773.38&hyph;.45. Our objective was not to provide an opinion on these specific aspects of the internal control structure, compliance with specific REA loan and security instrument provisions, or additional matters, and accordingly, we express no opinion thereon. No reports (other than our independent auditors' report, our independent auditors' compliance report, and our independent auditors' report on the internal control structure, all dated March 15, 19x6) or summary of recommendations related to our audit have been furnished to management. Our comments on specific aspects of the internal control structure, compliance with specific REA loan and security instrument provisions, and other additional matters as required by 7 CFR 1773.34 are presented below. Comments on Certain Specific Aspects of the Internal Control Structure We noted no matters regarding [ Name of Borrower ]'s internal control structure and its operation that we consider to be a material weakness as previously defined with respect to: _The accounting procedures and records [ list other comments ]; _The process for accumulating and recording labor, material, and overhead costs, and the distribution of these costs to construction, retirement, and maintenance or other expense accounts [ list other comments ]; and, _The materials control [ list other comments ].
