FR941028-2-00158 FR941028-2-00109 Comments: The performance criteria for respiratory protection for HCWs exposed to tuberculosis fail to take into consideration the potential higher level of risk for workers in selected settings (e.g., bronchoscopy performed on patients suspected of having TB or autopsy performed on deceased persons suspected of having TB at the time of death). Response: Clarified that the facility's risk assessment may identify those limited settings where the estimated risk for transmission of M. tuberculosis may be such that a level of respiratory protection exceeding the standard criteria is appropriate. Comments: NIOSH certification process should be changed to accommodate the certification of a more appropriate mask for use in health care settings. Response: On May 24, 1994, CDC published in the Federal Register (59 FR 26850) a Notice of Proposed Rule Making on revised certification requirements for respiratory protective devices. The certification of air-purifying respirators under these proposed requirements would enable respirator users to select from a broader range of certified respirators that meet the current performance criteria in this document. Comments: Provide information on the storage and reuse of respirators. Response: Expanded the general guidelines on the reuse of respirators classified as disposable and those with replaceable filters. Retained the original suggestion to refer to manufacturers recommendations concerning storage and reuse. Comment: It is unclear which facilities must have a respiratory protection program. Response: Clarified that facilities that do not have isolation rooms for TB, that do not perform cough-inducing procedures, and refer all potential TB patients need not have a respirator program but must perform a periodic risk assessment, have protocols for referral, and an infection control plan that is periodically reviewed. H. Cough-Inducing Procedures No comments were received that differed substantively from those covered in other sections of the document. I. Education and Training of Health-Care Workers Comments: In general, the comments supported the concept of education for HCWs. Persons from a number of specialties noted that educational programs should be flexible and should allow for the selection of information to be included in these programs and that the frequency of training should be based on the risk of TB transmission in the facility or area. Some suggested emphasis on educating physicians in the early recognition and proper treatment for persons with tuberculosis. Because of difficulties with compliance with attendance and the time needed away from the job in the busy health care environment, concern was expressed about the increasing requirements for mandatory annual educational training sessions on various subjects (bloodborne pathogens, fire safety, hazardous exposure). A few persons suggested that CDC provide standardized training materials. A few commented on the expense of the training program, including the respirator training program. Response: Modified section to allow more flexibility in selection of topics to cover and frequency of education.
