FR940208-2-00152 FR940208-2-00092 Filing, Service and Communications 22. (1) Subject to subrules 14(3) and 48(1), rule 49 and subrules 55 (3) and (4) and 75(2)(a), no document is filed with the Secretariat until one original and eight copies of the document are received by the responsible Secretariat during its normal business hours and within the time period fixed for filing. (2) Receipt, date and time stamping or placement in the file of a document by the responsible Secretariat does not constitute a waiver of any time period fixed for filing or an acknowledgement that the document has been filed in accordance with these rules. 23. The responsible Secretary shall be responsible for the service of (a) Notices of Intent to Commence Judicial Review and Complaints on each Party; (b) Requests for Panel Review on the Parties, the investigating authority and the persons listed on the service list; (c) Notices of Appearance on the participants; and (d) Disclosure Orders and Protective Orders granted to panelists, assistants to panelists, court reporters or translators and any amendments or modifications thereto or notices of revocation thereof referred to in subrules 14 (2) and (3), decisions and orders of a panel, Notices of Final Panel Action and Notices of Completion of Panel Review on the participants. 24. (1) Subject to subrules (4) and (5), all documents filed by a participant, other than the administrative record, any supplementary remand record and any document required by rule 23 to be served by the responsible Secretary, shall be served by the participant on the counsel of record of each of the other participants, or where a participant is not represented by counsel, on the participant. (2) A proof of service shall appear on, or be affixed to, all documents referred to in subrule (1). (3) Where a document is served by expedited delivery courier or expedited mail service, the date of service set out in the affidavit of service or certificate of service shall be the day on which the document is consigned to the courier service or is mailed. (4) A document containing proprietary information or privileged information shall be filed and served under seal in accordance with rule 46, and shall be served only on (a) the investigating authority; and (b) participants who have been granted access to the proprietary information or privileged information under a Disclosure Order, Protective Order or order of the panel. (5) A complainant shall serve a Complaint on the investigating authority and on all persons listed on the service list. 25. Subject to subrule 26(a), a document may be served by (a) delivering a copy of the document to the service address of the participant; (b) sending a copy of the document to the service address of the participant by facsimile transmission or by expedited delivery courier or expedited mail service, such as express mail in the United States or Priority Post in Canada; or (c) personal service on the participant. 26. Where proprietary information or privileged information is disclosed in a panel review to a person pursuant to a Disclosure Order or Protective Order, the person shall not (a) file, serve or otherwise communicate the proprietary information or privileged information by facsimile transmission; or (b) communicate the proprietary information or privileged information by telephone. 27. Service on an investigating authority does not constitute service on a Party and service on a Party does not constitute service on an investigating authority. Pleadings and Simultaneous Translation of Panel Reviews in Canada 28. Rules 29 to 31 apply with respect to a panel review of a final determination made in Canada. 29. Either English or French may be used by any person or panelist in any document or oral proceeding.
