FR940419-0-00113 FR940419-0-00020 17. Section 92.219 would be revised to read as follows: §92.219 Recognition of matching contribution. (a) Match contribution to HOME-assisted housing. A contribution is recognized as a matching contribution if: (1) It is made with respect to a tenant who is assisted with HOME funds; or (2) It is made with respect to HOME-assisted housing; or (3) It is made with respect to any portion of a project (including a mixed-use project under §92.256) not less than 50 percent of the dwelling units of which are HOME-assisted. (b) Match contribution to affordable housing that is not HOME-assisted. The following requirements apply for recognition of matching contributions made to affordable housing that is not HOME-assisted: (1) For tenant-based rental assistance (TBRA) that is not HOME-assisted: (i) The contribution must be made with respect to a tenant who is assisted with tenant-based rental assistance that meets the requirements of §§92.203 (income determinations), 92.210 (security deposits), 92.211 (TBRA, except for 92.211(c), term of rental assistance contract), and 92.253(a) and (b) (tenant protections); and (ii) The participating jurisdiction must demonstrate in writing that such assistance meets the provisions of §§92.203, 92.210, 92.211, and 92.253(a) and (b). (2) For affordable housing projects that are not HOME-assisted: (i) The contribution must be made with respect to housing that qualifies as affordable housing under §92.252 or §92.254. (ii) The participating jurisdiction or its instrumentality must execute, with the owner of the housing (or, if the participating jurisdiction is the owner, with the manager or developer), a written agreement that imposes and enumerates all of the affordability requirements from §92.252 and §92.253(a) and (b) (tenant protections), or §92.254, whichever are applicable, the property standards requirements of §92.251, and income determinations made in accordance with §92.203. This written agreement must be executed before any match contributions may be made. (iii) A participating jurisdiction must establish a procedure to monitor these HOME match-eligible projects to ensure continued compliance with the requirements of §§92.203 (income determinations), 92.252(rental), 92.253(a) and (b) (tenant protections) and 92.254 (ownership). No other HOME requirements apply. (iv) The match contribution may be in any eligible form of match except those in §§92.220(a)(2) and (4). (v) Match contributions to mixed-use or mixed-income projects that contain affordable housing units will be recognized only if the contribution is made to the project's affordable housing units. (c) In addition to the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, a cash contribution is recognized as a matching contribution only if it is used for costs eligible under §§92.206 or 92.209, or for the following costs (which are not eligible costs for HOME funds): The cost of removing and relocating an ECHO housing unit to accommodate an eligible tenant, a project reserve account for replacements, a project reserve account for unanticipated increases in operating costs, operating subsidies, or costs relating to the portion of a mixed-income or mixed-use HOME-assisted project not related to the affordable housing units. 18. In §92.220, paragraphs (a)(1) introductory text, (a)(2), (a)(3) and (a)(5) are revised to read as follows: §92.220 Form of matching contribution. (a) *␣*␣* (1) Cash contributions from nonfederal sources. Except for contributions made to affordable housing that is not assisted with HOME funds and bond proceeds to which the provisions of §92.220(a)(5) are applicable, to be a cash contribution, funds must be contributed permanently to the HOME program, regardless of the form of investment the jurisdiction provides to a project. Therefore all repayment, interest, or other return on investment of the contribution must be deposited in the local account of the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund to be used for eligible HOME activities in accordance with the requirements of this part. A cash contribution to affordable housing that is not assisted with HOME funds must be contributed permanently to the project. Repayments of matching contributions in affordable housing projects, as defined in §92.219(b), that are not HOME-assisted, must be made to the local account of the participating jurisdiction's HOME Investment Trust Fund to get match credit for the full loan amount. * * * * * (2) The value, based on customary and reasonable means for establishing value, of State or local taxes, fees, or other charges that are normally and customarily imposed or charged by a State or local government on all transactions or projects in the conduct of State or local government operations but are waived, foregone, or deferred (including State low-income housing tax credits) in a manner that achieves affordability of housing assisted with HOME funds. Fees or charges that are associated with the HOME Program only (rather than normally and customarily imposed or charged on all transactions or projects) are not eligible forms of matching contributions. The amount of any real estate taxes may be based on post-improvement property value, using customary and reasonable means of establishing value. For taxes, fees, or charges that are given for future years, the value is the present discounted cash value, based on a rate equal to the rate for the Treasury security with a maturity closest to the number of years for which the taxes, fees, or charges are waived, foregone, or deferred. (3) The value, before the HOME assistance is provided and minus any debt burden, lien, or other encumbrance, of donated land or other real property.
