FR941222-1-00028 FR941222-1-00008 In today's notice, EPA is proposing to add five wastes generated during the production of dyes and pigments to the lists of hazardous wastes in 40 CFR 261.32. A summary of the waste groupings proposed for listing are provided below with their proposed corresponding EPA Hazardous Waste Numbers. K162␣Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of azo pigments. K163␣Wastewaters from the production of azo pigments. K164␣Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of azo dyes, excluding FD&C colorants. K165␣Wastewaters from the production of azo dyes, excluding FD&C colorants. K166␣Still bottoms or heavy ends from the production of triarylmethane dyes or pigments. The Agency has determined that these wastes meet the criteria for listing set out in 40 CFR 261.11. Section II.E. of this preamble presents waste characterization, waste management, and risk assessment data, which are the bases for the Agency's proposal to list or not to list the wastes studied in this rulemaking. Upon promulgation of these proposed listings, all wastes meeting the listing descriptions would become hazardous wastes and would require treatment, storage, or disposal at permitted facilities. Residuals from the treatment, storage, or disposal of the wastes included in this proposed listing also would be classified as hazardous wastes pursuant to the ``derived-from'' rule (40 CFR 261.3(c)(2)(i)). For example, ash or other residuals from treatment of the listed wastes would be subject to the hazardous waste regulations. Also, 40 CFR 261.3(a)(2)(iv) (the ``mixture'' rule) provides that, with certain limited exceptions, any mixture of a listed waste and a solid waste is itself a RCRA hazardous waste. However, when these wastes are recycled as described in 40 CFR 261.2(e)(1)(iii) or 261.4(a)(8), they are not solid wastes and are not subject to hazardous waste regulations. For example, if a waste is collected and returned in a closed-loop fashion to the same process, the waste is not regulated. To meet the exemption, the manner in which a material is recycled must meet the three key requirements outlined in the rules and in 50 FR 639 (January 4, 1985): (1) The material must be returned to the original process from which it was generated without first being reclaimed; (2) the production process to which the materials are returned must use raw materials as principal feedstocks; and (3) the material must be returned as a substitute for raw material feedstock in the original production process. (The regulations contain other recycling exclusions as well, but the provisions referenced above are the principal ones most likely to be applicable to the wastes at issue in this proposal.) EPA is proposing to amend Appendix VII and Appendix VIII to 40 CFR part 261 to add constituents contained in the above wastestreams which were found to pose risk. The Agency requests comments on the proposed listing of the above wastes, and on the option of not listing these wastes. This action also proposes not to list as hazardous six wastestreams generated during the production of dyes and pigments:
