FR940303-2-00090 FR940303-2-00055 For use in FHA Insured Transactions February 18, 1994. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Federal Housing Administration Instructions to Guide for Opinion of Mortgagor's Counsel Explanatory Comments The guide for this opinion has been prepared in view of changes in opinion practice as reflected by the ABA Accord and various state law bar reports on opinion letters. The Department regards the counsel to the Mortgagor as the crucial, central figure in the process of preparing and executing the legal and administrative documents necessary to achieve a closing where the mortgage note is endorsed for mortgage insurance by the Department. Pursuant to 24 CFR part 24, 24.105(p), attorneys or others in a business relationship with the Mortgagor are defined as ``principals.'' Even though the Guide is quite different in form from its predecessor (FHA Form No. 1725), the substance is not intended to be substantially different and the revision does not in any fashion relieve the counsel to the Mortgagor of its obligations to its client, the Mortgagee and the Department. In part, these responsibilities entail the exercise of due diligence to assure the accurate and timely preparation, completion and submission of the forms required by the Department in connection with the transaction. Further, the counsel to the Mortgagor and any other attorneys involved in the transaction, should be thoroughly familiar with the regulations, procedures and directives of the Department pertaining to each mortgage insurance transaction in which counsel participates. The Department takes seriously the preparation and completion of the various documents involved in the mortgage insurance process (most of which are HUD form documents) and cannot overemphasize the importance of the following: Warning: HUD will prosecute false claims and statements. Conviction may result in criminal and/or civil penalties. (18 U.S.C. 1001, 1010, 1012; 31 U.S.C. 3729, 3802) With limited state law related exceptions, we expect that Mortgagor's counsel will be able to follow the guide in rendering an opinion and HUD field counsel should not accept opinions that otherwise substantially or materially deviate from the guide. Although we understand that attorneys and law firms may have evolved particular styles and forms of opinion, HUD field counsel do not have time to negotiate each and every opinion for stylistic changes and it is essential that the guide be followed in both style and substance in order to ensure a timely closing. The counsel to the Mortgagor is expected to complete a draft opinion for submission to HUD field counsel at least ten days prior to the closing along with the other closing documents. Any deviations should be specifically identified (blacklined or highlighted) and discussed with field counsel at that time. Any material deviation not required by State or local law must be brought to the attention of the Assistant General Counsel, Multifamily Mortgage Division, by field counsel along with an explanation as to the necessity for the deviation. It is anticipated that the guide can be utilized in connection with all types of closings: Insured advances or insurance upon completion (for new construction or substantial rehabilitation); final closings (for refinancings, etc.). Therefore, it is crucial that the correct options be selected in instances where choices are provided. Brackets are used in the opinion letter to indicate alternate language, insertions, documents, or instructions depending on the applicable facts and underlining is used to indicate blanks that must be completed. The guide opinion contains some instructions and definitions and is largely self-explanatory; however, the following instructions and clarifications may be helpful. The numbers and letters used below relate to the paragraph numbers and letters in the guide opinion unless page numbers are specifically designated. Page 1 and Introductory Paragraph •Letterhead and date: The opinion must be typed on the firm letterhead and dated the date of endorsement of the mortgage note by HUD. •Reference: Data regarding the project (name, HUD project number, and location and the name or title of the Mortgagor must be accurate and inserted in the appropriate blanks. •Addressees: The opinion must be delivered to HUD as well as the Mortgagee making the loan to establish the explicit right of each to rely on the opinion. The Mortgagee's counsel may be relying on the opinion for certain aspects of its opinion. If so, the opinion must also be addressed to counsel to the Mortgagee.
