FR940622-1-00025 FR940622-1-00009 5. If pooled recoveries are intended to fund an existing multi-year plan, how are individual amounts to be earmarked and set aside for funding a particular component of that multi-year plan? What kind of accounting or reporting requirements should be used? Obligation of Trustee to Plan for Restoration Section 1006(c) of OPA requires federal, state, tribal and foreign trustees to ``develop and implement a plan for the restoration, rehabilitation, replacement or acquisition of the equivalent, of the natural resources under their trusteeship.'' 33 U.S.C. 1006 (c)(1),(2),(3), and (4). In addition, OPA provides that such ``[p]lans shall be developed and implemented under this section only after adequate public notice, opportunity for a hearing and consideration of all public comment.'' Id. (emphasis added). In NOAA's view, OPA requires restoration planning to proceed like any other federal statutorily-mandated planning activity_in the sunshine, subject to review under the Administrative Procedures Act (APA), and in compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), the Endangered Species Act (ESA), and other applicable federal laws. To fulfill the trustee obligations for restoration planning NOAA has proposed a process for the development of an administrative record documenting all aspects of an incident relevant to the trustee obligation to restore, rehabilitate, replace, or acquire the equivalent natural resources. In NOAA's view an administrative record for injury assessment and selection of restoration alternatives achieves four important objectives: (1) It provides a central repository, open to the public, for all scientific data relevant to the incident; (2) it facilitates public participation; (3) it documents trustee decisionmaking and selection among alternatives to restore, replace or acquire the equivalent; and (4) it minimizes transaction costs by encouraging an open, participatory process for the ultimate resolution (i.e. restoration of natural resources) of an incident rather than resolution through litigation. NOAA's attempt to minimize transaction costs and discourage complex litigation and other activities not leading to restoration of natural resources is born of the unsatisfactory experience of the Exxon Valdez oil spill. In that incident all parties were criticized by the public for maintaining the confidentiality of scientific studies, conducting science for purpose of litigation, and then settling the case without providing for the release of the scientific data gathered. It is generally accepted that such a process does not serve the resources, the public, or the responsible party well. NOAA's proposed rule seeks to address these problems by providing for a contemporaneous public repository of scientific data for injury assessment and restoration activities. As presently proposed, the administrative record documents trustee decisionmaking processes for injury assessment, selection of restoration activities, the trustee costs, and anticipated costs of restoration, and may include the economic valuation of injury resulting from the incident. As an open record process, subject to the opportunity for public hearing and comment, NOAA intends the trustee's selection of restoration activities, and their costs, to be available for judicial review under the Administrative Procedure Act. The standard for judicial review under the APA in an informal rulemaking context is whether the actions of the trustee were ``arbitrary, capricious, or otherwise not in accordance with law.'' NOAA has taken the position that NEPA should be implemented during the restoration planning process and integrated into the development of the Draft Assessment Restoration Plan (DARP). It is NOAA's view that those procedures normally contemplated as part of the DARP can be framed and addressed as NEPA analysis and full NEPA compliance achieved without additional paperwork or data collection. A concise analysis of available restoration alternatives and the consequences of their implementation in the post-spill environment should form the heart of the DARP document as well as any NEPA document with which it may be combined. Comment Summary Public comment on the proposed DARP was varied. Some commenters suggested NOAA prepare a guidance document with a standardized format and criteria for information to be included in the record. Another participant suggested that NOAA refer to the EPA guidance for preparation of an administrative record. Commenters felt that organization and cross-referencing mechanisms were important if the record was to be useful to people in the field.
