FR940325-2-00072 FR940325-2-00039 (b) The application fully describes existing community language or language training programs and projects, if any, in support of the Native American language to be addressed by the proposed project. Existing programs and projects may be formal (e.g., work performed by a linguist, and/or a language survey conducted by community members) or informal (e.g., a community consensus of the language status based on elders, tribal scholars, and/or other community members). The description should address the following: (1) Has applicant had a community language or language training program within the last thirty-six (36) months? (2) Has applicant had a community language or language training program within the last ten (10) years? Applicants that answer ``no'' to either question (1) or (2) should provide a detailed explanation of what barriers or circumstances prevented the establishment or implementation of a community language program. Applicants that answer ``yes'' to either questions (1) or (2) should describe recent language program, including: (1) program goal(s); (2) number of program participants; (3) number of speakers; (4) age range of participants (e.g., 0&hyph;5; 6&hyph;10; 11&hyph;18;, etc.); (5) number of language teachers; (6) criteria used to acknowledge competency of language teachers; (7) resources available to applicant (e.g., valid grammars, dictionaries, and/or orthographics. If there are other suitable resources, please describe); and (8) other outcomes. (2) Long-Range Goals and Available Resources (25 Points) (a) The application explains how specific Native American(s) long range community goals relate to the project. Goals are described within the context of the applicant's current language status. The strategies described will assist in assuring the survival and continued vitality of the Native American language(s) addressed. (b) The application explains how the community and existing tribal government (where one exists) intends to achieve these goals. It clearly documents the involvement and support of the community members and languages Elders in the planning process and implementation of the proposed project as appropriate (e.g., tribal resolutions, minutes of Community meetings, etc.). (c) Available resources (other than ANA and the non-Federal share) which will assist, and be coordinated with the project, including language Elders, and other community resources, are described. These resources may be human, physical, or financial and may include other Federal and non-Federal resources. Reasonable assurances of commitment are provided. If the applicant proposes to enter into a partnership arrangement with a school, college, or university, documentation of this commitment must be included in the application. (3) Project Objectives, Approach and Activities (25 Points) The application proposes specific project objective work plans with activities related to the goal to ensure the survival and continuing vitality of the Native American language(s). The objective work plan(s) in the application include(s) project objectives and activities related to the long term goals for each budget period proposed which: •Clearly indicate Tribal Government, as appropriate, and community's active involvement demonstrating continuing participation of Native American speakers; •Are measurable and/or quantifiable in terms of results and outcomes; •Clearly relate to the community's long-range language goals which the project addresses; •Can be accomplished with available or expected resources during the proposed project period; •Indicate when the objective, and major activities under each objective will be accomplished; •Specify who will conduct the activities under each objective; and •Support a project that will be completed, self-sustaining, or financed by other than ANA funds at the end of the project period. (4) Evaluation Plan (15 Points) The proposed objectives will result in specific, measurable outcomes to be achieved that will clearly contribute to the completion of the overall project and will help the applicant meet its goal to ensure the survival and continuing vitality of the Native American language(s) addressed. A detailed evaluation plan is provided to measure project outcomes, including, but not limited to, a demonstration of effective language growth (e.g., increase of ``language use''). (5) Replication Plan and Product Preservation Plan (10 Points) (a) Identify opportunities for the replication of the project or the modification of the project for use by other Native Americans, if appropriate. If replication is not appropriate, applicant must provide reasons why replication is inappropriate. (b) Describe the plan for the preservation of the products of the Native American language project for the benefit of future generations of Native Americans and other interested persons.
