FR940725-0-00104 FR940725-0-00013 IV. Regulatory Impact Analysis A. Introduction Any impact of this final rule with comment period upon providers will be the result of individual State decisions as developed in waiver requests and including coverage of respiratory care for ventilator-dependent individuals. Due to the positive reception of the home and community-based waiver program, we believe that this rule will be well-received by those concerned with such programs. This rule generally benefits States and providers. The revisions to regulations covering home and community-based waivers offer broader service coverage than current rules and may result in new waiver applications and expansion of existing waivers. Thus, there may be more funds flowing through waivers. Because of the appeal of the program to States, the proportion of Medicaid expenditures flowing through home and community-based waivers is growing. The broader coverage made possible under this final rule with comment period is one factor that offers opportunity for further growth. Waivers would also be approved for longer periods, which may increase the aggregate magnitude of granted waivers. Thus, although this final rule with comment period should contribute to the growth of expenditures under waivers, we are unable to isolate the effects of this final rule from other factors affecting the growth of waivers. If this final rule with comment period results in a substantial increase in the growth of waivers, it could affect small entities. Most entities would benefit_contingent upon State decisions that cannot be predicted. Although the changes being implemented in this final rule will facilitate the approval of an increased volume of waivers, we do not expect the rule in itself to increase waivers to the extent that a demonstrable significant economic impact would result. With the exception of the revision to ยง441.303(f)(1) that eliminates the bed capacity (also called the ``cold bed test'') factor from the annual average per capita expenditures estimate, regulations establishing terms or conditions of Federal grants, contracts, or financial assistance call for a different form of regulatory analysis than do other types of regulations. In some instances, an extensive benefit-cost analysis may be appropriate to inform the Congress and the President more fully about the desirability of the program, but this would not ordinarily be required in a regulatory impact analysis. The primary function of an RIA for this type of regulation should be to verify that the terms and conditions are the minimum necessary to achieve the purpose for which the funds were appropriated. Beyond controls to prevent abuse and to ensure that funds appropriated to achieve a specific purpose are channeled efficiently toward that end, maximum discretion should be allowed in the use of Federal funds particularly when the recipient is a State or local government. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act We generally prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis that is consistent with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) (5 U.S.C. 601 through 612) unless the Secretary certifies that a final rule does not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. For purposes of the RFA, we consider all providers to be small entities. Thus, both those providers that lose patients deinstitutionalized into the home or community and the home and community-based providers of services that receive these patients/recipients are small entities. This final rule will also affect States and Medicaid recipients, but they are not considered small entities under the RFA. C. Effect on Medicaid Program Costs We anticipate that the discretionary provision to eliminate the bed capacity test may result in the following costs:
