FR940303-0-00066 FR940303-0-00022 One commenter disagrees with the provision that excludes from the applicability section of part 157 a proposal involving the intermittent use of a site that is not an established airport. The commenter believes that the provision ``lowers standards'' pertaining to notice of construction, alteration, activation, or deactivation of landing areas. Further, the commenter believes that the change could provide a ``loop hole'' for operators whose landing intentions are to rustle cattle, transport drugs, or illegally dispose of chemicals. This provision was promulgated because there may be a number of reasons for multiple operations to a site with no intent to establish an airport within the meaning of part 157. For example, medical, firefighting, law enforcement, construction, logging, and agricultural functions may require repeated flights to and from an accident, incident, construction, or other temporary landing site. Certain construction, agricultural, and logging functions may not require the continuous use of a site over the course of the project but would instead involve occasional and infrequent return visits to the site. Prior to Amendment No. 157&hyph;4, proponents who intended to operate to and from a site on an intermittent or sporadic basis for more than 30 days were required to notify the FAA 90 days before conducting such an operation. Such notice would be required even in a situation involving only two operations to the same site when the return visit is conducted 30 or more days after the first operation. The FAA believes that the majority of such operations would not require or result in the establishment of an airport nor constitute an intent to establish an airport. With regard to the commenter's concern that the intermittent-use exclusion could affect the ability to deter certain illegal activities, the primary purpose of part 157 is to establish notice requirements for the construction, alteration, activation, or deactivation of certain airport, heliport, and aircraft landing area proposals. Such notice provides the FAA with an opportunity to conduct an aeronautical study of an airport proposal to determine the effects of that proposal on neighboring airports, existing or contemplated traffic patterns at neighboring airports, and existing airspace environment and projected FAA programs. Further, the FAA studies the effects that existing or proposed man-made objects and natural objects within the affected area would have on the airport proposal. As such, part 157 is not intended or designed to assist law enforcement agencies or otherwise prevent or deter illegal activity. However, the FAA agrees with the commenter regarding the general need for reasonable measures to monitor and deter illegal activities. Accordingly, the FAA cooperates with agencies such as the United States Customs Service, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Defense and other Federal and state agencies in support of their law enforcement and national security missions. Conclusion The FAA has determined, after carefully considering the comments submitted in response to amendment No. 157&hyph;6, that no further rulemaking action is necessary at this time. Amendment No. 157&hyph;6 remains in effect as prescribed by the July 24, 1991, final rule. Issued in Washington, DC, on February 25, 1994. Willie C. Nelson, Assistant Division Manager, Airspace Rules and Aeronautical Information Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4872 Filed 3&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
