FR941103-0-00008 FR941103-0-00003 Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 9 CFR Part 94 [Docket No. 92&hyph;067&hyph;2] RIN 0579&hyph;AA50 Dry-Cured Pork Products AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: We are amending our regulations to allow certain dry-cured pork products processed in a specified manner to be imported into the United States from countries where foot-and-mouth disease, rinderpest, African swine fever, hog cholera, or swine vesicular disease exists. We are making this change because we have determined that certain dry-cured pork products, if processed in accordance with the regulatory requirements, can be imported into the United States without presenting a significant risk of introducing these specified diseases. EFFECTIVE DATE: December 5, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. John H. Blackwell, Senior Staff Microbiologist, Import-Export Products Staff, National Center for Import-Export, Veterinary Services, APHIS, USDA, room 758, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;7885. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulations in 9 CFR part 94 (the regulations) regulate, among other things, the importation into the United States of pork and pork products in order to prevent the introduction into the United States of foot-and-mouth disease (FMD), rinderpest, African swine fever (ASF), hog cholera (HC), and swine vesicular disease (SVD). On April 15, 1994, we published in the Federal Register (59 FR 17999&hyph;18003, Docket No. 92&hyph;067&hyph;1) a proposal to amend the regulations by allowing the importation into the United States of certain dry-cured pork products that have been processed in accordance with procedures used in Spain to manufacture products known as Serrano hams, Iberian hams, Iberian pork shoulders, and Iberian pork loins. Comments on the Proposed Rule We solicited comments concerning our proposal for a 60-day comment period ending June 14, 1994. We received four comments by that date. They were from the Department of Agriculture, Fisheries, and Nutrition of the Kingdom of Spain, a Spanish meat exporters association, and two organizations representing U.S. meat industries. We carefully considered all the comments we received. These comments are discussed below in detail. In response to the comments, APHIS is making several changes to the proposed requirements. Comment: The proposal would have amended various paragraphs of ยง94.17 by adding the term ``dry-cured'' before ``ham'' or ``hams.'' The term ``dry cured'' was incorrectly added in several places where the hams referred to would not yet have finished the curing process. The term ``dry cured'' should not be added before ``ham'' or ``hams'' in ยง94.17, paragraphs (a) through (g). Response: We agree, and are making the suggested change. Comment: In the current regulations, ยง94.17(a) requires that hams subject to the regulations must come from ``a swine that was never out of the country in which the ham was processed.'' Because the proposal did not propose to amend this country of origin requirement, only hams, pork shoulders, and pork loins that originated in the country in which they were processed would be eligible to be imported under the proposed regulations. For example, products processed in accordance with the regulations in Spain could not be imported if they were derived from swine from other countries. However, the proposed processing would render the articles safe to import regardless of the country in which the swine originated. Paragraph (a) of ยง94.17 should be amended to allow hams, pork shoulders, and pork loins derived from swine from any country to be eligible for importation, if the products are processed in accordance with the regulations.
