FR940214-0-00095 FR940214-0-00015 Executive Order 12866 It has been determined that this temporary rule is not a significant regulatory action, because the economic effects flow directly from the underlying statute and not from this temporary rule. Therefore, it is found that this temporary rule is not likely to (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, of State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in this Executive order. Administrative Procedure Act Because this document merely implements the law and because immediate guidance is necessary to implement the provisions of the law, it is found to be impracticable to issue this Treasury decision with notice and public procedure under 5 U.S.C. ยง553(b), or subject to the effective date limitation in section 553(d). Regulatory Flexibility Act The provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act relating to an initial and final regulatory flexibility analysis (5 U.S.C. 604) are not applicable to this temporary rule because the agency was not required to publish a notice of proposed rulemaking under 5 U.S.C. 553 or any other law. Paperwork Reduction Act This regulation is being issued without prior notice and public procedure pursuant to the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553). For this reason, the collection of information contained in this regulation has been reviewed and, pending receipt and evaluation of public comments, approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under control number 1512&hyph;0520. The estimated average annual burden associated with the collection of information in this regulation is 2.52 hours per respondent or recordkeeper. For further information concerning this collection of information, and where to submit comments on the collection of information and the accuracy of the estimated burden, and suggestions for reducing this burden, refer to the preamble to the cross-reference notice of proposed rulemaking published elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register .
