FR940106-2-00103 FR940106-2-00054 On September 30, 1993, Respondent filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's recommended decision. In these exceptions, Respondent took issue with the administrative law judge's reliance on the testimony of the OBN agent and the transcripts of the undercover operations. Respondent maintained that the agent's credibility was damaged given the discrepancies between his testimony before the grand jury and his testimony during the criminal trial. The Acting Administrator finds, however, that the administrative law judge carefully considered these issues and concluded that the alleged inconsistencies in testimonies did not affect the administrative hearing. The inconsistencies were adequately explained by the agent at the administrative hearing. Furthermore, as the administrative law judge correctly noted, some of the agent's statements which Respondent insisted were contradictory were not necessarily inconsistent. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, the transcripts of the undercover operations, the accuracy of which was not challenged by Respondent, speak for themselves. Respondent asserts that the administrative law judge did not base her opinion on all the evidence presented, and instead relied exclusively on the transcripts of the undercover operations. This contention, however, is not supported by the detailed opinion and recommended ruling prepared by the administrative law judge. The Acting Administrator finds that the administrative law judge properly weighed the evidence presented by both the Government and Respondent. The Acting Administrator agrees with the administrative law judge that, after considering the applicable factors pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 823(f), Respondent's registration would not be in the public interest and adopts her recommended decision in its entirety. Accordingly, the Acting Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, pursuant to the authority vested in him by 21 U.S.C. 823 and 824 and 28 CFR 0.100(b), hereby orders that Abel J. Sands' application for registration be, and it hereby is, denied. This order is effective January 6, 1994. Dated: December 28, 1993. Stephen H. Greene, Acting Administrator of Drug Enforcement. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;235 Filed 1&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;09&hyph;M
