FR941219-1-00010 FR941219-1-00005 14 CFR Part 71 [Airspace Docket No. 94&hyph;AWP&hyph;21] Proposed Establishment of Class E Airspace; Colorado City, AZ AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This notice proposes to establish Class E airspace at Colorado City, AZ. A Nondirectional Radio Beacon (NDB) standard instrument approach procedures (SIAP) has been developed for the Colorado City Municipal Airport. Controlled airspace extending from 700 feet and 1200 feet above the surface is needed for aircraft executing the NDB approach. The intended effect of this proposal is to provide adequate Class E airspace for instrument flight rules (IFR) operations at Colorado City Municipal Airport. DATES: Comments must be received on or before January 31, 1995. ADDRESSES: Send comments on the proposal in triplicate to: Federal Aviation Administration, Attn: Manager, System Management Branch, AWP&hyph;530, Docket No. 94&hyph;AWP&hyph;21, Air Traffic Division, P.O. Box 92007, Worldway Postal Center, Los Angeles, California 90009. The official docket may be examined in the Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Western-Pacific Region, Federal Aviation Administration, Room 6007, 15000 Aviation Boulevard, Lawndale, California 90261. An informal docket may also be examined during normal business hours in the Office of the Manager, System Management Branch, Air Traffic Division, at the address shown above. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Scott Speer, Airspace Specialist, System Management Branch, AWP&hyph;530, Air Traffic Division, Western-Pacific Region, Federal Aviation Administration, 15000 Aviation Boulevard, Lawndale, California 90261, telephone (310) 297&hyph;0010. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested parties are invited to participate in this proposed rulemaking by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Comments that provide the factual basis supporting the views and suggestions presented are particularly helpful in developing reasoned regulatory decisions on the proposal. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, aeronautical, economic, environmental, and energy-related aspects of the proposal. Communications should identify the airspace docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address listed above. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments on this notice must submit with the comments a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Airspace Docket No. 94&hyph;AWP&hyph;21.'' The postcard will be date/time stamped and returned to the commenter. All communications received on or before the specified closing date for comments will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposal contained in this notice may be changed in light of comments received. All comments submitted will be available for examination in the System Management Branch, Air Traffic Division, at 15000 Aviation Boulevard, Lawndale, California 90261, both before and after the closing date for comments. A report summarizing each substantive public contact with FAA personnel concerned with this rulemaking will be filed in the docket. Availability of NPRM's Any person may obtain a copy of this Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) by submitting a request to the Federal Aviation Administration, System Management Branch, P.O. Box 92007, Worldway Postal Center, Los Angeles, California 90009. Communications must identify the notice number of this NPRM. Persons interested in being placed on a mailing list for future NPRM's should also request a copy of Advisory Circular No. 11&hyph;2A, which describes the application procedures.
