FR941003-1-00097 FR941003-1-00006 (C) should not be defined on the basis of land ownership or control and may include Federal and non-Federal land; (D) may include geographic areas subject to indirect effects that are outside of ``permit areas'' or construction ``footprints;'' (E) should include alternative locations for elements of the undertaking, locations where the undertaking may result in disturbance of the ground, locations from which elements of the undertaking may be visible (if that is important in regard to the property's significance), and locations where the undertaking may result in changes in land use, public access, traffic patterns, and similar indirect effects; and (F) to the extent feasible, should consider potential cumulative effects resulting from incremental impacts of the undertaking which, when added to other past, present, and reasonably foreseeable future actions, may result in adverse effects on historic properties. (ii) Programmatic actions. For undertakings involving the potential effects of a program on historic properties and historic and cultural values, the area of potential effects should consider the nature of the program as well as the nature of historic property types most likely to be affected by it. Planning information should be developed from knowledge of existing historic resources, interviews with persons with special expertise or knowledge, and modeling to anticipate the full range of historic properties involved and likely effects attributable to the program. For example, a program to replace or rehabilitate bridges throughout a State needs to consider not only likely bridge locations and the direct effects of abandonment in place, demolition or dismantling, relocation, rehabilitation work, on those bridges, but also any associated archaeological sites which could be damaged or destroyed with ground disturbing activities such as construction equipment storage, abutment repair, pavement approach reconstruction, or bank stabilization; any nearby or surrounding historic districts whose character would be altered by replacement, new construction, or changes in historic access patterns; and historic traditional use areas peculiar to the region (such as fish weirs or traps) that may be located in the stream itself at or near a new bridge location. (iii) Management and maintenance areas. For undertakings involving the potential effects of land-use planning or maintenance practices for specific management units, such as a national park, national forest, military installation, Federal office complex, or similar discrete area, the area of potential effects should consider land uses, associated management needs, and the range of potential uses of historic properties, as well as the nature of maintenance requirements on particular historic property types. A planning document should establish procedures to satisfy Section 110 requirements which, among other things, provide for long-term protection, enhancement, management and use of historic properties and early consultation with Native Americans and other interested parties. For example, a military installation resource management plan needs to consider separate use zones (cantonment or built-up area, vehicular or infantry training areas, firing ranges and impact area, airfields, hazardous or toxic materials storage areas, high security vs. public access areas, and other special use areas). The range of uses and possible effects of actions in each zone on historic structures, archaeological sites, traditional cultural properties, and other types of resources will vary considerably, as will the agency's long-term management responsibility for and procedures for dealing with those properties under Section 110 and other statutes. (iv) Project areas. For undertakings involving the potential effects of a specific federally-supported, -assisted, or -permitted action or series of actions such as new construction, rehabilitation, or transfer out of Federal ownership, agencies should at a minimum distinguish between two groups of undertakings. The first includes relatively simple, small-scale undertakings affecting limited land area and a small number of resources. The second includes more complex undertakings affecting large land areas, multiple resources, and involving complex jurisdictional matters or other potential points of controversy. The area of potential effects for an undertaking subject to preparation of an environmental impact statement under NEPA, defined as a ``major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment,'' may necessarily involve numerous alternative locations or project designs, and will thus affect the level of effort necessary to identify historic properties subject to effect (see 36 CFR Sec. 800.8 and Appendix 1.C. below). (c) Scope of identification of historic properties subject to effect. Following determination of the area of potential effects appropriate to the undertaking, and coordinated with the preparation of any Environmental Assessment (EA) or Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) under NEPA: (1) The Agency Official should determine whether the area of potential effects has been surveyed or otherwise inspected to identify historic properties, and review available information to decide: (i) the likelihood that historic properties exist within areas subject to effect, and their characteristics, numbers, and probable significance; (ii) the likelihood that such properties retain their historic, cultural, and/or architectural integrity, given what is known about historic and recent modification of land or structures in the area; and (iii) the nature and severity of effects reasonably expectable as a result of the type of undertaking involved, including both effects that will occur as the immediate result of the undertaking, or near the site of a specific undertaking, and those that may occur at a later time or greater distance, provided the latter are reasonably foreseeable.
