FR940304-1-00165 FR940304-1-00014 2. Payback Period Table 4&hyph;16 presents the payback period for the efficiency levels analyzed for the representative class of fluorescent lamp ballast. For this representative class, standard levels 2 and 3 satisfy the rebuttable presumption test, i.e., the additional price of purchasing a product will be less than three times the value of the energy savings that the consumer will receive during the first year. Payback for all classes of fluorescent lamp ballasts may be found in Tables 4.11d&hyph;4.20d of the Technical Support Document. Table 4&hyph;16._ Payback Periods of Design Options for Representative Class of Fluorescent Lamp Ballasts [In years] 1Standard level 1Payback period 1 4.4 2 2.4 3 2.4 3. Significance of Energy Savings To estimate the base case energy savings by the year 2030 due to revised standards, the energy consumption of new fluorescent lamp ballasts under the base case is compared to the energy consumption of those sold under the candidate standard levels. For the candidate energy conservation standards, Commercial Energy End-Use Model projects over the period 1996&hyph;2030, the following energy savings could result for each: Level 1_13.7 Quads Level 2_15.9 Quads Level 3_17.0 Quads The Department finds that each of the increased standards levels considered above would result in a significant conservation of energy. 4. Economic Justification A. Economic impact on manufacturers and consumers. The per-unit increased cost to manufacturers to meet the level 1 efficiency for the representative class is $2.00; to meet levels 2 and 3, the manufacturers' cost increase is $7.00. See Technical Support Document, Table 1.6. At those levels of efficiency, the consumer price increases are $4.91 and $8.95 for standard levels 1 and 2/3, respectively. See Technical Support Document, Table 4.2. The per-unit reduction in annual cost of operation (energy expense) at level 1 is $1.11 for the representative class; standard levels 2 and 3 would reduce energy expenses by $3.62. See Technical Support Document, Table 4.12a. The Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory-Manufacturer Impact Model results for fluorescent lamp ballasts show that revised standards would result in increases in a prototypical manufacturer's short-run return on equity from the 15.5 percent in the base case. Standard levels 1 through 3 are projected to produce short-run return on equity's of 23.7 percent, 24.5 percent and 24.7 percent, respectively. Revised standards are projected to slightly increase long-run return on equity. Standard levels 1 through 3 are projected to produce long-run return on equity's of 16.0 percent, 16.1 percent and 16.1 percent, respectively. See Technical Support Document, Tables 5.1 and 5.2. Most financial data of the type needed to characterize the prototypical manufacturer are generally not available because most real firms are subsidiaries or divisions of larger parent companies. Hence, DOE assumes that the prototypical firm has largely the same financial characteristics (e.g. debt-equity ratio, interest rate on debt, etc.) as parent firms. Financial data for the parent firms are based on publicly available sources such as Securities and Exchange Commission 10K reports and company annual reports. B. Life-cycle cost and net present value. A life-cycle cost is calculated for a unit meeting each of the candidate standard levels. For the representative class, life-cycle costs at all standard levels are less than the baseline unit. Of the three candidate standard levels, a unit meeting levels 2 or 3 had the lowest consumer life-cycle costs. See Technical Support Document, Table 4.2. However, other than at the max tech level, consumers do not purchase units of the same efficiency. At each candidate standard level, the Department determines the average change in life-cycle costs by considering only those consumers who are being forced by the standard to move from a lower efficiency unit to one which just meets the standard level being considered. This is done by assuming in the base case a distribution of purchases of units meeting the efficiencies of the various standard levels. The base case distribution is based on the distribution of current sales as a function of efficiency. As each standard level is examined, the change in life-cycle cost reported is the average change only for affected consumers. Under this scenario, standard level 1 would cause reductions in life-cycle costs for the average consumer of $7.48 for the representative class, and standard levels 2 and 3 would reduce average life-cycle costs by $30.23. These life-cycle cost reductions indicate that no standard level would cause any economic burden on the average consumer. See Technical Support Document, Table 4.12d. While DOE examined the effect of different discount rates (2, 4, and 10 percent) on the life-cycle cost curves and generally found little impact, the Department did not consider higher discount rates, since such rates would be beyond the range of real, after-tax rates that consumers would likely face in financing the purchase of fluorescent lamp ballasts. Similarly, DOE did not consider different energy prices, including regional prices, in the life-cycle cost analysis. Since any standard is to be a national standard, DOE believed that national average energy prices were appropriate.
