FR940406-0-00165 FR940406-0-00011 (C) The manufacturer may not modify the test vehicle's evaporative or refueling emission control systems by component addition, deletion, or substitution, except to comply with paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section if approved in advance by the Administrator. (4) When testing light-duty trucks, the following exceptions to the test procedures in subpart C of this part are applicable to Selective Enforcement Audit testing: (i) The manufacturer may measure the temperature of the test fuel at other than the approximate mid-volume of the fuel tank, as specified in §86.131&hyph;90(a), and may drain the test fuel from other than the lowest point of the fuel tank as specified in §86.131&hyph;90(b), provided an equivalent method is used. Equivalency documentation shall be maintained by the manufacturer and shall be made available to the Administrator upon request. (ii) In performing exhaust sample analysis under §86.140&hyph;94, the manufacturer shall exercise care to prevent moisture from condensing in the sample collection bags. (iii) The manufacturer need not comply with §86.142&hyph;90 since the records required therein are provided under other provisions of this subpart K. (iv) In addition to the requirements of subpart C of this part, the manufacturer shall prepare gasoline-fueled vehicles as follows prior to exhaust emission testing: (A) The manufacturer shall inspect the fuel system to ensure the absence of any leaks of liquid or vapor to the atmosphere by applying a pressure of 14.5 # 0.5 inches of water (3.6 # 0.1 Kpa) to the fuel system allowing the pressure to stabilize and isolating the fuel system from the pressure source. Following isolation of the fuel system, pressure must not drop more than 2.0 inches of water (0.5 Kpa) in five minutes. If required, the manufacturer shall perform corrective action in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section and report this action in accordance with §86.1009&hyph;2001(d). (B) When performing this pressure check, the manufacturer shall exercise care to neither purge nor load the evaporative or refueling emission control system. (C) The manufacturer shall not modify the test vehicle's evaporative or refueling emission control system by component addition, deletion, or substitution, except if approved in advance by the Administrator, to comply with paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section. (5) When testing light-duty trucks, the exceptions to the test procedures in subpart O of this part applicable to Selective Enforcement Audit testing are listed in paragraphs (a)(5) (i) and (ii) of this section. (i) The manufacturer need not comply with §86.1442, since the records required therein are provided under provisions of this subpart K. (ii) In addition to the requirements of subpart O of this part, the manufacturer must prepare vehicles as in paragraphs (a)(5)(ii) (A) through (C) of this section prior to exhaust emission testing. (A) The manufacturer must inspect the fuel system to insure the absence of any leaks of liquid or vapor to the atmosphere by applying a pressure of 14.5 # 0.5 inches of water (3.6 # 0.1 Kpa) to the fuel system, allowing the pressure to stabilize, and isolating the fuel system from the pressure source. Pressure must not drop more than 2.0 inches of water (0.5 Kpa) in five minutes. If required, the manufacturer performs corrective action in accordance with this section and must report this action in accordance with §86.1009&hyph;2001. (B) When performing this pressure check, the manufacturer must exercise care to neither purge nor load the evaporative or refueling emission control system.
