FR941017-2-00066 FR941017-2-00048 Item 1. The title of item 1 was modified to remove the reference to central ADP facilities, ADP management, and ADP support operations and clarify its applicability. The disposition of subitem 1c was modified to remove the phrase ``in accordance with sound business practice and agency standard operating procedures'' for consistency with other GRS items. The item was otherwise unchanged and now reads as follows: Item 1. Files/Records Relating to the Creation, Use, and Maintenance of Computer Systems, Applications, or Electronic Records. a. Electronic files or records created solely to test system performance, as well as hard-copy printouts and related documentation for the electronic files/records. Delete/destroy when no longer needed. b. Electronic files or records used to create or update a master file, including, but not limited to, work files, valid transaction files, and intermediate input/output records. Delete after information has been transferred to the master file and verified. c. Electronic files and hard-copy printouts created to monitor system usage, including, but not limited to, log-in files, password files, audit trail files, system usage files, and cost-back files used to assess charges for system use. Delete/destroy when no longer needed. Item 2. Item 2 is unchanged from the current GRS which reads as follows: Item 2. Input/Source Records. a. Non-electronic documents or forms designed and used solely to create, update, or modify the records in an electronic medium and not required for audit or legal purposes (such as need for signatures) and not previously scheduled for permanent retention in a NARA-approved agency records schedule. Destroy after the information has been converted to an electronic medium and verified, or when no longer needed to support the reconstruction of, or serve as the backup to, the master file, whichever is later. b. Electronic records, except as noted in item 2c, entered into the system during an update process, and not required for audit and legal purposes. Delete when data have been entered into the master file or database and verified, or when no longer required to support reconstruction of, or serve as backup to, a master file or database, whichever is later. c. Electronic records received from another agency and used as input/ source records by the receiving agency, EXCLUDING records produced by another agency under the terms of an interagency agreement, or records created by another agency in response to the specific information needs of the receiving agency. Delete when data have been entered into the master file or database and verified, or when no longer needed to support reconstruction of, or serve as backup to, the master file or database, whichever is later. Item 3. Item 3 was modified to incorporate item 3 from GRS 23 covering administrative databases. The title was changed from Master Files to Electronic Versions of Records Scheduled for Disposal. This will clarify the coverage of the item. To further clarify the coverage to users of the GRS, the following note will be added to each page of the GRS indexes: General Records Schedule 20, item 3, applies to electronic versions of records scheduled for disposal under items in GRS 1&hyph;16, 18, 22, and 23, except for GRS 1, items 21, 22, 25f; GRS 12, item 3; and GRS 18, item 5. The new item reads as follows: Item 3. Electronic Versions of Records Scheduled for Disposal. a. Electronic versions of records that are scheduled for disposal under one or more items in GRS 1&hyph;16, 18, 22, or 23; EXCLUDING those that replace or duplicate the following GRS items: GRS 1, items 21, 22, 25f; GRS 12, item 3; and GRS 18, item 5. Delete after the expiration of the retention period authorized by the GRS or when no longer needed, whichever is later. b. Electronic records that support administrative housekeeping functions when the records are derived from or replace hard copy records authorized by NARA for destruction in an agency specific records schedule. (1) When hard copy records are retained to meet recordkeeping requirements. Delete information in the database when no longer needed. (2) When the electronic record replaces hard copy records. Delete after the expiration of the retention period authorized for the hard copy file, or when no longer needed, whichever is later. (3) Hard copy printouts created for short-term administrative purposes. Destroy when no longer needed. Item 4. The disposition instruction for item 4 was modified to remove the concluding phrase ``for current business'' for consistency with other GRS items. The item is otherwise unchanged from the current GRS and now reads as follows: Item 4. Data Files Consisting of Summarized Information. Records that contain summarized or aggregated information created by combining data elements or individual observations from a single master file or database that is disposable under a GRS item or is authorized for deletion by a disposition job approved by NARA after January 1, 1988, EXCLUDING data files that are: (a) Created as disclosure-free files to allow public access to the data; or
