FR941207-1-00026 FR941207-1-00006 (6) Economic values associated with benefits of designating critical habitat for the Mexican spotted owl. Such benefits include those derived from non-consumptive uses, e.g., hiking, camping, bird-watching; enhanced watershed protection; improved air quality; increased soil retention; ``existence values'', and reductions in administrative costs; and (7) The methodology the Service might use, under section 4(b)(2) of the Act, in determining if the benefits of excluding an area from critical habitat outweigh the benefits of specifying the area as critical habitat. Comments received during the 60-day comment period on this proposed rule will be considered during preparation of a final rulemaking. The final decision on the designation of critical habitat will take into consideration the comments and any additional information received by the Service. Public Hearings Section 4(b)(5)(E) of the Act provides for a public hearing on this proposal, if requested within 45 days of the date of publication of the proposal. As indicated under DATES , the Service will schedule public hearings on this proposal due to the anticipated number of requests for such hearings. Parties wishing to make statements for the record should bring copies of their statements to the hearing. Oral statements may be limited in length, if necessary. There are no limits to the length of a written statement presented at the hearing or subsequently submitted for the record. Written comments will be accepted from any party until the close of the comment period (see DATES ). Written submissions will be given the same weight and consideration as oral comments presented at any hearing. National Environmental Policy Act The Service has determined that an Environmental Assessment, as defined under the authority of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, need not be prepared in connection with regulations adopted pursuant to Section 4(a) of the Act. A notice outlining the Service's reasons for this determination was published in the Federal Register on October 25, 1983 (48 FR 49244). Required Determinations This document has been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget under Executive Order 12866. Based on the information discussed in this rule concerning public projects and private activities within proposed critical habitat areas, it is not clear whether significant economic impacts will result from the critical habitat designation. There are a limited number of actions on private lands that have Federal involvement through funds or permits that may be affected by critical habitat designation. A final determination of the impacts of the proposal is not possible until the required economic analysis is completed. The final rule will contain determinations of the effects of the proposed actions in compliance with all relevant laws, regulations, and Executive Orders. Also, no direct costs, enforcement costs, information collection, or recordkeeping requirements are imposed on small entities by this proposed designation. Further, the rule contains no recordkeeping requirements as defined by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. References Cited A complete list of all references cited herein, as well as others, is available upon request from the New Mexico Ecological Services State Office (see ADDRESSES above). Author(s) The primary authors of this proposed rule are Marcos Gorresen and Sonja Jahrsdoerfer (see ADDRESSES .) List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and threatened species, Exports, Imports, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, and Transportation. Proposed Regulation Promulgation Accordingly, it is hereby proposed to amend part 17, subchapter B of chapter I, title 50 of the Code of Federal Regulations, as set forth below: PART 17_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 17 continues to read as follows:
