FR940106-1-00053 FR940106-1-00011 In large part because of the relationship between fishery productivity and the entrapment zone described above, EPA initially considered developing federal criteria designed to directly maintain and protect the entrapment zone. However, as described below, discussions among the participants in a workshop convened by the SFEP suggested that salinity criteria would be a more appropriate measure for protecting estuarine habitat. (2) San Francisco Estuary Project Workshop Findings. The SFEP is a five-year cooperative effort by over 100 representatives of public and private entities concerned about the water quality and natural resources of the San Francisco Bay estuary. Funded primarily by EPA and the State of California, the SFEP has developed a Comprehensive Conservation and Management Plan to protect the natural and consumptive water uses of the Bay/Delta (SFEP 1993a). In 1991 and 1992, the SFEP convened a series of workshops to develop the scientific rationale for an estuarine index that would measure the responses of estuarine biota and habitats to various conditions of salinity and flow. The workshops involved approximately thirty scientists and policy makers with expertise in estuarine ecology and water resource management, and included several of the world's most distinguished estuarine scientists. The group focused its attention on the estuary between Carquinez Strait and the confluence of the Sacramento and San Joaquin Rivers. The specific operations of the water projects (water exports, gate closures, etc.) were not directly addressed by the group. The findings of the workshops were assembled in a final report, Managing Freshwater Discharge to the San Francisco Bay/Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta Estuary: The Scientific Basis for an Estuarine Standard (SFEP 1993b) (SFEP Report). All of the conclusions and recommendations in this report were endorsed by a consensus of the estuarine scientists and managers who participated in the final workshop in August of 1992. 3 3 The SFEP Report defined ``consensus'' as follows: ``The term consensus is used to represent group solidarity on an issue; a judgement arrived at by most of the scientists and managers present. In all cases, the consensus was unanimous or nearly unanimous.'' SFEP Report, at p. 3. EPA recognizes that representatives from a number of the participating organizations (the State Water Contractors, the California Department of Water Resources (California DWR), the State Board, and the USBR) subsequently withdrew their names from the final SFEP Report. According to the Final Report, the conclusions are based on the consensus that was achieved by the participants at the workshops. Although the workshop group initially focused on the entrapment zone, they concluded that salinity would be a more appropriate index for the development of estuarine standards. Salinity was selected for several reasons: It is of direct ecological importance, it can be measured accurately and easily, and it integrates a number of important estuarine properties and processes. In particular, it is closely associated with the abundance and distribution of species at all trophic levels (SFEP 1993b). The workgroup further concluded that the placement of the 2 parts per thousand isohaline 4 should be used to develop estuarine standards. 4 An ``isohaline'' is defined as a theoretical or imaginary line in the estuary connecting all points of equal salinity. For example, the phrase ``2 U near-bottom isohaline'' means a line stretching across the Delta marking the positions where the salinity of the near-bottom water is 2 parts per thousand. The position of an isohaline in an estuary changes dramatically during the day because of rising and falling tides, which sometimes move the isohaline as much as 5 miles up or downstream during a 24 hour period. By convention, a daily isohaline is measured at its daily mean position for the 24 hour period. Because of the broad spectrum of scientific expertise underlying the SFEP Report, its conclusions and recommendations are included in full as appendix I. For purposes of developing water quality criteria protecting Estuarine Habitat, the following conclusions and recommendations are especially relevant: * * * * * (2) Conclusion Estuarine standards to be used in conjunction with flow standards should be based upon an index that is simple and inexpensive to measure accurately, that has ecological significance, that integrates a number of important estuarine properties and processes, and that is meaningful to a large number of constituencies. Recommendation Salinity should be used as an index for the development of some estuarine standards. (3) Conclusion Salinity measured at about 1m above the bottom 5 is an index upon which estuarine standards should be developed. The index is a practical way of tracking changes in habitat. 5 Because the difference between surface and near-bottom salinities is small and because the relationship between them is reasonably well known, surface salinity could also be used. Near-bottom salinity is recommended, however, because it is a more stable indicator. [Footnote in the original.] Recommendation Standards should be developed using an index that establishes an upstream limit of the position of the 2 U near-bottom isohaline, averaged over different periods of the year. * * * * *
