FR941219-2-00135 FR941219-2-00071 B. For a five-year period from the date of this Order, Mr. Werts is required to provide notice to the Director, Office of Enforcement, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, of his acceptance of employment with any employer whose operations he knows or has reason to believe involve NRC-licensed activities. The Director, Office of Enforcement, may, in writing, relax or rescind any of the above conditions upon demonstration by Mr. Werts of good cause. V In accordance with 10 CFR 2.202, Mr. Werts must, and any other person adversely affected by this Order may, submit an answer to this Order, and may request a hearing on this Order, within 20 days of the date of this Order. The answer may consent to this Order. Unless the answer consents to this Order, the answer shall, in writing and under oath or affirmation, specifically admit or deny each allegation or charge made in this Order and shall set forth the matters of fact and law on which Mr. Werts or other person adversely affected relies and the reasons as to why the Order should not have been issued. Any answer or request for a hearing shall be submitted to the Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, ATTN: Chief, Docketing and Services Section, Washington, DC 20555. Copies also shall be sent to the Director, Office of Enforcement, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, to the Assistant General Counsel for Hearings and Enforcement at the same address, to the Regional Administrator, Region II, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, 101 Marietta St. NW., Atlanta, Georgia 30323, and to Mr. Werts, if the answer or hearing request is by a person other than Mr. Werts. If a person other than Mr. Werts requests a hearing, that person shall set forth with particularity the manner in which his interest is adversely affected by this Order and shall address the criteria set forth in 10 CFR 2.714(d). If a hearing is requested by Mr. Werts or a person whose interest is adversely affected, the Commission will issue an Order designating the time and place of any hearing. If a hearing is held, the issue to be considered at such hearing shall be whether this Order should be sustained. Pursuant to 10 CFR 2.202(c)(2)(i), Mr. Werts, or any other person adversely affected by this Order, may, in addition to demanding a hearing, at the time the answer is filed or sooner, move the presiding officer to set aside the immediate effectiveness of the Order on the ground that the Order, including the need for immediate effectiveness, is not based on adequate evidence but on mere suspicion, unfounded allegations, or error. In the absence of any request for a hearing, the provisions specified in Section IV above shall be final 20 days from the date of this Order without further order or proceedings. An answer or a request for a hearing shall not stay the immediate effectiveness of this order. Dated at Rockville, Maryland this 12th day of December 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. James L. Milhoan, Deputy Executive Director for Nuclear Reactor Regulation, Regional Operations and Research. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31070 Filed 12&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
