FR940318-1-00028 FR940318-1-00010 19 CFR Part 101 Realignment of Tampa and Miami Districts AGENCY: Customs Service, Department of the Treasury. ACTION: Proposed rule; solicitation of comments. SUMMARY: This document proposes to amend the Customs Regulations governing the Customs field organization by changing the boundaries of the Tampa District and the Miami District, which lie in the Southeast Region. The boundaries of these two districts would be altered to reflect the established judicial districts within the state. This would be accomplished by transferring the counties of Collier and Hendry to the Tampa Customs District from the Miami Customs District. The proposed realignment will allow a more efficient use of Customs employees and facilitate operations for many of the users of Customs services. Comments on the desirability of this proposed realignment are being solicited. DATES: Comments must be received on of before May 17, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments (preferably in triplicate) may be submitted to the Regulations Branch, Office of Regulations and Rulings, U.S. Customs Service, Franklin Court, 1301 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20229, and may be inspected at Franklin Court, 1099 14th Street, NW., Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Brad Lund, Office of Inspection and Control (202) 927&hyph;0192. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Background As part of its continuing effort to utilize its personnel, facilities and resources more efficiently, and to provide better service to the public, importers and carriers, Customs is proposing to realign the boundaries of its Tampa and Miami Districts. The proposed realignment would give jurisdiction over all cities and counties along the West coast of Florida to the Tampa District. This would be accomplished by removing the counties of Collier and Hendry from the Miami District and adding them to the Tampa District. The proposed realignment will permit personnel from the Tampa District to serve the areas of Collier and Hendry counties which are currently under the jurisdiction of the Miami District. Currently, aircraft inspection clearances from Naples, which is in Collier County, must be coordinated by personnel from the Miami District which is headquartered approximately 120 miles away while personnel from the Tampa District are stationed at the Southwest Regional Airport in Fort Myers, only 20 miles distant. An additional reason supporting the change is that the proposed District boundaries would also conform to the current jurisdictional boundaries of the Customs Office of Enforcement. The enforcement boundaries were realigned in 1989 so that they would coincide with the jurisdictional boundaries of the U.S. Attorney's office and provide for a uniformity of treatment for all penalty and seizure cases instituted in the state. If the proposed change is adopted, all Customs transactions can be handled within the same District offices. Support for the proposal has been voiced by several elements of the regional importing community who anticipate improved service from a local headquarters. It is not anticipated that this proposal will have any impact on the staffing level in either District. Proposed Boundaries of Tampa The proposed new boundaries of the Tampa, Florida, District are as follows: The North shore of the St. Marys River and the city of St. Marys Ga., and all the State of Florida except the counties of Indian River, St. Lucie, Martin, Okeechobee, Palm Beach, Broward, Monroe, Dade. Proposed Boundaries of Miami The proposed new boundaries of the Miami, Florida, District are as follows: The counties of Indian River, St. Lucie, Martin, Okeechobee, Palm Beach, Broward, Monroe, and Dade. If the proposed district boundaries are adopted, the lists of Customs regions, districts, and ports of entry in 19 CFR 101.3(b) will be amended accordingly.
