FR940826-2-00069 FR940826-2-00055 Final Judgment United States of America, Plaintiff, v. AT&T Corp. and McCaw Cellular Communications, Inc., Defendants. Civil Action No. 1:94&hyph;CV01555 Judge Harold Greene Filed: 7/15/94. Plaintiff, the United States of America, having filed its complaint herein on July 15, 1994; the parties, by their respective attorneys, having consented to the entry of this Final Judgment; and without this Final Judgment constituting any evidence or admission by any party with respect to any issue of fact or law herein; Now, therefore, before the taking of any testimony, without trial or adjudication of any issue of fact or law, and upon the consent of the parties, it is hereby Ordered, Adjudged, and Decreed as follows: I Jurisdiction This Court has jurisdiction over the parties and the subject matter of this action. The Complaint states a claim upon which relief may be granted against the defendants under Section 7 of the Clayton Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 18). II Definitions As used in this Final Judgment: A. Affiliate means a corporation or partnership in which AT&T or McCaw, as the case may be, has a direct or indirect voting interest of greater than fifty percent, or the right, power or ability to control. B. AT&T means AT&T Corp. and its Affiliates other than McCaw. C. AT&T Equipped Cellular System means a Cellular System in which the Cellular Carrier has obtained Cellular Infrastructure Equipment from AT&T. D. AT&T Network Wireless Infrastructure Unit means the division, subsidiary or other business organization of AT&T's telecommunications equipment manufacturing subsidiary (``AT&T Network Systems'') that manufactures Cellular and Wireless Infrastructure Equipment. E. Cellular Carrier means an entity that is a carrier within the meaning of the Communications Act of 1934 and that provides Cellular Services. F. Cellular Digital Packet Data Services means a service that is offered in accord with Internet TCP/IP Protocol Suite and OSI Suite as defined by Internet RFC 791 or any functionally equivalent service in which multiprotocol network services providing wireless packet data to wireless communications users are offered by delivering data to a centralized switching or routing point from which the data is transferred or routed to a destination in the Local Cellular Service Area (which may be an Internet node) designated by the customer or to an Interexchange Carrier chosen by the customer on an unbundled and nondiscriminatory basis at a point within the Local Cellular Service Area in which the centralized switching or routing point is located. G. Cellular Infrastructure Equipment means cell sites, mobile switching equipment, and other telecommunications products (hardware and software) which are purchased by Cellular Carriers for the provision of Cellular Services. It does not include transmission media or other Telecommunications Equipment not specifically developed for use in a Cellular System ( e.g. , cable or fiber) unless such equipment is not compatible with other manufacturers' Cellular Infrastructure Equipment. It does include the equipment used to terminate transmission media ( e.g. , D4 channel banks) and the radio equipment used to transmit telecommunications within a Cellular System. H. Cellular Services mean the Domestic Public Cellular Radio Telecommunications Services provided pursuant to part 22, subpart K of the rules of the Commission (47 CFR 22.900&hyph;22.945), whether provided solely or principally on those frequencies designated in 47 CFR 22.902. I. Cellular System means the integrated mobile switching, cell sites, and other facilities which are operated or controlled by a Cellular Carrier and used to provide Cellular Services in an area. J. Commission means the Federal Communications Commission. K. Control means the power to direct or to cause the direction of the management and policies of a corporation or a partnership, whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise. L. Development Team means a discrete and identified group of employees responsible for the development of Telecommunications Equipment, i.e., the design and development of technology platforms, products (including associated documentation and training), and associated engineering and testing. The specific responsibilities of Development Teams may be modified in compliance plans filed pursuant to Section VII.A of this Final Judgment. M. Exchange Access means services, functions, and activities that a cellular carrier performs, or may hereafter choose to perform, in connection with the origination, routing, or termination of interexchange calls. N. Interexchange Carrier means a firm that is a carrier within the meaning of the Communications Act and that provides Interexchange Services. O. Interexchange Services means telecommunications service for hire between one of the Local Cellular Service Areas specified in paragraph II(Q) and a point in some other area. P. Interexchange Traffic Routing means sorting interexchange calls by destination and routing calls over different trunk groups or other facilities depending on the call's destination. Q. Local Cellular Service means the provision of Cellular Service between points within areas (``Local Cellular Service Areas'') in which the Bell Operating Companies or their affiliates are authorized today, or hereafter become authorized, to provide cellular exchange services without any equal access obligation under the provisions of the MFJ, any orders entered under it, or any legislation that supersedes or modifies it, including generic orders that for the purposes of this Final Judgment shall be construed to apply to McCaw Cellular Systems as if such Cellular Systems were Bell Operating Companies' Cellular Systems, except that, for purposes of this order, and subject to further order of this Court: (i) The Spokane (Washington) LATA 676 shall include all of Yakima MSA 191; (ii) the Seattle (Washington) LATA 674 shall include Tacoma MSA 82; (iii) the Portland (Oregon) LATA 672 shall include Eugene MSA 135, Medford MSA 229 and Salem MSA 148; (iv) the Minneapolis (Minnesota) LATA 628 shall include Minneapolis MSA 15, Rochester MSA 288, and St. Cloud MSA 198; (v) the Los Angeles (California) LATA 730 shall include Ventura MSA 73; (vi) the San Luis Obispo (California) LATA 740 shall include Santa Barbara MSA 124; (vii) the Stockton (California) LATA 738 shall include Stockton MSA 107; (viii) the Sacramento (California) LATA 726 shall include Sacramento MSA 35, Redding MSA 254, Yuba City MSA 274, Reno MSA 171, and Chico MSA 215; (ix) the Fresno (California) LATA 728 shall include Visalia MSA 150; (x) the Austin (Texas) LATA 558 shall include Austin MSA 75 and Bryan-College Station MSA 287; (xi) the Waco (Texas) LATA 556 shall include Killeen-Temple MSA 160; (xii) the Shreveport (Louisiana) LATA 486 shall include Texarkana MSA 240, and Longview MSA 206; (xiii) the Lafayette (Louisiana) LATA 488 shall include Lafayette MSA 174; (xiv) the Dallas (Texas) LATA 552 shall include Sherman-Dennison MSA 292; (xv) the Little Rock (Arkansas) LATA 528 shall include Pine Bluff MSA 291; (xvi) the Tulsa (Oklahoma) LATA 538 shall include Tulsa MSA 57, Fayetteville MSA 182, Fort Smith MSA 165, Springfield MSA 163, and Joplin MSA 239; (xvii) the Jacksonville (Florida) LATA 452 shall include Jacksonville MSA 51, Ocala MSA 245, and Tallahassee MSA 168; (xviii) the Gulf Coast (Florida) LATA 952 shall include Tampa MSA 22, Sarasota MSA 167, and Lakeland MSA 114; and (xix) the Pittsburgh (Pennsylvania) LATA 234 shall include Parkersburg MSA 200, Erie MSA 130, Wheeling MSA 178, Johnstown MSA 143, and Steubenville MSA 199.
