FR941110-0-00266 FR941110-0-00016 (d) Failure to achieve substantial compliance. If the facility does not achieve substantial compliance by the end of the period specified in paragraph (c) of this section, (1) HCFA will_ (i) Terminate the provider agreement of the Medicare SNF in accordance with §488.456; or (ii) Discontinue Federal funding to the SNF for Medicare; and (iii) Discontinue FFP to the State for the Medicaid NF. (2) The State may terminate the provider agreement for the NF. §488.452 State and Federal disagreements involving findings not in agreement in non-State operated NFs and dually participating facilities when there is no immediate jeopardy. The following rules apply when HCFA and the State disagree over findings of noncompliance or application of remedies in a non-State operated NF or dually participating facility: (a) Disagreement over whether facility has met requirements. (1) The State's finding of noncompliance takes precedence when_ (i) HCFA finds that a NF or a dually participating facility is in substantial compliance with the participation requirements; and (ii) The State finds that a NF or dually participating facility has not achieved substantial compliance. (2) HCFA's findings of noncompliance take precedence when_ (i) HCFA finds that a NF or a dually participating facility has not achieved substantial compliance; and (ii) The State finds that a NF or a dually participating facility is in substantial compliance with the participation requirements. (3) When HCFA's survey findings take precedence, HCFA may_ (i) Impose any of the alternative remedies specified in §488.406; (ii) Terminate the provider agreement subject to the applicable conditions of §488.450; and (iii) Stop FFP to the State for a NF. (b) Disagreement over decision to terminate. (1) HCFA's decision to terminate the participation of a facility takes precedence when_ (i) Both HCFA and the State find that the facility has not achieved substantial compliance; and (ii) HCFA, but not the State, finds that the facility's participation should be terminated. HCFA will permit continuation of payment during the period prior to the effective date of termination not to exceed 6 months, if the applicable conditions of §488.450 are met. (2) The State's decision to terminate a facility's participation and the procedures for appealing such termination, as specified in §431.153(c) of this chapter, takes precedence when_ (i) The State, but not HCFA, finds that a NF's participation should be terminated; and (ii) The State's effective date for the termination of the NF's provider agreement is no later than 6 months after the last day of survey. (c) Disagreement over timing of termination of facility. The State's timing of termination takes precedence if it does not occur later than 6 months after the last day of the survey when both HCFA and the State find that_ (1) A facility is not in substantial compliance; and (2) The facility's participation should be terminated. (d) Disagreement over remedies. (1) When HCFA or the State, but not both, establishes one or more remedies, in addition to or as an alternative to termination, the additional or alternative remedies will also apply when_ (i) Both HCFA and the State find that a facility has not achieved substantial compliance; and (ii) Both HCFA and the State find that no immediate jeopardy exists. (2) Overlap of remedies. When HCFA and the State establish one or more remedies, in addition to or as an alternative to termination, only the HCFA remedies apply when both HCFA and the State find that a facility has not achieved substantial compliance. (e) Regardless of whether HCFA's or the State's decision controls, only one noncompliance and enforcement decision is applied to the Medicaid agreement, and for a dually participating facility, that same decision will apply to the Medicare agreement. §488.454 Duration of remedies. (a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, alternative remedies continue until_ (1) The facility has achieved substantial compliance, as determined by HCFA or the State based upon a revisit or after an examination of credible written evidence that it can verify without an on-site visit; or
