FR941102-0-00060 FR941102-0-00014 40 CFR Part 180 [PP 1F3993/R2083; FRL&hyph;4917&hyph;3] RIN 2070&hyph;AB78 Pesticide Tolerances for Metalaxyl AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This rule establishes tolerances for combined residues of the fungicide metalaxyl [ N -(2,6-dimethylphenyl)- N -(methoxyacetyl) alanine methyl ester] and its metabolites containing the 2,6-dimethylaniline moiety and N -(2-hydroxymethyl-6-methyl)- N -(methoxyacetyl)-alanine methylester, each expressed as metalaxyl, in or on the raw agricultural commodities cereal grains (except wheat, barley, and oats) [replacing grain crops] and forage, fodder, and straw of the cereal grains group (except wheat, barley, and oats). Ciba-Geigy Corp. petitioned to establish the maximum permissible levels for residues of the fungicide. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 19, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written objections and hearing requests, identified by the document control number, [PP 1F3993/R2083], may be submitted to: Hearing Clerk (1900), Environmental Protection Agency, Rm. M3708, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. A copy of any objections and hearing requests filed with the Hearing Clerk should be identified by the document control number and submitted to: Public Response and Program Resources Branch, Field Operations Division (7506C), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. In person, bring copy of objections and hearing requests to Rm. 1132, CM #2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Hwy., Arlington, VA 22202. Fees accompanying objections shall be labeled ``Tolerance Petition Fees'' and forwarded to: EPA Headquarters Accounting Operations Branch, OPP (Tolerance Fees), P.O. Box 360277M, Pittsburgh, PA 15251. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: By mail: Leonard S. Cole, Jr., Acting Product Manager (PM) 21, Registration Division (7505C), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. Office location and telephone number: Rm. 227, CM #2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Hwy., Arlington, VA 22202; (703)-305-6900. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: EPA issued a notice of filing, published in the Federal Register of December 13, 1991 (56 FR 29767), which announced that Ciba-Geigy Corp., P.O. Box 18300, Greensboro, NC 27419, had submitted pesticide petition PP 1F3993 to EPA requesting that the Administrator, pursuant to section 408(d) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA), 21 U.S.C. 346a(d), establish tolerances for combined residues of the fungicide metalaxyl [ N -(2,6-dimethylphenyl)- N -(methoxyacetyl) alanine methyl ester] and its metabolites containing the 2,6-dimethylaniline moiety, and N -(2-hydroxymethyl-6-methyl)- N -(methoxyacetyl)-alanine methylester, each expressed as metalaxyl, in or on the raw agricultural commodities cereal grains (except wheat, barley, and oats) at 0.1 part per million (ppm) (replacing grain crops at 0.1 ppm) and forage, fodder, and straw of cereal grains group (except wheat, barley, and oats) at 1.0 ppm. There were no comments or requests for referral to an advisory committee received in response to the notice of filing. By way of public reminder, this notice also reiterates the registrant's responsibility under section 6 (a)(2) of FIFRA to submit additional factual information regarding adverse effects on the environment and to human health by the pesticide. The scientific data submitted in the petition and other relevant material have been evaluated. The toxicological data considered in support of the tolerances include: 1. A 3-month dietary study in rats with a no-observed-effect level (NOEL) at 17.5 milligrams per kilogram (mg/kg) body weight (bwt)/day (250 parts per million (ppm)). 2. A developmental toxicity study in rats with a NOEL of 50 mg/kg bwt for developmental toxicity and maternal toxicity. 3. A developmental toxicity study in rabbits with a NOEL of 300 mg/kg bwt, the highest dose tested (HDT). Metalaxyl did not cause developmental toxicity, even in the presence of maternal toxicity. 4. Metalaxyl was negative in bacterial and mammalian gene mutation. The fungicide also did not increase the frequency of reverse mutations in yeast. Metalaxyl was negative in an in vivo cytogenetics assay (hamsters) and a dominant-lethal assay (mice). Metalaxyl did not increase unscheduled DNA synthesis in rat primary hepatocytes or in human fibroblasts. These results suggest that metalaxyl is not genotoxic. 5. A three-generation rat reproduction study with a NOEL of 63 mg/kg bwt/day (1,250 ppm). 6. A 6-month dog feeding study with a NOEL of 6.3 mg/kg bwt/day (250 ppm). Effects found at 25 mg/kg were increased serum alkaline phosphatase activity and increased liver weight and liver-to-brain weight ratios without histological changes. 7. A 2-year rat chronic feeding/carcinogenicity study with no compound-related carcinogenic effects under the conditions of the study at dietary levels up to 1,250 ppm. The NOEL is 13 mg/kg bwt/day (250 ppm). The lowest-observed-effect level (LOEL) is 63 mg/kg/day based upon slight increases in liver weight to body weight ratios and periacinar vacuolation of hepatocytes. 8. A 2-year mouse oncogenic study with no compound-related carcinogenic effects under the conditions of the study at dietary levels up to 190 mg/kg/day. Because of concerns raised over some equivocal increases in tumor incidences in the male mouse liver and the male rat adrenal medulla, and the female rat thyroid, the two chronic feeding studies were submitted to the Environmental Pathology Laboratories (EPL) for an independent reading of the microscopic slides. The new pathological evaluation by EPL and the original reports of the rat and mouse oncogenicity studies were then both submitted for review to EPA's Carcinogen Assessment Group (CAG). A final review of the carcinogenicity studies and related material was performed by the Peer Review Committee of the Toxicology Branch (TB) of the Office of Pesticide Programs (OPP). The four major issues evaluated by CAG and the peer review group included: (1) Perifollicular cell adenomas in the thyroid of female rats; (2) adrenal medullary tumors (pheochromocytomas) in male rats; (3) liver tumors in male mice; and (4) whether the HDT (1,250 ppm) in the rat and mouse oncogenicity studies represented a maximum-tolerated dose (MTD). Regarding the thyroid tumors in female rats, the peer review group concluded that the increased incidences of thyroid tumors in females of treated groups were not compound related. This conclusion was based on the following: (1) There was no progression of benign tumors (adenomas) to malignancy (carcinomas); (2) there was no increase in hyperplastic changes; (3) there was no dose-response relationship; and (4) the two reevaluations of the microscopic slides by the pathologists at EPL and TB in OPP further did not confirm any apparent effects observed in the original report. The issue of a possible treatment-related increase of adrenal medullary gland tumors, namely, pheochromocytomas, in the male rat was also reassessed by both CAG and the Peer Review Committee. Both concluded that the data, especially in view of the reevaluation of the microscopic slides performed by EPL, did not support a compound-related increase of adrenal medullary tumors; the incidence of pheochromocytomas more accurately represented spontaneous variations of a commonly occurring tumor in the aged rat. The analysis of the significance of the equivocal increase in the incidence of liver tumors in male mice was very similar to that performed for the rat thyroid and adrenal gland tumors. The original pathological reading of the tissue slides reported an elevated increase of tumors in some treatment groups; however, these increases were not evident after a reevaluation of the microscopic slides was performed by an independent pathologist at EPL and by the reading of a CAG pathologist. The Peer Review Committee concurred that the reevaluation of the slides is reliable and does not show any compound-related increase in the incidence of liver tumors in the mouse. The Agency believes that the data from the rat and mouse long-term studies are sufficient to support the conclusion that metalaxyl does not show a carcinogenic potential in laboratory animals. This conclusion is supported by the following: (1) The doses tested in both the rat and mouse long-term studies approached an MTD based upon compound-related changes in liver weight and/or liver histology; (2) extensive available mutagenic evidence indicates no potential genotoxic activity which correlates with the negative carcinogenic potential demonstrated in long-term testing; (3) metalaxyl is not structurally related to known carcinogens; and (4) under the conditions of the rat and mouse tests, no indication of compound-related carcinogenic effects was noted at any of the treatment doses, sexes, or species. The reference dose (RfD) based on the 6-month dog feeding study (NOEL 7.8 mg/kg bwt/day), and using a hundredfold safety factor, is calculated to be 0.08 mg/kg bwt/day. The anticipated residue contribution from previously established tolerances and food additive regulations and the tolerances and food additive regulations established here are 0.006465 mg/kg bwt/day and utilize 8% of the RfD. The anticipated residue contribution from previously established tolerances and food additive regulations and the tolerances and food additive regulations established here for the subgroup most highly exposed, children (1 to 6 years old), have an anticipated residue contribution (ARC) from existing uses of 1.2 x 10 -2 mg/kg bwt/day, representing 16% of the RfD. The nature of the residue is adequately understood, and adequate analytical methods (N/P GLC) are available for enforcement purposes in the Pesticide Analytical Manual, Vol. II. There are presently no actions pending against the continued registration of this chemical. Based on the information and data considered, the Agency has determined that the tolerances established by amending 40 CFR part 180 will protect the public health. Therefore, the tolerances are established as set forth below. Any person adversely affected by this regulation may, within 30 days after publication of this document in the Federal Register, file written objections to the regulation and may also request a hearing on those objections. Objections and hearing requests must be filed with the Hearing Clerk, at the address given above (40 CFR 178.20). A copy of the objections and/or hearing requests filed with the Hearing Clerk should be submitted to the OPP docket for this rulemaking. The objections submitted must specify the provisions of the regulation deemed objectionable and the grounds for the objections (40 CFR 178.25). Each objection must be accompanied by the fee prescribed by 40 CFR 180.33(i). If a hearing is requested, the objections must include a statement of the factual issue(s) on which a hearing is requested, the requestor's contentions on such issues, and a summary of any evidence relied upon by the objector (40 CFR 178.27). A request for a hearing will be granted if the Administrator determines that the material submitted shows the following: There is genuine and substantial issue of fact; there is a reasonable possibility that available evidence identified by the requestor would, if established, resolve one or more of such issues in favor of the requestor, taking into account uncontested claims or facts to the contrary; and resolution of the factual issue(s) in the manner sought by the requestor would be adequate to justify the action requested (40 CFR 178.32). Under Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993), the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to all the requirements of the Executive Order (i.e., Regulatory Impact Analysis, review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)). Under section 3(f), the order defines ``significant'' as those actions likely to lead to a rule (1) having an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more, or adversely and materially affecting a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local or tribal governments or communities (also known as ``economically significant''); (2) creating serious inconsistency or otherwise interfering with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) materially altering the budgetary impacts of entitlement, grants, user fees, or loan programs; or (4) raising novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in this Executive Order. Pursuant to the terms of this Executive Order, EPA has determined that this rule is not ``significant'' and is therefore not subject to OMB review. Pursuant to the requirements of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 96-354, 94 Stat. 1164, 5 U.S.C. 601-612), the Administrator has determined that regulations establishing new tolerances or raising tolerance levels or establishing exemptions from tolerance requirements do not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. A certification statement to this effect was published in the Federal Register of May 4, 1981 (46 FR 24950). List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 180 Environmental protection, Administrative practice and procedure, Agricultural commodities, Pesticides and pests, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: October 19, 1994. Steven L. Johnson, Director, Registration Division, Office of Pesticide Programs. Therefore, 40 CFR part 180 is amended as follows: PART 180_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 180 continues to read as follows: Authority: 21 U.S.C. 346a and 371. 2. Section 180.408 is amended in paragraph (a) in the table therein by adding and alphabetically inserting a new entry for cereal grains (except wheat, barley, and oats) and in paragraph (b) in the table therein by adding and alphabetically inserting new entries for forage, fodder, and straw of cereal grains group (except wheat, barley, and oats) to read as follows: §180.408 Metalaxyl; tolerances for residues. (a) *␣*␣* 1Commodity 1Parts per million ␣ *␣␣␣␣*␣␣␣␣*␣␣␣␣*␣␣␣␣* Cereal grains (except wheat, barley, and oats) 0.1 ␣ *␣␣␣␣*␣␣␣␣*␣␣␣␣*␣␣␣␣* (b) *␣*␣* 1Commodity 1Parts per million ␣ *␣␣␣␣*␣␣␣␣*␣␣␣␣*␣␣␣␣* Cereal grains group (except wheat, barley, and oats), fodder 1.0 Cereal grains group (except wheat, barley, and oats), forage 1.0 Cereal grains group (except wheat, barley, and oats), straw 1.0 ␣ *␣␣␣␣*␣␣␣␣*␣␣␣␣*␣␣␣␣* * * * * * [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26798 Filed 11&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
