FR940819-0-00067 FR940819-0-00017 5.2␣Refrigerant Sampling. 5.2.1␣ Sampling Precautions. Special precautions should be taken to assure that representative samples are obtained for analysis. Sampling shall be done by trained laboratory personnel following accepted sampling and safety procedures. 5.2.2␣ Gas Phase Sample. A gas phase sample shall be obtained for determining the non-condensables. Since non-condensable gases, if present, will concentrate in the vapor phase of the refrigerant, care must be exercised to eliminate introduction of air during the sample transfer. Purging is not an acceptable procedure for a gas phase sample since it may introduce a foreign product. Since R11, R113 and R123 have normal boiling points at or above room temperature, non-condensable determination is not required for these refrigerants. 5.2.2.1␣ Connection. The sample cylinder shall be connected to an evacuated gas sampling bulb by means of a manifold. The manifold should have a valve arrangement that facilitates evacuation of all connecting tubing leading to the sampling bulb. 5.2.2.2␣ Equalizing Pressures. After the manifold has been evacuated, close the valve to the pump and open the valve on the system. Allow the pressure to equilibrate and close valves. 5.2.3␣ Liquid Phase Sample. A liquid phase sample is required for all tests listed in this standard except the test for non- condensables. 5.2.3.1␣ Preparation. Place an empty sample cylinder with the valve open in an oven at 230 ○F [110 ○C] for one hour. Remove it from the oven while hot, immediately connect to an evacuation system and evacuate to less than 1 mm mercury (1000 microns). Close the valve and allow it to cool. 5.2.3.2␣ Manifolding. The valve and lines from the unit to be sampled shall be clean and dry. The cylinder shall be connected to an evacuated gas sampling cylinder by means of a manifold. The manifold should have a valve arrangement that facilitates evacuation of all connecting tubing leading to the sampling cylinder. 5.2.3.3␣ Liquid Sampling. After the manifold has been evacuated, close the valve to the pump and open the valve on the system. Take the sample as a liquid by chilling the sample cylinder slightly. Accurate analysis requires that the sample container be filled to at least 60% by volume, however under no circumstances should the cylinder be filled to more than 80% by volume. This can be accomplished by weighing the empty cylinder and then the cylinder with refrigerant. When the desired amount of refrigerant has been collected, close the valve(s) and disconnect the sample cylinder immediately. 5.2.3.4␣ Record Weight. Check the sample cylinder for leaks and record the gross weight. 5.3␣Refrigerant Purity Characterization. 5.3.1␣ Primary Method. The primary method shall be gas chromatography (GC) as described in Appendix-93 to ARI Standard 700. The chromatogram of the sample shall be compared to known standards. 5.3.2␣ Alternative Method. Determination of the boiling point and boiling point range is an acceptable alternative test method which can be used to characterize refrigerants. The test method shall be that described in the Federal Specification for ``Fluorocarbon Refrigerants,'' BB&hyph;F&hyph;1421 B, dated March 5, 1982, section 4.4.3 which is incorporated by reference. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from the U.S. Government Printing Office, Superintendent of Documents, Mail Stop: SSOP, Washington, DC 20402&hyph;9328. Copies may also be inspected at Public Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;01, Waterside Mall (Ground Floor) Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC in room M&hyph;1500 or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., Suite 700, Washington, DC. 5.3.3␣ Required Values. The required values for boiling point and boiling point range are given in table 1, Physical Properties of Fluorocarbon Refrigerants and Maximum Contaminant Levels. 5.4␣Water Content. 5.4.1␣ Method. The Coulometric Karl Fischer Titration shall be the primary test method for determining the water content of refrigerants. This method is described in Appendix-93 to ARI Standard 700. This method can be used for refrigerants that are either a liquid or a gas at room temperature, including refrigerants 11 and 113, and 123. For all refrigerants, the sample for water analysis shall be taken from the liquid phase of the container to be tested. Proper operation of the analytical method requires special equipment and an experienced operator. The precision of the results is excellent if proper sampling and handling procedures are followed. Refrigerants containing a colored dye can be successfully analyzed for water using this method. 5.4.2␣ Alternative Method. The Karl Fischer Test Method is an acceptable alternative test method to the Coulometric Karl Fischer Titration for determining the water content of refrigerants. This method is described in ASTM E700&hyph;79, (Reapproved 1990), Standard Test Method for Water in Gases Using Karl Fischer Reagent (American Society for Testing and Materials, Philadelphia, PA), which is incorporated by reference. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from the American Society for Testing and Materials, Philadelphia, PA. Copies may also be inspected at Public Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;01, Waterside Mall (Ground Floor) Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC in room M&hyph;1500 or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., Suite 700, Washington, DC. 5.4.3␣ Limits. The value for water content shall be expressed as parts per million by weight and shall not exceed the maximum specified (see tables 1 and 1a). 5.5␣ Chloride. The refrigerant shall be tested for chloride as an indication of the presence of hydrochloric acid and/or metal chlorides. The recommended procedure is intended for use with new or reclaimed refrigerants. Significant amounts of oil may interfere with the results by indicating a failure in the absence of chloride. 5.5.1␣ Method. The test method shall be that described in Appendix-93 to ARI Standard 700. The test will show noticeable turbidity at chloride levels of about 3 ppm by weight or higher. 5.5.2␣ Turbidity. The results of the test shall not exhibit any sign of turbidity. Report the results as ``pass'' or ``fail.'' 5.6␣Acidity. 5.6.1␣ Method. The acidity test uses the titration principle to detect any compound that is highly soluble in water and ionizes as an acid. The test method shall be that described in Appendix- 93 to ARI Standard 700. This test may not be suitable for determination of high molecular weight organic acids; however these acids will be found in the high boiling residue test outlined in 5.7. The test requires a 100 to 120 gram sample and has a detection limit of 0.1 ppm by weight calculated as HCl. 5.6.2␣ Limits. The maximum permissible acidity is 1 ppm by weight as HCl. 5.7␣High Boiling Residue. 5.7.1␣ Method. High boiling residue shall be determined by measuring the residue of a standard volume of refrigerant after evaporation. The refrigerant sample shall be evaporated at room temperature or at a temperature 50 ○F [28K], above the boiling point of the sample using a Goetz bulb as specified in Appendix- 93 to ARI Standard 700. Oils and or organic acids will be captured by this method.
