FR941110-0-00308 FR941110-0-00018 The Act and implementing regulations at 50 CFR 17.61, 17.62, and 17.63 set forth a series of general prohibitions and exceptions that apply to all endangered plant species. With respect to the 12 plant species subject to this final rule, all prohibitions of section 9(a)(2) of the Act, implemented by 50 CFR 17.61 apply. These prohibitions, in part, make it illegal for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to import or export any endangered plant species to/from the United States; transport such species in interstate or foreign commerce in the course of a commercial activity; sell or offer for sale such species in interstate or foreign commerce; remove and reduce to possession any such species from areas under Federal jurisdiction; maliciously damage or destroy any such species on any area under Federal jurisdiction; or remove, cut, dig up, damage, or destroy any such species on any other area in knowing violation of any State law or regulation or in the course of any violation of a State criminal trespass law. Certain exceptions apply to agents of the Service and State conservation agencies. Section 10 of the Act and 50 CFR 17.62 provide for the issuance of permits under certain circumstances to carry out activities involving endangered plants that are otherwise prohibited by section 9. It is the policy of the Service (59 FR 34272) to identify to the maximum extent practicable at the time a species is listed those activities that would or would not be likely to constitute a violation of section 9 of the Act. Such information is intended to clarify the potential impacts of a species' listing on proposed and ongoing activities within the species' range. Seven of the twelve species in this rule are known to occur on lands under the jurisdiction of the Fish and Wildlife Service, National Park Service or Department of Defense. Collection, damage or destruction of these species on these lands is prohibited without a Federal endangered species permit. Such activities on non-Federal lands would constitute a violation of section 9 if conducted in knowing violation of Hawaii State law or regulations or in violation of State criminal trespass law (see Hawaii State Law section below). Two of the listed species are of horticultural interest and both are currently in commercial trade. Hibiscus brackenridgei is a very attractive member of a genus known for its immense horticultural popularity and is the official State flower of Hawaii. Sesbania tomentosa also is an exceptionally attractive species that grows well in low elevation urban areas. Intrastate commerce (commerce within a State) is not prohibited under the Act. However, interstate and foreign commerce (sale or offering for sale across State or international boundaries), will require a Federal endangered species permit. (Endangered species may be advertised for sale provided the advertisement contains a statement that no sale may be consummated until a permit has been obtained from the Service.) Other than possible interstate commerce, the Service is not aware of any other activities being conducted by the public that will be affected by this listing and result in a violation of section 9. Questions regarding whether specific activities will constitute a violation of section 9 should be directed to the Field Supervisor of the Service's Pacific Islands Office (see ADDRESSES section). Requests for copies of the regulations concerning listed plants and general inquiries regarding prohibitions and permits may be addressed to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Ecological Services, Endangered Species Permits, 911 N.E. 11th Avenue, Portland, Oregon 97232&hyph;4181 (503/231&hyph;2063; FAX 503/231&hyph;6243). Hawaii State Law Federal listing would automatically invoke listing under Hawaii State law. Hawaii's Endangered Species Act (HRS, Sect. 195D&hyph;4(a)) states, ``Any species of aquatic life, wildlife, or land plant that has been determined to be an endangered species pursuant to the [Federal] Endangered Species Act shall be deemed to be an endangered species under the provisions of this chapter and any indigenous species of aquatic life, wildlife, or land plant that has been determined to be a threatened species pursuant to the [Federal] Endangered Species Act shall be deemed to be a threatened species under the provisions of this chapter.'' The State law prohibits cutting, collecting, uprooting, destroying, injuring, or possessing any listed species of plant, or attempting to engage in any such conduct. The State law also encourages conservation by State agencies and triggers other State regulations to protect the species (HRS, sect. 195&hyph;4 and 5). The State may enter into agreements with Federal agencies to administer and manage any area required for the conservation, management, enhancement, or protection of endangered species (HRS, Sect. 195D&hyph;5(c)). National Environmental Policy Act The Fish and Wildlife Service has determined that an Environmental Assessment or Environmental Impact Statement, as defined under the authority of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, need not be prepared in connection with regulations adopted pursuant to section 4(a) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended. A notice outlining the Service's reasons for this determination was published in the Federal Register on October 25, 1983 (48 FR 49244). References Cited A complete list of all references cited herein is available upon request from the Pacific Islands Office (see ADDRESSES above). Authors
