FR940128-2-00147 FR940128-2-00093 _Adequacy of the description of the impact of HIV/AIDS on children, youth, women, and families in the service area including: identification of HIV risk factors, and description of trends in the HIV epidemic. _Adequacy of the planned approach to conducting a needs assessment to identify existing resources to serve the target population and to determine and document unmet service needs. _Evidence of knowledge and understanding of HIV service delivery and experience in providing services to the population to be served. _Evidence of understanding of methods for developing comprehensive care linkages with clinical trials in order to increase access to trials for the target population. _Evidence of the potential to collaborate with appropriate State/community agencies and providers in planning and developing an organized, comprehensive system of family-centered, community-based, coordinated care. _Clear delineation of goals and objectives with a timeline for accomplishment of proposed activities. _Clarity and appropriateness of budget based on project methodology and required resources. _Adequacy of the proposed data and evaluation plan. Eligible Applicants Grants may be awarded to public or nonprofit private entities that provide or arrange for primary health care. Eligible entities may include, but are not limited to, State or local health departments, university medical centers, public or nonprofit private hospitals, community health centers (as defined in section 330(a) of the Act), hemophilia treatment centers, drug abuse treatment agencies, tribal health programs, school based clinics and institutions of higher education. All currently funded pediatric AIDS demonstration grantees are eligible for grant funds. Allowable Costs The MCHB may support reasonable and necessary costs of HIV Demonstration Project grants within the scope of approved projects. Allowable costs may include salaries, equipment and supplies, travel, contractual, consultants, and others, as well as indirect costs. The MCHB adheres to administrative standards reflected in the Code of Federal Regulation 45 CFR part 92 and 45 CFR part 74. All other sources of funding to support this project must be accurately reflected in the applicant's budget. Reporting Requirements A successful applicant under this notice will submit reports in accordance with the provisions of the general regulations which apply under 45 CFR part 74, subpart J, Monitoring and Reporting of Program Performance, with the exception of State and local governments to which 45 CFR part 92, subpart C reporting requirements will apply. Financial reporting will be required in accordance with 45 CFR part 74, subpart H, with the exception of State and local governments, to which 45 CFR 92.20 will apply. Public Health System Reporting Requirements This program is subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements (approved under OMB No. 0937&hyph;0195). Under these requirements, the community-based nongovernmental applicant must prepare and submit a Public Health System Impact Statement (PHSIS). The PHSIS is intended to provide information to State and local health officials to keep them apprised of proposed health services grant applications submitted by community-based nongovernmental organizations within their jurisdictions. Community-based nongovernmental applicants are required to submit the following information to the head of the appropriate State and local health agencies in the area(s) to be impacted no later than the Federal application receipt due date: (a) A copy of the face page of the application (SF 5161).
