FR940630-1-00013 FR940630-1-00005 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Part 52 [PA38&hyph;1&hyph;6207; FRL&hyph;5005&hyph;8] Approval and Promulgation of Air Quality Implementation Plans; Commonwealth of Pennsylvania; Enhanced Motor Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Proposed conditional approval. SUMMARY: EPA is proposing to conditionally approve a State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision submitted by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. This revision establishes and requires the implementation of an enhanced motor vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M) program in the counties of Allegheny, Beaver, Berks, Blair, Bucks, Cambria, Centre, Chester, Cumberland, Dauphin, Delaware, Erie, Lackawanna, Lancaster, Lebanon, Lehigh, Luzerne, Lycoming, Mercer, Montgomery, Northampton, Philadelphia, Washington, Westmoreland and York. The intended effect of this action is to propose conditional approval of the Pennsylvania enhanced motor vehicle I/M program. This action is being taken under Section 110 of the Clean Air Act. DATES: Comments must be received on or before August 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to Thomas J. Maslany, Director, Air, Radiation, and Toxics Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region III, 841 Chestnut Building, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19107. Copies of the documents relevant to this action are available for public inspection during normal business hours at the Air, Radiation, and Toxics Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region III, 841 Chestnut Building, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19107 and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources, Bureau of Air Quality Control, P.O. Box 8468, 400 Market Street, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17105. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mrs. Kelly L. Bunker, (215) 597&hyph;4554. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Introduction Motor vehicles are significant contributors of volatile organic compounds (VOC), carbon monoxide (CO) and nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions. An important control measure to reduce these emissions is the implementation of a motor vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M) program. Despite being subject to the most rigorous vehicle pollution control program in the world, cars and trucks still create about half of the ozone air pollution and nearly all of the carbon monoxide air pollution in United States cities, as well as toxic contaminants. Of all highway vehicles, passenger cars and light-duty trucks emit most of the vehicle-related carbon monoxide and ozone-forming hydrocarbons. They also emit substantial amounts of nitrogen oxides and air toxics. Although the U.S. has made progress in reducing emissions of these pollutants, total fleet emissions remain high. This is because the number of vehicle miles travelled on U.S. roads has doubled in the last 20 years to 2 trillion miles per year, offsetting much of the technological progress in vehicle emission control over the same two decades. Projections indicate that the steady growth in vehicle travel will continue. Ongoing efforts to reduce emissions from individual vehicles will be necessary to achieve our air quality goals. Today's cars are absolutely dependent on properly functioning emission controls to keep pollution levels low. Minor malfunctions in the emission control system can increase emissions significantly, and the average car on the road emits three to four times the new car standard. Major malfunctions in the emission control system can cause emissions to skyrocket. As a result, 10 to 30 percent of cars are causing the majority of the vehicle-related pollution problem. Unfortunately, it is rarely obvious which cars fall into this category, as the emissions themselves may not be noticeable and emission control malfunctions do not necessarily affect vehicle driveability. Effective I/M programs, however, can identify these problem cars and assure their repair. I/M programs ensure that cars are properly maintained in customer use. I/M produces emission reduction results soon after the program is put in place. EPA projects that ``enhanced'' I/M programs in the most polluted cities around the country would cut vehicle emissions by 28 percent, at a cost of about $12.50 per vehicle per year. This represents a major step toward the Clean Air Acts's requirement that the most seriously polluted cities achieve a 24 percent overall emissions reduction by 2000. The Clean Air Act as amended in 1990 (the Act) requires that most polluted cities adopt either ``basic'' or ``enhanced'' I/M programs, depending on the severity of the problem and the population of the area. The moderate ozone nonattainment areas, plus marginal ozone areas with existing or previously required I/M programs, fall under the ``basic'' I/M requirements. Enhanced programs are required in serious, severe, and extreme ozone nonattainment areas with urbanized populations of 200,000 or more; CO areas that exceed a 12.7 parts per million (ppm) design value 1 with urbanized populations of 200,000 or more; and all metropolitan statistical areas with a population of 100,000 or more in the Northeast Ozone Transport Region. 1 The air quality design value is estimated using EPA guidance. Generally, the fourth highest monitored value with 3 complete years of data is selected as the ozone design value because the standard allows one exceedance for each year. The highest of the second high monitored values with 2 complete years of data is selected as the carbon monoxide design value. ``Basic'' and ``enhanced'' I/M programs both achieve their objective by identifying vehicles that have high emissions as a result of one or more malfunctions, and requiring them to be repaired. An ``enhanced'' program covers more of the vehicles in operation, employs inspection methods which are better at finding high emitting vehicles, and has additional features to better assure that all vehicles are tested properly and effectively repaired.
