FR940902-0-00015 FR940902-0-00006 POSTAL SERVICE 39 CFR Part 491 Garnishment of Postal Employee Salaries AGENCY: Postal Service. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: These regulations implement the statutory provision that provides that the pay of employees of the United States Postal Service and of the Postal Rate Commission will be subject to garnishment orders. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 1, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William B. Neel, Attorney, Law Department Mid-Atlantic Office, (202) 268&hyph;3080. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On October 6, 1993, Congress enacted section 9 of Public Law 103&hyph;94, titled Garnishment of Federal Employees' Pay. This law is a limited waiver of the Federal Government's sovereign immunity to permit pay from an agency to an employee to be garnished by state and local garnishment orders, subject to certain limitations. Child support garnishment is already covered by other Federal law. On February 3, 1994, the President signed Executive Order 12897, which delegated responsibility to the Postal Service to issue implementing regulations for its employees and for the employees of the Postal Rate Commission. These regulations are in accordance with this delegation of authority. The Postal Service is designating one Authorized Agent to receive garnishment orders under section 9 of Public Law 103&hyph;94. This Federal law supersedes state law with regard to service of garnishment process. Accordingly, regardless of state law, legal process must be sent directly to, or served in person upon, the Authorized Agent named in these regulations. There will be only one agent for receipt of process for all garnishments of an employee's pay arising under state law. Other Postal Service employees are not authorized to receive process nor are they permitted to transmit process to the Authorized Agent. This waiver of immunity for the garnishment process confers jurisdiction only over an employee's pay, and does not confer jurisdiction over the Postal Service or the Postal Rate Commission as a party to a lawsuit, nor does it waive immunity for the purpose of orders to show cause or for sanctions such as default judgments. These regulations also announce a change in the agent for service of process for child support garnishments pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 659 and supersede the designations at 5 CFR 581 Appendix A III of agents to accept service of process on behalf of the United States Postal Service and the Postal Rate Commission in child support and/or alimony garnishments. List of Subjects in 39 CFR Part 491 Government employees, Postal Service, Wages. For the reasons stated above, in subchapter F of Chapter 1, title 39 Code of Federal Regulations, part 491 is added as follows:
