FR941122-1-00030 FR941122-1-00004 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;198&hyph;AD] Airworthiness Directives; Boeing Model 737&hyph;300, &hyph;400, and &hyph;500 Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes the adoption of a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain Boeing Model 737&hyph;300, &hyph;400, and &hyph;500 series airplanes. This proposal would require replacement of the horizontal stabilizer trim electric actuator. This proposal is prompted by reports of a binding condition in the clutch disk in the horizontal stabilizer trim electric actuator. The actions specified by the proposed AD are intended to prevent reduced controllability of the airplane due to binding of a clutch disk in the horizontal stabilizer trim electric actuator. DATES: Comments must be received by January 19, 1995. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;198&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Comments may be inspected at this location between 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The service information referenced in the proposed rule may be obtained from Boeing Commercial Airplane Group, P.O. Box 3707, Seattle, Washington 98124&hyph;2207. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kenneth W. Frey, Aerospace Engineer, Systems and Equipment Branch, ANM&hyph;132S, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, Seattle Aircraft Certification Office, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2673; fax (206) 227&hyph;1181. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;NM&hyph;198&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;198&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Discussion Recently, the FAA has received reports from operators of Boeing Model 737&hyph;300, &hyph;400, and &hyph;500 series airplanes that the stabilizer trim wheel continued to turn after the switches for the stabilizer trim had been operated and released. Investigation revealed that the clutch disk in the horizontal stabilizer trim electric actuator may have caused the clutch to bind intermittently. Normally, when the switches for the stabilizer trim are operated, the horizontal stabilizer trim electric actuator turns and engages either the ``nose up'' or the ``nose down'' clutch, which causes the stabilizer to move. When the switches for the stabilizer trim are released, the clutch disengages, and the actuator continues to turn until it stops (coasts) through deceleration. Under normal operating conditions, the stabilizer movement stops immediately after the clutch disengages. However, a binding clutch may cause the stabilizer to continue to move while the electric actuator coasts. The stabilizer may move in the direction it was last commanded or it may reverse and move in the opposite direction. The direction depends on which clutch disk is binding. This condition, if not corrected, could result in reduced controllability of the airplane. The FAA has reviewed and approved Boeing Alert Service Bulletin 737&hyph;27A1191, Revision 1, dated November 3, 1994, which describes procedures for replacement of horizontal stabilizer trim electric actuators, having part number (P/N) 10&hyph;62033&hyph;3, with a different model (P/N 10&hyph;62033&hyph;4) that eliminates the problems associated with binding of the clutch disk. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other products of this same type design, the proposed AD would require replacement of the electric actuator of the stabilizer trim with a different model. The actions would be required to be accomplished in accordance with the alert service bulletin described previously. [ Note: As a result of recent communications with the Air Transport Association (ATA) of America, the FAA has learned that, in general, some operators may misunderstand the legal effect of AD's on airplanes that are identified in the applicability provision of the AD, but that have been altered or repaired in the area addressed by the AD. Under these circumstances, at least one operator appears to have incorrectly assumed that its airplane was not subject to an AD. On the contrary, all airplanes identified in the applicability provision of an AD are legally subject to the AD. If an airplane has been altered or repaired in the affected area in such a way as to affect compliance with the AD, the owner or operator is required to obtain FAA approval for an alternative method of compliance with the AD, in accordance with the paragraph of each AD that provides for such approvals. A note has been included in this notice to clarify this requirement.] There are approximately 1,448 Model 737&hyph;300, &hyph;400, and &hyph;500 series airplanes of the affected design in the worldwide fleet. The FAA estimates that 590 airplanes of U.S. registry would be affected by this proposed AD, that it would take approximately 4 work hours per airplane to accomplish the proposed actions, and that the average labor rate is $60 per work hour. The cost of required parts would be approximately $600 per airplane. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the proposed AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $495,600, or $840 per airplane. The total cost impact figure discussed above is based on assumptions that no operator has yet accomplished any of the proposed requirements of this AD action, and that no operator would accomplish those actions in the future if this AD were not adopted. The regulations proposed herein would not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this proposal would not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment.
