FR941205-2-00138 FR941205-2-00073 b. Need_Percent of persons in poverty . HUD uses 1990 census data to determine the percent of persons in poverty residing within the applicant unit of general local government. Comprehensive and Single Purpose grant applicants are grouped and rated separately for this factor. Applicants in each group are compared in terms of the percentage of their population below the poverty level. Individual scores are obtained by dividing each applicant's percentage of persons in poverty by the highest percentage of persons in poverty of any applicant and multiplying by 75. c. Program Impact_General . In evaluating program impact, HUD will consider: _Extent and seriousness of the identified needs; _Results to be achieved; _Number of beneficiaries, given the type of program; _Nature of the benefit; _Additional actions that may be necessary to fully resolve the need; _Previous coordinated actions taken by the applicant to address the need; _Environmental considerations; _Whether displacement will be involved and what steps will be taken to minimize displacement and to mitigate its adverse effects or related hardships; and _Where appropriate, housing site selection standards. Assessments are done on a comparative basis and, as a result, it is important that each applicant present information in a detailed and uniform manner. In addressing Program Impact criteria, applicants should adhere to the following general guidelines for quantification. Where appropriate, absolute and percentage figures should be used to describe the extent of community development needs and the impact of the proposed program. This includes, but is not limited to, appropriate units of measure (e.g., number of housing units or structures, linear feet of pipe, pounds per square inch, etc.), and costs per unit of measure. These quantification guidelines apply to the description of need, the nature of proposed activities and the extent to which the proposed program will address the identified need. Appropriate documentation should be provided to support the degree of need described in the application. Basically, the sources for all statements and conclusions relating to community needs should be included in the application or incorporated by reference. Examples of appropriate documentation include planning studies, letters from public agencies, newspaper articles, photographs and survey data. Generally, the most effective documentation is that which specifically addresses the subject matter and has a high degree of credibility. Applicants which intend to conduct surveys to obtain data are advised to contact the appropriate HUD office prior to conducting the survey for a determination as to whether the survey methodology is statistically acceptable. There are a number of program design factors related to feasibility which can alter significantly the award of impact points. Accordingly, it is imperative that applicants provide adequate documentation in addressing these factors. Common feasibility issues include site control, availability of other funding sources, validity of cost estimates, and status of financial commitments as well as evidence of the status of regulatory agency review and approval. Past productivity and administrative performance of prior grantees will be taken into consideration when reviewing the overall feasibility of the program. Overall program design, administration and guidelines are other feasibility issues that should be articulated and presented in the application, since they are critical in assessing the effectiveness and impact of the proposed program. (1) Program Impact_Single Purpose Grants . Each project will be rated against other projects addressing the same problem area, so that, for example, housing projects only will be compared with other housing projects, according to the criteria outlined below. It should be noted that each project within an application will be given a separate impact rating, if each one is clearly designated by the applicant as a separate and distinct project (i.e. separate Needs Descriptions, Community Development Activities, and Impact Description and Program Schedule forms have been filled out, indicating separate project names). In some cases, it may be to the applicant's advantage to designate separate projects for activities that can ``stand on their own'' in terms of meeting the described need, especially where a particular project would tend to weaken the impact rating of the other activities, if they were all related as a whole, as has been the case with some economic development projects. If, however, the projects tend to meet the impact criteria to the same extent, or the weaker element is only a small portion of the overall program, there is no discernable benefit in designating separate projects. Applicants should bear in mind that the impact of the proposed project will be judged by persons who may not be familiar with the particular community. Accordingly, individual projects will be rated according to how well the application demonstrates in specific, measurable terms, the extent to which the impact criteria are met. General statements of need and impact alone will not be sufficient to obtain a favorable rating. (a) Program Impact_Single Purpose_Housing . There are three distinct types of Single Purpose Housing projects: Housing Rehabilitation, Creation of New Housing and Direct Homeownership Assistance. Separate rating criteria are provided for each type of project. (i) Housing Rehabilitation. Needs . Each application should provide information on the total number of units in the project area, the number that are substandard, and the number of substandard units occupied by low- and moderate-income households. The purpose of this information is to establish the relative severity of housing conditions within the designated project area compared to other housing rehabilitation applications. The application also should describe the date and methodology of any surveys used to obtain the information, including an explicit and detailed definition of ``substandard''.
