FR940603-0-00034 FR940603-0-00017 NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINISTRATION 36 CFR Part 1220 RIN 3095&hyph;AA48 Agency Program Evaluations AGENCY: National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This rule more fully describes agency and NARA responsibilities as part of the records management evaluations of Federal agencies that NARA conducts on a regular basis. It discusses the authority, purpose, and scope of these evaluations and describes specific agency requirements related to the evaluation notification, the evaluation process, transmittal of the report, and preparation of action plans and regular progress reports. EFFECTIVE DATE: July 5, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mary Ann Hadyka or Nancy Allard at 301&hyph;713&hyph;6730 (FTS 301&hyph;713&hyph;6730) or TDD 301&hyph;713&hyph;6760. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: NARA published a notice of proposed rulemaking on December 10, 1993 (58 FR 64915) for a 30-day comment period. Subsequently, in a notice published on February 16, 1994 (59 FR 8150), NARA reopened the comment period for an additional 30-day period and announced a public meeting for agency records officers on February 28, 1994. Twenty-three written comments were received. Approximately 50 records officers attended the meeting held at the National Archives at College Park to discuss the proposed regulations. All comments received careful consideration in the development of the final rule. Following is a section-by-section discussion of the major issues raised in the public meeting and written comments. Section by Section Analysis Section 1220.14␣General Definitions One agency proposed changing the definition of evaluation to that included in NARA's A Records Management Glossary. NARA agrees and has changed the definition. In addition, language reflecting the followup aspect of an evaluation has been added. One agency suggested that the use of ``adequate and proper documentation'' for consistency with current NARA regulations and published guides. This change has been made. Section 1220.42␣Agency Internal Evaluations This requirement generated numerous comments and discussion. All comments noted that the proposed biennial evaluation of an agency's records management program would place an unnecessary burden on agencies that already have limited resources for records management. One agency pointed out that the Paperwork Reduction Act requires triennial reviews of information management programs. Other agencies commented that this proposed rule seems inconsistent with the intent of the current mandates to reinvent government and streamline government operations. Because of the burden a biennial reporting requirement would impose on agencies this proposed requirement has been dropped. The requirement that an agency ``should periodically evaluate its records management programs *␣*␣*'' that was contained in the superseded regulation at §1220.54 is retained in this regulation. NARA is developing additional guidance to aid agencies in performing self-evaluations of their records management programs. Section 1220.50␣Authority One agency suggested that NARA should be required to estimate costs incurred by implementation of NARA evaluation report recommendations which an agency agrees to implement and that reports to Congress, OMB, or other oversight agency, should include an agency's success stories. To the extent that NARA can identify and obtain cost information, it will be included in any reports to Congress. NARA's policy is to always include agency success stories in final evaluation reports, whether or not the reports are to be submitted to Congress. Section 1220.52␣Purpose and Scope Three agencies suggested clarifications. Two agencies commented that NARA does not quantify the efficacy of Federal agencies efforts to make and preserve complete and accurate records but rather that NARA reviews records management programs. NARA has modified this section to indicate that evaluations assess records management programs. This more accurately describes the evaluation process as a cooperative effort. One agency noted the misuse of ``inter-agency'' in describing a single agency evaluation focusing on all aspects of records management at all administrative levels. The phrase ``inter-agency'' has been changed to ``one agency.''
