FR940426-2-00028 FR940426-2-00017 Office of Environmental Management Disbursement of Discretionary Funds to Federally-Recognized American Indian Tribes AGENCY: U.S. Department of Energy (DOE). ACTION: Notice of inquiry and request for comment. SUMMARY: The Department of Energy (DOE) is developing eligibility standards and funding criteria for the distribution of DOE discretionary funds to federally-recognized American Indian tribes by DOE's Office of Environmental Management (EM). Discretionary funds, pursuant to section 646 of the DOE Organization Act, are awarded to Indian tribes to participate in DOE's remediation and management program for wastes produced as the result of its activities at its former and current weapons production facilities. Such participation relates directly to DOE's American Indian Tribal Government policy, pursuant to DOE Order 1230.2, recognizing a government-to-government relationship with Indian tribes. Because of the potential for broad interest, DOE is providing interested parties an opportunity for comment on issues related to the funding of Indian tribes who are directly affected by DOE activities. DOE invites written comment on the criteria development process before proposing guidelines. In addition, DOE will schedule public workshops at several of its sites. At these workshops, tribes and other interested parties will have an opportunity to further discuss issues related to guidance. DATES: Written submissions on this notice of inquiry are due on or before June 1, 1994. Public workshops will be held to discuss issues related to guidance at the following locations and times: Richland, Washington Thursday April 28, 1994, 11 a.m._2 p.m. Red Lion Inn/Hanford House, Ben Franklin Room, 802 George Washington Way, Richland, Washington 99352 Pocatello, Idaho Thursday May 12, 1994, 6:30 p.m._9 p.m. Howard Johnson's, 1399 Bench Road, Pocatello, Idaho 83201 Albuquerque, New Mexico Thursday May 19, 1994, 6:30 p.m._9 p.m., Sheraton Old Town, 800 Rio Grande Boulevard, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87104. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be submitted to Margaret Fernandez, Office of Environmental Management, Office of Public Accountability (EM 5), U.S. Department of Energy, Room 5B&hyph;031, 1000 Independence Ave SW., Washington DC 20585. FAX Telephone: (202) 586&hyph;0293. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Margaret Fernandez, at the address above, or by telephone at (202) 586&hyph;5821. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This Notice supplements a Notice of Inquiry, published on February 4, 1994 (59 FR 5405), to announce the dates and locations of public workshops related to the development of funding guidance under the Office of Environmental Management. I. Background In 1989, the Office of Environmental Management was established to address environmental problems at the Department's facilities. Many of the Department's past, present, and future activities potentially affect Indian tribes. Past activities of DOE involved the research and production of plutonium, uranium, and other hazardous substances. Present and future activities focus on the management and remediation of wastes produced as a result of the Department's production activities. Because DOE's activities may affect tribes in close proximity to DOE sites, the Department's policy is to consult with these tribes and support tribal environmental remediation programs. The fundamental goals of DOE's policy are to involve affected tribes in remediation activities, provide tribes safe access to and management of cultural and natural resources, and promote tribal economic competitiveness and self-sufficiency pursuant to administration policy and legal requirements. In the past, DOE discretionary funds have been distributed to Indian tribes primarily through planning grants. Planning grants have funded tribal environmental restoration and waste management programs to identify, analyze and take initiatives to address waste management and cleanup issues stemming from DOE sites and facilities. The Nez Perce Tribe, the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation, and the Yakama Indian Nation have received planning grants related to the Hanford site. As an alternative to planning grants, DOE has used cooperative agreements to fund tribal activities. A cooperative agreement requires greater involvement between DOE and the participant in negotiating and conducting the proposed activities. This involvement results in specific project milestones and products that ensure greater accountability. The Department has successfully employed cooperative agreements to implement hazardous materials emergency response programs, as occurred in the case of the Waste Isolation Pilot Project with the Shoshone-Bannock Tribes, and at the Hanford site with the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation. Based on this experience, DOE intends to use cooperative agreements as the prime vehicle for tribal involvement in environmental remediation activities. In addition to the use of cooperative agreements, the government-to-government relationship between DOE and tribal nations may also be expressed through site-specific agreements, memoranda of understanding, and joint ventures.
