FR941107-2-00038 FR941107-2-00010 Price-to-Price Comparisons We calculated FMV using the methodology described in our notice of preliminary determination, with the following exceptions: 1. We matched the 5 ’ ’ x 2 ’ ’ material sold in the United States to the 5 ’ ’ x 1 ’ ’ material sold in the home market instead of to the 4 ’ ’ x 2 ’ ’ material sold in the home market. 2. We matched 30mm x 6mm Grade C lump material to CV (see concurrence memorandum, dated October 31, 1994). 3. We matched the 6mm x 1mm Grade C fines sold in the United States to CV because more than 90 percent of respondent's sales of this product were at prices below the COP and were sold over an extended period of time. Price to CV Comparisons In the instances noted above and where there was otherwise no matching home market or third country sale, we based FMV on CV. We calculated CV based on the sum of the cost of materials, fabrication, general expenses, and U.S. packing cost. We made all adjustments described in the COP section (except for the inclusion of VAT) in calculating CV. In accordance with section 773(e)(1)(B)(i) of the Act, we included in CV the greater of the company's reported general expenses or the statutory minimum of ten percent of the cost of manufacture. For profit, we used the actual profit earned by Hevensa where the actual figure was greater than the statutory minimum of eight percent of the sum of COM and general expenses, in accordance with section 773(e)(1)(B)(ii) of the Act. Currency Conversion We made currency conversions based on the official exchange rates in effect on the dates of the U.S. sales as certified by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we verified information provided by Hevensa by using standard verification procedures, including the examination of relevant sales and financial records, and selection of original source documentation containing relevant information. Interested Party Comments Comment 1: Hevensa asserts that its home market sale of Grade C lump silicomanganese during the POI was outside the ordinary course of trade and, therefore, should not be used to calculate FMV for the 30mm x 6mm Grade C merchandise. Hevensa asserts that the home market sale was the only such sale made during the POI, that the amount of the sale was smaller than those made in Hevensa's ordinary home market sales, and that the sale was made on a trial basis to a trader who had requested a different product that was not available at the time. Petitioners assert that the sale was a legitimate one and the fact that it was for a smaller than usual amount is not enough to indicate that it was outside the ordinary course of trade. DOC Position: We agree with Hevensa. During verification, we satisfied ourselves that the home market sale of 30mm x 6mm Grade C material was a trial amount sold outside the ordinary course of trade. This was the only sale of a trial amount during the 16 months examined at verification. Moreover, Hevensa did not make any other sales to this customer during that period of time. Comment 2: Hevensa contends that the Department should use monthly or bi-monthly weighted-average FMVs, rather than the normal six-month average FMV, to calculate whether there is a margin of dumping in this investigation. Hevensa argues that, during the POI, the interplay among the Venezuelan rate of inflation, the U.S. dollar-based prices of the subject merchandise, and the changes in the exchange rate for U.S. dollars and Venezuelan bolivars, could create a margin of dumping if a weight-averaged FMV were used for the entire POI. Petitioners argue that Hevensa is requesting that the Department adopt a methodology that is inconsistent with its practice in hyperinflationary economy cases. Additionally, the petitioners assert that, if Hevensa's monthly FMVs were adopted, any comparison between the FMV and the U.S. price would be distorted. Specifically, the petitioners argue that Hevensa is requesting that the Department apply, in effect, only that part of its methodology for hyperinflationary economies calling for the use of monthly FMVs, not the part of the methodology calling for the submission of costs on a replacement basis.
