FR940328-2-00006 FR940328-2-00004 The eligible section of Kelly Creek is approximately 39 miles long including its main stem and its North, Middle, and South Forks that originate near the Idaho/Montana state border and flow to the stream's confluence with the North Fork of the Clearwater River. The eligible portion of Cayuse Creek includes the entire 31-mile stream, from its source at Lost Lake (Section 24, Township 38 North, Range 13 East, Boise Meridian) to its confluence with Kelly Creek (Section 24, Township 39 North, Range 11 East, Boise Meridian). Scoping for the study began in April of 1993 with a series of 6 regional public meetings to explain the study process and to identify issues relating to the study. A study newsletter was also circulated at that time. Another series of 6 public meetings was held in December of 1993 to validate: study issues, preliminary outstandingly remarkable values (ORV's), and preliminary alternatives. A second issue of the study newsletter was mailed to interested publics prior to this set of meetings. The following preliminary issues are being considered in the environmental analysis: (1) Effects on timber harvest and mineral development in the area of the study rivers; (2) effects on the local and regional economy; (3) effects on abilities of county governments and local constituents to affect resource management recommendations; (4) effects on transportation system and development in the area of the study rivers; (5) effects on recreation use and users in the study stream areas; (6) effects on wildlife and fish in the study river areas; (7) effects on water quality and the free flowing nature of the study streams; (8) protection of the identified outstandingly remarkable values of the study streams; (9) effects on the ability of the private landowners along the North Fork of the Clearwater River to retain their properties and use their lands as they choose; and (10) effects on the roadless character of the headwaters of Kelly Creek and a large portion of Cayuse Creek. A range of alternatives is being considered. They will include as a minimum, one alternative that does not recommend designation (no action), and one that recommends designation for all the eligible river segments. Additional alternatives will be developed from public comments received during the scoping process. The environmental impact statement will disclose the direct, indirect, and cumulative effects of implementing each of the alternatives. The Forest Service is seeking information, comments, and assistance from Federal, State and local agencies, and other individuals or organizations who may be interested in or affected by the proposal. This input will be utilized in preparation of the draft environmental impact statement. The draft environmental impact statement is expected to be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) by August 1994. At that time EPA will publish a notice of availability on the draft environmental impact statement in the Federal Register. It is very important that those interested in the management of these rivers participate at that time. To be most helpful, comments on the draft environmental impact statement should be as site-specific as possible. The Forest Service believes it is important to give reviewers notice at this early stage of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions ( Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC, 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978) ). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the draft environmental impact stage, but are not raised until after completion of the final statement, may be waived or dismissed by the courts ( City of Angoon v. Hodel, 803 F.2d 1016, 1022 (9th Cir., 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. v. Harris, 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of these court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the scoping comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in identifying issues and alternatives. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues and concerns on the proposed action, comments should be as specific as possible. Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points. After the comment period ends on the draft EIS, the comments will be analyzed and considered by the Forest Service in preparing the final study report and environmental impact statement. The final report is scheduled to be completed by December 1994. The comments, responses, and environmental consequences discussed in the final environmental impact statement and applicable laws, regulations, and policies will be considered in preparing the agency's recommendations for Wild and Scenic River designation. The responsible official for making recommendations to the Congress is Mike Espy, Secretary of Agriculture, Administration Building, 12th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20250. The decision on inclusion of a river in the National Wild & Scenic Rivers System rests with the United States Congress. Dated: March 18, 1994. Mark A. Reimers, Deputy Chief, Programs and Legislation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7221 Filed 3&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
