FR940610-2-00166 FR940610-2-00082 [Release No. 34&hyph;34158; File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;30] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. Adopting Rule 1015, Quotation Guarantees, Including a Trade or Fade Provision June 3, 1994 Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on June 1, 1994, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Phlx'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of and the Statutory Basis for the Proposed Rule Change The Phlx, pursuant to Rule 19b&hyph;4 of the Act, proposes to adopt Phlx Rule 1015 relating to quotation guarantees, to mirror the text of Floor Procedure Advice (``Advice'') A&hyph;11, with the addition of a ``trade or fade'' provision. 1 1 See SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;91&hyph;45, as amended, for text of Advice A&hyph;11. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statements Regarding the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of and Statutory Basis for the Proposed Rule Change Currently, Rule 1033(a) states that all bids/offers in Phlx equity/index options are deemed to be for one contract, unless otherwise specified; in addition, specialists and Registered Options Traders (``ROTs'') are required to fill public orders to a minimum depth of ten contracts at the best quoted bid/offer. Consequently, orders for public customers are provided with preferential treatment not afforded to other types of orders. The Phlx proposes to adopt a ``trade or fade'' provision comparable to the proposals of the other options exchanges for the handling of orders other than public customer orders. Specifically, when a non-public order is represented in the trading crowd at the displayed market on the Exchange, the trading crowd would be required to either satisfy the order at that price or better, or fade (withdraw) to a newly disseminated price. If the quote is faded, immediate re-display of the previously disseminated quote without a change in market conditions to warrant such action would be considered conduct inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade, 2 which could result in an Exchange disciplinary proceeding. For purposes of this rule, non-public orders include broker-dealer orders and that portion of customer orders exceeding the contract size guaranteed by the respective crowd. 2 Phlx Rule 707. The proposed rule is similar to proposals of other option exchanges in that it would expressly require the members of an options trading crowd to respond to non-public orders represented in that trading crowd by either satisfying the order or updating the market in that option series. The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6 of the Act in general, and in particular, with Section 6(b)(5), in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, as well as to protect investors and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Phlx does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No written comments were either solicited or received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the Phlx consents, the Commission will: (A) by order approve such proposed rule change, or, (B) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the Phlx. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;30 and should be submitted by July 1, 1994. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12). Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14095 Filed 6&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
