FR940707-1-00012 FR940707-1-00001 §1003.36 OHA evaluation. (a)(1) The OHA may initiate an investigation of any statement in an appeal and utilize in its evaluation any relevant facts obtained by such investigation. The OHA may solicit and accept submissions from third persons relevant to any appeal provided that the appellant is afforded an opportunity to respond to all third person submissions. In evaluating an appeal, the OHA may consider any other source of information. The OHA on its own initiative may convene a conference or hearing if, in its discretion, it considers that such conference or hearing will advance its evaluation of the appeal. (2) If the OHA determines that there is insufficient information upon which to base a decision and if, upon request, the necessary additional information is not submitted, the OHA may dismiss the appeal with leave to amend within a specified time. If the failure to supply additional information is repeated or willful, the OHA may dismiss the appeal with prejudice. If the appellant fails to provide the notice required by §1003.34, the OHA may dismiss the appeal without prejudice. (b)(1) The OHA may issue an order summarily denying the appeal if_ (i) It is not filed in a timely manner, unless good cause is shown; or (ii) It is defective on its face for failure to state, and to present facts and legal argument in support thereof, that the DOE action was erroneous in fact or in law, or that it was arbitrary or capricious. (2) The OHA may deny any appeal if the appellant does not establish that_ (i) The appeal was filed by a person aggrieved by a DOE action; (ii) The DOE's action was erroneous in fact or in law; or (iii) The DOE's action was arbitrary or capricious. §1003.37 Decision and order. (a) Upon consideration of the appeal and other relevant information received or obtained during the proceeding, the OHA shall enter an appropriate order, which may include the modification of the order that is the subject of the appeal. (b) The order shall include a written statement setting forth the relevant facts and the legal basis of the order. The order shall state that it is a final order of the DOE of which the appellant may seek judicial review. (c) The OHA shall serve a copy of the order upon the appellant, any other person who participated in the proceeding and upon any other person readily identifiable by the OHA as one who is aggrieved by such order. Subpart D_Stay §1003.40 Purpose and scope. (a) This subpart establishes the procedures for applying for a stay. It also specifies the nature of the relief which may be effectuated through the approval of a stay. (b) An application for a stay will be considered if it is incident to a submission which the DOE procedural regulations specify shall be filed with the OHA. An application for stay may also be considered if the stay is requested pending judicial review of an order issued by the OHA. (c) All applicable DOE orders, regulations, rulings, and generally applicable requirements shall be complied with unless and until an application for a stay is granted. §1003.41 What to file. A person filing under this subpart shall file an ``Application for Stay'' which should be clearly labeled as such both on the application and on the outside of the envelope in which the application is transmitted. The application shall be in writing. The general filing requirements stated in §1003.9 shall be complied with in addition to the requirements stated in this subpart. §1003.42 Where to file. An Application for Stay shall be filed with the OHA at the address provided in §1003.11. §1003.43 Notice. (a) An applicant for stay shall notify each person readily identifiable as one who will be directly aggrieved by the OHA action sought that it has filed an Application for Stay. The applicant shall serve the application on each identified person and shall notify each such person that the OHA will receive and endeavor to consider, subject to time constraints imposed by the urgency of the proceeding, written comments on the application that are submitted immediately. (b) Any person submitting written comments to the OHA with respect to an application filed under this subpart shall send a copy of the comments, or a copy from which confidential information has been deleted in accordance with §1003.9(f), to the applicant. The person shall certify to the OHA that it has complied with the requirements of this paragraph. The OHA may notify other persons participating in the proceeding of such comments and provide an opportunity for such persons to respond. (c) The OHA shall require the applicant to take reasonable measures depending on the circumstances and urgency of the case to notify each person readily identified as one that will be directly aggrieved by the OHA action sought of the date, time and place of any hearing or other proceedings in the matter. However, if the Director of the OHA or his designee concludes that the circumstances presented by the applicant justify immediate action, the OHA may issue a Decision on the Application for Stay prior to receipt of written comments or the oral presentation of views by adversely affected parties. § 1003.44 Contents. (a) An Application for Stay shall contain a full and complete statement of all relevant facts pertaining to the act or transaction that is the subject of the application and to the OHA action sought. Such facts shall include, but not be limited to, all information that relates to satisfaction of the criteria in §1003.45(b). (b) The application shall include a description of the proceeding incident to which the stay is being sought. This description shall contain a discussion of all DOE actions relevant to the proceeding. (c) The applicant shall state whether he requests that a conference or hearing be convened regarding the application, as provided in Subpart F of this part. §1003.45 OHA evaluation. (a)(1) The OHA may initiate an investigation of any statement in an application and utilize in its evaluation any relevant facts obtained by such investigation. The OHA may order the submission of additional information, and may solicit and accept submissions from third persons relevant to an application provided that the applicant is afforded an opportunity to respond to all third person submissions. In evaluating an application, the OHA may also consider any other source of information, and may conduct hearings or conferences either in response to requests by parties in the proceeding or on its own initiative. (2) If the OHA determines that there is insufficient information upon which to base a decision and if upon request additional information is not submitted by the applicant, the OHA may dismiss the application without prejudice. If the failure to supply additional information is repeated or willful, the OHA may dismiss the application with prejudice. (3) The OHA shall process applications for stay as expeditiously as possible. When administratively feasible, the OHA shall grant or deny an Application for Stay within 10 business days after receipt of the application. (4) Notwithstanding any other provision of the DOE regulations, the OHA may make a decision on any Application for Stay prior to the receipt of written comments. (b) The criteria to be considered and weighed by the OHA in determining whether a stay should be granted are: (1) Whether a showing has been made that an irreparable injury will result in the event that the stay is denied; (2) Whether a showing has been made that a denial of the stay will result in a more immediate hardship or inequity to the applicant than to the other persons affected by the proceeding; (3) Whether a showing has been made that it would be desirable for public policy reasons to grant immediate relief pending a decision on the merits of the underlying proceedings; (4) Whether a showing has been made that it is impossible for the applicant to fulfill the requirements of an outstanding order or regulatory provision; and (5) Whether a showing has been made that there is a strong likelihood of success on the merits. §1003.46 Decision and order.
