FR941130-2-00125 FR941130-2-00073 [Release No. 35&hyph;26171] Filings Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as Amended (``Act'') November 23, 1994. Notice is hereby given that the following filing(s) has/have been made with the Commission pursuant to provisions of the Act and rules promulgated thereunder. All interested persons are referred to the application(s) and/or declaration(s) for complete statements of the proposed transaction(s) summarized below. The application(s) and/or declaration(s) and any amendments thereto is/are available for public inspection through the Commission's Office of Public Reference. Interested persons wishing to comment or request a hearing on the application(s) and/or declaration(s) should submit their views in writing by December 19, 1994, to the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C. 20549, and serve a copy on the relevant applicant(s) and/or declarant(s) at the address(es) specified below. Proof of service (by affidavit or, in case of an attorney at law, by certificate) should be filed with the request. Any request for hearing shall identify specifically the issues of fact or law that are disputed. A person who so requests will be notified of any hearing, if ordered, and will receive a copy of any notice or order issued in the matter. After said date, the application(s) and/or declaration(s), as filed or as amended, may be granted and/or permitted to become effective. Georgia Power Company et al. (70&hyph;8193) Georgia Power Company (``Georgia Power''), 333 Piedmont Avenue, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia 30308, and Savannah Electric and Power Company (``Savannah''), 600 East Bay Street, Savannah, Georgia 31402, both electric public-utility subsidiary companies of The Southern Company, a registered holding company, have filed an application-declaration under sections 9, 10, 12(d) and 13(b) of the Act and rules 43, 44, 86, 90, and 91 thereunder. Savannah and Georgia Power propose to construct on real property owned by Savannah eight combustion turbine-generator units (``CTs'') to be known as Plant McIntosh CT Nos. 1 through 8, and up to eight additional CTs to be known as Plant McIntosh CT Nos. 9 through 16. Six of the initial CTs will be developed for Georgia Power, two will be developed for Savannah. Upon completion, each applicant will own 100% interest in and will be entitled to 100% of the output of its respective CTs. The construction costs of the eight CTs and associated facilities are estimated to be approximately $182 million for Georgia Power and $61 million for Savannah. The initial CTs will be simple-cycle generators each having a nominal capacity of 80 megawatts, and will burn primarily natural gas with No. 2 fuel oil as a backup fuel supply. In addition to the CT units, other facilities to be constructed for the project include fuel systems, water systems, an extension of existing fire protection systems, a switchyard, a 230-kv tie line to the existing Plant McIntosh substation, and a service building. Savannah proposes to sell to Georgia Power, and Georgia Power proposes to purchase, a percentage undivided ownership interest in certain of the equipment which will comprise the facilities common to all of the Plant McIntosh CTs (``Common Facilities''). Savannah and Georgia Power will hold the Common Facilities as tenants-in-common. The assets to be acquired by Georgia Power at closing consist of pre-existing fuel oil storage tank which shall be converted into a demineralized water tank. The purchase price for the fuel oil storage tank represents Georgia Power's pro-forma ownership interest (75%) of the original book cost of the asset less depreciation, which, if calculated as of December 31, 1992, is estimated to be $648,710. Savannah also proposes to lease to Georgia Power a 100% leasehold interest in the real property on which Georgia Power's CTs will be developed, a percentage undivided interest in that portion of the Common Facilities which consist of real property, and any related easements or other rights necessary to develop Georgia Power's CTs and the Common Facilities. It is estimated that the rental payments to be made by Georgia Power to Savannah will amount to $2,220 annually.
