FR940429-0-00069 FR940429-0-00010 Finally, the Secretary received a request to include in the regulations the provision contained in the statute that the Secretary shall give priority for review to those agencies whose institutions participate most extensively in Title IV, HEA programs and those agencies that are subject to the most complaints or legal actions. Discussion : The Secretary believes that the statute requires the Secretary to ensure that recognized accrediting agencies stay in compliance with the requirements for recognition throughout the recognition period. Consequently, the Secretary believes the statute authorizes the Secretary to have access to an accrediting agency's records, personnel, and facilities not only during the application and review process but throughout the recognition period as well. Regarding concerns about possible release of confidential agency materials under a FOIA request, the Secretary wishes to assure agencies that there are provisions under FOIA that protect most of the types of information the Secretary expects to obtain from agencies for purposes of §602.10(b). For example, if the Secretary determined that an accrediting agency's actions with respect to three institutions clearly demonstrated the agency's failure to comply with the recognition requirements, the Secretary would not be required to release the names of the three institutions under a FOIA request. The Secretary would, of course, identify the institutions to the accrediting agency so that the agency would have a clear understanding of the basis on which the Secretary reached the determination that it failed to meet the criteria for recognition. While the Secretary will protect confidential agency materials to the full extent allowed under FOIA, the Secretary wishes to make it clear that this does not prevent the Secretary from using those materials against an agency should the Secretary determine that the agency is in violation of the criteria for recognition. Regarding unannounced visits by the Secretary, which are authorized by the statute, the Secretary believes the use of such visits is a managerial decision and need not be regulated. With regard to the overall burden reported in the Federal Register , the Secretary wishes to note that the estimate was based in part on information provided to the Secretary by various accrediting agencies as to the time required to complete an application and to meet other requirements contained in the NPRM. It was also based on the assumption that the Secretary would adopt the simple assurance approach described in the NPRM. Finally, with regard to both the use of a simple assurance statement to simplify the application process and the inclusion of a set of review priorities, the Secretary believes these relate to the management of the recognition process and do not need to be addressed in regulation. The Secretary wishes to make it clear, however, that it is the Secretary's intent to minimize the overall burden to agencies through a simplification of the entire application process. Change : The section that detailed the conditions under which the Secretary uses unannounced visits to determine an agency's compliance with the recognition requirements has been deleted. The phrase ``analysis of'' in §602.10(a)(2) has been replaced with ``evidence of'' to conform to the simple assurance approach. Section 602.11␣Preliminary Review by the Secretary Comments : Section 602.11(b)(2) of the proposed regulations provided that the Secretary's evaluation of an agency should include a review of information directly related to the institutions or programs accredited by the agency, as this information relates to the institution's or program's compliance with the agency's standards, the effectiveness of those standards, or the agency's application of those standards. The Secretary received a number of comments that supported this provision. In general, these commenters felt that it was important for the Secretary to monitor the extent to which individual agencies continued to accredit institutions that engage in fraud or abuse, particularly abuse of the Title IV, HEA programs. The Secretary received many more comments, however, that this provision was inappropriate and also redundant, given the provisions contained in §602.11(b)(1)(i-iii). These commenters also believed the provision gave the Secretary approval authority over an agency's accreditation standards, which, in their opinion, was contrary to the statute. The Secretary also received some comments related to the sharing of information used by the designated Department official to reach conclusions regarding an agency's compliance with the requirements for recognition. In general, these commenters wanted the regulations to specify time frames for an agency's written response to the Department staff analysis concerning its application for recognition, to require the designated Department official to share with the agency all information used in reaching a decision about the agency's application, to require the Department to forward to an agency written reports on any announced or unannounced site visits, file reviews, or other reviews of the agency, and to allow the agency the opportunity for response to all these reports. Finally, a number of commenters suggested that the regulations should include a requirement that the Secretary must publish a notice in the Federal Register when an accrediting agency is being considered for recognition and must also notify the State postsecondary review entities. Discussion : The Secretary believes that the designated Department official's review of information directly related to institutions or programs accredited by an agency is central to the issue of whether the agency is a reliable authority as to the quality of the institutions of programs it accredits. Therefore, this provision must be retained. The Secretary notes that any information provided by the agency in accordance with §602.4(e) of these regulations may also be reviewed by the designated Department official during any evaluation of the agency for compliance with the requirements for recognition.
