FR940920-2-00098 FR940920-2-00050 NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINISTRATION Notice of Submission of Proposed Information Collections to OMB AGENCY: National Archives and Records Administration. ACTION: Notice of proposed information collections submitted to OMB for approval. SUMMARY: The National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) is giving notice that the proposed collections of information described in this notice have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for approval under the Paperwork Reduction Act and 5 CFR part 1320. Public comment is invited on these collections. DATES: Comments should be submitted by October 20, 1994. ADDRESSES: Copies of the proposed information collections and supporting documentation can be obtained from the Policy and Program Analysis Division (NAA), 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740&hyph;6001. Telephone requests may be made to (301) 713&hyph;6730, extension 226. Written comments should be sent to Director, Policy and Program Analysis Division (NAA), National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740&hyph;6001. A copy of the comments should be sent to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Attention: Desk Officer for NARA, Washington, DC 20503. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mary Ann Hadyka or Nancy Allard at (301) 713&hyph;6730. The following proposed information collections have been submitted to OMB: 1. Request Pertaining to Military Records (SF 180) Description: The information collection is the information that must be provided when requesting information from or copies of documents from a military service record stored at the National Personnel Records Center (NPRC) to allow NPRC to locate the record and respond to the request. Standard Form 180 is the principal form used to obtain information, but other forms and letters may be used. Purpose: The information is used to locate the requested record and to determine the releasability of the record under Department of Defense rules. Frequency of response: On occasion. Approximately 10 percent of respondents are asked to complete an additional form to allow NPRC to search alternative sources to supply the requested information. Number of respondents: 713,400. Reporting hours per response: 5 to 30 minutes. Annual reporting burden hours: 209,616. 2. Customer Comment Forms Description: The information collection is a comment form available in NARA research rooms and museums for customers to provide comments, suggestions, and complaints on NARA services. This is an expansion of a currently approved information collection in use in the Washington, DC, area. Purpose: The information collection will help NARA to judge the efficacy of researcher and other visitor services, consider changes suggested by users, plan future services, and improve our performance. Frequency of response: On occasion. Number of respondents: 1,925. Reporting hours per response: 5 minutes. Annual reporting burden hours: 160. 3. National Historical Publications and Records Commission, Subvention Grant Guidelines and Application Description: The information collection is a grant application prepared by university and other non-profit presses applying to the NHPRC grant program for subvention of part of the costs of manufacturing and distributing volumes published by NHPRC-supported documentary editorial projects. Purpose: The information is used to determine eligibility of the applicant and evaluate the suitability of the proposed project for support. Frequency of response: On occasion. On the average, a press submits two subvention applications per year. Number of respondents: 10. Reporting hours per response: 9 hours. Annual reporting burden hours: 180. 4. National Historical Publications and Records Commission, Annual Sales Reports for Subvention Grants Description: The information collection is a sales report made by a nonprofit press which has received a grant from the NHPRC to subvent part of the costs of manufacturing and distributing documentary volumes that have been produced by editorial projects for which the NHPRC has provided support. Purpose: The information is used by the NHPRC to evaluate the success of a volume and to help determine the number of copies in the first printing of subsequent volumes in a series. Frequency of response: Annually for three years. On the average, a press has two on-going subvention grants and therefore submits two sales reports per year. Number of respondents: 30. Reporting hours per response: 2 hours. Annual reporting burden hours: 120. Dated: September 12, 1994. Trudy Huskamp Peterson, Acting Archivist of the United States. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23226 Filed 9&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7515&hyph;01&hyph;M
