FR940204-0-00024 FR940204-0-00014 Offenses Involving Postal Money Orders, $10,000. Theft or possession of stolen money orders or any Postal Service equipment used to imprint money orders; or altering, counterfeiting, forging, unlawful uttering, or passing of postal money orders. Theft, Possession, Destruction, or Obstruction of Mail, $10,000. Theft or attempted theft of any mail, or the contents thereof, or the theft of money or any other property of the United States under the custody and control of the United States Postal Service from any custodian, postal vehicle, railroad depot, airport, or other transfer point, post office or station or receptacle or depository established, approved, or designated by the Postmaster General for the receipt of mail; or destroying, obstructing, or retarding the passage of mail, or any carrier or conveyance carrying the mail. Child Pornography, $10,000. The mailing or receiving through the mail of any visual depiction involving the use of a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct. Poison, Controlled Dangerous Substances, Hazardous Materials, Illegal Drugs, or Cash Proceeds from Illegal Drugs, $10,000. Mailing or causing to be mailed any poison, controlled substances, hazardous materials, illegal drugs, or the proceeds from the sale of illegal drugs. Related Offenses The United States Postal Service also offers rewards as stated above for information and services leading to the arrest and conviction of any person: (1) For being an accessory to any of the above crimes; (2) for receiving or having unlawful possession of any mail, money or property secured through the above crimes; and (3) for conspiracy to commit any of the above crimes. General Provisions 1. The Postal Inspection Service investigates the above described crimes. Information concerning the violations, requests for applications for rewards, and written claims for rewards should be furnished to the nearest Postal Inspector. The written claim for reward payment must be submitted within six months from the date of conviction of the offender, or the date of formally deferred prosecution or the date of the offender's death, if killed in committing a crime or resisting lawful arrest for one of the above offenses. 2. The amount of any reward will be based on the significance of services rendered, character of the offender, risks and hazards involved, time spent, and expenses incurred. Amounts of rewards shown above are the maximum amounts which will be paid. 3. The term ``custodian'' as used herein includes any person having lawful charge, control, or custody of any mail matter, or any money or other property of the United States under the control and jurisdiction of the United States Postal Service. 4. The Postal Service reserves the right to reject a claim for reward where there has been collusion, criminal involvement, or improper methods have been used to effect an arrest or to secure a conviction. It has the right to allow only one reward when several persons were convicted of the same offense, or one person was convicted of several of the above offenses. 5. Other rewards not specifically referred to in this notice may be offered upon the approval of the Chief Postal Inspection (39 U.S.C. 404 (a)(8). (c) *␣*␣* Stanley F. Mires, Chief Counsel, Legislative Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2064 Filed 2&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7710&hyph;12
