FR941216-1-00094 FR941216-1-00012 (3) A&E operating facilities. (e) A&E shall be prohibited under approach/departure zones of fixed and rotary wing aircraft landing facilities. The approach/departure zones for aircraft (surfaces or areas) are described in detail in airfield and airspace criteria directives of the DoD Components. In general, approach/departure zones begin near the end of a runway or landing area and extend outward to a given distance along, and symmetrically on each side of, the extended runway centerline or the aircraft approach axis of a heliport. Such zones flare uniformly from the landing area outward to a prescribed limit. ยง184.60 Pier and wharf facilities. (a) Applicability and scope. This section applies to piers and wharfs and associated facilities at which ammunition and explosives may be handled, or be present in ships' holds or service conveyances. Its provisions do not apply to ammunition or explosives stored in ships' magazines and intended for the service of shipboard armament or aircraft. However, they do apply to loading, off-loading, stowing, and shifting of such ammunition and explosives. Q/D's herein are for Hazard Division 1.1. Effects of an explosion to be expected when these Q/D's are applied are described in Subpart D of this part. If only ammunition and explosives of other class/division are involved the Q/D's for such hazards shall be applied as appropriate. (b) Determination of quantity of explosives in a ship. (1) On board ship, the various types of ammunition and explosives are stored relatively close to each other, and a detonation in the HE part of the cargo may receive considerable support from items that are considered normally to be only fragment or fire hazards; therefore, the total quantity of explosives on board a ship shall be determined in accordance with Subpart D of this part. (2) When ship units are separated by 11W 1/3 distances or greater, Q/D shall be based individually on the quantity of each ship unit. Lesser separation distances require that the explosives in both ship units be totalled for Q/D purposes. (c) Measurement of separation distance _(1) Ships at a pier. Measurement of separation distances between ships shall be from the nearest point of one unit to the nearest point of the other. Movement of cars passing through the clear space is considered as an operations risk. It will generally be impracticable to separate berths at a single pier by enough distance to prevent mass detonation of ships containing complete cargoes of Hazard Division 1.1 ammunition. To the extent operationally feasible, therefore, scheduling shall be such as to reduce the number of such exposures and total time that they are required. (2) Piers. The separation distances between piers shall be measured from the nearest point of the ship unit at one pier to the nearest point of the ship unit under consideration at the other pier. (3) Anchorages. Measurements from anchorages generally shall be from the boundary of the area designated for the scuttling site or the explosives anchorage. In the case of the explosives anchorage, the separation distance to outside targets shall depend upon whether:
