FR940805-1-00075 FR940805-1-00013 Subpart C_Juvenile Detention Facilities ยง10.21 Administration and management. (a) General administration _(1) Mission and goals. A written statement, which shall be updated as necessary, shall describe the philosophy, goals and policies of the facility and its relationship to the juvenile justice system. (2) Administration of facility. An administrator, whose responsibility and authority shall be documented, shall oversee each facility. The appointment shall be based on written qualifications. (3) Organization chart. An organization chart shall describe the facility's organization and chain of command. The chart shall be updated as needed. (4) Service provider roles. A Memorandum of Agreement (MOA), which shall be updated as needed and reviewed at least annually, shall define the role and function of employees of public or private agencies providing a service to the facility. The MOA shall specify the relation of service providers to the authority and responsibility of the administrator. (5) Interagency meetings. The administrator shall conduct regular meetings between the staff of juvenile justice, youth services, education, health care, emergency shelter and detention agencies to develop and maintain effective interagency coordination. (6) Policy and procedure manual. All employees of the facility shall have access to a policy and procedure manual and its supporting documents. The Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, shall approve the manual and its supporting documents, which shall provide for the implementation of these standards and shall direct documentation of compliance. The administrator shall update the manual as needed and review it annually. (7) Dissemination of policy and procedure. The administrator shall disseminate approved, new, or revised policies and procedures to designated staff, volunteers and, where appropriate, juveniles prior to implementation. Staff shall review and indicate in writing that they understand the content of policies and procedures prior to their implementation. (8) Channels of communication. The administrator or designee shall regularly disseminate information to staff prior to the beginning of their shift. (9) Monitoring and assessment. The Agency Superintendent or designee shall review and inspect operations and programs at least annually. (10) Annual report. The administrator shall submit a written annual report to the Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, through the Area Director and Agency Superintendent, and shall forward a copy to the appropriate court and health care authority. The report shall address goals, objectives, population data, programs and services provided, budget, space and equipment needs and major developments. (11) Public information program. The administrator or designee shall provide for a public information program, which protects the juveniles' right to privacy. (12) Legal counsel. Legal counsel shall be available to the administrator and other staff as needed in the performance of their duties. (13) Separation of adults and juveniles. If services for adult and juvenile offenders are provided by the same agency, statements of philosophy, policy, program and procedure shall distinguish between criminal codes and the statutes that establish and give direction to programs for juveniles. (14) Prohibited uses of detention. The facility shall not detain abused, dependent or neglected children, juveniles charged with offenses that would not be crimes if committed by adults and juveniles charged with delinquencies unless it is clearly shown that secure placement is essential. (15) Jurisdictional agreements. The administrator shall cooperate with the proper authority in the placement and/or return of juveniles to the requesting jurisdiction, pursuant to the provisions of any jurisdictional agreements. (b) Fiscal management _(1) Budgetary compliance. If operated by the BIA, the facility shall comply with the directives of the Agency regarding budget preparation, submission, and administration. If operated by a tribe, the facility shall comply with the directives of the tribe regarding budget preparation, submission, and administration. (2) Accounting compliance. If operated by the BIA, the facility shall comply with the Agency accounting directives. If operated by a Tribe, the facility shall comply with Tribal accounting directives. (3) Basis of budget. The administrator shall document a direct relationship between the budget and planned operational, staffing and program needs. (4) Property management compliance. If operated by the BIA, the facility shall comply with Agency property management directives. If operated by a Tribe, the facility shall comply with Tribal property management directives. (5) Federal acquisition regulation compliance. If operated by the BIA, the facility shall comply with Agency directives for facility services, equipment and supply purchases. If operated by a tribe, the facility shall comply with tribal directives for facility services, equipment and supply purchases. (6) Space and equipment needs and deficiencies. The administrator shall report space and equipment needs and deficiencies annually to the Area Director through the Agency Superintendent. (7) Program needs and deficiencies. The administrator shall report program needs and deficiencies, i.e., staffing, supplies, training and contract services, annually to the Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, through the Area Director and Agency Superintendent. (8) Cost of juvenile board. The facility shall charge all contract users at the same rate. (9) Fund accounts. The administrator shall arrange for an independent audit of juvenile fund accounts, including canteen or commissary, following standard accounting practices. The administrator shall use any profit or interest which accrues for the benefit of the juveniles. (c) Personnel _(1) Personnel policy. If operated by the BIA, the facility shall comply with Agency personnel management directives. If operated by a Tribe, the facility shall comply with Tribal personnel management directives. (2) Personnel manual. The administrator shall make a copy of the applicable personnel manuals and regulations available to every employee. (3) Staffing requirements. The administrator shall review employee workload annually to ensure that juveniles have access to staff, programs and services. The administrator shall develop and update the facility's shift relief factor annually.
