FR941104-1-00035 FR941104-1-00006 (2) Dutch Henry and Biter Creek Fan Complex (north of the proposed St. Helena viticultural area, reaching almost to Bale Lane); (3) Unnamed Fan west of Bell Canyon Reservoir and Crystal Springs Road; (4) Base of Pratt Valley (very small fan); (5) Base of Deer Park (unnamed tributary; small fan); (6) Base of Spring Valley (very small fan; mostly within Spring Valley); and (7) Conn Creek Fan Complex (in approved Rutherford viticultural area). Napa River Floodplain and River Terraces (1) Current incised channel of the Napa River; (2) Current floodplain of the Napa River; and (3) Older floodplains of the Napa River at higher elevations. [These landforms follow the channel of the Napa River, except for older terraces along the hillsides, which are largely obscured by dense hillside woodland and forest; these terraces are discovered through intensive field studies.] Dr. Elliott-Fisk notes that the geomorphic depositional units (i.e., landforms) in the proposed St. Helena viticultural area are composed almost exclusively of volcanic lithologies (around 85&hyph;90 percent volcanics typically, occasionally dropping to 70 percent on parts of the Sulphur Creek fan, with the remainder sedimentary and metamorphic inclusions from the bedrock underlying the Sonoma Volcanics). The upper part of the Sulphur Creek Basin contains small units of sandstone and metamorphic lithologies exposed at the surface through faulting and slope failure. Despite this, volcanic rhyolitic tuff, rhyolite, dacite and andesite are by far the dominant surficial geologies, compared to the Bear Canyon Fan Complex to the south which is 30 percent or less volcanics and the remainder sedimentary. Dr. Elliott-Fisk further observes that although several types of volcanic rocks compose the St. Helena hillside, the most widespread (and as such, ubiquitous) units are volcanic ash-flows, referred to as tuffs, with occasional volcanic mudflows. The matrix is rhyolitic in composition, with incorporated clasts of obsidian, rhyolite, andesite, dacite and tuff. Occasional metamorphic clasts of cobble or smaller size are seen. This geologic parent material is slightly acidic to acidic, with water-holding capacity of tuffaceous bedrock units moderate. This potential soil parent material is brought down both slopes to the west and east of the valley floor by hillside erosion, runoff, and tributary streamflow. According to Dr. Elliott-Fisk, the Napa River has incised through these fan deposits discharging on the valley floor and migrated as a consequence of the resistance of these deposits versus its own stream power. The Napa River floodplain, and its associated recent terraces, varies in width throughout this section of Napa Valley but has formed important terraces along the eastern valley edge. Distinct breaks in the natural vegetation are seen at the terrace/alluvial fan transition, as the terraces have more fertile soils with a greater water-holding capacity. As the width of the valley floor in the St. Helena area is on the average less (e.g., more narrow) than anywhere else in the Napa Valley, these terraces form less viticultural acreage than in the southern or middle sections of Napa Valley. The lower hillside slopes below the 400-foot elevation are difficult to map on a broad scale depicting geomorphic surfaces. This is largely a function of abrupt changes in slope angle and vegetation type, which influence long-term slope stability. Small areas of uplifted depositional surfaces (alluvial fans and stream floodplain terraces) were found across these lower slopes in the proposed St. Helena area, however. Soils of the Proposed St. Helena Viticultural Area With regard to the soils within the proposed viticultural area, Dr. Elliott-Fisk states that the Sonoma Volcanics rim all sides of the valley in the St. Helena area, and as such the depositional valley floor soils (which may be very bouldery deposits across alluvial fans or finer, but still gravelly deposits along the Napa River proper, all principally Xerolls) are volcanic in origin, and deep, very gravelly sandy loams to sandy clay loams to clay loams, with low to moderate water holding capacities. Sediments have been transported relatively short distances from their origins, as this is the headwater area of the Napa River system, and as such the soils contain a higher percentage of coarse clasts (especially boulders), with sand dominating the fine fraction of almost every soil. Dr. Elliott-Fisk notes that small sections of the upper stream basins of Sulphur Canyon and the Spring Mountain region contain the massive Franciscan marine sandstone and conglomerate, with its affiliated volcanic and metamorphic inclusions. The lithology of the fine clasts that compose the alluvial fans in this immediate region (i.e., Sulphur Creek fan) include a higher portion of non-volcanic clasts (up to 15 percent, to occasionally 30 percent) than alluvial fans to the north, such as the Ritchie Creek fan below Diamond Mountain, located largely north of the proposed northern St. Helena viticultural area boundary. However, the percentage of non-volcanic clasts is much higher to the south of the St. Helena viticultural area (i.e., Bear Canyon fan). The lower toe-slopes of the mountain slopes in the St. Helena area (below the 400-foot elevation) contain both Xerolls and Xeralfs, depending on slope stability and age. Dr. Elliott-Fisk states that she has excavated an additional 17 soil trenches in the process of her scientific investigation in this area. She states that she has done previous soils work in this region and has excavated over 350 soil trenches in Napa Valley. She has provided, as part of the petition, profile drawings, descriptive field, and analytical laboratory data for 17 soils by horizon. Four of these soils are from property outside of the proposed boundaries of the St. Helena viticultural area and were chosen to be representative of those areas. Soil Summary The soils of the proposed St. Helena viticultural area, according to the petition, are deep alluvial soils of moderate age, with well-formed horizonation, textural B horizons, sandy clay loam to clay loam textures, reddish colors, high gravel content (primarily of cobbles), and near neutral pH. In this erosional zone of the valley floor, where the width is restricted, groundwater and the groundwater table have a significant influence, bringing in additional dissolved minerals and increasing the pH (and nutritional content) above the valley floor soils to the north (Calistoga region) and south (Rutherford and Oakville), as well as the hillsides (Spring Mountain, Diamond Mountain, Howell Mountain and Pritchard Hill). The soil drainage in the St. Helena area is typically good since the water table drops in the spring, summer and fall to allow the vines an adequate root zone with free oxygen and carbon dioxide, thus providing vigorous conditions for grape growing. The moderate climate, with warm summer temperature, balances well with this soil environment, and allows the wine grower to manipulate the vines to extract what the winemaker desires from a particular varietal. As such, Dr. Elliott-Fisk concludes that this provides a stable and predictable environment for grape growing, and the physical geography of the region has promoted the production of fine wines in the St. Helena area for many decades. Conclusion According to the petitioner, the proposed St. Helena viticultural area is uniform topographically and can be distinguished from the steeper hillsides to the east (Howell Mountain) and west (Spring Mountain District) as well as from the valley floor areas to the south (Rutherford) and north (Calistoga). This is an area where the valley floor narrows from around 19,000 feet at Oakville Cross Road and 11,000 feet at Zinfandel Lane to around 3,500 feet at Lodi Lane and Bale Lane. The area is marked by a uniform, steep gradient and significant river erosion. The bedrock geology is primarily volcanic, in contrast to the sedimentary soils to the south.
