FR941027-2-00046 FR941027-2-00027 Routine use for Agency disclosure in litigation It shall be a routine use of records maintained by this agency to disclose them in a proceeding before a court or adjudicative body before which the agency is authorized to appear when: (a) The agency, or any component thereof; or (b) Any employee of the agency in his or her official capacity; or (c) Any employee of the agency in his or her individual capacity where the agency has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) The United States, where the agency determines that litigation is likely to affect the agency, or any of its components, is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and the Federal Election Commission determines that, on a case-by-case basis, use of such records is relevant and necessary to the litigation, provided, however, that the agency determines that disclosure of the records is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: (a) Hard copy record kept in Personnel Office. (b) Hard copy record kept in Personnel Office. (c) Hard copy record kept in Personnel Office. (d) Hard copy record kept in Personnel Office. (e) Computer disk packs within central processing unit. (f) Hard copy record kept in Personnel Office. (g) Hard copy record kept in Personnel Office. (h) Hard copy record kept in Personnel Office. (i) Hard copy record kept in Personnel Office. (j) Hard copy record kept in Personnel Office. Retrievability: (a) Retrieval by hand of alphabetical files. (b) Retrieval by hand of alphabetical files. (c) Retrieval by hand of alphabetical files. (d) Retrieval by hand of alphabetical files. (e) On line access using SSN. (f) Retrieval by hand of alphabetical files. (g) Retrieval by hand of alphabetical files. (h) Retrieval by hand of alphabetical files. (i) Retrieval by hand of alphabetical files. (j) Retrieval by hand of alphabetical files. Safeguards: (a) Locked file cabinet in locked office. (b) Locked Office. (c) Locked file cabinet in locked office. (d) Locked file cabinet in locked office. (e) Overall password for group number; individual password for each program; knowledge of password limited to appropriate personnel. (f) Locked file cabinet in locked office. (g) Locked file cabinet in locked office. (h) Locked file cabinet in locked office. (i) Locked file cabinet in locked office. (j) Locked file cabinet in locked office. Retention and disposal: (a) 1 year; shredded. (b) Indefinite. (c) Indefinite; transferred with employee to succeeding agency or retired to Federal Records Center upon retirement or termination/resignation from Federal service or death. (d) Indefinite; shredded within 30 days of employee departure unless part of ongoing adjudicatory action. (e) Indefinite. (f) 2 years; shredded. (g) 2 years; shredded. (h) Indefinite; transferred with employee to succeeding agency or retired to Federal Records Center upon retirement or termination/resignation from Federal service or death. (i) Indefinite. (j) Indefinite. System manager(s) and address: The Director of Personnel, Federal Election Commission, Washington, DC 20463, (202/219&hyph;3440). Notification procedures: Refer to Commission access regulations at 11 CFR 1.1 et seq., 41 43064 (1976). Record access procedures: Same as above. Contesting record procedures: Same as above. Record Source categories: Peronnel applications, résumés, employment forms, records of personnel action. FEC 6 System name: Candidate reports and designations. System location: Federal Election Commission, Washington, DC 20463. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Candidates for Federal office required to file reports of contributions and expenditures and designations of campaign depositories and authorized committees. Categories of records in the system:
