FR940728-1-00012 FR940728-1-00003 Executive Order 12612 The regulations proposed herein will not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the National Government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this rule does not have sufficient Federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Executive Order 12606 The Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service has certified that she has assessed this rule in light of the criteria in Executive Order 12606 and has determined that this rule will not have an impact on family formation, maintenance, or general well-being. List of Subjects in 8 CFR Part 340 Citizenship and naturalization, Law enforcement. Accordingly, part 340 of chapter I of title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 340_REVOCATION OF NATURALIZATION 1. The authority citation for part 340 continues to read as follows: Authority: 8 U.S.C. 1103, 1443. 2. A new ยง340.1 is added to read as follows: ยง340.1 Reopening of naturalization application by district director pursuant to section 340(i) of the Act. (a) Reopening, general . On its own motion, the Service may reopen a naturalization proceeding and deny naturalization in accordance with this section, if the Service obtains credible and probative evidence which: (1) Was not available during the original naturalization proceeding; (2) Would have had a material effect on the outcome of the original naturalization proceeding; and (3) Which tends to prove that: (i) The Service granted the application by mistake; (ii) The applicant procured naturalization by fraud or misrepresentation; or, (iii) The applicant was not in fact eligible for naturalization. (b) Procedure for reopening of naturalization proceedings. (1) Jurisdiction . The district director under whose jurisdiction the original naturalization proceeding took place has jurisdiction to reopen proceedings under this section, except that notice of intent to reopen naturalization proceedings and to deny naturalization must be served no later than 1 year after the effective date of the order admitting a person to citizenship, as determined under ยง337.9 of this chapter. (2) Notice of intent to reopen naturalization proceedings and to deny naturalization . If the district director determines that reopening a naturalization proceeding is warranted under paragraph (a) of this section, the district director shall prepare a written notice of intent to reopen naturalization proceedings and to deny naturalization. The notice shall describe in clear and detailed language the grounds on which the district director intends to reopen the proceeding. The notice shall include all evidence which the district director believes warrants reopening of the proceeding. The notice shall advise the applicant of his or her right to submit a response to the notice and to request a hearing, as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The Service shall serve the notice of intent to reopen naturalization proceedings and to deny naturalization upon the applicant by personal service, as described in ยง103.5a(a)(2) of this chapter. (3) Applicant's opportunity to respond and to request hearing. (i) Within sixty (60) days of service of the notice of intent to reopen naturalization proceedings and to deny naturalization, the applicant may submit a response to the Service. The response may include any statements and/or additional evidence the applicant wishes to present in response to the proposed grounds for reopening. (ii) The applicant may request a hearing on the notice of intent to reopen naturalization proceedings and to deny naturalization before an immigration officer authorized to review naturalization applications under sections 310 and 335 of the Act. The applicant must submit a written request for a hearing together with any statements and/or additional evidence described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section within sixty (60) days of service of the notice. The Service shall schedule a requested hearing as soon as practicable. (4) Withdrawal of application or failure to respond. (i) Upon receipt of the notice of intent to reopen naturalization proceedings and to deny naturalization, the applicant may submit a written statement admitting the facts which the district director alleges as grounds for reopening, and withdrawing the application for naturalization. The applicant shall sign the statement under oath or affirmation or shall certify the truth of the statement under penalty of perjury. (ii) If the applicant fails to submit a response to the notice of intent to reopen naturalization proceedings and to deny naturalization within the period specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the applicant shall be considered to have admitted the grounds for reopening and to have withdrawn the application for naturalization. (5) Right to counsel . The applicant may be represented at any time during reopening proceedings by an attorney or other representative qualified under part 292 of this chapter. (6) Burden of proof. Upon service of a notice of intent to reopen naturalization proceedings and to deny naturalization, the applicant bears the burden of persuading the district director that, notwithstanding the evidence described in the notice, the applicant was eligible for naturalization at the time of the order purporting to admit the applicant to citizenship. (c) Record of reopened proceedings. The record shall include, but is not limited to: (1) The applicant's application for naturalization; (2) The Service's notice of intent to reopen naturalization proceedings and to deny naturalization with proof of service to the applicant; (3) All evidence forming the basis for reopening the naturalization application; (4) The applicant's statements and/or evidence in response to the Service's notice and in support of the application; and (5) The record of the hearing, if a hearing was held. (d) Decision . The district director shall render a written decision on the reopened naturalization application within 180 days of service of the notice of intent to reopen naturalization proceedings and to deny naturalization. The decision shall consist of findings of fact, conclusions of law, and a final determination on the naturalization application. Notice of decision shall be served on the applicant and his or her attorney or representative. (e) Appeals . (1) The applicant may appeal an adverse decision under paragraph (d) of this section to the Office of Examinations, Administrative Appeals Unit. Any appeal shall be filed with the district director within thirty (30) days after service of the notice of decision. Appeals received after the 30-day period has tolled may be subject to dismissal for failure to timely file.
