FR940127-2-00133 FR940127-2-00078 b. If a Contractowner that has allocated premiums to the World Income Divisions requests a reallocation of shares before May 1, 1994, the Policy Value of the Contractowner's Equitable Variable Contract will be reallocated for investment to another Hudson Trust Portfolio selected by the Contractowner at no cost to the Contractowner; c. The Substitution will, in all cases, be at net asset value of the respective shares, without the imposition of any transfer or similar charge; d. Any expenses and transaction costs triggered by the redemption in connection with the Substitution ( e.g. , brokerage commissions, custodial fees, accounting fees, etc.) and which are reflected in the net asset value of the World Income Portfolio shares will be assumed by Equitable as the sole remaining shareholder of the World Income Portfolio. Equitable and Alliance will bear all other expenses of the Substitution, including legal and accounting fees and expenses, the cost of prospectus disclosure, this Application and Notices; e. The Substitution will not be treated as a transfer for purposes of any provisions of the Equitable Variable Contracts that limit allowable transfers; f. The Substitution will in no way alter the insurance benefits to Contractowners or the contractual obligations of Equitable Variable; and g. The Substitution will not alter the tax benefits to Contractowners or cause any adverse tax consequences to Contractowners. Applicants' Legal Analysis_Sections 17(a) and 17(b) 1. Applicants also request an order of the Commission under section 17(b) of the 1940 Act exempting them from the provisions of section 17(a) of the 1940 Act in connection with aspects of the Substitution that may be deemed to be prohibited by section 17(a). Section 17(a)(1) of the 1940 Act prohibits any affiliated person of a registered investment company, or any affiliated person of such person acting as principal, from selling any security or other property to that company. Section 17(a)(2) of the 1940 Act prohibits such affiliated persons from purchasing any security or other property from the registered investment company. 2. The Substitution may result in transactions prohibited by section 17(a) because of affiliations among the Government Securities Divisions, the World Income Divisions, and the corresponding Trust Portfolios. The Substitution specifically may be deemed to include one or more purchases or sales of securities between the World Income Divisions and the Government Securities Portfolio because the World Income Divisions will purchase shares of the Government Securities Portfolio with the securities received by these Divisions in connection with the redemption in-kind of shares of the World Income Portfolio. Similar issues may arise in connection with the redemption in-kind itself and the consolidation of the Divisions. 3. Section 17(b) of the 1940 Act provides that the Commission shall, upon application, grant an order exempting a proposed transaction otherwise prohibited by Section 17(a) if evidence establishes that: (a) The terms of the proposed transaction, including the consideration to be paid or received, are reasonable and fair and do not involve overreaching on the part of any person concerned; (b) the proposed transaction is consistent with the policies of each registered investment company concerned, as recited in its registration statements and reports filed under the 1940 Act; and (c) the proposed transaction is consistent with the general purposes of the 1940 Act. The Applicants represent that the proposed Substitution satisfies these tests. 4. First, the terms of the Substitution are reasonable and fair and do not involve overreaching on the part of any person concerned. The Substitution will be effected pursuant to the Hudson Trust's procedures for valuing portfolio securities and portfolio securities of the Affected Portfolios are and will be valued in a consistent manner. Rule 17a&hyph;7 under the 1940 Act permits a purchase or sale transaction between registered investment companies or separate series of registered investment companies which may be affiliated persons, or affiliated persons of affiliated persons, solely by reason of having a common investment adviser or investment advisers which are affiliated persons of each other, common directors and/or common officers, subject to certain specified conditions. However, the Substitution will involve the redemption by the World Income Portfolio of securities in-kind rather than for cash and, therefore, will not meet the requirements of subsection (a) of Rule 17a&hyph;7. Nevertheless, the Substitution will comply with subsections (b), (c) and (d) of Rule 17a&hyph;7 because the transactions: will be effected at the independent current market price, including, where appropriate, amortized cost, of the securities involved; is consistent with the policies of the Government Securities Portfolio and the Government Securities Divisions; and will not involve the payment of any brokerage commission, fee or other remuneration. Applicants believe, moreover, that the proposed transactions satisfy the intent of Rule 17a&hyph;7 and that, consequently, there will be no overreaching because all securities redeemed in-kind and used to purchase shares of the Government Securities Portfolio will be consistently valued for all purposes. 5. Second, the proposed Substitution is consistent with the investment policies of both Affected Portfolios because securities received by the Separate Account from the World Income Portfolio from redemptions in-kind will be selected by Alliance to correspond to the investment policies of the Government Securities Portfolio. 6. Third, the Substitution is consistent with the general purposes of the 1940 Act because it will provide Contractowners those economic and other benefits discussed herein. Conclusion 1. Applicants submit that the exemptive relief requested under section 26(b) of the 1940 Act is necessary and appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policies and provisions of the 1940 Act. 2. Applicants further submit that the exemptive relief requested under section 17(b) is appropriate because the terms of the proposed Substitution, including the consideration to be paid or received, are reasonable and fair and do not involve overreaching on the part of any person concerned, the proposed transaction is consistent with the policy of each registered investment company concerned with the Substitution, as recited in their registration statements and reports filed under the 1940 Act, and the Substitution is consistent with the general purposes of the 1940 Act. 3. Accordingly the Applicants request that the Commission grant the necessary exemptions and approvals pursuant to sections 17(b) and 26(b) of the 1940 Act permitting the Substitution. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1715 Filed 1&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
