FR941117-0-00178 FR941117-0-00012 Comments: The Department received comments that construction grants and grants in support of conferences should not be included in the list of grants in §75.564(c) for which indirect costs are unallowable. The commenters think these types of grants do carry considerable administrative costs and ED should reimburse recipients for their indirect costs. One commenter suggested that the language concerning conferences be revised to apply to grants made exclusively to support conferences. Discussion: The Department does not agree that construction grants carry the same administrative costs as other types of grants. Most of the construction work funded by those grants is carried out under subcontracts, a practice which results in recipients incurring relatively little overhead expense in comparison to other types of grants. Also, unlike other products of grant-supported activities, the costs of a building can be recovered through depreciation or use allowances. Therefore no change has been made concerning construction grants, but the language on grants for conferences has been revised. Changes: Section 75.564(c)(6) has been revised to apply to grants made exclusively to support conferences. Comments: Several commenters thought §75.564(e) prohibits the use of indirect costs to satisfy matching or cost-sharing requirements and so should be revised or deleted as inconsistent with OMB Circulars A&hyph;21 and A&hyph;110. Discussion: The OMB circulars that serve as cost principles or administrative guidance for grant recipients all contain the requirement that only allowable costs may be charged to a Federal grant as either direct or indirect costs. The same principle applies to funds used for matching or cost-sharing. However, the re-statement of this principle in these regulations has caused some confusion, particularly since a change to OMB Circular A&hyph;110, recently adopted by the Department as 34 CFR Part 74, gives granting agencies the option of approving unrecovered indirect costs to satisfy matching or cost-sharing requirements. The Department has therefore decided to delete the proposed §75.564(e) from the final regulations. As discussed elsewhere in this document, the Department is continuing its practice of prohibiting the use of unrecovered indirect costs to satisfy matching or cost-sharing requirements under training and restricted rate grants. For grantees subject to 34 CFR Part 74, the Department will consider on a case-by-case basis requests to use unrecovered indirect costs as matching or cost-sharing when the grant in question is not a training grant or a grant subject to a restricted indirect cost rate. Changes: The proposed §75.564(e) has been deleted. Comments: The Department received one comment that §75.564(f) should be deleted and each member of a group of eligible parties be allowed to apply its own indirect cost rate to its portion of the grant funds. Discussion: It has been the Department's policy on certain indirect cost matters_for example, the eight percent training rate_to maximize the Federal funds going to support program activities. If the official recipient of the grant applies its rate to the full award amount and each member of the group applies its full rate to its portion of the grant, as has happened in such situations, a disproportionate amount of the grant is spent on indirect costs. Since the Department wishes to maximize the funds supporting the direct costs of a project, it is limiting the indirect costs for grants made to groups of eligible parties to the rate of the official grant recipient, the fiscal agent for the group. The members of the group can decide among themselves how the funds should be divided within the group.
