FR940428-2-00141 FR940428-2-00065 Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: The storage is on computer disks, magnetic tape, and paper forms in file folders. Retrievability: Retrieval from the system is by name, social security number, date of birth, or identification card number and can be accessed by cleared individuals. Safeguards: Computers provide privacy and access limitations by requiring a user name and password match. Access to decentralized segments are similarly controlled. Only those personnel with a need to have access to the system are given user names and passwords. Data are manually and/or electronically stored in a locked room with limited access. Retention and disposal: Information including applications, photographs and identification media, will be destroyed within one year of termination of employment. System manager(s) and address: For OST and all DOT operating administrations except those below: a. Director, Office of Security, M&hyph;70, Department of Transportation, Office of Security, SW., Washington, DC 20590. b. For USCG: Commandant, G&hyph;0, U.S. Coast Guard, Washington, DC 20593. c. For FAA: Director, Civil Aviation Security, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591. d. For FHWA: Chief, Operations and Services Division, Federal Highway Administration, 400 7th Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. Notification procedure: Same as ``System Manager'', except that for USCG, notification should be given to Commandant, G&hyph;TIS. Record access procedures: Same as Notification Procedure. Contesting records procedures: Same as Notification Procedure. Correspondence contesting records must include the full name and social security number of the individual concerned and documentation justifying the claim. Records source categories: Individuals on whom the record is maintained. Narrative Statement for the Department of Transportation, Office of the Secretary The Office of the Secretary of Transportation proposes to amend and redesignate the record system, DOT/OST 018, Identification Media Record System, as DOT/ALL 9, Identification Media Record System, to reflect the inclusion of all identification media systems and records maintained for control and accountability of identification media issued to Department of Transportation (DOT) employees, former employees, and contractors for agencies within the DOT. The purpose of this Notice is to revise the system to include security badges utilized within DOT and also update storage systems to include computer and/or electronically stored information. The changes include amendments to: System number; system location; categories or records in the system; routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses; and system managers. Since this proposal amends an existing record system in a way that does not increase the total scope of the original system, the probable effects of this proposal on the privacy interests of the general public is minimal. A description of the steps taken to safeguard these records is given under the appropriate heading of the Federal Register system of records notice. The purpose of this report is to comply with the Office of Management and Budget Circular, A&hyph;130, Appendix I, dated June 25, 1993. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10128 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;62&hyph;P
