FR940613-1-00005 FR940613-1-00002 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 12 CFR Part 203 [Regulation C; Docket No. R&hyph;0839] Home Mortgage Disclosure AGENCY: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Board is publishing for public comment proposed changes to Regulation C (Home Mortgage Disclosure) and to the instructions and reporting forms that financial institutions must use in complying with the annual reporting requirements under the regulation. The principal reasons for the proposed amendments are to respond to the statutory provisions regarding earlier availability of the HMDA disclosure statements to the public; help improve the quality of the HMDA data; and provide clarifications requested by financial institutions that report under HMDA. The amendments would set an earlier deadline for reporting HMDA data to supervisory agencies; require reporting in machine-readable format; require institutions to keep their loan application registers current during the year as data are being collected; and make a number of other changes. DATES: Comments must be received on or before August 10, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should refer to Docket No. R&hyph;0839 and be sent to William W. Wiles, Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551. They may also be delivered to the guard station in the Eccles Building courtyard on 20th Street, NW. (between Constitution Avenue and C Street on 20th Street NW (between Constitution Avenue and C Street, NW.) between 8:45 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. weekdays. Comments received will be available for inspection and copying by any member of the public in the Freedom of Information Office, room B&hyph;1122 of the Eccles Building, between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. weekdays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jane Jensen Gell or W. Kurt Schumacher, Staff Attorneys, or John C. Wood, Senior Attorney, Division of Consumer and Community Affairs, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551, at 202/452&hyph;2412; for the hearing impaired only, contact Dorothea Thompson, Telecommunications Device for the Deaf, at 202/452&hyph;3544. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: (1) Background The Board's Regulation C (12 CFR part 203) implements the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 (HMDA) (12 U.S.C. 2801 et seq .). The regulation requires most mortgage lenders located in metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs) to report annually to federal supervisory agencies, and disclose to the public, information about their home mortgage and home improvement lending activity. The reports and disclosures cover loan originations, applications that do not result in originations (for example, applications that are denied or withdrawn), and purchases of loans. Information reported includes the location of the property to which the loan or application relates; the race or national origin, gender, and income of the applicant; and the type of purchaser for loans sold in the secondary market. For denied applications, lenders are also permitted to report the reasons for denial. Lenders are required to report originations, applications, and purchased loans for each calendar year to their supervisory agency by March 1 of the following year. The reports are made on a HMDA Loan/Application Register (HMDA&hyph;LAR) in a transaction-by-transaction format; for reports containing more than 100 entries, lenders currently are expected to submit the data in automated form (magnetic tape or diskette). The lender's supervisory agency submits the data to the Federal Reserve Board, which processes the data on behalf of member agencies of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) and the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The Board then prepares public disclosure statements for each reporting lender and aggregate reports covering the data for all lenders in a metropolitan area. The statements are sent to lenders, generally by July or August, and the lenders are required to make the statements available to the public at their home office and at certain branch offices. Although lenders must make the disclosure statements available within three business days, they have a thirty-day period within which to review the statements prepared by the Board and to report any discrepancies to the agencies. After necessary revisions have been made, the Board prepares and sends disclosure statements for all reporting lenders in each MSA, along with aggregate disclosure tables covering all such lenders, to a central data depository in each MSA. The central depositories are usually public libraries, regional planning agencies, or other public offices; the disclosures are generally sent to the depositories by October.
