FR940722-2-00130 FR940722-2-00080 The Chief of Police for the incorporated cities and towns in Johnson County. Kentucky The Kentucky State Police. Louisiana The Sheriff. The Superintendent of Police for New Orleans in Orleans Parish. Maine The Chief of Police in areas having a municipal police department and the State Police in all other areas. Mariana Islands The Department of Public Safety, Bureau of Motor Vehicles, Criminal Record and Firearm ID, Civic Center Susupe, Saipan, MP 96950, Attn. Chief Anthony G. Adriano; telephone number 011&hyph;670&hyph;234&hyph;6921. Minnesota The Municipal Police Chief. The County Sheriff where there is no local police agency. Mississippi The Federal 5-day waiting period does not apply to transfers of handguns to persons holding a valid license to carry concealed pistol or revolver issued by the State within 5 years of the proposed purchase. In all other instances, the Chief of Police in incorporated areas and the County Sheriff in unincorporated areas. Montana The Chief of Police in incorporated areas and the County Sheriff in unincorporated areas. Nevada The Department of Motor Vehicles and Public Safety, Nevada Highway Patrol, Records and Identification Services, 555 Wright Way, Carson City, Nevada 89711; telephone number 1&hyph;800&hyph;474&hyph;7865. The local telephone number 702&hyph;687&hyph;6200. New Hampshire The Chief of Police or the County Sheriff in areas not covered by a Chief of Police. New Mexico The Chief of Police in incorporated areas and the County Sheriff in unincorporated areas. North Carolina The County Sheriff. North Dakota The Federal 5-day waiting period does not apply to transfers of handguns to persons holding a valid permit to carry concealed handgun issued by the State within 5 years of the proposed purchase. In all other instances, the County Sheriff. Ohio The Attorney General, whose designated representative is the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation. Oklahoma The Chief of Police in incorporated cities and towns. The County Sheriff in incorporated cities and towns having no police authority of their own. The County Sheriff in unincorporated areas. Pennsylvania The Federal 5-day waiting period does not apply to transfers of handguns to persons holding a valid permit/ license to carry a handgun issued by the State within 5 years of the proposed purchase. In all other instances, the County Sheriff. The Commissioner of the Philadelphia Police Department in Philadelphia County. Puerto Rico The Police Superintendent, c/o Jose Marrero, Firearms Bureau Chief, GPO Box 70166, San Juan, Puerto Rico 00936.
