FR941017-1-00012 FR941017-1-00001 _Target exceedance probability is set by examining the design bases of more recently licensed nuclear power plants, _Conduct probabilistic seismic hazard analysis and determine ground motion level corresponding to the target exceedance probability, _Determine if information from geoscience investigations change probabilistic results, _Determine site-specific spectral shape and scale this shape to the ground motion level determined above, _NRC staff review using all available data including insights and information from previous licensing experience, and _Update the data base and reassess probabilistic methods at least every ten years. Thus, the proposed approach requires thorough regional and site-specific geoscience investigations. The proposed approach reflects some of the comments of the U.S. utility industry. The U.S. Geological Survey provided a series of comments and recommendations that led to and can be met by the above integrated approach. Results of the regional and site-specific investigations must be considered in application of the probabilistic method. The current probabilistic methods, the NRC sponsored study conducted by Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) or the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) seismic hazard study, are essentially regional studies without detailed information on any specific location. The regional and site-specific investigations provide detailed information to update the database of the hazard methodology to make the probabilistic analysis site-specific. It is also necessary to incorporate local site geological factors such as stratigraphy and topography and to account for site-specific geotechnical properties in establishing the design basis ground motion. In order to incorporate local site factors and advances in ground motion attenuation models, ground motion estimates are determined using the procedures outlined in the Draft Standard Review Plan Section 2.5.2, Second Proposed Revision 3, ``Vibratory Ground Motion.'' Methods acceptable to the NRC staff for implementing the proposed regulation are described in Draft Regulatory Guide DG&hyph;1032, ``Identification and Characterization of Seismic Sources and Determination of Safe Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motions.'' The NRC staff's review approach to evaluate an application is described in Draft SRP Section 2.5.2. This review takes into account the information base developed in licensing more than 100 plants. This staff review is consistent with the intent of a USGS recommendation. Although the basic premise in establishing the target exceedance probability is that the current design levels are adequate, a staff review further assures that there is consistency with previous licensing decisions and that the scientific basis for decisions are clearly understood. This review approach will also assist in assessing the fairly complex regional probabilistic modeling which incorporates multiple hypotheses and a multitude of parameters. Furthermore, this process should provide a clear basis for the staff's decisions and facilitate communication with nonexperts. 4. Safe Shutdown Earthquake
