FR940112-2-00143 FR940112-2-00100 Program Implementation Projects Project Objective The purpose of Program Implementation projects is to support the implementation of comprehensive, state-wide industrial extension programs and/or pilot testing of new program and service concepts, such as pilot outreach centers and other extension activities, to help small and medium-sized manufacturers improve productivity and competitiveness. For projects that support the implementation of a comprehensive state-wide industrial extension system, activities must build upon existing services and be consistent with comprehensive state plans, if such plans exist. Extension programs should provide access to a range of services, including but not limited to: technical extension, training, management assistance, and quality improvement. Pilot testing of new services and activities will be permitted on a limited scale where there is an intent to replicate these services on a larger scale or to move toward full-scale implementation. Accordingly, pilot testing must include evaluation, analysis and documentation, and may include some planning activities as necessary. NIST plans to give priority consideration to projects having the best potential to benefit areas with relatively sparse distribution of industry, or low density industry areas that do not lend themselves to large extension centers as a method of service delivery. Program Implementation Projects Evaluation Criteria Proposals from applicants will be evaluated and rated on the basis of the following criteria by an impartial competitive review panel. Each proposal should address all six selection criteria and selection criteria 1&hyph;4 will be weighted more heavily than criteria 5&hyph;6. Selection will be based upon total evaluation score as well as geographic distribution. 1. Target population (20 points): Potential applicants will be required to identify a population of beneficiary companies (the target population) and their technology-related assistance needs in the proposed service area. Factors that will be considered include: (a) A clear definition of the target population, its size and demographic characteristics. (b) Demonstrated understanding of the target population's assistance needs, e.g., technology, training, information, quality improvement, management, etc. (c) Appropriateness of the size of the target population and the anticipated impact for the proposed expenditure. 2. Delivery mechanisms (20 points): Applicants will need to specify the mechanism for delivery of services to the population of beneficiary companies (the target population). Factors that will be considered include: (a) Appropriateness and effectiveness of proposed delivery mechanism for meeting the identified needs of the target population. (b) Demonstration of capacity to form effective linkages and partnerships with other appropriate service providers. (c) Technical quality of the proposed approach, including knowledge and use of best industrial modernization practices. 3. Coordination with existing resources (20 points): Applicants will need to describe how they will coordinate with existing or newly formed state or local technology/industrial assistance services, and federal services, to allow for increased economies of scale and to avoid duplication of services in providing assistance to small and medium-sized manufacturers. For a comprehensive, state-wide industrial extension program, the applicant must show the degree to which activities integrate with and enhance existing or newly formed state, local, and appropriate federal technology assistance and industrial modernization activities to present a unified program of assistance. Factors that will be considered include: (a) Demonstrated understanding of existing organizations and resources relevant for providing technology assistance related services to the target population. (b) Adequate linkages and partnerships with existing organizations and clear definition of those organizations' roles in the proposed activities. (c) Proposed activity does not duplicate existing services or resources. (d) Consistency with comprehensive state plans if such plans exist. 4. Program evaluation (20 points): The applicant should specify plans for evaluation of the effectiveness of the proposed program and for ensuring continuous improvement of program activities. Factors that will be considered include: (a) Thoroughness of evaluation plans, including internal evaluation for management control, external evaluation for assessing outcomes of the activity, and ``customer satisfaction'' measures of performance. (b) In the case of pilot projects, the proposer's plan must include documentation, analysis of the results, and must show how the results can be used in program development. 5. Financial plan (10 points): Applicants should show the relevance and cost effectiveness of the financial plan for meeting the objectives of the project; the firmness and level of the applicant's total financial support for the project; and a plan to maintain the program after the cooperative agreement has expired. Factors that will be considered include: (a) Reasonableness of the budget, both in income and expenses. (b) Strength of commitment of the proposer's cost share. (c) Effectiveness of management plans for control of budget.
