FR941019-0-00034 FR941019-0-00004 (iii) Certification of no prior exclusion from Federal procurement or non-procurement programs. (6) Notice of Readiness for Sale. At the end of the marketing period, the RTC will send a Notice of Readiness for Sale only to qualifying multifamily purchasers that submitted, during the marketing period, a written expression of serious interest in an eligible multifamily property. This Notice will outline the minimum terms and conditions for sale of the property. (7) Bona fide offer. Within forty-five days, or such longer time period as RTC may determine, after receipt of a Notice of Readiness for Sale, a qualifying multifamily purchaser may submit a bona fide offer to purchase the property. The Notice of Readiness for Sale will be deemed received 5 days after it is mailed. The bona fide offer, as specified in the bid package, should include: (i) A sales contract constituting a binding offer for a sum certain accompanied by a reasonable earnest money deposit specified by the RTC; (ii) A conditional commitment for financing from a lender, a request for seller financing, or other evidence, acceptable to the RTC, of financial resources to consummate the transaction; (iii) A written commitment to meet specific lower-income occupancy objectives and the process for complying with these objectives; (iv) A written description of experience in housing ownership or management, preferably of low- and moderate-income housing; (v) Reaffirmation or revision of the information submitted with the expression of serious interest; (vi) A governing body resolution, where applicable, authorizing the purchase and affirming the commitment to meet the lower-income occupancy requirements. (8) Failed offers. (i) If, before the expiration of the period for submission of bona fide offers, an offer to purchase a property initially accepted by the RTC is subsequently rejected or fails (for any reason), the RTC shall accept another offer to purchase the property that complies with the terms and conditions established by the RTC (if another offer was made during the period for submission of bona fide offers). This provision does not require a qualifying multifamily purchaser whose offer is accepted during the bona fide offer period to purchase the property before the expiration of that period. (ii) If, after the expiration of the period for the submission of bona fide offers, the offer to purchase a property initially accepted by the RTC is subsequently rejected or fails (for any reason), the RTC, in its sole discretion, may negotiate with any of the parties who submitted bona fide offers on the property during the bona fide offer period to secure an offer acceptable to the RTC. (9) Preference for sales that benefit lower income groups. (i) In choosing among bona fide offers for eligible multifamily property, the RTC will give preference to the offer that would reserve the highest percentage of dwelling units for occupancy by very low-income families and lower-income families and would retain such affordability for the longest term (not exceeding the term of the deed restrictions). For purposes of making calculations pursuant to this paragraph (b)(9) alone, as described in the following examples, ``lower-income families'' shall mean families and individuals whose incomes are greater than 50 percent of area median income but do not exceed 80 percent of area median income, as defined under 42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(2) and as determined by the Secretary of HUD, with adjustment for family size. The preference will be calculated in accordance with the following formula: Add to the cash equivalent offer_ 0.25% of the cash equivalent offer amount for each 1% of the ``very low-income'' units that exceed the minimum 20% very low-income units requirement, and 0.125% of the cash equivalent offer amount for each 1% of the ``lower income'' units that exceed the minimum 15% lower-income units requirement. Example: Multifamily purchaser A offers to purchase an eligible multifamily property for $1,000,000 and agrees to reserve 20% of the units for occupancy by very low-income families and 30% for lower-income families. Multifamily purchaser B offers to purchase the same eligible multifamily property for $900,000 and intends to reserve 50% of the units for occupancy by very low-income families and 50% for occupancy by lower-income families. Multifamily purchaser C offers to purchase the eligible multifamily property for $1,015,000 and agrees to reserve 20% of the units for occupancy by very low-income families and 15% for occupancy by lower-income families. Under the preference formula described above, the property should be sold to purchaser A for $1,000,000.
