FR940606-0-00050 FR940606-0-00019 (d) Real property acquisition requirements. The acquisition of real property for a project is subject to the URA and the requirements described in 49 CFR part 24, subpart B. (e) Application of residential antidisplacement and relocation assistance plan requirements. If CDBG or HOME funds are used to pay any part of the cost of the rehabilitation activities, as defined in 24 CFR 570.202(b), the project is subject to the regulations at 24 CFR part 43. (f) Appeals. A person who disagrees with the local processing agency's determination concerning whether the person qualifies as a ``displaced person,'' or the amount of relocation assistance for which the person is found to be eligible, may file a written appeal of that determination with the local processing agency. A person who is dissatisfied with the local processing agency's determination on his or her appeal may submit a written request for review of that determination to the HUD Field Office. (g) Responsibility of local processing agency. (1) The local processing agency shall certify that it will comply (i.e., provide assurance of compliance as required by 49 CFR part 24) with the URA, the regulations at 49 CFR part 24, and the requirements of this section, and shall ensure such compliance notwithstanding the property owner's contractual obligation to the local processing agency to comply with these provisions. (2) The cost of required relocation assistance is an eligible project cost in the same manner and to the same extent as other project costs. However, such costs may also be paid for with funds available from other sources. (3) The local processing agency must maintain records in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance with these provisions. The local processing agency is required to maintain data on the race, ethnic, gender and disability status of displaced persons. (h) Definition of displaced person. (1) For purposes of this section, the term displaced person means a person (household, business, nonprofit organization, or farm) that moves from real property, or moves personal property from real property, permanently, as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for a project assisted under this part. The term ``displaced person'' includes, but may not be limited to: (i) A person that moves permanently from the real property after receiving a notice from the local processing agency or property owner that requires such move, if the move occurs on or after the date that the property owner (or persons in control of the site) submits the application to the local processing agency for a loan that is later approved; (ii) Any person, including a person who moves before submission of the application for a loan to the local processing agency, if the local processing agency or HUD determines that the displacement resulted directly from acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the project; or (iii) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling unit who moves from the building/complex, permanently, after execution of the loan agreement, if the move occurs before the tenant is provided written notice offering him or her the opportunity to lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the same building/complex, under reasonable terms and conditions, upon completion of the project. Such reasonable terms and conditions include a monthly rent and estimated average monthly utility costs that do not exceed the greater of: (A) The tenant's monthly rent before execution of the agreement and estimated average monthly utility costs; or (B) 30 percent of gross household income; or (iv) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who is required to relocate temporarily, but does not return to the building/complex, if either: (A) The tenant is not offered payment for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporarily occupied unit, any increased housing costs and incidental expenses; or (B) Other conditions of the temporary relocation are not reasonable; or
