FR940810-0-00034 FR940810-0-00017 The EPA's transportation conformity rule 1 and EPA's general conformity rule 2 also reference the section 182(f) exemption process as a means for exempting affected areas from NO X conformity requirements, and the conformity requirements apply on an areawide basis. Since this petition for exemption is areawide, as opposed to source-specific, an approval would also exempt this area from the NO X conformity requirements of the Act (see John Seitz May 27, 1994 ``Section 182(f) Nitrogen Oxides (NO X ) Exemptions_Revised Process and Criteria'' memorandum). Additionally, the Inspection/Maintenance (I/M) Program Final Rule (57 FR 52950) allows for the omission of the basic I/M NO X requirements if a 182(f) exemption is granted to an area. Michigan does not currently have_or need_an enhanced I/M program. However, if the State did adopt such a program (because further emissions reductions necessary to address other portions of the Act could be obtained through an enhanced program), it would have to be designed to offset NO X increases resulting from the vehicle repairs due to hydrocarbon (HC) and carbon moNO X ide (CO) failures. 1 ``Criteria and Procedures for Determining Conformity to State or Federal Implementation Plans of Transportation Plans, Programs, and Projects Funded or Approved under Title 23 U.S.C. of the Federal Transit Act'' November 24, 1993 (58 FR 62188). 2 ``Determining Conformity of General Federal Actions to State or Federal Implementation Plans; Final Rule'' November 30, 1993 (58 FR 63214). If, subsequent to the NO X waiver being granted, EPA determines that the area has violated the standard, the section 182(f) exemption, as of the date of the determination, would no longer apply. EPA would notify the State that the exemption no longer applies, and would also provide notice to the public in the Federal Register . If an exemption is revoked, the State must comply with any applicable NO X requirements set forth in the Act, such as those for NO X RACT, NSR, I/M, and conformity. The air quantity data relied on for the above determinations must be consistent with 40 CFR part 58 requirements and other relevant EPA guidance and recorded in EPA's Aerometric Information Retrieval System. The Federal Register notice revoking the NO X exemption would also establish the schedule for adoption and implementation of those NO X requirements the area was previously exempt from. On November 12, 1993 the State submitted a redesignation request. Section 175(A) requires submittal of a maintenance plan for areas that are redesignating to attainment. This maintenance plan must contain contingency measures which shall be implemented if a violation of the ozone standard occurs. Consequentially, the State's redesignation request is approved, the NO X requirements found in the maintenance plan for that area would thereafter apply as long as the area is designated attainment for the ozone standard. Because EPA considers this action noncontroversial and routine, we are approving it without prior proposal. This action will become effective on September 9, 1994. However, if we receive a notice of intent to comment by August 25, 1994, EPA will publish: (1) A document that withdraws today's action, and (2) address the comments received in the final rule on the requested SIP revision which has been proposed for approval in the proposed rules section of this Federal Register . The public comment will not be extended or reopened. Miscellaneous A. Applicability to Future SIP Decisions. Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting, allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any SIP. The EPA shall consider each request for revision to the SIP in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. B. Executive Order 12866. This action has been classified as a Table 2 action by the Regional Administrator under the procedures published in the Federal Register on January 19, 1989 (54 FR 2214&hyph;2225), as revised by an October 4, 1993 memorandum from Michael Shapiro, Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation. The OMB has exempted this regulatory action from E.O. 12866 review. C. Regulatory Flexibility Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq ., EPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities (5 U.S.C. 603 and 604). Alternatively, EPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000.
