FR941003-2-00175 FR941003-2-00061 7. Section 17(a)(1) generally prohibits an affiliated person of a registered investment company from selling any security to such registered investment company. Each Fund may be an affiliated person of each other Fund under section 2(a)(3) of the Act. Applicants assert that section 17(a)(1) was designed to prevent sponsors of investment companies from using investment company assets as capital for enterprises with which they were associated or to acquire controlling interests in such enterprises. Applicants submit that the sale of securities issued by the Funds pursuant to the Agreement does not implicate the concerns of Congress in enacting this section, but merely would facilitate the matching of each Fund's liability for deferred fees with the Underlying Securities that would determine the amount of such liability. Section 17(b) authorizes the SEC to exempt a proposed transaction from section 17(a) if evidence establishes that the terms of the transaction, including the consideration to be paid or received, are reasonable and fair and do not involve overreaching on the part of any person concerned, the transaction is consistent with the policies of the registered investment company, and the transaction is consistent with the general purposes of the Act. Applicants assert that the proposed transaction satisfies the criteria of section 17(b). 8. Section 17(d) and rule 17d&hyph;1 generally prevent a registered investment company's joint or joint and several participation with an affiliated person in a transaction in connection with any joint enterprise or other joint arrangement or profit-sharing plan on a basis different from or less advantageous than that of the affiliated person. Applicants assert that any adjustments made to the Deferred Fee Accounts to reflect the income, gain, or loss on investments of the assets of a Fund would be identical in amount to income, gain, and loss by other shareholders in the Fund. An Eligible Trustee would neither directly or indirectly receive a benefit that otherwise would inure to the Funds or their shareholders. Deferral of an Eligible Trustee's fees in accordance with the Agreement essentially would maintain the parties, viewed both separately and in their relationship to one another, in the same position as if the fees were paid on a current basis. When all payments have been made to an Eligible Trustee, such Eligible Trustee will be, relative to the Funds, no better off than if such Eligible Trustee had received deferred fees on a current basis and invested them in shares of the Underlying Securities. Applicants' Conditions Applicants agree that any order granting the requested relief will be subject to the following conditions: 1. With respect to the requested relief from rule 2a&hyph;7, any money market Fund that values its assets by the amortized cost method or penny-rounding method will buy and hold Underlying Securities that determine the performance of Deferred Fee Accounts to achieve an exact match between such Fund's liability to pay deferred fees and the assets that offset that liability. 2. If a Fund purchases Underlying Securities issued by an affiliated Fund, the purchasing Fund will vote such shares in proportion to the votes of all other holders of shares of such affiliated Fund. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24311 Filed 9&hyph;30&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
