FR940217-1-00049 FR940217-1-00012 Subpart 1846.3_Contract Clauses 1846.308&hyph;70 Cost reimbursement research and development contracts. (a) With the prior approval of the Procurement Officer, the contracting officer shall insert the clause at 1852.246&hyph;XX, Inspection of High Risk Research and Development_Cost Reimbursement, in lieu of the clause at (FAR) 48 CFR 52.246&hyph;8, in solicitations and contracts for research and development when (1) the primary objective of the contract is the delivery of end items other than designs, drawings, or reports, (2) a cost-reimbursement contract is contemplated, and (3) the estimated value of the contract is $50 million or more. (b) In connection with this clause, an advance agreement should be included in the contract which, to the maximum extent practicable, identifies those particular tasks and activities which are categorized as routine operations, as that term is defined in the clause at 1852.246&hyph;XX, and those tasks and activities which embody the contract's research and development objectives. Routine operations include activities such as moving or packaging pieces of equipment, manufacturing standard parts, or conducting standardized tests. Research and development activities encompass tasks, methods, or technical approaches for which success in meeting the contract objectives cannot be reasonably assured. PART 1852_SOLICITATION PROVISIONS AND CLAUSES 3. Section 1852.246&hyph;XX is added to read as follows: 1852.246&hyph;XX Inspection of High Risk Research and Development_Cost Reimbursement. As prescribed in 1846.308&hyph;70, insert the following clause: Inspection of High Risk Research and Development_Cost Reimbursement (xxx 1994) (a) Definitions. Contractor's managerial personnel, as used in this clause, means the Contractor's directors, officers, managers, superintendents, or equivalent representatives who have supervision or direction of_ (1) All or substantially all of the Contractor's business; (2) All or substantially all of the Contractor's operation at any one plant or separate location at which the contract is being performed; or (3) A separate and complete major industrial operation connected with performing this contract. Routine operation means a task or activity which is performed in accordance with customary or regular procedures and for which successful performance is reasonably assured. Routine operations may involve the performance of a service function or the fabrication of an item. Work, as used in this clause, includes data when the contract does not include the Warranty of Data clause. (b) The Contractor shall provide and maintain an inspection system acceptable to the Government covering the work under this contract. Complete records of all inspection work performed by the Contractor shall be maintained and made available to the Government during contract performance and for as long afterwards as the contract requires. (c) The Government has the right to inspect and test all work called for by the contract, to the extent practicable at all places and times, including the period of performance, and in any event before acceptance. The Government may also inspect the plant or plants of the Contractor or its subcontractors engaged in the contract performance. The Government shall perform inspections and tests in a manner that will not unduly delay the work.
