FR940617-1-00061 FR940617-1-00012 The effectiveness of a povidone-iodine formulation on micro-organisms in a clinical setting was demonstrated by Michael (Ref. 4). The study included 100 subjects with decubitus ulcers following a spinal cord injury. Cultures of the wounds were taken prior to, during, and upon completion of a once-a-day povidone-iodine treatment. Prior to treatment, subjects had positive cultures for the following organisms: S. aureus (60 subjects), Klebsiella/Enterobacter species (20 subjects), E. coli (15 subjects), and Pseudomonas species (15 species). Following an 8-to-10 week period of treatment with povidone-iodine, cultures revealed that 90 of the 110 subjects no longer had positive cultures for these organisms. Pereira, Lee, and Wade (Ref. 5) conducted an in vivo gloved hand test that is supportive of the effectiveness of povidone-iodine as a surgical hand scrub. They examined the effects of surgical scrub duration and type of antiseptic on the reduction of resident microbial flora. Thirty-four subjects scrubbed with a 7.5 percent povidone-iodine formulation or another antiseptic formulation using either a 5 minute initial/3 minute consecutive scrub procedure or a 3 minute initial/30 second scrub procedure. Subjects were assigned to one of four groups, and each group was assigned to one of the four treatments. Sampling was done by the glove juice method using a sampling solution containing a neutralizer. Glove juice samples were taken from both hands immediately before scrubbing (baseline), from the nondominant hand immediately after the initial scrub, 2 hours after the initial surgical scrub but before the consecutive scrub (dominant hand), and 2 hours after one consecutive surgical scrub (dominant hand). No significant difference was found between the two durations of scrubbing with povidone-iodine. Povidone-iodine produced an immediate 1.2 log 10 reduction on the dominant hand after an initial 5 minute scrub and a 1.0 log 10 reduction on the dominant hand immediately after the 3 minute initial scrub. Baseline was not exceeded 2 hours after either the 5 or 3 minute scrub. Aly and Maibach (Ref. 6) evaluated the characteristics of two antimicrobial impregnated surgical hand scrub sponge/brush drug products. The study, which included a widely used povidone-iodine impregnated surgical hand scrub sponge/brush, evaluated both the immediate and persistent effect on the resident bacterial flora of the hands plus the effect of blood on the persistent antimicrobial activity of the surgical hand scrub drug products. In the first phase of the study, 13 subjects with left and right hand baseline counts of >10 6 organisms were randomly assigned to perform a total of 11 scrubs with the povidone-iodine impregnated sponge/brush. Glove juice samples were taken from the right hand of each subject immediately following the first scrub of the day and from the left hand at either 3 or 6 hours. The entire procedure was repeated on test days 2 and 5. A similar procedure was used in phase two of the study, except that 2 mL of bacteriologically sterile blood was spread over the hands of 6 subjects following the initial scrub, and sampling occurred only at 3 and 6 hours. Neutralizers were incorporated into the stripping solution, diluent, and culture media. On day 1, povidone-iodine produced an immediate mean log 10 reduction of 1.2, and baseline was not exceeded at 3 hours. On days 2 and 5, povidone-iodine produced immediate mean log 10 reductions of 2.2 and 2.8, respectively, and bacterial counts did not exceed baseline at 6 hours. While counts for povidone-iodine approached baseline in the presence of blood, counts did not exceed baseline at 6 hours on any day. Another study (Ref. 1&hyph;C104), employing a method similar to the effectiveness testing procedures described in proposed ยง333.470(b)(2) of this amended tentative final monograph, demonstrated the effectiveness of povidone-iodine 5 percent as a health-care personnel handwash. Twenty-five consecutive handwashings were done in 10 human subjects with a 5 minute rest between washings. Before each washing the hands were dipped in broth culture containing 2.0 x 10 9 organisms ( Bacillus subtilis var. niger ATCC 9372) per mL; the contaminant was spread up over the wrists to the forearms. Bacterial counts were done at the completion of every fifth washing by the glove juice sampling method. Both the dilution fluid and growth media incorporated a neutralizer. The transient microbial flora of the hands was reduced by an average of 5.8 logs from baseline. Dineen (Ref. 7) used a 7.5 percent povidone-iodine formulation as a reference antiseptic in an open crossover evaluation of a health-care personnel handwash drug product. Participation in the study followed a 1-week prewash period in which study subjects used only a bland nonantiseptic soap. On day 1 of the study, samples were taken prior to contamination and again after a second contamination followed by a 15-second wash with a bland nonantiseptic soap, using the glove juice sampling method. Following the post-wash sampling, subjects washed for 5 minutes with povidone-iodine to remove any remaining inoculum. The hands of the first three subjects were contaminated with a 1 mL inoculum containing 1 X 10 14 S. marcescens, E. coli, P. aeruginosa, and Providentia stuartii ( P. stuartii ). The hands of the seven other subjects were contaminated with a 1 mL inoculum containing 8 X 10 14 to 2 X 10 15 S. marcescens and P. stuartii . Inocula concentrations were determined each test day in a parallel experiment. On days 3 or 4 and 5, the procedure was repeated except that subjects were randomly assigned to wash with either (1) the reference antiseptic or the test preparation or (2) were crossed over to the preparation not used the previous day. In the interim between test days, subjects followed the wash and sampling procedure using only the nonantiseptic soap. The number of organisms included in the 1 mL inoculum was taken as the baseline, and all reductions were calculated on this basis. Neutralizers were incorporated in both the diluent and the culture medium. When corrected for the average log reduction produced by the nonantiseptic soap (4-log 10 ), the reductions produced by povidone-iodine ranged from 7 to 9 log 10 .
