FR940228-2-00107 FR940228-2-00063 g. Information for the purpose of validating legal requirements for garnishment of wages. Authority for maintenance of system: Title 37 U.S.C. as implemented in GAO Manual for Guidance of Federal Agencies, Title 2 GAO, Title 6 GAO and Title 14 U.S.C. 92(i). Routine use of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: a. To the Department of Treasury for the purpose of disbursement of salary, U.S. Savings Bonds, allotments, or travel claim payments. b. To government agencies to disclose earnings and tax information. c. To the Department of Defense and Veterans Administration for determinations of benefit eligibility for military members and their dependents. d. To contractors to manage payment and collection of benefit claims. e. To the Department of Defense for manpower and readiness planning. f. To the Comptroller General for the purpose of processing waivers and remissions. g. To contractors for the purpose of system enhancement, maintenance, and operations. h. To federal, state, and local agencies for determination of eligibility for benefits connected with the Federal Housing Administration programs. i. To provide an official of another federal agency information needed in the performance of official duties to reconcile or reconstruct data files in support of functions for which the records were collected and maintained. j. To an individual's spouse, or person responsible for the care of the individual concerned when the individual to whom the record pertains is mentally incompetent, critically ill or under other legal disability for the purpose of assuring the individual is receiving benefits or compensation they are entitled to receive. k. To a requesting government agency, organization, or individual the home address and other relevant information on those individuals who, it is reasonably believed, might have contracted an illness, been exposed to, or suffered from a health hazard while a member of government service. l. To businesses for the purpose of electronic fund transfers or allotted pay transactions authorized by the individual concerned. m. To credit agencies and financial institutions for the purpose of processing credit arrangements authorized by the individual concerned. n. To other government agencies for the purpose of earnings garnishment. o. To prepare the Officer Register and Reserve Officer Register which is provided to all Coast Guard officers and the Department of Defense. p. To other federal agencies and collection agencies for the collection of indebtedness and outstanding travel advances to the federal government. q. The home mailing addresses and telephone numbers of members and their dependent/s to duly appointed Family Ombudsman and personnel within the Coast Guard for the purpose of providing entitlement information to members or their dependents. See Prefatory Statement of General Routine Uses, 3 and 5 do not apply. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: The storage is on computer disks, magnetic tape microfilm, and paper forms in file folders. Retrievability: Retrieval from the system is by name or social security number and can be accessed by employees in pay and personnel offices and other pay and personnel employees located elsewhere who have a need for the record in the performance of their duties.
