FR940606-2-00088 FR940606-2-00059 [Release No. 34&hyph;34132; File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;93&hyph;55] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change and Amendment Nos. 1 and 2 to the Proposed Rule Change by the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. Relating to the Listing and Trading Options on the Israeli Index May 31, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder, 2 notice is hereby given that on December 8, 1993, the Chicago Board Options Exchange (``CBOE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Exchange filed Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change on April 29, 1994, and Amendment No. 2 on May 12, 1994. 3 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 17 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4 (1991). 3 Amendment No. 2, which supersedes Amendment No. 1, proposes to: (1) reduce the number of components of the proposed Israeli Index (``Index'') from 20 to 15; (2) require that the Index be maintained such that at least 85% of the Index, by weight, and at least 80% of the number of components of the Index be eligible for standardized options trading pursuant to CBOE Rule 5.3; (3) classify the Index as a narrow-based index for purposes of CBOE's rules; (4) provide position and exercise limits of 7,500 contracts on the same side of the market for Index options pursuant to CBOE Rule 24.4A; and (5) provide that the Exchange shall submit a proposed rule change pursuant to Section 19 of the Act and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder prior to increasing the number of components of the Index to greater than 20 or fewer than 10. See Letter from Eileen Smith, Director, Product Development, Research Department, CBOE, to Brad Ritter, Attorney, Office of Derivatives and Exchange Oversight, Division of Market Regulation, Commission, dated May 12, 1994 (``Amendment No. 2''). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change As provided in Exchange Rule 24.2, ``Designation of the Index,'' 4 the CBOE proposes to list for trading options on the Israeli Index (``Index''). The text of the proposed rule change is available at the Office of the Secretary, CBOE, and at the Commission. 4 Exchange Rule 24.2 provides, in part, that the Commission must approve a particular index upon which options are traded. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the Exchange included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The CBOE has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of the proposed rule change is to permit the Exchange to list and trade cash-settled, European-style 5 index options on the Israeli Index (``Index''). The Index will initially consist of fourteen stocks issued by Israeli companies, and one American Depositary Receipt (``ADR'') 6 overlying an Israeli company. 7 According to the Exchange, no proxy for the performance of the Israeli economy is currently available in the U.S. derivative markets. Therefore, the Exchange believes, options on the Index will provide investors with a low-cost means of participating in the performance of the Israeli economy or to hedge against the risk of investing in that economy. 5 European-style options can only be exercised during a specified period before the options expire. 6 An American Depositary Receipt is a negotiable receipt which is issued by a depositary, generally a bank, representing shares of a foreign issuer that have been deposited and are held, on behalf of holders of the ADRs, at a custodian bank in the foreign issuer's home country. 7 The component securities of the Index are: Biotechnology General Corp.; Comverse Technology Inc.; Fourth Dimension Software Ltd.; ECI Telecom Ltd.; Elbit Ltd.; Elron Electronic Industries Ltd.; Geotek Industries Inc.; IIS Intelligent Information Systems Ltd.; Lannet Data Communications Ltd.; Orbotech Ltd.; Scitex Corp. Ltd.; Sapiens International Corp.; Tadiran Ltd.; Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (ADR); and Teledata Communication Ltd. Index Design One of the components of the Index currently trades on the New York Stock Exchange and fourteen (including one ADR representing 11.37% of the weight of the Index as of March 31, 1994) currently are National Market securities traded through the facilities of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System (``NASDAQ''). The 14 non&hyph;ADR components of the Index are listed for trading only in the United States, and for the ADR component, more than 50% of the combined world-wide trading volume for the ADR and the underlying security occurs in the U.S. through NASDAQ. 8 Accordingly, the Exchange believes that options on the Index should not raise the types of surveillance concerns that may be raised by options on an index of non-U.S. traded stocks. 8 See Amendment No. 2, supra note 3.
