FR940906-2-00119 FR940906-2-00083 (4) Disseminate timely, consistent, and accurate information to the public and the news media; and (5) Establish coordinated arrangements for dealing with citizen inquiries. a. Role of the Lead Federal Agency (LFA) . The LFA is responsible for information on the status of the overall Federal response, specific LFA response activities, and the status of onsite conditions. The LFA will: (1) Develop joint information procedures for providing Federal information to and for obtaining information from all Federal agencies participating in the response; (2) Work with the owner/operator and State and local government information officers to develop timely coordinated public information releases; (3) Inform the media that the JIC is the primary source of onscene public information and news from facility, local, State, and Federal spokespersons; (4) Establish and manage Federal public information operations at the JIC; and (5) Coordinate Federal public information among the various media centers. b. Role of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). FEMA will assist the LFA in coordinating non-technical information among Federal agencies and with the State. When mutually agreeable, FEMA may assume responsibility from the LFA for coordinating Federal public information. Should this occur, it will usually be after the onsite situation has been stabilized and recovery efforts have begun. c. Role of Other Participating Agencies. All Federal agencies with an operational response role under the FRERP will coordinate public information activities at the JIC. Each Federal agency will provide information on the status of its response and on technical information. 7. Congressional and White House Coordination a. Congressional Coordination. Federal agencies will coordinate their responses to Congressional requests for information with the LFA. Points of contact for this function are the Congressional Liaison Officers. All Federal agency Congressional Liaison Officers and Congressional staffs seeking site-specific information about the emergency should contact the LFA headquarters Congressional Affairs Office. Congress may request information directly from any Federal agency. Any agency responding to such requests should inform the LFA as soon as feasible. b. White House Coordination. The LFA will report to the President and keep the White House informed on all aspects of the emergency. The White House may request information directly from any Federal agency. Any agency responding to such requests should inform the LFA as soon as feasible. The LFA will submit reports to the White House. The initial report should cover, if possible, the nature of and prognosis for the radiological situation causing the emergency and the actual or potential offsite radiological impact. Subsequent reports by the LFA should cover the status of mitigation, corrective actions, protective measures, and overall Federal response to the emergency. Federal agencies should provide information related to the technical and radiological aspects of the response directly to the LFA. FEMA will compile information related to the non-technical resource support aspects of the response and submit to the LFA for inclusion in the report(s). 8. International Coordination In the event of an environmental impact or potential impact upon the United States, its possessions, Territories, or territorial waters from a radiological emergency originating on foreign soil or, conversely, a domestic incident with an actual or potential foreign impact, the LFA will immediately inform DOS (which has responsibility for official interactions with foreign governments). The LFA will keep DOS informed of all Federal response activities. The DOS will coordinate notification and information gathering activities with foreign governments, except in cases where existing bilateral agreements permit direct communication. Where the LFA has existing bilateral agreements that permit direct exchange of information, those agencies should keep DOS informed of consultations with their foreign counterparts. Agency officials should take care that consultations do not exceed the scope of the relevant agreement(s). The LFA will ensure that any offers of assistance to or requests from foreign governments are coordinated with DOS.
