FR940627-1-00016 FR940627-1-00009 D. The Inadequacy of Existing Regulatory Mechanisms The only known population of Delissea undulata occurs on State land. The species is not presently listed as an endangered species by the State of Hawaii. Therefore no State regulatory protection is in effect for this species. State laws relating to the conservation of biological resources allow for the acquisition of land as well as the development and implementation of programs concerning the conservation of biological resources (HRS, sect. 195D&hyph;5(a)). Hawaii's Endangered Species Act states, ``Any species of aquatic life, wildlife, or land plant that has been determined to be an endangered species pursuant to the [Federal] Endangered Species Act shall be deemed to be an endangered species under the provisions of this chapter␣.␣.␣.'' (HRS, sect. 195D&hyph;4(a)). Federal listing would automatically invoke listing under Hawaii State law, which prohibits taking of endangered plants in the State and encourages conservation by State agencies (HRS, sect. 195D&hyph;4). The State also may enter into agreements with Federal agencies to administer and manage any area required for the conservation, management, enhancement, or protection of endangered species (HRS, sect. 195D&hyph;5(c)). If listing were to occur, funds for these activities could be made available under section 6 of the Federal Act (State Cooperative Agreements). Conservation district lands (HRS, sect. 205&hyph;4) are regarded, among other purposes, as necessary for the protection of endemic biological resources and the maintenance or enhancement of the conservation of natural resources. Requests for amendments to district boundaries or variances within existing classifications can be made by government agencies and private landowners (HRS, sect. 205&hyph;4). The Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources is mandated to initiate changes in conservation district boundaries to include ``the habitat of rare native species of flora and fauna within the conservation district'' (HRS, sect. 195D&hyph;5.1). Hawaii environmental policy, and thus approval of land use, is required by law to safeguard ``.␣.␣.␣the State's unique natural environmental characteristics .␣.␣.'' (HRS, sect. 344&hyph;3(1)) and includes guidelines to ``protect endangered species of individual plants and animals␣.␣.␣.'' (HRS, sect. 344&hyph;4(3)(A)). Federal listing, because it automatically invokes State listing, would also trigger these other State regulations protecting D. undulata. Federal listing as endangered would offer additional protection to this species since it would be a violation of the Act for any person to remove, cut, dig up, damage, or destroy any such plant in an area not under Federal jurisdiction in knowing violation of State law or regulation or in the course of any violation of a State criminal trespass law. E. Other Natural Or Manmade Factors Affecting Its Continued Existence The fact that there is only one remaining individual of Delissea undulata increases the potential for extinction from stochastic events. The limited gene pool may depress reproductive vigor, or a single human-caused or natural environmental disturbance could destroy the only known extant individual. This constitutes a major threat to D. undulata. Natural changes to habitat and substrate can result in the death of individual plants as well as the destruction of their habitat. This especially affects the continued existence of taxa or populations with limited numbers and/or narrow ranges and is often exacerbated by human disturbance and land use practices (See Factor A). Additional collapse of the lava tube where the only known individual of D. undulata occurs is a potential threat to this species (J. Giffin, in litt., 1993).
