FR940323-2-00173 FR940323-2-00124 An approved application is an application listed in the first column of table I. Moreover, the student must send the application to the address of the organization whose application is being used. Thus, the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FASFA) printed and distributed by the Department must be sent to the FAFSA processor in Iowa City, forms printed and distributed by the College Scholarship Service (CSS) must be sent to CSS, forms printed and distributed by the American College Testing Program (ACT) must be sent to ACT, and forms distributed by the Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Agency (PHEAA) must be sent to PHEAA. If a student submits an electronic application under EDE, that application must be received by the Department's central processor prior to midnight (Central Daylight Savings Time) on May 2, 1994. (For purposes of this notice, this deadline means that a student has all of May 2, 1994, to apply.) For the balance of this notice, the first application submitted by or on behalf of a student shall be called an ``original application.'' Applications of Students Receiving ``Dependency Overrides'' Under section 480(d)(7) of the HEA, a financial aid administrator (FAA) may determine that a student qualifies as an ``independent student'' as a result of unusual circumstances even though the student does not qualify as an independent student under the other criteria in section 480(d). This determination, using what is known as ``professional judgment,'' results in a ``dependency override.'' If an FAA makes a dependency override with regard to a student, the student must submit an original Correction Application to the Federal Student Aid Programs after that application has been specially coded for the dependency override and signed by the FAA. If the student attends an institution that participates in EDE, the institution may electronically transmit an original application or a Correction Application, coded for the dependency override, to the central processor. If a student has not submitted an original application, the deadline date for the submission of a Correction Application for a dependency override is May 2, 1994. If the student has submitted an original application, the deadline date for the submission of a Correction Application is August 1, 1994. (For purposes of this notice, this deadline means that a student has all of August 1, 1994, to apply.) Applications submitted electronically must be received by the central processor prior to midnight Central Daylight Savings Time on the applicable deadline date. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under OMB Control Number Application: 1840&hyph;0110) II. Other Documents_Table I Once a student has filed his or her original application, additional transactions may occur as a result of that application. In some cases, the agency receiving the original application may request additional information. In other cases, the student is responsible for initiating a request to the agency to consider additional or alternative information. Table I of this notice lists the addresses to which additional forms and information, known as transactions, must be sent and the deadline dates for the receipt of those transactions. The following explains each type of transaction: A. Correction Application In addition to being used when a student receives a ``dependency override,'' the Secretary provides a Correction Application to a student if the student's original application lacks sufficient information to be processed or contains inaccurate information. The student must include on the Correction Application all the information necessary to process that application. If a student has misreported his or her dependency status, or if that status has changed after the student submitted an original application for reasons other than a change in marital status, the student must submit a Correction Application with the correct dependency status. A Correction Application may be obtained (1) from an FAA or an Educational Opportunity Center counselor, (2) by writing to the addresses listed in table I, (3) by writing to Federal Student Aid Information Center, P.O. Box 84, Washington, DC, 20044, or (4) by calling (800) 4 FED AID. The Correction Application must be returned to one of the addressees listed in table I and received at that address no later than August 1, 1994, unless the Correction Application is submitted as an original application, in which case it must be received by May 2, 1994. A Correction Application submitted electronically under EDE through the electronic application process must be received by the central processor prior to midnight (Central Daylight Savings Time) on August 1, 1994, unless the Correction Application is submitted as an original application, in which case the correction application must be received prior to midnight (Central Daylight Savings Time) on May 2, 1994. B. SAR and ISIR •Correction or Verification of Information Requested by the Secretary_If the Secretary returns an SAR to a student for correction or notifies an institution through an ISIR that a student needs to correct application information, the student must correct that information on the SAR. The student must return the SAR to the appropriate address listed in table I, and that corrected SAR must be received at the appropriate address no later than August 1, 1994. If the student attends an institution that participates in EDE, the corrected SAR may be transmitted electronically to the central processor. That SAR must be received by the central processor prior to midnight (Central Daylight Savings Time) on August 1, 1994.
