FR940406-0-00179 FR940406-0-00012 B. Revised Emissions Standards The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (CAAA) impose more stringent exhaust emissions standards on light trucks. Standards are also becoming tighter in California. Under the CAAA, new standards for light trucks with GVWRs up to 6,000 pounds have begun phasing-in. The phase-in provides for compliance by 40 percent for MY 1994, 80 percent for MY 1995, and 100 percent for MY 1996 and afterwards. For light trucks over 6,000 pounds GVWR, more stringent standards begin to take effect in MY 1996. Fifty percent of these vehicles must comply with the new standards in MY 1996; all light trucks over 6,000 pounds GVWR must meet the new standards for MY 1997 and later. Current standards for exhaust emissions will tighten substantially under the CAAA. Over the ``full useful life'' of a vehicle, emissions standards will be 0.80 grams/mile for total hydrocarbons, and will range (depending on vehicle and test weight) from 0.31 to 0.56 grams/mile for non-methane hydrocarbons, from 4.2 to 7.3 grams/mile for carbon monoxide, from 0.6 to 1.53 grams/mile for oxides of nitrogen, and from 0.10 to 0.12 grams/mile for particulate matter. The CAAA also require EPA to establish standards for carbon monoxide emissions at 20 degrees Fahrenheit, which came into effect in the current model year. Further, for all gasoline-fueled motor vehicles, the CAAA require EPA to promulgate regulations covering evaporative emissions (1) during operation (``running losses'') and (2) over two or more days of non-use. In their questionnaire responses, none of the auto companies provided substantial detail on the possible impacts of these standards on MY 1996&hyph;97 light truck fuel economy capabilities. GM stated, ``The total impact of the Clean Air Act Tier I and the California emissions standards on truck fuel economy is unknown at this time. *␣*␣* Although not quantified, preliminary indications are that there will be some lost opportunities to improve fuel economy when redesigning our powertrains to comply with these standards.'' Ford stated that, ``[M]ost troublesome is the effect of compliance with the amended Clean Air Act. We project that compliance has reduced the average truck fuel economy by 0.3 mpg after inclusion of technology which has an offsetting effect *␣*␣* and it negates other technology benefits.'' NHTSA indicated in the NPRM and PRIA that it believes the net impact on CAFE capabilities due to changes in emissions requirements is likely to be minimal. Some of the new requirements will lead to fuel savings, while others may lead to fuel economy losses. Benefits will be obtained from enhanced evaporative controls and the ``low temperature'' carbon monoxide standards because manufacturers will sharpen their fuel-control systems, using techniques such as sequential port fuel injection. Slight fuel economy losses may result from tighter hydrocarbon and nitrous oxides emissions standards, particularly for larger engines. In their comments on the NPRM, the manufacturers did not provide data indicating that new emissions requirements would have a significant effect on MYs 1996&hyph;97 CAFE capabilities. GM stated the following: The impact of tighter Federal emissions standards enacted by the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments is not expected to have a direct fuel economy impact related to engine efficiency. However, there will be weight increases on some engines if dual catalytic converters are required. *␣*␣* California TLEV emissions standards will most likely impact fuel economy. However, these impacts *␣*␣* have not yet been reflected in GM's CAFE forecasts. *␣*␣* Tighter evaporative emission standards requiring larger canisters and adding purge controls will add weight to the vehicle and impact fuel economy. In its comment, Ford stated: Ford believes that NHTSA's list of other Federal standards that might have an impact on light truck fuel economy during MYs 1995&hyph;97 is insufficient. A more comprehensive list would include Potential Revisions to the Federal Test Procedure (FTP) such as higher speeds and accelerations and electric dynamometer true road load calibration, IM240 Short Test Requirements, Onboard Diagnostics, Cold CO Testing, Enhanced Evaporative Testing Requirements, Section 177 States, [and] Fuels or Fuel Additives such as reformulated gasoline and MMT. At this point, Ford has not allocated resources to collectively assess the fuel economy implications, of required emission control system calibration strategies and hardware, that may be associated with the above requirements. However, it is reasonable to believe that several of these potential requirements will have a significant impact on light truck fuel economy. NHTSA believes that the actual and potential Federal standards identified by Ford will not have any significant impact on MYs 1996&hyph;97 light truck fuel economy capabilities. The agency's specific analysis of the impacts of each of these standards is presented in the Regulatory Evaluation. A summary of the agency's analysis follows:
