FR941110-0-00135 FR941110-0-00016 B. Set forth guidelines for appropriately assessing monetary penalties and other intermediate remedies (in lieu of or in addition to termination) allowed under Federal requirements; C. Identify guidelines for approving and monitoring plans of correction; D. Define the role of the complaint investigation process in the comprehensive enforcement system; E. Encourage and promote use of intermediate sanctions, as appropriate, rather than termination, to achieve the purposes of the comprehensive enforcement system; F. Identify mechanisms to better inform the public as to actions taken by the State against facilities that are not in compliance with Federal Requirements of Participation; G. Identify the factors to be considered in determining which remedies may or must be imposed, assuring that more substantial remedies are imposed for more serious deficiencies. Finally, two of these commenters suggested that HCFA specify that one of the bases for the imposition of remedies be interfering with the work of a survey team, monitor, and/or temporary manager. Response: We agree that it would be more accurate to say that survey findings are reported with recommendations for remedies, and we are making that change in this final rule. We do not, however, believe that either the IoM study or OBRA '87 calls for an inflexible cookbook approach to enforcement. As noted in the comment, the IoM study speaks of establishing ``guidelines,'' and we believe that this term connotes that there be a range of options available to the Secretary and the States (including the option not to impose any remedies). In sections 4203 and 4213 of OBRA '87, the intent to provide a flexible range of options is clearer still. Those sections amended sections 1819(h) and 1919(h) of the Act at several places to reflect this intent. For example, the Act now provides: •``* ␣9* ␣9* the Secretary may impose any of the remedies described in subparagraph (B).'' (1819(h)(2)(A)(ii)); •``Nothing in this subparagraph shall be construed as restricting the remedies available to the Secretary * ␣9* ␣9*'' (1819(h)(2)(A)); •``The Secretary may take the following actions***'' (1819(h)(2)(B)); and •``The Secretary may impose a civil money penalty in an amount not to exceed $10,000 * ␣9* ␣9*.'' (1819(h)(2)(B)(ii)). Further evidence of the need to retain flexibility in the choice of remedies is found in the House of Representatives Committee on the Budget report (H.R. Rep. No. 391, 100th Cong., 1st Sess. 472 (1987)) that accompanied OBRA '87. It states that, ``the Committee amendment would specify a broad range of sanctions for use by both the Secretary and the States.'' The committee report goes on to say that, ``The Committee emphasizes that the remedies specified under the amendment are not exclusive, and should not be construed to limit the use of other remedies that may be available to either the States or the Secretary under State or Federal law.'' It is clear that flexibility was the statutory intent. Therefore, in order to ensure this intended flexibility, we have set forth minimum remedies for deficiencies according to their seriousness and offered several additional optional ones. We agree, for the most part, with the thrust of the final settlement in Valdivia, and are making revisions to the relationship between deficiencies and remedies which reflect aspects of the final settlement of that case. However, these revised policies are not appropriate for paragraph (b), which is intended only to succinctly set forth the basis for the imposition of remedies, and not the outline for the entire enforcement process. Rather, we have specified the linkage between deficiencies and remedies imposed at §488.408, Selection of remedies. We do not believe that proposed §488.202(b)(1) excludes the possibility of imposing remedies based on ``HCFA's paper review of survey agency findings.'' Since HCFA's ``paper review'' is itself based on survey findings, it is clear that remedies may be imposed as a result. Finally, in response to the commenters who suggested that HCFA specify that one of the bases for the imposition of remedies be interfering with the work of a survey team, monitor, and/or temporary manager, there is authority at section 1128(b)(12) of the Act to exclude a facility based on its failure to grant access to the Secretary or to the State survey agency, and we believe this includes not only a survey team, but a monitor. Our regulations at §488.415 set forth what happens if a facility does not relinquish control to a temporary manager. Based on the above discussion, we are revising §488.402(b)(1) to state that in every instance of noncompliance, one or more remedies are imposed based on deficiencies found during surveys conducted by HCFA or by the survey agency. We are deleting paragraph (b)(2) because we believe that manual issuances are the most appropriate places for procedural information of this sort.
