FR940317-1-00010 FR940317-1-00004 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;216&hyph;AD] Airworthiness Directives; McDonnell Douglas Model MD&hyph;11 Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes the supersedure of an existing airworthiness directive (AD), applicable to certain McDonnell Douglas Model MD&hyph;11 series airplanes, that currently requires inspections to verify the installation of shear pins, shear pin retainers, and shear pin retainer attaching parts in the aft end of the center pylon thrust link, and repair, if necessary. That AD also provides an optional terminating action, which, if accomplished, would terminate the repetitive inspections. That AD was prompted by a report that both shear pins that attach the aft end of the center engine pylon thrust link to the tail pylon were missing. This action would add inspections to verify that the shear pin retainer attaching parts are tightened within specified limits; and a terminating modification for those inspections. This action would also remove the optional terminating action, and expand the applicability of the rule to include additional airplanes. The actions specified by the proposed AD are intended to prevent structural damage to the engine mount structure, which could lead to loss of airplane components. DATES: Comments must be received by May 10, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;216&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Comments may be inspected at this location between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The service information referenced in the proposed rule may be obtained from McDonnell Douglas Corporation, P.O. Box 1771, Long Beach, CA 90801&hyph;1771, Attention: Business Unit Manager, Technical Administrative Support, Dept. L51, M.C. 2&hyph;98. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office (ACO), 3229 East Spring Street, Long Beach, California. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Wahib Mina, Aerospace Engineer, Airframe Branch, ANM&hyph;121L, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office (ACO), 3229 East Spring Street, Long Beach, California 90806&hyph;2425; telephone (310) 988&hyph;5324; fax (310) 988&hyph;5210. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 93&hyph;NM&hyph;216&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;216&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Discussion On October 14, 1992, the FAA issued AD 92&hyph;23&hyph;03, Amendment 39&hyph;8403 (57 FR 47991, October 21, 1992), applicable to certain McDonnell Douglas Model MD&hyph;11 series airplanes, to require repetitive visual inspections to verify the installation of shear pins, shear pin retainers, and shear pin retainer attaching parts at the aft end of the center engine (No. 2) pylon thrust link; repair of any discrepancy found; and submission of a report of inspection findings to the FAA. That AD also provides an optional terminating action for the repetitive inspections. That AD was prompted by a report that both shear pins that attach the aft end of the center engine pylon thrust link to the tail pylon were missing. The requirements of that AD are intended to prevent structural damage to the engine mount structure, which could lead to loss of airplane components. Since the issuance of AD 92&hyph;23&hyph;03, one operator has reported that, during the initial visual inspection conducted in accordance with that AD, all bolts and nuts were found installed; however, during a subsequent repetitive inspection, one nut and one bolt that attach the retainer were missing. If the retainers are missing, the shear pins may also be missing and the engine thrust loads will be improperly distributed to the airplane structure. This condition, if not corrected, could result in structural damage to the engine mount structure, which could lead to loss of airplane components. The FAA has reviewed and approved McDonnell Douglas MD&hyph;11 Alert Service Bulletin A54&hyph;31, Revision 1, dated June 3, 1993. This service bulletin revision adds procedures for performing repetitive inspections to verify that the shear pin retainer attaching parts are tightened within specific limits. This service bulletin revision also describes procedures for replacement of the existing retainer and attaching parts with a new retainer and attaching parts. Incorporation of this replacement eliminates the need for repetitive visual inspections and repetitive tightness verifications. The effectivity listing of this service bulletin revision includes 34 additional airplanes identified as being subject to the addressed unsafe condition. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other products of this same type design, the proposed AD would supersede AD 92&hyph;23&hyph;03 to continue to require repetitive visual inspections to verify the installation of the shear pins, the shear pin retainers, and the shear pin retainer attaching parts in the aft end of the center engine (No. 2) pylon thrust link. The proposed AD would add repetitive inspections to verify that the shear pin retainer attaching parts are tightened within specified limits. If any shear pin, shear pin retainer, or shear pin retainer attaching part is missing during any inspection, this proposal would continue to require repair in accordance with a method approved by the FAA. The ``optional terminating action'' provided by AD 92&hyph;23&hyph;03, which consists of a one-time verification for tightness of the nuts of the four shear pin retainer attaching bolts, would no longer be provided in the proposed rule. The proposed AD would also require eventual replacement of the existing retainer and attaching parts with a new retainer and attaching parts. When accomplished, this replacement would be considered terminating action for the currently required repetitive visual inspections and the proposed repetitive verifications of tightness. The actions would be required to be accomplished in accordance with the revised alert service bulletin described previously.
