FR940627-0-00093 FR940627-0-00016 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Research and Special Programs Administration 49 CFR Part 107 [Docket No. HM&hyph;208A, Amdt. No. 107&hyph;31] RIN 2137&hyph;AC50 Hazardous Materials Transportation; Registration and Fee Assessment Program AGENCY: Research and Special Programs Administration (RSPA), DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: In July 1992, RSPA published a final rule establishing a national registration and fee assessment program for persons offering for transportation or transporting certain categories and quantities of hazardous materials in intrastate, interstate, and foreign commerce. The fees collected under the registration program are to fund a grant program to enhance State, Indian tribal, and local hazardous materials emergency preparedness and response activities. This final rule adopts certain changes to the current registration program effective July 1, 1994, the beginning of the next registration year. The changes delay the requirement for foreign offerors to register and require a merchant vessel carrier to maintain the Certificate of Registration on board each vessel carrying hazardous materials subject to the registration requirements or to annotate its registration number on any document readily available to enforcement personnel. EFFECTIVE DATE: July 1, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Joseph S. Nalevanko, Office of Hazardous Materials Planning and Analysis, (202) 366&hyph;4484, or Beth Romo, Office of Hazardous Materials Standards, (202) 366&hyph;4488, RSPA, Department of Transportation, 400 Seventh Street S.W., Washington, DC 20590&hyph;0001. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 1. Background On July 9, 1992, RSPA published a final rule under Docket HM&hyph;208 (57 FR 30620), establishing a national registration program, as mandated by Congress in the 1990 amendments to the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (HMTA), 49 App. U.S.C. 1801 et seq. , for persons engaged in the offering for transportation or transportation of certain categories and quantities of hazardous materials in intrastate, interstate, and foreign commerce. Persons currently subject to the registration program are required to annually file a registration statement with RSPA and pay an annual fee of $250 to fund a nationwide emergency response training and planning grant program for States, local governments, and Indian tribes, and a $50 administrative fee to offset DOT processing costs. The fee of $250 is the minimum amount permitted to be collected for purposes of funding the emergency response preparedness and planning grant program. Under the authority of the HMTA, RSPA has developed and implemented a reimbursable emergency preparedness grant program. The regulations establishing this program were issued in a final rule entitled ``Public Sector Training and Planning Grants'' under Docket HM&hyph;209 on September 17, 1992 (57 FR 43062). The purpose of the grant program is to provide funds, technical assistance, and support to States, Indian tribes, and political subdivisions to develop, implement, and improve planning and training programs for emergency responders in the public sector. The funding for the grant program comes from the fees received from RSPA's registration program. Approximately 26,000 persons have registered with RSPA for the current registration year, substantially fewer in number than originally anticipated. RSPA is concerned that many persons who are required to register have not. Therefore, on April 1, 1994, RSPA proposed two compliance-related requirements in the NPRM to enhance nationwide compliance. RSPA proposed that each person who offers or transports a hazardous material for which registration is required may do so only if both the transporter and the offeror (if required) are registered. They would be required, on an annual basis, to obtain each other's registration number or a copy of each other's current Certificate of Registration. Secondly, RSPA decided to further enhance the enforcement of the registration program as it applies to foreign or domestic merchant vessel carriers. Accordingly, RSPA proposed to require that each merchant vessel carrier carry a copy of its current Certificate of Registration issued by RSPA or another document bearing the registration number identified as the ``U.S. DOT Hazmat Reg. No.'' on board each merchant vessel carrying a hazardous material subject to the registration requirements. As discussed in the NPRM, legislation is being considered which would grant DOT the discretionary authority to waive the registration or fee requirement for any person domiciled outside the United States, if that person's country does not impose registration or fee requirements on U.S. persons offering hazardous materials to that country (see, for example, HR 2178 which passed on November 21, 1993). Pending the outcome of these legislative initiatives, RSPA proposed to further extend the delay in application of the registration program to foreign offerors from July 1, 1994 until July 1, 1996. II. Summary of Comments Delay in Registering Foreign Offerors Commenters overwhelmingly supported RSPA's proposed two-year delay in requiring registration of foreign offerors. Many commenters recommended that RSPA not implement foreign offeror registration at all because of the possibility of reciprocal action taken against the United States. A Canadian chemical manufacturers' association noted that shipments to Canada are exempt from Canadian registration requirements and strongly recommended that Canadian offerors be afforded reciprocal treatment when shipping to the U.S. Therefore, RSPA is extending, as proposed, the exemption for foreign offerors from registration and fee requirements until July 1, 1996.
