FR940620-2-00120 FR940620-2-00063 •People with AIDS or HIV infection usually should get MMR vaccine. •Pregnant women should wait until after pregnancy for MMR vaccine. •People with a serious allergy to eggs or the drug neomycin should tell the doctor or nurse. If you are not sure, ask the doctor or nurse. Tell your doctor or nurse if the person getting the vaccine: •Ever had a serious allergic reaction or other problem after getting MMR. •Now has moderate or severe illness. •Has ever had a seizure. •Has a parent, brother, or sister who has had seizures. •Has gotten immune globulin or other blood products (such as a transfusion) during the past several months. If you are not sure, ask your doctor or nurse. What Are the Risks From MMR Vaccine? As with any medicine, there are very small risks that serious problems, even death, could occur after taking a vaccine. The risk from the vaccine are much smaller than the risks from the diseases if people stopped using vaccine. Almost all people who get MMR have no problems from it. ␣Mild or Moderate Problems _Soon after the vaccination, there may be soreness, redness, or swelling where the shot was given. _1&hyph;2 weeks after the first dose, there may be: •Rash (5&hyph;15 out of every 100 doses). •Fever of 103 ○ or higher (5&hyph;15 out of every 100 doses). This usually lasts 1&hyph;2 days. •Swelling of the glands in the cheeks, neck, or under the jaw. •A seizure (jerking and staring spell) usually caused by fever. This is rare. _1&hyph;3 weeks after the first dose, there may be: •Pain, stiffness, or swelling in one or more joints lasting up to 3 days (1 out of every 100 doses in children; up to 40 out of every 100 doses in young women). Rarely, pain or stiffness lasts a month or longer, or may come and go. Acetaminophen or ibuprofen (non-aspirin) may be used to reduce fever and soreness. Severe Problems These problems happen very rarely: _Serious allergic reaction _Low number of platelets (a type of blood cell) that can lead to bleeding problems. This is almost always temporary. _Long seizures, decreased consciousness, or coma Problems following MMR are much less common after the second dose. What to do if there is a serious reaction: •Call a doctor or get the person to a doctor right away. •Write down what happened and the date and time it happened. •Ask your doctor, nurse, or health department to file a Vaccine Adverse Event Report form or call: (800) 822&hyph;7967 (toll-free). The National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program gives compensation (payment) for some persons thought to be injured by vaccines. For details call: (800) 338&hyph;2382 (toll-free). If you want to learn more, ask your doctor or nurse. She/he can give you the vaccine package insert or suggest other sources of information: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, MMR 6/10/94, 42 U.S.C. §300aa&hyph;26.
