FR940727-2-00018 FR940727-2-00015 [OPP&hyph;180946; FRL 4901&hyph;8] Receipt of Application for Emergency Exemption to Use Imidacloprid; Solicitation of Public Comment AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: EPA has received a specific exemption request from the Arizona Department of Agriculture (hereafter referred to as the ``Applicant'') to use the pesticide imidacloprid (CAS 105827&hyph;78&hyph;9) to treat up to 55,000 acres of head and leaf lettuce, 8,500 acres of broccoli, 6,100 acres of cauliflower, and 3,500 acres of cabbage to control the sweet potato, or silverleaf whitefly ( Bemesia tabaci = argentifolii ). The Applicant proposes the first food use of an active ingredient; therefore, in accordance with 40 CFR 166.24, EPA is soliciting public comment before making the decision whether or not to grant the exemption. DATES: Comments must be received on or before August 11, 1994. ADDRESSES: Three copies of written comments, bearing the identification notation ``OPP&hyph;180946,'' should be submitted by mail to: Public Response and Program Resource Branch Field Operations Division (7506C), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, D.C. 20460. In person, bring comments to: Rm. 1132, Crystal Mall #2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA. Information submitted in any comment concerning this notice may be claimed confidential by marking any part or all of that information as ``Confidential Business Information.'' Information so marked will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. A copy of the comment that does not contain Confidential Business Information must be provided by the submitter for inclusion in the public record. Information not marked confidential may be disclosed publicly by EPA without prior notice. All written comments filed pursuant to this notice will be available for public inspection in Rm. 1132, Crystal Mall No. 2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA, from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except legal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: By mail: Andrea Beard, Registration Division (7505W), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, D.C. 20460. Office location and telephone number: Floor 6, Crystal Station #1, 2800 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA, (703) 308&hyph;8791. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to section 18 of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) (7 U.S.C. 136p), the Administrator may, at her discretion, exempt a state agency from any registration provision of FIFRA if she determines that emergency conditions exist which require such exemption. The Applicant has requested the Administrator to issue a specific exemption for the use of imidacloprid on head and leaf lettuce, broccoli, cabbage, and cauliflower to control the sweet potato, or silverleaf whitefly (SLW). Information in accordance with 40 CFR part 166 was submitted as part of this request. The Applicant states that a new strain, or possibly a new species, of whitefly, often referred to as the strain B of sweet potato whitefly, or silverleaf whitefly (SLW), was initially found in Arizona in 1988. Since that time, it has steadily spread to new host plants and grown in population size each summer and fall. The SLW causes damage by feeding, and also through the production of honeydew, which encourages growth of sooty mold and other fungi. When SLWs become numerous as they did in many areas of the state in the past several years, their direct feeding lowers the yield. The SLW has also been implicated as a vector of virus. The Applicant claims that adequate control of the SLW is not being achieved with currently registered products and alternative cultural practices. Along with this request, the Applicant has also requested a specific exemption for use of a different chemical, bifenthrin, on the named crops, for control of the same pest. The Applicant justifies requests for two chemicals, by stating that the imidacloprid would be applied once at planting, as a soil treatment; since imidacloprid is a systemic, it would be taken up by the seedling as it germinates, and protect the emerging seedling. The Applicant states that bifenthrin can only be applied as a foliar spray, which is of little value during the early establishment phase of seedling development, as there is limited leaf area at that time. Thus the Applicant proposed that use of bifenthrin be allowed later in the crop season, as a foliar treatment. The Applicant indicates that imidacloprid would not be of use as both a soil treatment and a foliar spray, because its mode of action is such that resistance development is a concern. The Registrant of imidacloprid will not support the use of this chemical further into the growing season for this reason. The Applicant indicates that without adequate control of the SLW in the named crops, significant economic losses will be suffered. The Applicant proposes to apply imidacloprid at a maximum rate of 5 oz. (dry) active ingredient (20 fluid oz. of product) per acre with a maximum of one application per crop season on a total of 73,100 acres of the above-listed crops. For each of the crops named, it is possible to produce two crops per calendar year on a given acre, and therefore, the acreage could potentially receive two applications of imidacloprid per calendar year. However, the Applicant proposes to limit the maximum amount which could be applied per calendar year to 0.5 lb. a.i. (32 fl. oz. product) per acre. Therefore, use under this exemption could potentially amount to a maximum total of 36,550 lbs. of active ingredient, or 18,275 gal. of product. This is the second time that the Applicant has applied for the use of imidacloprid on the named crops. The Applicant received specific exemptions last year (1993) for imidacloprid on broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, and head and leaf lettuce, and for bifenthrin on broccoli, cauliflower, and head lettuce. In 1992, the Applicant was granted specific exemptions for the use of bifenthrin for SLW control in broccoli, cauliflower, and head lettuce. This notice does not constitute a decision by EPA on the application itself. The regulations governing section 18 require publication of a notice of receipt in the Federal Register and solicit public comment on an application for a specific exemption proposing the first food use of an active ingredient. Accordingly, interested persons may submit written views on this subject to the Field Operations Division at the address above. The Agency, accordingly, will review and consider all comments received during the comment period in determining whether to issue the emergency exemptions requested by the Arizona Department of Agriculture. List of Subjects Environmental protection, Pesticide and pests, Crisis exemptions. 1Dated: July 11, 1994. Lois A. Rossi, Acting Director, Registration Division, Office of Pesticide Programs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17915 Filed 7&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
