FR940819-2-00107 FR940819-2-00066 Duration Section VI of the proposed Final Judgment provides that the Final Judgment will expire on the seventy-eighth month after its entry. Jurisdiction will be retained by the Court to conduct further proceedings relating to the Final Judgment, as specified in Section VI. Remedies Available to Potential Private Litigants Section 4 of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. §15, provides that any person who has been injured as a result of conduct prohibited by the antitrust laws may bring suit in federal court to recover three times the damages suffered, as well as costs and reasonable attorney's fees. Entry of the proposed Final Judgment will neither impair nor assist the bringing of such actions. Under the provisions of Section 5(a) of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. §16(a), the Judgment has no prima facie effect in any subsequent lawsuit that may be brought against the defendant in this matter. Procedures Available for Modification of the Proposed Judgment As provided by the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, any person believing that the proposed Final Judgment should be modified may submit written comments to Richard L. Rosen, Chief, Communications and Finance Section, United States Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, 555 4th Street N.W., Room 8104, Washington, D.C. 20001, within the 60-day period provided by the Act. These comments, and the Department's responses, will be filed with the Court and published in the Federal Register . All comments will be given due consideration by the Department of Justice, which remains free to withdraw its consent to the proposed Final Judgment at any time prior to entry. If the Department does not withdraw its consent to the proposed Final Judgment, it will file with the Court a Certificate of Compliance after the requirements of the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act have been satisfied. The Court then must determine whether the proposed decree is in the public interest, pursuant to Section 5(e) of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. §16(e). 7 7 In making this public interest determination, ``[t]he balancing of competing social and political interests affected by a proposed antitrust consent decree must be left, in the first instance, to the discretion of the Attorney General. The court's role in protecting the public interest is one of insuring that the government has not breached its duty to the public in consenting to the decree. The court is required to determine not whether a particular decree is the one that will best serve society, but whether the settlement is `within the reaches of the public interest.''' United States v. Bechtel Corp., 648 F.2d 660, 666 (9th Cir.), cert. denied, 454 U.S. 1083 (1981) (citations and internal quotations omitted). Accord United States v. Western Electric Co., 993 F.2d 1572, 1576 (D.C. Cir. 1993); United States v. American Tel. and Tel. Co., 552 F. Supp. 131, 151 (D.D.C. 1982), aff'd sub nom. Maryland v. United States, 460 U.S. 1001 (1983). Alternatives to the Proposed Final Judgment In addition to the remedies provided in the proposed Final Judgment, the Department also considered whether to require limitations on the manner in which Microsoft could structure volume discount pricing arrangements for covered products. While the Department recognizes that volume discount pricing can be and normally is pro-competitive, volume discounts also can be structured by a seller with monopoly power (such as Microsoft) in such a way that buyers, who must purchase some substantial quantity from the monopolist, effectively are coerced by the structure of the discount schedule (as opposed to the level of the price) to buy all or substantially all of the supplies they need from the monopolist. Where such a result occurs, the Department believes that the volume discount structure would unlawfully foreclose competing suppliers from the marketplace_in this case, competing operating systems_and thus may be challenged. The Department ultimately concluded that it would not require provisions in the Final Judgment to attempt to proscribe in advance the various means by which Microsoft could attempt to structure volume discounts as a means to thwart competition rather than as a means of promoting competition. The Department reached this conclusion because it does not have evidence that Microsoft has, to date, in fact structured its volume discounts to achieve anticompetitive ends. The Department did, however, communicate to Microsoft its concern and stated its intent to initiate an investigation and antitrust enforcement proceeding, if warranted, should Microsoft adopt anticompetitive volume discount structures in its future license agreements. Given the procompetitive impact of the provisions of the proposed Final Judgment, the normally procompetitive nature of volume discount pricing, and the absence of any evidence that Microsoft has used volume discounting in an anticompetitive manner to date, the Department believes that this resolution is appropriate on the record at this time. Another alternative to the proposed Final Judgment would be a full trial of this case. The Department of Justice believes that such a trial would involve substantial cost to the United States and is not warranted since the proposed Final Judgment provides all of the relief that the United States seeks in its Complaint and includes substantial additional prophylactic measures as well. Determinative Materials and Documents No materials or documents of the type described in Section 2(b) of the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. §16(b), were considered in formulating the proposed Final Judgment. Dated: July 27, 1994. ␣␣Respectfully submitted, Anne K. Bingaman, Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division. Donald J. Russell, U.S. Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, Communications & Finance Section, Judiciary Center Building, 555 Fourth Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20001, (202) 514&hyph;5814.
