FR940204-2-00096 FR940204-2-00067 Three alternatives may be considered in preparation of the EIS. The first proposed alternative is the issuance of the proposed incidental take permit to include all planned development in the area. This alternative would include a regional HCP that, when implemented, would provide for the long-term management of desert tortoises and tortoise habitat found primarily on public lands. Implementation of this alternative would require an expenditure of funds and resources to manage large blocks of desert tortoise habitat on public lands. Certain public lands would be managed under the terms of a regional HCP for protection and recovery of desert tortoises; other multipurpose land-use activities would be coordinated around this primary purpose. Within the area, urban development would be allowed to proceed on private lands within the guidelines of the issued section 10(a)(1)(B) permit, HCP, and local ordinances. The second alternative under consideration would include the preparation of a multispecies Clark County HCP. Under this alternative, Clark County would prepare an HCP for all threatened, endangered, and candidate species in the county. This approach would cover a broader range of species than the Clark County Desert Tortoise HCP. It must be to section 10(a)(1)(B) standards. As required by NEPA, a ``no action'' alternative is being considered. Under this alternative, an incidental take permit would not be issued. A long-term regional HCP would not be completed or approved by the Service and take of desert tortoises would be prohibited after July 31, 1994, when the short-term HCP expires for covered portions of the Las Vegas Valley. Development would be restricted to those activities that would not result in take of desert tortoises. A separate incidental take permit would be required for each development project that would impact desert tortoises. Public Comments Solicited To insure that the full range of issues related to the proposed action are identified and addressed, comments and suggestions are invited from all interested parties. The Service will consider all comments received by March 7, 1994, in preparation of the EIS. Authority The authorities for this action are NEPA (42 U.S.C. 4371 et seq. ; 40 CFR part 1500&hyph;1508). Dated: January 28, 1994. Marvin L. Plenert, Regional Director, Region 1, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2527 Filed 2&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
