FR940525-2-00074 FR940525-2-00061 (C) The Loan will be repaid only out of amounts paid to the Plan by MBL, its successors, or any other responsible third parties; and (D) Repayment of the Loan is waived with respect to the amount by which the Loan exceeds GIC proceeds. Summary of Facts and Representations 1. The Employer, a New York corporation with its corporate headquarters in Danbury, Connecticut, is a wholly owned subsidiary of Novo Nordisk A/S, a Danish Corporation. The Plan is a profit sharing plan which includes a cash or deferred arrangement under section 401(k) of the Code, and which provides for Employer matching contributions and additional Employer discretionary profit sharing contributions. The Plan provides for participant direction with respect to employee contributions and Employer matching contributions to the Plan. The Plan participants have the option of investing in any of five investment funds: the GIC Fund, the First Union Managed Bond Portfolio, the First Union Balanced Portfolio, The Diversified Equity Fund, and the Novo American Depository Receipt Fund. Participants have the right to change their investments within and among the funds on a daily basis, except that participants may no longer transfer amounts into or out of the GIC Fund to the extent that their account balance in that Fund is attributable to the GIC issued by MBL. As of December 31, 1993, the Plan had approximately 225 participants and total assets of approximately $5,600,000. The Plan's trustee is First Union Bank of North Carolina. 2. The applicant represents that the GIC acquired from MBL was effective with respect to amounts deposited during 1987. The terms of the GIC provided for interest to be credited at the rate of 8.10% per annum until December 31, 1988, and thereafter at the rate of 7.55% per annum until the maturity date of December 31, 1991. 3. On July 16, 1991, MBL was placed into rehabilitation proceedings by the New Jersey Commissioner of Insurance. Consequently, MBL has suspended payments on its guaranteed investment contracts, including the GIC held by the Plan. This situation has prevented participants from exercising their rights under the Plan to request distributions, loans, and investment transfers with respect to amounts currently invested in the GIC. 1 As of December 31, 1991, the GIC had a total accumulated book value of $578,916.34. 2 The Employer seeks an exemption to permit the Employer to make the Loan to the Plan in the amount due the Plan under the GIC, plus interest through the date of the Loan. The Loan will be made pursuant to a written agreement between the Employer and the Plan (the Agreement) incorporating the terms of the extension of credit and its repayment. The Employer represents that it wishes to enter into the proposed transaction in order to protect the Plan participants from the effects of a prolonged rehabilitation process and from any potential loss resulting from MBL's inability to meet its obligations under the GIC. The Employer further represents that the Loan will enable the Plan to make timely payments under the GIC and, therefore, enable the Plan participants to exercise their rights under the Plan to request distributions, loans, and investment transfers with respect to amounts currently invested in the GIC. The Employer also represents that the Loan will be non-interest bearing and the Plan will not incur any expenses in connection with the proposed transaction. 1 The Department notes that the decisions to acquire and hold the GIC are governed by the fiduciary responsibility requirements of Part 4, Subtitle B, Title I of the Act. In this regard, the Department is not herein proposing relief for any violations of Part 4 which may have arisen as a result of the acquisition and holding of the GIC issued by MBL. 2 Total accumulated book value is defined as the amount deposited under the GIC, plus interest at the guaranteed interest rate. 4. The proposed Loan will be made in one lump-sum payment equal to the amounts deposited under the GIC, adjusted as follows: (1) Interest is calculated at the guaranteed interest rate under the terms of the GIC until December 31, 1991, the maturity date; and (2) the post-maturity interest rates will be calculated as follows:
