FR940304-1-00106 FR940304-1-00014 Pilot Light Design Options The Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association stated that ``reduced pilot light input rate'' should not be considered as a design option because pilot inputs have been reduced to the optimal point. (Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association, No. 40 at 4). The Department agrees with the Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association on this issue. Therefore, further reductions in pilot light input rate were not considered. Northern Indiana Public Service stated that the elimination of a pilot light has a very small savings. (Northern Indiana Public Service, No. 48 at 4). Washington Gas Light Company noted that not all of the heat from a pilot light is wasted. (Washington Gas Light Company, No. 37 at 9). The Department agrees that only a portion of the heat from a pilot light is wasted. In the analysis, DOE assumed 76 percent of the pilot light's energy went to maintaining water temperature. This is based on the theory that a pilot light would have the same efficiency as the recovery efficiency of the water heater. Therefore, only the 24 percent of the pilot light input available to be saved by an intermittent ignition device was included in the analysis. Design Options for Electric Storage Water Heaters The National Rural Electric Cooperative Association stated that off-peak water heaters save energy. (National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, No. 17 at 1). Vaughn said that off-peak electric water heaters can save energy use by controlling time period elements are allowed to heat water. (Vaughn, No. 75 at 2). The Department did include off-peak water heaters as a design option in the Engineering Analysis for electric water heaters. However, as stated above, the Department believes that the economics of this design option, in the absence of the nationwide availability of time-of-day rates, precludes using this design option in setting national standards. Crispaire provided unit energy consumption and annual performance factors for heat pump water heaters and electric resistance water heaters. Crispaire also stated that its studies showed consumer acceptance of heat pump water heaters. (Crispaire, No. 19 at 2). The Department included two existing models of heat pump water heaters in the analysis of electric water heaters. One was an E-Tech brand model manufactured by Crispaire. Energy consumption for this model was calculated from the energy factor derived from the DOE water heater test procedure in effect prior to October 17, 1990, 20 derated by 25 percent to account for estimated reductions due to the current test procedure relative to the previous test procedure. This derating value was based on estimated reductions of 15&hyph;20 percent from ETL Testing Laboratories, 21 27 percent from the Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association, 22 and 30 percent from Electric Power Research Institute 23 simulation models. The Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association estimate was based on the difference between data supplied in support of the rulemaking and the least efficient heat pump water heater listed in its directory. This is a minimum estimate of the difference. The Department requests test data on heat pump water heaters, in accordance with the existing test procedures, for consideration in the final rule. 20 Gas Applicance Manufacturers Association, Consumer's Directory of Certified Efficiency Ratings for Residential Heating and Water Heating Equipment, October 1990, pg 184. 21 John Sabelli, ETL Labs. Phone conversation on 1/29/91. 22 Consumers' Directory of Certified Efficiency Ratings for Residential Heating and Water Heating Equipment, GAMA, October 1990. 23 Carl Hiller, Electric Power Research Institute. Phone conversation, 7/23/91. The Natural Resources Defense Council advised that increased jacket insulation and heat traps be evaluated for heat pump water heaters. (Natural Resources Defense Council, No. 13 at 27). Heat pump water heaters were analyzed as a design option for electric storage water heaters. Increased jacket insulation and heat traps were also included as design options for this product class. The Ohio Sierra Club commented that in many parts of the U.S., a solar water heating system is considerably more cost-effective than an electric water heater. (Ohio Sierra Club, No. 11 at 2).
