FR940114-2-00009 FR940114-2-00004 The EIS will analyze the direct, indirect, and cumulative environmental effects of the alternatives. Past, present, and projected activities on National Forest Lands will be considered. The EIS will disclose the analysis of site-specific mitigation measures and their effectiveness. Public participation is an important part of the analysis, commencing with the initial scoping process (40 CFR 1501.7) which has already occurred in December of 1991. In addition, the public is encouraged to visit with Forest Service officials at any time during the analysis and prior to the decision. The Forest Service will be seeking information, comments, and assistance from Federal, State and local agencies and other individuals or organizations who may be interested in or affected by the proposed action. No public meetings are scheduled at this time. Comments from the public and other agencies will be used in preparation of the Draft EIS. The scoping process will be used to: 1. Identify potential issues. 2. Identify major issues to be analyzed in depth. 3. Eliminate minor issues or those which have been covered by a relevant previous environmental analysis, such as the Kootenai Forest Plan EIS. 4. Identify alternatives to the proposed action. 5. Identify potential environmental effects of the proposed action and alternatives (i.e., direct, indirect, and cumulative effects). 6. Determine potential cooperating agencies and task assignments. Preliminary scoping, including public and agency participation, was initiated in December, 1991, and has continued through this year. Until recently, an Environmental Assessment (EA) and Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI) were envisioned. However, it became apparent to the Interdisciplinary Team that there could be significant effects on the human environment in Roadless Areas X166 and 684. The principal environmental issues identified to date are related to: 1. Impacts on the character of the area of Roadless Area 684 and X166. 2. Impacts on fish habitat and other beneficial uses due to potential sediment increase. 3. Impacts on big game security and habitat. 4. Fuels accumulations in terms of potential catastrophic wildfire situations. Other issues commonly associated with timber harvesting and road construction include: effects on water quality, cultural resources, soils, old growth, and visuals. This list may be verified, expanded, or modified based on public scoping for this proposal. Consultation with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has been initiated with regard to listed species. The Montana Department of Health and Welfare-Division of Environmental Quality, Montana Department of Fish and Game, and the Kootenai Salish Indian Tribe will also be consulted. While public participation in this analysis is welcome at any time, comments received within 45 days of the publication of this notice will be especially useful in the preparation of the draft EIS, which is expected to be filed with the EPA and available for public review in March, 1994. A 45-day comment period will follow publication of a Notice of Availability of the draft EIS in the Federal Register . The comments received will be analyzed and considered in preparation of a final EIS, which will be accompanied by a Record of Decision. The final EIS is expected to be filed in June, 1994. The Forest Service believes it is important at this early stage to give reviewers notice of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft EISs must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC, 435 U.S. 519, 513 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the draft EIS stage but that are not raised until after completion of the final EIS may be waived or dismissed by the courts City of Angoon v. Hodel, 803 F.2d 1016, 1022 (9th Cir, 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages Inc. v. Harris, 490 F.Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis., 1980). Because of these court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the 45-day comment period so that substantive comments and objections are available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in the final EIS. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues and concerns on the proposed action, comments should be as specific as possible. Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points. I am the responsible official for this environmental impact statement. Dated: January 5, 1994. Robert L. Schrenk, Forest Supervisor, Kootenai National Forest. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;915 Filed 1&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
