FR940505-1-00206 FR940505-1-00012 Proposed Certification and In-Use Standards for Post-1998 Model Year LDVs and LDTs 1Vehicle class 1Category 1Composite a NMHC. (g/mi) 1NO X (g/mi) 2Half life 2Full life LDVs and LDTs (0&hyph;3750 lbs LVW) Enhanced In-use 0.20 0.20 0.30 ␣ Transitional 0.29 0.40 0.60 LDTs (3751&hyph;5750 lbs LVW) Enhanced In-use 0.26 0.40 0.50 ␣ Transitional 0.33 0.70 0.90 a Exhaust NMHC emissions plus evaporative hydrocarbon emissions; evaporative emissions include running loss, diurnal, hot soak emissions expressed on a gram/mile basis. For NMHC, EPA is proposing a composite (exhaust plus evaporative) NMHC standard, as opposed to separate standards for exhaust NMHC emissions and the many types of evaporative-related NMHC emissions. This composite standard will allow greater flexibility, as well as reduced costs, while ensuring that the necessary in-use performance is attained. In order to determine compliance with a composite NMHC standard, it was necessary to develop a method for combining exhaust emissions and the three different components of evaporative emissions (i.e., diurnal and hot soak emissions (measured on a gram/test basis) and running loss emissions (measured on a gram/mile basis)). Resting loss emissions are another form of evaporative emissions. However, there is no current standard or separate test for resting losses because they are measured during the various parts of the evaporative emissions test procedure, particularly during the diurnal emission test, and are accounted for in those results. In support of its efforts to model in-use emissions (e.g., MOBILE5a), EPA has developed a methodology for combining exhaust and evaporative emissions into a composite emission factor. It essentially consists of converting those components not measured on a gram per mile basis to grams per mile and then summing the individual components. The key conversion factors are the number of trips per day (for hot soaks) and the number of miles driven per day (for hot soaks and diurnals). Estimates of these factors over the useful life of LDVs and LDTs were taken from MOBILE5a. Their use in converting individual NMHC emission levels into a single composite level or standard is shown in the equation below. 109 109 ``Average Trips/Day and Miles/Day in MOBILE5 for Light Duty Autos,'' EPA memorandum from Lois Platte to the Record, January 4, 1994. E:GRAPHICSEP05my94.002 EPA has not included refueling emissions in this equation given the uncertainty with respect to the use of onboard vehicle controls in California. EPA requests comments on their exclusion and on the option of including refueling emissions in the composite standard should California vehicles be subject to the onboard refueling requirement. Refueling emissions would be relatively simple to include, as refueling emissions in terms of grams per gallon could simply be divided by fuel economy to obtain NMHC emissions per mile. The fuel economy used could either be measured over the FTP when exhaust NMHC and NO X were measured (an urban only fuel economy) or taken from the certified urban/rural composite fuel economy value for that engine family. Including refueling emissions in this manner would give some credit for high efficiency vehicles, but would still represent additional testing and resultant cost. Given the high level of refueling emissions control expected with onboard controls, EPA believes that including refueling emissions in the composite standard would not justify the cost of the additional testing. EPA believes that the composite NMHC standards contained in Table AI.A&hyph;1 are feasible, particularly given the flexibility afforded in trading off exhaust and evaporative emissions. For example, a vehicle meeting the current CARB LEV standards for exhaust NMOG emissions and CARB's evaporative emission standards applicable to all LDVs and LDTs would comply with the proposed enhanced in-use standards. The CARB LDV/LDT standards are 0.05 gram/mile for running losses and a total of 2.0 grams/test for diurnal and hot soak emissions combined. A vehicle meeting the running loss standard would contribute 0.05 g/mi or less to the equation presented above. The contribution of a vehicle meeting the 2.0 grams/test emission standard would depend on the breakdown between diurnal and hot soak emissions. The newly revised CARB and EPA evaporative emissions test procedures contain a one hour hot soak test and a multi-day diurnal test. This requires very stringent control of resting loss emissions, which occur during both tests. As the 2 gram standard requires the almost total elimination of NMHC emissions through the evaporative emission control canister, EPA expects that the bulk of in-use emissions will be resting losses. Given that hot soak emissions only include a single hour of resting losses, albeit at somewhat elevated temperatures, EPA expects that hot soak emissions will be very low relative to diurnal emissions and that the bulk of the 2 grams will be diurnal emissions. Specifically, assuming that vehicles meeting the 2.0 grams/test evaporative emission in-use emitted 1.9 grams/test diurnal and 0.1 gram/test hot soak, the overall contribution in the above equation would be 0.082 g/mi. With running losses of 0.05 g/mi, this represents a total non-exhaust NMHC emission of 0.132 g/mi.
