FR940725-1-00003 FR940725-1-00001 The workshops were held during the month of February 1994, in Rockville, MD (February 9, 1994), Rosemont, IL (February 15, 1994), and Chicopee, MA (February 17, 1994). Discussants represented seven States, the National Association of Utility Regulatory Commissioners, three public advocacy groups, the Nuclear Utility Management and Resources Council (now known as the Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI)) and the NRC. Representatives of several other States, public advocacy groups, and industry actively participated from the floor. A transcript of each workshop was taken. Subsequent to the workshops, written comments were filed by eight States, three public advocacy groups, the Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI) and two utilities. In addition, subsequent to the workshops and receipt of most of the written comments, the NRC staff met with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Council on Environmental Quality to discuss the staff's proposed options and the comments and options offered by the States. EPA submitted written comments on May 11, 1994. In their written submittal, NEI and Yankee Atomic Electric Company (YAEC) each presented an approach to the handling of need and alternatives in the rule that they believe would resolve the concerns expressed by the States. These proposals had not been adequately developed for discussion at the time of the regional workshops. Because the NRC staff needed to better understand these proposals before reporting to the Commission on a recommended approach, a public meeting with NEI and YAEC was held on May 16, 1994. The meeting was announced in the Federal Register (May 4, 1994; 59 FR 23030). Participants in the regional workshops were notified of the meeting in advance and later furnished with the meeting transcript. After considering the range of options, the NRC staff has narrowed its consideration to two basic approaches to the treatment of ``purpose and need'' and ``alternatives'' that will best satisfy the concerns of the States and meet the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA). One approach has been proposed by the State of New York and was endorsed by several other States. The other approach, recommended in this document, was developed by the NRC staff after consideration of the meeting transcripts and written comments. Borrowing from some of the elements of the YAEC and NEI proposals, the NRC staff has developed its own approach which it believes would contribute substantially to resolving the concerns raised by the States. Both approaches are discussed below. The State Approach The approach proposed by the State of New York is a modification of the Option 2 as discussed in the NRC staff options paper. There are three major elements to the State option. Quoting from the written submittal of the State of New York: i. the text of the actual rule should be modified to include, and each individual relicensing decision should include, statements that the NRC's findings with respect to need for generating capacity and alternative energy sources are only intended to assist the NRC in meeting its NEPA obligations and do not preclude the States from making their own determinations with respect to these issues; ii. determinations regarding the issues of need for generating capacity and alternative energy sources should be designated ``Category 3'' conclusions requiring site-specific review, rather than ``Category 1'' generic conclusions; and iii. all NRC project specific EIS and relicensing decisions should make reference to State determinations on the issues of need for generating capacity and alternative energy sources, and should defer to and be guided by those State determinations to the maximum degree possible pursuant to NEPA. The purpose and need for the proposed Federal action (renewal of an operating license) continues to be defined in terms of the need for power. This approach would address some of the State concerns because the NRC would no longer perform the alternatives and need for power analyses unless State analyses of these issues were inadequate or non-existent. The NRC staff does not recommend this option, however, for several reasons. First of all, the NRC would have to develop guidelines for determining the acceptability of State analyses. Some States may view the application of these guidelines as an intrusion on their planning process. In addition, some States may not be prepared to submit the required information to the NRC in a timely fashion given the differing time-tables used by States in their energy planning process. Finally, some States may not be capable of submitting the required information to the NRC.
