FR941205-2-00161 FR941205-2-00074 Changes: None. Comments: One commenter recommended that the order in which the priorities are listed in this notice be changed to give preference for funding to one of the priorities that is not listed as number one. Discussion: The order in which the priorities appear in the notice is not related to importance or any preference. Changes: None. Rehabilitation Training Priority_National Clearinghouse of Rehabilitation Training Materials Comments: Four of the commenters suggested specific criteria that a National Clearinghouse should address during the grant competition: linkages with other clearinghouses, the provision of materials in alternative formats, adequate facilities for storage and dissemination, and a project director experienced in both rehabilitation and information systems. Discussion: The current selection criteria already include the concerns raised by the commenters and will provide the basis for the evaluation of the proposals under this program. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter suggested that the proposed National Clearinghouse of Rehabilitation Training Materials be merged with the National Rehabilitation Information Center, which is funded by the National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research. Discussion: While such a merger is not feasible at this time, the possibility of such a merger will be considered. Changes: None. Rehabilitation Continuing Education Programs Priority_Rehabilitation Continuing Education Programs for Providers of Community Rehabilitation Services Comments: Ten of the commenters indicated their desire to have a project under this priority in their geographical region. Discussion: The Secretary will consider the needs of all regions as well as the geographical distribution of projects in selecting grantees. Regions that are not announced for funding in FY 1995 will be considered for competitions in FY 1996 and FY 1997. Changes: None. Comments: Six commenters expressed concern regarding the availability of training under this priority to direct service personnel in rural areas, and several of these commenters recommended that projects under this priority be required to coordinate training through existing programs in rural areas or use distance education strategies. Discussion: Projects funded under this priority are required to provide training for direct service personnel throughout a multi-State geographical area. The use of distance education strategies and linkages with existing training programs serving rural areas is not precluded under this priority. Changes: None.
