FR940224-2-00029 FR940224-2-00014 DATES: The Navy invites interested agencies, organizations, and the general public to submit written comments or suggestions concerning the scope of the issues to be addressed, alternatives to be analyzed, and the environmental impacts to be addressed in the Draft Environmental Impact Statement. The public also is invited to attend scoping meetings in which oral comments and suggestions will be received. Oral and written comments will be considered equally in preparation of the Environmental Impact Statement. Those not desiring to submit comments or suggestions at this time, but who would like to receive a copy of the Draft Environmental Impact Statement for review when it is issued, should write to Puget Sound Naval Shipyard at the address below. When the Draft Environmental Impact Statement is complete, its availability will be announced in the Federal Register and in the local news media. Public hearings will be held, and comments will be solicited on this document. Written comments postmarked by March 21, 1994 will be considered in preparation of the Draft Environmental Impact Statement. Comments postmarked after that date will be considered to the extent practicable. Oral and written comments will be received at public scoping meetings to be held at the locations and times indicated as follows: Bremerton, Washington, March 10, 1994, 7pm&hyph;10pm Best Western Bayview Inn, 5640 Kitsap Way Richland, Washington, March 11, 1994, 7pm&hyph;10pm Shiloh Inn_Rivershore, 50 Comstock Olympia, Washington, March 14, 1994, 7pm&hyph;10pm Ramada Inn_Governor House, 621 So. Capitol Way Portland, Oregon, March 15, 1994, 7pm&hyph;10pm Red Lion Inn_Jantzen Beach, 909 N. Hayden Island Dr. Portsmouth, Virginia, March 17, 1994, 7pm&hyph;10pm Holiday Inn, 8 Crawford Parkway The meetings will be chaired by a presiding officer but will not be conducted as evidentiary hearings; speakers will not be cross examined although the presiding officer, Department of the Navy, and Department of Energy representatives present may ask clarifying questions. To ensure that everyone has an adequate opportunity to speak, five minutes will be allotted for each speaker. Depending on the number of persons requesting to speak, the presiding officer may allow more time for elected officials, or speakers representing multiple parties, or organizations. Persons wishing to speak on behalf of organizations should identify the organization. Persons wishing to speak may either notify Puget Sound Naval Shipyard in writing at the address below or register at the meetings. Persons registering at the meetings will be called on to speak if time permits. Written comments also will be accepted at the meetings. ADDRESSES: Written comments, suggestions on the scope of the Draft Environmental Impact Statement, or requests to speak at the public hearings should be submitted to Mr. Robert Minnitti, Puget Sound Naval Shipyard, Bremerton, Washington 98314&hyph;5000. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The United States Navy placed the world's first nuclear powered submarine, the NAUTILUS, into service in 1954. The first nuclear powered cruiser, the LONG BEACH, was commissioned in 1961. As of the end of 1993, the U.S. Navy had 106 nuclear-powered submarines and 15 nuclear-powered surface ships in operation. Today, over 40% of the Navy's principal combatants are nuclear powered. At the end of their useful lifetime, when the cost of continued operation is not justified by their military capability, or when they are no longer needed, the defueled reactor compartments from these ships require disposal. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, the Navy evaluated a number of options for disposing of the pre-LOS ANGELES class nuclear powered submarine reactor compartments as the ships were beginning to approach the end of their design life. The options examined included disposal of the reactor compartment at an existing land burial site, with the non-radioactive remainder of the submarine disposed of either by sinking at sea or by cutting up for sale as scrap metal, and disposal by sinking the entire submarine in the deep ocean. The ``no action'' alternative of long term protective storage also was examined. The Navy's 1984 Final Environmental Impact Statement and Record of Decision concluded that permanent disposal would be environmentally safe and feasible using either the land burial or deep ocean option. The Record of Decision issued by the Secretary of the Navy stated that ``No unacceptable environmental impacts associated with either option have been identified as a result of the analysis or through the public review process'', and that ``Based on consideration of all current factors bearing on a disposal action of this kind contemplated, the Navy has decided to proceed with disposal of the reactor compartments by land burial.'' The Navy has successfully pursued this course of action and, as of the end of 1993, has safely shipped 35 submarine reactor compartments to the Department of Energy's burial grounds at Hanford, Washington.
