FR940505-1-00169 FR940505-1-00012 (4) Marine Vessels/Ports. (a) Background and Program Description. Marine vessels are the largest uncontrolled source of emissions of NO X and SO X in California. According to a study prepared by Sierra Research, Inc., 87 marine vessels account for approximately 40 percent of all SO X emissions and 12 percent of all NO X emissions from both mobile and stationary sources statewide (Sierra report, p. 3). While most emissions associated with marine vessels occur at sea, a great deal occur while the vessel is at port, during maneuvering and hotelling activities (hotelling refers to the time a vessel ``spends moored or at anchor, for such purposes as loading or unloading cargo or awaiting a berth''_Booz-Allen report, 88 p. II&hyph;16). Both at-sea and in-port emissions are of concern for ambient air quality in the South Coast area, since emissions from vessels at sea can be transported onshore by prevailing winds, and since emissions from vessels at port are added to those already occurring from stationary facilities at a port. 87 Regulatory Strategies for Reducing Emissions from Marine Vessels in California Waters, prepared for California Air Resources Board by Sierra Research, Inc., Report No. SR91&hyph;10&hyph;01 (October 4, 1991). 88 Inventory of Air Pollutant Emissions from Marine Vessels, Final Report, prepared for State of California_Air Resources Board, by Booz-Allen & Hamilton, Inc. (March 1991). The contribution of diesel marine engine emissions to local air quality is influenced by at least two factors. The first concerns the nature of the engines themselves. Large marine vessels have high NO X emissions because of the nature of the machinery and equipment used to power them. These vessels are typically powered by very large diesel engines that are optimized for power and fuel consumption, and those optimization processes (such as high temperatures) tend to boost NO X emissions. In addition, marine engines are usually old and unregulated, and generally do not have many of the combustion improvements that are incorporated into new on-highway engines to reduce particulate matter and NO X emissions. The second determinant is the time spent and frequency of activity at or near port. Analysis of 1989 data shows that about 10 percent of the vessels in California's ports accounted for more than 50 percent of the emissions from marine vessels (Sierra report, p. 9). Control strategies are more effective which focus on those ships that contribute the most to air quality problems while in port. If those ships can be targeted, any reduction in their emissions will have a large impact on air quality. Similarly, control strategies are more effective which target those ships that stop often in California. Vessels that do not frequently use South Coast ports do not contribute as much to local air quality problems. Based again on 1989 data, approximately 60 percent of the vessels at California's ports made merely one or two trips per year, each contributing only a relatively small fraction to total emissions (Sierra report, p. 9). EPA has considered several strategies to achieve reductions in ship emissions. One potential emission control strategy would be to require vessels to be outfitted with NO X and SO X control equipment. There are several technologies available, and these technologies are associated with different levels of emissions decreases, ranging from 25 percent to 90 percent, depending on the nature, age, and condition of the ship's engine and equipment. 89 For example, fuels with ultra-low sulfur content can reduce SO X emissions by as much as 96 percent and cause measurable NO X decreases as well (Sierra report, p. 25). Selective catalytic reduction (SCR) can reduce NO X emission by as much as 90 percent. Water/fuel emulsion technology can reduce NO X by approximately 25 percent (Sierra report, p. 34). These technologies are discussed in more detail below. 89 See the Sierra report, pp. 22&hyph;32 for a more complete discussion of these technologies. At the same time, many of these techniques have substantial drawbacks, including increased capital and operating costs. NO X control techniques are generally expensive and often difficult to retrofit on older vessels (although they can be cost-effective to incorporate on new engines) and may be costly to maintain. 90 In addition, many NO X control technologies are also associated with a decrease in fuel efficiency of up to 5 percent (Sierra report, p. 71). Also, results depend on certain operating characteristics. For example, optimal SCR results depend on a steady-state operation mode. Reductions are less certain during maneuvering procedures when engine speed is constantly changing; yet, this is the kind of operation that is typical while a vessel is near or in-port. Controlling SO X by fuel composition changes may be problematic for compliance reasons. This is because vessels would be required to use low-sulfur fuel only when they are in the vicinity of the California coastline and in California ports. While they operate at sea, ships could use conventional fuels. This means that vessels can be equipped with two kinds of fuel tanks: one for clean fuel for use in-port, and one for ordinary fuel for use at sea. However, for obvious reasons, it would be hard to verify that vessels use low-sulfur fuel while near shore or in-port. 90 Retrofitting ships with aftertreatment technologies is very difficult because of onboard space limitations. Building upwards (where space is available) can raise the center of gravity. If the center of gravity is above the center of buoyancy, the ship will be destabilized.
