FR940713-1-00003 FR940713-1-00001 Additionally, FSIS will collect data by pilot testing this proposal during the comment period. The Agency will comply with all bargaining obligations under the National Basic Agreement and the Federal Service Labor Management Relations Statute relating to the impact any Poultry Enhancement Inspection System pilot test would have on employee working conditions. To the extent that the further analysis conducted by USDA and the comments solicited by this proposal contain meritorious alternatives, information, or data not previously considered, the Agency may decide to propose changes to specific provisions of this proposed rule. In this event, the Agency is committed to supplement this rulemaking to provide the public an opportunity to comment on the specific revised regulatory provisions. Background Introduction The Secretary of Agriculture is charged by the Poultry Products Inspection Act (PPIA_21 U.S.C. 451 et seq. ) with carrying out a mandatory poultry products inspection program. The purpose of this inspection is to assure that poultry products in interstate and foreign commerce are wholesome, not adulterated, and properly marked, labeled, and packaged. The Act prohibits the shipment in commerce of poultry products that are adulterated or misbranded (21 U.S.C. 458), including any poultry products that bear or contain any poisonous or deleterious substance that may render them injurious to health (21 U.S.C. 453(g)(1)) or that for any other reason are unsound, unhealthful, unwholesome, or otherwise unfit for human food (21 U.S.C. 453(g)(3)). The Act requires post-mortem inspection of all carcasses of slaughtered poultry subject to the Act and such reinspection as deemed necessary (21 U.S.C. 455(b)). The Secretary is authorized to promulgate such rules and regulations as are necessary to carry out the provisions of the Act (21 U.S.C. 463(b)). FSIS has stationed about 2,705 inspectors in 300 poultry slaughtering establishments nationwide. They are responsible for ante-mortem and post-mortem inspection, and the inspection of further processed products at these establishments. They are also responsible for assuring that facilities and equipment are sanitary and the plant environment conducive to the manufacture of a wholesome product. To meet the PPIA requirement for post-mortem inspection of every poultry carcass, FSIS stations inspectors on every slaughter line throughout every working shift. Most poultry slaughtering establishments operate moving production lines that carry the poultry through all the stages of processing from that of the live bird to the finished, ready-to-cook stage. Slaughter and Dressing Process Currently, live birds are brought to the plant and hung upside-down on shackles on the moving conveyor line. They are moved first to the stunning and slaughtering area, where they are bled out. Next, they are moved into scalding vats where the feathers are loosened. They are then conveyed to automatic defeathering machines (called ``pickers''), where the feathers are taken off the carcass by rapidly moving rubber ``fingers.'' After this operation, the birds pass through a hock removal area. Then they pass to the evisceration area of the plant, where the birds are eviscerated by automatic machinery. Evisceration is usually accomplished by cutting the bird's abdomen and ``scooping'' out the organs with metal ``spoons'' or paddles. The viscera are left attached to and suspended outside the carcass throughout post-mortem inspection. The birds are presented for inspection with the hanging viscera suspended to one side of the carcass. The inspector conducts a post-mortem examination for signs of disease or abnormality by holding open the abdominal cavity with one hand and viewing its interior and then quickly manipulating the viscera with the other hand. At the same time, the inspector observes the external surfaces of the carcass for signs of disease, abnormality, or contamination. The inspector also points out to establishment employees lesions or other conditions that may be removed by trimming. Birds that do not pass post-mortem inspection are either removed from the processing line and placed on a hang-back rack for veterinary disposition or they are designated for off-line trimming, salvage, or reprocessing, or condemned. Birds that are inspected and passed by FSIS move on to the next operations, which include viscera removal, giblet harvest, and final trimming and washing. The carcasses then proceed to the chilling operation, where usually they are immersed in ice and cold water tanks to bring the carcass temperature down to acceptable levels and to retard bacterial growth. The chilled birds are then packaged and readied for shipment or further processed.
