FR940928-1-00036 FR940928-1-00011 Wild live rock means live rock other than aquacultured live rock. 4. In §638.3, in paragraph (a), the reference to ``paragraph (b) of this section'' is revised to read ``paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section''; and paragraph (c) is added to read as follows: §638.3 Relation to other laws. * * * * * (c) If a state has a catch, landing, or gear regulation that is more restrictive than a catch, landing, or gear regulation in this part, a person landing in such state allowable octocoral taken from the EEZ must comply with the more restrictive state regulation. 5. Section 638.8 is redesignated as §638.9; §638.6 is redesignated as §638.8; §§638.4, 638.5, and 638.7 are revised, and new §638.6 is added to read as follows: §638.4 Permits and fees. (a) Applicability. (1) Federal permits . Federal permits are required for specified activities in the EEZ as follows: (i) Prohibited coral . A Federal permit is required for an individual to take or possess prohibited coral and will be issued only when the prohibited coral will be used for a scientific, educational, or restoration purpose. (ii) Allowable chemical. A Federal permit is required for an individual to take or possess fish or other marine organisms with an allowable chemical in a coral area, other than fish or other marine organisms that are landed in Florida. (iii) Allowable octocoral. A Federal permit is required for an individual to take or possess allowable octocoral, other than allowable octocoral that is landed in Florida. (iv) Wild live rock. (A) A Federal permit is required for a vessel to take or possess wild live rock. A wild live rock vessel permit will not be issued unless the current owner of the vessel for which the permit is requested had the required Florida permit and endorsements for live rock on or before February 3, 1994, and a record of landings of live rock on or before February 3, 1994, as documented on trip tickets received by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection before March 15, 1994. For landings other than in Florida, equivalent state permits/endorsements, if required, and landing records may be substituted for the Florida permits/endorsements and trip tickets. An owner will not be issued permits in numbers exceeding the number of vessels for which the owning entity had the requisite reported landings. An owner of a permitted vessel may transfer the vessel permit to another vessel owned by the same person by returning the existing permit with an application for a vessel permit for the replacement vessel. (B) A Federal permit is required for an individual to take or possess wild live rock for a scientific, educational, or restoration purpose and an individual permit will be issued only for such purpose. Such individual wild live rock permit may authorize the taking and possession of wild live rock in or from areas not otherwise allowed by the regulations in this part. (v) Aquacultured live rock. A Federal permit is required for a person to take or possess aquacultured live rock. Each aquacultured live rock permit will be issued for a specific site, which may not exceed 1 acre (0.4 ha). Aquacultured live rock permits are available only for harvests in the Gulf of Mexico. (2) Florida permits. Appropriate Florida permits and endorsements are required for the following activities, without regard to whether they involve activities in the EEZ or Florida's waters: (i) Landing in Florida fish or other marine organisms taken with an allowable chemical in a coral area. (ii) Landing allowable octocoral in Florida. (iii) Landing live rock in Florida. (b) Application. An application for a Federal permit must be signed and submitted by the applicant on an appropriate form, which may be obtained from the Regional Director. The application must be submitted to the Regional Director at least 30 days prior to the date on which the applicant desires to have the permit made effective. Information must be provided as follows:
