FR941116-0-00179 FR941116-0-00022 Target price equivalent strike price means the strike price that would give producers an expected return on the options market equivalent to an amount they would receive in deficiency payments and loan benefits. Subpart C_Agreement and Enrollment Provisions ยง1415.13 Eligibility. (a)(1) This program is available to producers of: (i) 1994 corn and soybeans in Champaign, Logan, and Shelby Counties in Illinois; (ii) 1994 corn in Carroll, Clinton, and Tippecanoe Counties in Indiana, and Boone, Grundy, and Hardin Counties in Iowa; and (iii) 1994 hard red winter wheat producers in the counties of Ford and Thomas in Kansas, and hard red spring wheat producers in Barnes and Grand Forks counties in North Dakota. (2) Participating farms must be administratively located in one of the selected counties. (b) In order to participate at the target price equivalent strike price level and receive payments, a producer must enroll and comply in the annual ARP for the crop. (c) Such producer shall be determined ``actively engaged'' in farming in accordance with 7 CFR part 1497. (d) In order to participate at the price support equivalent strike price level: (1) For corn and wheat, a producer must enroll and comply in the annual acreage reduction program for the crop; (2) For soybeans, the producer must accurately report and certify the soybean acreage planted in accordance with part 718 of this title. (e) The producer is not required to maintain beneficial interest, as determined in accordance with ยง1421.5(c) of this chapter, in the crop after it is priced to maintain the put option. ยง1415.14 Participation choices. (a) Producers may participate in the Options Program at levels that are alternatives to either: (1) Deficiency payments and loan program protection, or (2) Loan program protection. (b) Producers who choose the ``deficiency payments'' alternative will enroll production in the Options Program as ``target price bushels'' and agree to forego deficiency payments, price support benefits and loan deficiency payments on any enrolled bushels. (c) Producers who choose the ``loan program protection'' alternative will enroll production in the Options Program as ``price support bushels'' and agree to forego price support benefits and loan deficiency payments on any enrolled bushels. (d) Production can be enrolled at either the target price or price support level, but not both. However, a producer may enroll some production at each level. ยง1415.15 Agreements.
