FR940504-1-00047 FR940504-1-00017 (B) Unused seasonal apportionments of halibut PSC limits specified for trawl, hook-and-line, or pot gear will be added to the respective seasonal apportionment for the next season during a current fishing year. (C) If a seasonal apportionment of a halibut PSC limit specified for trawl, hook-and-line, or pot gear is exceeded, the amount by which the seasonal apportionment is exceeded will be deducted from the respective apportionment for the next season during a current fishing year. (iv) Apportionment among regulatory areas and districts. Each halibut PSC limit specified under this paragraph (f) may also be apportioned among the regulatory areas and districts of the Gulf of Alaska. (2) NMFS may, by notification in the Federal Register , change the halibut PSC limits during the year for which they were specified, based on new information of the types set forth in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. (3) Attainment of a halibut PSC limit or bycatch allowance _ (i) Trawl gear fisheries. If, during the fishing year, the Regional Director determines that U.S. fishing vessels participating in either of the trawl fishery categories listed in paragraph (f)(1)(i)(B) of this section will catch the Pacific halibut bycatch allowance, or apportionments thereof, specified for that fishery category under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, NMFS will publish notification in the Federal Register closing the entire Gulf of Alaska to directed fishing with trawl gear for each species and/or species group that comprises that fishing category; provided, however, that when the halibut bycatch allowance, or seasonal apportionment thereof, specified for the shallow-water species fishery is reached, fishing for pollock by vessels using pelagic trawl gear may continue, consistent with other provisions of this part. (ii) Hook-and-line fisheries _(A) Groundfish other than demersal shelf rockfish in the Southeast Outside District. If, during the year, the Regional Director determines that the catch of halibut by operators of vessels using hook-and-line gear in groundfish fisheries other than the directed fishery for demersal shelf rockfish in the Southeast Outside District will reach the halibut bycatch allowance, or seasonal apportionment thereof, specified for hook-and-line gear under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, NMFS will publish notification in the Federal Register prohibiting directed fishing for groundfish, other than demersal shelf rockfish in the Southeast Outside District, by vessels using hook-and-line gear for the remainder of the season to which the halibut bycatch allowance or seasonal apportionment thereof applies. (B) Demersal shelf rockfish in the Southeast Outside District. If, during the year, the Regional Director determines that the catch of halibut by operators of vessels using hook-and-line gear in the directed fishery for demersal shelf rockfish in the Southeast Outside District will reach the halibut bycatch allowance, or seasonal apportionment thereof, specified for this fishery under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, NMFS will publish notification in the Federal Register prohibiting directed fishing for demersal shelf rockfish in the Southeast Outside District by vessels using hook-and-line gear for the remainder of the season to which the halibut bycatch allowance or seasonal apportionment thereof applies. (iii) Pot gear fisheries. If, during the fishing year, the Regional Director determines that the catch of halibut by operators of vessels using pot gear to participate in a directed fishery for groundfish will reach the halibut PSC limit, or seasonal apportionment thereof, provided for under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, NMFS will publish notification in the Federal Register prohibiting directed fishing for groundfish by vessels using pot gear for the remainder of the season to which the halibut PSC limit or seasonal apportionment applies. (4) When the vessels to which a halibut PSC limit applies have caught an amount of halibut equal to that PSC, the Regional Director may, by notification in the Federal Register , allow some or all of those vessels to continue to fish for groundfish using nonpelagic trawl gear under specified conditions, subject to the other provisions of this part. In authorizing and conditioning such continued fishing with bottom-trawl gear, the Regional Director will take into account the following considerations, and issue relevant findings: (i) The risk of biological harm to halibut stocks and of socio-economic harm to authorized halibut users posed by continued bottom trawling by these vessels; (ii) The extent to which these vessels have avoided incidental halibut catches up to that point in the year; (iii) The confidence of the Regional Director in the accuracy of the estimates of incidental halibut catches by these vessels up to that point in the year; (iv) Whether observer coverage of these vessels is sufficient to assure adherence to the prescribed conditions and to alert the Regional Director to increases in their incidental halibut catches; and (v) The enforcement record of owners and operators of these vessels, and the confidence of the Regional Director that adherence to the prescribed conditions can be assured in light of available enforcement resources. * * * * * (h) *␣*␣* (1) Calculations. (i) In making any determination concerning directed fishing under paragraph (g) of this section, the amount or percentage of any species, species group, or any fish or fish products will be calculated in round-weight equivalents. (ii) Arrowtooth flounder or any groundfish species for which directed fishing is closed may not be used to calculate retainable amounts of other groundfish species under paragraph (g) of this section.
