FR940429-0-00157 FR940429-0-00014 (i) The Secretary signs the institution's program participation agreement described in 34 CFR part 668, subpart B, for purposes of participating in any title IV, HEA program; and (ii) The Secretary receives all the information necessary to make that determination for purposes other than participating in any title IV, HEA program. (2) For purposes of participating in a title IV, HEA program, if an eligible institution seeks eligibility for a location or educational program not previously designated eligible, and the Secretary determines that the location or educational program satisfies all the statutory and regulatory eligibility requirements, the Secretary considers the location or program to be eligible to participate in that title IV, HEA program as of the date the Secretary certifies that location or program to so participate. (b) Extent of eligibility. (1) If the Secretary determines that the entire applicant institution, including all its locations and all its educational programs, satisfies the applicable requirements of this part, the Secretary extends eligibility to all educational programs and locations identified on the institution's application for eligibility. (2) If the Secretary determines that only certain educational programs or certain locations of an applicant institution satisfy the applicable requirements of this part, the Secretary extends eligibility only to those educational programs and locations that meet those requirements and identifies the eligible educational programs and locations in the eligibility notice sent to the institution under §600.21. (3) Eligibility does not extend to any location that an institution establishes after it receives its eligibility designation if the institution provides at least 50 percent of an educational program at that location, unless_ (i) The institution has notified the Secretary of that location in accordance with §600.30(a)(3); and (ii) The Secretary does not require the institution to submit an eligibility application for that location under §600.21(c). (c) Subsequent additions of educational programs. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, if an eligible institution adds an educational program after it has been designated as an eligible institution by the Secretary, the institution must apply to the Secretary to have that additional program designated as an eligible program of that institution. (2) An eligible institution that adds an educational program after it has been designated as an eligible institution by the Secretary does not have to apply to the Secretary to have that additional program designated as an eligible program of that institution if the additional program_ (i) Leads to an associate, baccalaureate, professional, or graduate degree; or (ii)(A) Prepares students for gainful employment in the same or related recognized occupation as an educational program that has previously been designated as an eligible program at that institution by the Secretary; and (B) Is at least 8 semester hours, 12 quarter hours, or 600 clock hours. (3) If an institution incorrectly determines under paragraph (c)(2) of this section that an educational program satisfies the applicable statutory and regulatory eligibility provisions without applying to the Secretary for approval, the institution is liable to repay to the Secretary all HEA program funds received by the institution for that educational program, and all the title IV, HEA program funds received by or on behalf of students who were enrolled in that educational program. (d) Duration of eligibility. (1) If an institution participates in the title IV, HEA programs, the Secretary's designation of the institution as an eligible institution under the title IV, HEA programs expires when the institution's program participation agreement, as described in 34 CFR part 668, subpart B, expires. (2) If an institution participates in an HEA program other than a title IV, HEA program, the Secretary's designation of the institution as an eligible institution, for purposes of that non-title IV, HEA program, does not expire as long as the institution continues to satisfy the statutory and regulatory requirements governing its eligibility. (e) Consequence of eligibility. (1) If, as a part of its institutional eligibility application, an institution indicates that it wishes to participate in a title IV, HEA program and the Secretary determines that the institution satisfies the applicable statutory and regulatory requirements governing institutional eligibility, the Secretary will determine whether the institution satisfies the standards of administrative capability and financial responsibility contained in 34 CFR part 668, subpart B. (2) If, as part of its institutional eligibility application, an institution indicates that it does not wish to participate in any title IV, HEA program and the Secretary determines that the institution satisfies the applicable statutory and regulatory requirements governing institutional eligibility, the institution is eligible to apply to participate in any HEA program listed by the Secretary in the eligibility notice it receives under §600.21. However, the institution is not eligible to participate in those programs, or receive funds under those programs, merely by virtue of its designation as an eligible institution under this part. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1088 and 1141) §600.11 Special rules regarding institutional accreditation or preaccreditation. (a) Change of accrediting agencies. For purposes of §§600.4(a)(5)(i), 600.5(a)(6), and 600.6(a)(5)(i), the Secretary does not recognize the accreditation or preaccreditation of an otherwise eligible institution if that institution is in the process of changing its accrediting agency, unless the institution provides to the Secretary_ (1) All materials related to its prior accreditation or preaccreditation; and (2) Materials demonstrating reasonable cause for changing its accrediting agency. (b) Multiple accreditation. The Secretary does not recognize the accreditation or preaccreditation of an otherwise eligible institution if that institution is accredited or preaccredited as an institution by more than one accrediting agency, unless the institution_ (1) Provides to each such accrediting agency and the Secretary the reasons for that multiple accreditation or preaccreditation; (2) Demonstrates to the Secretary reasonable cause for that multiple accreditation or preaccreditation; and (3) Designates to the Secretary which agency's accreditation or preaccreditation the institution uses to establish its eligibility under this part. (c) Loss of accreditation or preaccreditation. (1) An institution may not be considered eligible for 24 months after it has had its accreditation or preaccreditation withdrawn, revoked, or otherwise terminated for cause, unless the accrediting agency that took that action rescinds that action. (2) An institution may not be considered eligible for 24 months after it has withdrawn voluntarily from its accreditation or preaccreditation status under a show-cause or suspension order issued by an accrediting agency, unless that agency rescinds its order. (d) Religious exception. (1) If an otherwise eligible institution loses its accreditation or preaccreditation, the Secretary considers the institution to be accredited or preaccredited for purposes of complying with the provisions of §§600.4, 600.5, and 600.6 if the Secretary determines that its loss of accreditation or preaccreditation_ (i) Is related to the religious mission or affiliation of the institution; and (ii) Is not related to its failure to satisfy the accrediting agency's standards. (2) If the Secretary considers an unaccredited institution to be accredited or preaccredited under the provisions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the Secretary will consider that unaccredited institution to be accredited or preaccredited for a period sufficient to allow the institution to obtain alternative accreditation or preaccreditation, except that period may not exceed 18 months. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099b) Subpart B_Procedures for Establishing Eligibility §600.20 Application procedures. (a) An institution that wishes to establish its eligibility to apply to participate in any program authorized by the HEA must first apply to the Secretary for a determination that it qualifies as an eligible institution.
