FR940118-2-00126 FR940118-2-00075 RCRA Corrective Action The Office of Solid Waste will include the 304(a) sediment quality criteria as assessment tools in RCRA Facility Investigations (RFI's) guidance. Currently the guidance warns about potential sediment quality problems but does not recommend specific tests to evaluate the ecological and human health risks posed by contaminated sediments. Other Programs A variety of other regulatory and nonregulatory programs are looking to sediment quality criteria as a benchmark for contaminated sediment evaluations. The dredging program (Sec. 404 of the CWA and 102 of MPRSA), which is jointly implemented by the Army Corps of Engineers and the EPA, may incorporate sediment quality criteria into Tier II of the dredged material management plan which is currently under development. Other examples of potential sediment quality criteria uses are to: (1) Proactively monitor to ensure uncontaminated sediments remain uncontaminated; (2) predict the need to arrest increasing contamination before harm occurs; (3) establish the spatial extent of contamination to determine the potential costs/benefits of clean-up and remediation efforts; and/or (4) identify sources of contamination via toxicity identification evaluation (TIE) protocols that link toxic contaminants to sources. In some cases, sediment criteria alone would be sufficient to identify and to establish goals for remediation or clean-up of contaminated sediment. In other cases the sediment criteria should be supplemented with biological sampling and testing and more extensive chemical monitoring before decisions are made. Neither the Science Advisory Board nor the Agency believes the sediment quality criteria should be used as ``pass/fail'' criteria or mandatory clean-up levels for all programs. It is often more environmentally sound to allow clean sediments to cover contaminated sediments over time than to remove the sediments in question. The removal of contaminated sediments may in and of itself cause physical harm to bottom communities as well as cause resuspension and dispersion of the contaminant being removed. The costs of clean-up may also be prohibitive because of the level or areal extent of contamination and the disposal requirements for contaminated sediments. Therefore, EPA expects that the sediment quality criteria will be used in a tiered approach to evaluate the level and areal extent of sediment contamination and the risk associated with a variety of clean-up or remediation alternatives. In combination, the above authorities provide a comprehensive mechanism for monitoring, assessing and researching the effects of pollutants on the Nation's waters and regulating the discharges in order to eliminate or limit their potential impacts on water quality. EPA also expects to publish, in the near future, an EPA Contaminated Sediment Management Strategy, which will provide guidance on the application of the sediment quality criteria. Though not specifically requested at this time, comments received in connection with this notice that discuss implementation issues will be considered in the development of the draft strategy. V. Description of Sediment Criteria Pollutants Criteria pollutants were selected for their known toxicity, hydrophobicity, and persistence. The following section lists each chemical, its CAS number, sediment quality criteria value expressed as ug pollutant per gram of organic carbon within the sediment, and a brief description of the chemical, its potential sources and uses. The criteria documents themselves provide details on the range of uncertainty that surrounds the criteria values provided below. Acenaphthene (CAS No. 83&hyph;32&hyph;9) Sediment Quality Criteria Value: Freshwater: 130 m g/g oc Saltwater: 230 m g/g oc Dihydro-acenaphthylene or 1,8 ethylenenapthalene occurs in coal and is released during the high temperature carbonization or coking of coal. Acenaphthene is also used as a dye intermediate in the manufacture of plastics, insecticides and fungicides, and has been detected in cigarette smoke and gasoline condensates. It is a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon. Dieldrin (CAS No. 60&hyph;57&hyph;1) Sediment Quality Criteria Value: Freshwater: 11 m g/g oc Saltwater: 20 m g/g oc Prior to the cancellation of its registration (1974), dieldrin was one of the most widely used chlorinated hydrocarbon pesticides. Prior to its cancellation (1974), aldrin was used in greater quantity than dieldrin but quickly transforms into dieldrin in the environment. The chemicals were primarily used to control insect pests on corn and later on citrus fruits. Endrin (CAS No. 72&hyph;20&hyph;8) Sediment Quality Criteria Value: Freshwater: 4.2 m g/g oc Saltwater: 0.76 m g/g oc Endrin is a chlorinated hydrocarbon insecticide. Prior to its cancellation (1986) it was used in the agricultural chemical industry for the control of pests on fruits and vegetation. Fluoranthene (CAS No. 206&hyph;44&hyph;0) Sediment Quality Criteria Value: Freshwater: 620 m g/g oc Saltwater: 300 m g/g oc Fluoranthene, a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon, is a combustion product produced by the pyrolysis of organic raw materials, such as coal and petroleum at high temperature. It is ubiquitous in the environment. Phenanthrene (CAS No. 85&hyph;01&hyph;8) Sediment Quality Criteria Value: Freshwater: 180 m g/g oc Saltwater: 240 m g/g oc Phenanthrene is a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon, naturally present in coal and petroleum, and having some industrial uses. It is also formed as a combustion product.
