FR940105-0-00029 FR940105-0-00007 The comments addressed issues relating to the proposed regulation, the standards and protocols that were proposed for inclusion in the Standardized Data Sets and Communication Protocols, and the items which the Commission proposed not to include in the data sets and protocols. The Commission will address the issues raised in each area in turn. V. Discussion of the Proposed Regulation A. Need for a Flexible Mechanism To Make Revisions to the Standards and Protocols In the NOPR, the Commission proposed to proceed through rulemaking, rather than a policy statement, finding that the benefits of standardization can be achieved only when all pipelines provide the same information through the same procedures. The Commission concluded a rulemaking was the proper approach to issuing mandatory requirements. Several commenters support the Commission's issuance of a rule to ensure full compliance, but urge the Commission to commit itself to a process for revising the requirements. 13 They maintain that once the industry obtains experience with capacity release, revisions may be needed. Natural supports the use of notice and comment rulemaking, but it requests clarification that, even though the referenced document of standards and protocols is not contained in the Code of Federal Regulations, any modifications to these standards or protocols will be made through rulemaking procedures. It maintains changes to this document could result in significant administrative burdens and costs and, therefore, contends the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) requires that such changes be made only through a notice and comment rulemaking. O&R and Williston urge the Commission to proceed using a policy statement to ensure the utmost flexibility for modifications. 13 Power Generators, AGA, Columbia Distribution, Destec Energy, FMA, and UDC. The Commission adheres to its determination to proceed through rulemaking to ensure the uniformity standardization requires. Nevertheless, the Commission agrees with the commenters that revisions and modifications to the standards and protocols will need to be made on a regular basis as the industry obtains more experience with capacity release transactions and with the changed operating environment created by Order No. 636. For example, in the two months after issuance of the NOPR, Working Groups 1 and 2 already have proposed revisions to the standardized data sets to ensure that they function effectively and to clarify a number of items. The Commission proposes to continue the informal conferences and the Working Groups as the best means for monitoring the performance of the standards and proposing needed changes. To facilitate the Commission's ability to respond to the need for changes, it adopted only a general regulation requiring the pipelines to standardize their provision of capacity information, while the standards and protocols themselves were to be provided in a separate document not contained in the Code of Federal Regulations. The Commission is committed to making needed modifications and revisions to the standards and protocols as quickly as possible. Determining the appropriate mechanism for making such changes is premature, because the method should vary depending on the type of change contemplated; maintenance of the standards to correct problems or improve their functioning should be handled differently than significant substantive changes in the means of providing the information. In making changes to the data sets and protocols, the Commission intends to follow the APA and provide notice and an opportunity for comment, just as it has in the past with respect to proposed changes by the Working Groups. For example, when Working Groups 1 and 2 submitted their recent set of revisions, the Commission noticed the filing and provided an opportunity for written comments as well as for consideration of the revisions at one of the Commission's EBB conferences. Although the Commission is issuing the current data sets along with this rule, the Commission realizes that as pipelines begin the process of correlating the downloadable data sets with the information provided by offerors and bidders through their on-line EBBs, difficulties with the data sets may be identified. All pipelines immediately must begin the correlation process, so they can report any significant difficulties to Working Groups 1 and 2. The Commission is committed to implementing the data sets by June 1, 1994, and Working Groups 1 and 2, therefore, should ensure that they provide the Commission with any additional changes they believe are essential in sufficient time to permit implementation of the data sets, including ASC X12 downloadability, by that date. The Commission recognizes that the data sets may not be perfect when implemented, but, as discussed above, the Commission is committed to a process for revising the data sets on a regular basis after implementation. B. Exemptions for Small Pipelines Sabine maintains small pipelines may not be able to comply with the requirements outlined in the NOPR. It does not suggest a blanket exemption for small pipelines, but instead recommends they be afforded an opportunity to demonstrate that the costs of implementing the standards would outweigh the benefits of compliance. 14 14 It points out the Commission exempted it from compliance with the interactive EBB requirement in its restructuring order. Sabine Pipe Line Company, 63 FERC ¶61,010 (1993). The Commission recognizes small pipeline compliance with some of the requirements of the standards and protocols may not be cost justified or essential to obtain the benefits the Commission sought to achieve through standardization. The Commission cannot make a generic determination of the particular standards and protocols with which small pipelines should not have to comply; compliance with some of the standards may not involve as much added cost as compliance with others and partial compliance may still be of benefit to users. 15 Small pipelines desiring an exemption should file a petition under Rule 207 of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure listing the specific requirements for which they seek exemption and explaining why the exemption is justified. 16 Users will then be given an opportunity to comment on the proposed application. 15 For example, provision of the data contained in the standardized data sets may not be unduly costly and would permit users to obtain the same information from all pipelines. 16 18 CFR 385.207.
