FR941019-0-00070 FR941019-0-00008 4. No information need be given in response to this paragraph (c)(6) of Item 22 with respect to any transaction that is not related to the business or operations of the Fund and to which neither the Fund nor any of its Parents or Subsidiaries is a party. (7) Disclose any financial condition of the investment adviser that is reasonably likely to impair the financial ability of the adviser to fulfil its commitment to the fund under the proposed investment advisory contract. (8) Describe the nature of the action to be taken on the investment advisory contract and the reasons therefor, the terms of the contract to be acted upon, and, if the action is an amendment to, or a replacement of, an investment advisory contract, the material differences between the current and proposed contract. (9) If a change in the investment advisory fee is sought, state: (i) The aggregate amount of the investment adviser's fee during the last year; (ii) The amount that the adviser would have received had the proposed fee been in effect; and (iii) The difference between the aggregate amounts stated in response to paragraphs (i) and (ii) of this item (c)(9) as a percentage of the amount stated in response to paragraph (i) of this item (c)(9). (10) If the investment adviser acts as such with respect to any other Fund having a similar investment objective, identify and state the size of such other Fund and the rate of the investment adviser's compensation. Also indicate for any Fund identified whether the investment adviser has waived, reduced, or otherwise agreed to reduce its compensation under any applicable contract. Instruction. Furnish the information in response to this paragraph (c)(10) of Item 22 in tabular form. (11) Discuss in reasonable detail the material factors and the conclusions with respect thereto which form the basis for the recommendation of the board of directors that the shareholders approve an investment advisory contract. If applicable, include a discussion of any benefits derived or to be derived by the investment adviser from the relationship with the Fund such as soft dollar arrangements by which brokers provide research to the Fund or its investment adviser in return for allocating fund brokerage. Instruction. Conclusory statements or a list of factors will not be considered sufficient disclosure. The discussion should relate the factors to the specific circumstances of the fund and the investment advisory contract for which approval is sought. (12) Describe any arrangement or understanding made in connection with the proposed investment advisory contract with respect to the composition of the board of directors of the Fund or the investment adviser or with respect to the selection or appointment of any person to any office with either such company. (13) For the most recently completed fiscal year, state: (i) The aggregate amount of commissions paid to any Affiliated Broker; and (ii) The percentage of the Fund's aggregate brokerage commissions paid to any such Affiliated Broker. Instruction. Identify each Affiliated Broker and the relationships that cause the broker to be an Affiliated Broker. (14) Disclose the amount of any fees paid by the Fund to the investment adviser, its affiliated persons or any affiliated person of such person during the most recent fiscal year for services provided to the Fund (other than under the investment advisory contract or for brokerage commissions). State whether these services will continue to be provided after the investment advisory contract is approved. (d) Approval of distribution plan. If action is to be taken with respect to a Distribution Plan, include the following information in the proxy statement. Instruction. Furnish information on a prospective basis to the extent applicable. (1) Describe the nature of the action to be taken on the Distribution Plan and the reason therefor, the terms of the Distribution Plan to be acted upon, and, if the action is an amendment to, or a replacement of, a Distribution Plan, the material differences between the current and proposed Distribution Plan. (2) If the Fund has a Distribution Plan in effect: (i) Provide the date that the Distribution Plan was adopted and the date of the last amendment, if any; (ii) Disclose the persons to whom payments may be made under the Distribution Plan, the rate of the distribution fee and the purposes for which such fee may be used; (iii) Disclose the amount of distribution fees paid by the Fund pursuant to the plan during its most recent fiscal year, both in the aggregate and as a percentage of the Fund's average net assets during the period; (iv) Disclose the name of, and the amount of any payments made under the Distribution Plan by the Fund during its most recent fiscal year to, any person who is an affiliated person of the Fund, its investment adviser, principal underwriter, or Administrator, an affiliated person of such person, or a person that during the most recent fiscal year received 10% or more of the aggregate amount paid under the Distribution Plan by the Fund; (v) Describe any action taken with respect to the Distribution Plan since the beginning of the Fund's most recent fiscal year by the board of directors of the Fund; and (vi) If a Distribution Plan was or is to be terminated or not renewed for any reason, state the date or prospective date of such termination or non-renewal, identify the parties involved, and describe the circumstances of such termination or non-renewal. (3) Describe briefly and state the approximate amount of, where practicable, any material interest, direct or indirect, of any director or nominee for election as a director of the Fund in any material transactions since the beginning of the most recently completed fiscal year, or in any material proposed transactions, to which any person identified in response to Item 22(d)(2)(iv) was or is to be a party.
