FR940526-1-00024 FR940526-1-00012 The proposed increases in COLA rates are summarized in the following table: Proposed Increases in COLA Rates 1Allowance area category 1Current rate 1Proposed rate City and County of Honolulu, Hawaii; Commissary/Exchange 17.5 20.0 County of Kauai, Hawaii; All Employees 17.5 20.0 Territory of Guam and Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands; Commissary/Exchange 17.5 20.0 U.S. Virgin Islands; All Employees *12.5 or 17.5 17.5 *Current rates for St. Croix and St. Thomas/St. John, respectively. OPM proposes to adjust only those rates that would increase. Rates that would otherwise decrease will remain unchanged, as required by a general provision in the Treasury, Postal Service, and General Government Appropriations Act, 1992 (Pub. L. 102&hyph;141). Without this provision, a total of four rates would decrease in three of the allowance areas covered by the summer 1993 surveys. In addition to proposing COLA rate adjustments, OPM is proposing to consolidate the two allowance areas in the U.S. Virgin Islands into a single allowance area. The two allowance areas are (1) the island of St. Croix and (2) the islands of St. Thomas and St. John. The new allowance area would be named the U.S. Virgin Islands allowance area. Living-cost surveys would continue to be conducted on both St. Croix and St. Thomas, but the data would be consolidated to represent the Virgin Islands as a whole. OPM believes this action would improve the survey yield, which has been less than optimal. This action would also address comments OPM received from members of Congress and Federal employees concerning OPM's living-cost measurements in the Virgin Islands. OPM also proposes to remove from regulations three locations that are listed as places where nonforeign post differentials are paid. The three locations are the Canton, Enderbury, and Christmas Islands. These islands are no longer territories or possessions of the United States and, therefore, are not covered by the nonforeign area post differential program. Regulatory Flexibility Act I certify that this regulation will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because the regulation will affect only Federal agencies and employees. List of Subjects in 5 CFR Part 591 Government employees, Travel and transportation expenses, Wages. U.S. Office of Personnel Management. James B. King, Director.
