FR941019-0-00029 FR941019-0-00004 ยง1609.4 Technical assistance advisors. (a) Eligibility. Technical assistance advisors (TAA) may include clearinghouses, State and local public agencies, and nonprofit organizations. (b) Designation. An eligible entity may submit a written request to the RTC regional and national office for designation as a TAA. Such request shall include: evidence of Internal Revenue Service determination of nonprofit status pursuant to section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) or other appropriate sections, where applicable; a description of experience in promoting low- and moderate-income housing; and a description of the functions that the entity proposes to perform, identifying staffing capability to perform such functions. The RTC may, in its discretion, accept or reject such a request in writing. (c) Functions. A TAA may assist a purchaser of an eligible multifamily property, eligible condominium property or eligible single family property. It may perform one or more of the following functions: (1) Qualifying potential purchasers of eligible single family properties or eligible condominium properties; (2) Assisting qualifying households to identify suitable properties and secure financing; (3) Assisting qualifying multifamily purchasers and qualifying condominium purchasers to identify suitable properties and secure financing; (4) Assisting sponsors of housing for special populations, such as homeless, disabled, handicapped, and elderly persons, to identify suitable properties and secure financing; (5) Providing specialized assistance to qualifying purchasers, including, but not limited to, families with members who are members of minority groups and those with members who are veterans; (6) Providing to minority-owned businesses and women-owned businesses engaged in providing affordable housing, and to nonprofit organizations more than 50 percent of the control of which is held by 1 or more minority individuals, that are engaged in providing affordable housing, information about the availability and terms of financing for purchase loans, as further described at ยง1609.3(c)(2)(iii) of this part; and (7) Assisting in other promotional services as needed by the RTC such as information dissemination, identification of qualifying purchasers, and other promotional activities as needed. (d) Compensation. (1) The RTC shall enter into an MOU with each TAA which will specify the services that the TAA will perform. (2) The MOU may provide that the RTC shall compensate the TAA for its services on a basis agreed upon between the RTC and TAA. Compensation arrangements may include special compensation for services which lead to the purchase of eligible residential properties by lower-income families and other groups targeted for assistance. ยง1609.5 Brokers and other marketing specialists. (a) Designation. The RTC shall involve brokers, auctioneers, and other marketing specialists in the marketing of eligible residential properties that it offers for sale. (b) Functions. The broker, auctioneer, or other marketing specialists shall: (1) Actively market the eligible residential properties on its listing, including using multi-listing services, as appropriate, and advertising in local media and media targeted to low- and moderate-income families (including families with one or more members who are members of minority groups and those with members who are veterans); (2) Provide to minority-owned businesses and women-owned businesses engaged in providing affordable housing, and to nonprofit organizations more than 50 percent of the control of which is held by 1 or more minority individuals, that are engaged in providing affordable housing, information about the availability and terms of financing for purchase loans, as further described at ยง1609.3(c)(2)(iii) of this part; (3) Pre-qualify and counsel prospective purchasers, as prescribed by the RTC; (4) Provide an opportunity for prospective purchasers to inspect the property and to review property records, including purchasers identified by TAA's, without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, and familial status; (5) Certify that they_ (i) Will not decline to show properties, or discriminate in the marketing or sale of properties because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, or familial status; (ii) Will prominently display the Fair Housing Poster in all offices where brokering and sales activities take place; (iii) Will use the Equal Housing Opportunity logo, slogan, or statement in advertising; and
