FR940721-2-00010 FR940721-2-00007 Terms and Conditions of Certificate 1. Except as expressly authorized in paragraph 2(c) of the Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operation, in engaging in such Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operation neither AHH nor any Member shall intentionally disclose, directly or indirectly, to any other Member any information about its or any other Member's costs, production, capacity, inventories, domestic prices, domestic sales, or U.S. business plans, strategies, or methods unless (i) such information is already generally available to the trade or public; or (ii) the information disclosed is a necessary term or condition (e.g. price, time required to fill an order, etc.) of an actual or potential bona fide sale and the disclosure is limited to the prospective purchaser. 2. AHH and its Members will comply with requests made by the Secretary of commerce on behalf of the Secretary of Commerce or the Attorney General for information or documents relevant to conduct under the Certificate. The Secretary of Commerce will request such information or documents when either the Attorney General or the Secretary of Commerce believes that the information or documents are required to determine that the Export Trade, Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operation of a person protected by this Certificate of Review continue to comply with the standards of section 303(a) of the Act. Definitions 1. Export Intermediary means a person who acts as a distributor, sales representative, sales or marketing agent, or broker, or who performs similar functions, including providing or arranging for the provision of Export Trade Facilitation Services. 2. Member means a person who has a membership in Allegheny Highland Hardwoods, Inc. and who has been certified as a Member within the meaning of ยง325.2(1) of the Regulations. Protection Provided by the Certificate This Certificate protects AHH, its Members, and directors, officers, and employees acting on behalf of AHH and its Members, from private treble damage actions and government criminal and civil suits under U.S. federal and state antitrust laws for the export conduct specified in the Certificate and carried out during its effective period in compliance with its terms and conditions. Effective Period of Certificate This Certificate continues in effect from the effective date indicated below until it is relinquished, modified, or revoked as provided in the Act and the Regulations. Other Conduct Nothing in this Certificate prohibits AHH and its Members from engaging in conduct not specified in this Certificate, but such conduct is subject to the normal application of the antitrust laws. Disclaimer The issuance of this Certificate of Review to AHH by the Secretary of Commerce with the concurrence of the Attorney General under the provisions of the Act does not constitute, explicitly or implicitly, an endorsement or opinion by the Secretary or by the Attorney General concerning either (a) the viability or quality of the business plans of AHH or its Members or (b) the legality of such business plans of AHH or its Members under the laws of the United States (other than as provided in the Act) or under the laws of any foreign country. The application of this Certificate to conduct in export trade where the United States Government is the buyer or where the United States Government bears more than half the cost of the transaction is subject to the limitations set forth in Section V. (D.) of the ``Guidelines for the Issuance of Export Trade Certificates of Review (Second Edition)'', 50 Fed. Reg. 1786 (January 11, 1985). A copy of this certificate will be kept in the International Trade Administration's Freedom of Information Records Inspection Facility Room 4102, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20230. EFFECTIVE DATE: July 13, 1994. Dated: July 15, 1994. W. Dawn Busby, Director, Office of Trading Company Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17725 Filed 7&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DR&hyph;P
