FR941206-1-00109 FR941206-1-00008 Any new or reconstructed sources would be required to adhere to the compliance schedule in ยง63.6(b) of subpart A of the general provisions. For new or reconstructed sources whose startup date is before the effective date of the rule, the compliance date would be the effective date of the rule. For new or reconstructed sources whose startup date is after the effective date of the rule, the compliance date would be the startup date. A new unaffected area source that increases its emissions (or potential to emit) such that it becomes a major source would be required to comply immediately upon becoming a major source. Many shipyards in California have been complying with VOC limits equal to those in the proposed BACM since September 1991. Hence, coatings that meet the limits should be readily available. E. Selection of Compliance Procedures The proposed rule would allow affected sources to choose from five options for demonstrating compliance with the VOHAP standards. Regardless of the option(s) chosen, for each coating, affected sources would be required to first determine: (1) its coating category in Table 1 (e.g., general use, air flask, antenna, etc.), (2) the applicable VOHAP limit, and (3) the VOC (or VOHAP) content for each manufactured batch of coating. The VOC (or VOHAP) content of the batch would be determined through certification as explained in part III.D. (It is in the best interest of affected sources to use manufacturers that certify their coatings.) For options 1 through 4 involving VOC content determinations, the compliance method is the Agency's Method 24. Affected sources would be allowed any of the methods described below to avoid testing every container. The ultimate referee method, however, is Method 24. Option 5 involves VOHAP content determinations; the compliance method has to be approved by the Administrator and comply with EPA requirements for sample preparation. The proposed rule does not specify compliance procedures for the handling, transfer, and storage standard. Each affected source would be required to develop and include specific compliance procedures for their facility in the initial notification to the Administrator. An affected source would be allowed to select any of the following methods for compliance and may choose to use only one of the options for all coatings at the facility or use a combination of options. Option 1. Certification of Each Container or Coating, As-Applied Procedures for certifying the quantity of VOC emitted by paints, ink, and other coatings are combined in the EPA publication 450/3&hyph;84&hyph;019 (revised 6/86). Compliance with the VOHAP content limits would be achieved by sampling, testing, and certifying the VOC content of each container of coating, as applied. If the as-applied VOC content is less than or equal to the VOHAP limit in Table 1, the coating complies. Option 2. Coatings To Which Thinning Solvent Will Not Be Added If thinning solvents will not be added to the coating under any circumstances, the affected source may demonstrate compliance with the VOHAP content limit by certifying the as-applied VOC content by manufacturer's batch. The as- applied certification may be based on a coating that has been certified by the manufacturer as to the as-supplied content and simply requires documentation that no thinning solvent was added to the coating. No additional testing would be necessary. All painters would have to be notified that no thinning solvent may be added to the coating before application. This notification may be accomplished through a label affixed to each container in the batch or through another means of notification specified in the source's initial notification that is required in ยง63.9(b) of subpart A of the general provisions. Other means of notifying painters may include use of a bar coding system or posting of a list of coatings that should not have thinning solvents added. This option is the least burdensome to affected sources, but it may only be used for coatings that will not be thinned. However, any Method 24 tests on individual containers of coating, as applied, that show noncompliance with the standards would take precedence and indicate a violation.
