FR940124-1-00064 FR940124-1-00008 (d) A summary of the agency's major accrediting activities during the previous year (an annual data summary), if so requested by the Secretary to carry out the Secretary's responsibilities related to this part; (e) Upon request, information to assist the Secretary in resolving problems with any institution or program accredited by the agency, provided that the request does not conflict with the agency's policies on confidentiality with respect to its records on those institutions or programs; and (f) Any proposed change that might alter the agency's_ (1) Scope of recognition; or (2) Compliance with the requirements of this part. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099b) Subpart B_Recognition and Termination Procedures ยง602.10 Application for recognition. (a) An accrediting agency seeking initial or renewed recognition by the Secretary as a nationally recognized accrediting agency submits a written application to the Secretary. The application for recognition consists of_ (1) A statement of the agency's requested scope of recognition; (2) An analysis of the agency's compliance with the criteria for recognition set forth in this part; and (3) Supporting documentation. (b)(1) An accrediting agency's application for recognition constitutes a grant of authority to the Secretary to conduct site visits and to gain access to agency records, personnel, and facilities on an announced or unannounced basis. (2) The Secretary conducts an unannounced site visit only, where necessary in the judgment of the Secretary, to obtain information to verify that the agency is in compliance with the requirements of this part and the information cannot be obtained or substantiated in an announced site visit. (c) The Secretary does not make available to the public any confidential agency materials examined by Department personnel or the Secretary as part of the evaluation of an accrediting agency's application for recognition. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099b) ยง602.11 Preliminary review by the Secretary. (a) Upon receipt of an accrediting agency's application for recognition, the Secretary_ (1) Establishes a schedule for the review of the agency by the designated Department official, the National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity, and the Secretary; and (2) Publishes a notice of the agency's application in the Federal Register inviting public comment on the agency's compliance with the requirements for recognition. (b)(1) The designated Department official analyzes the accrediting agency's application to determine whether the agency satisfies the requirements of this part, taking into account all available relevant information concerning the compliance of the agency with the requirements for recognition. The analysis includes_ (i) Site visits, on an announced or unannounced basis, to the agency and, at the Secretary's discretion, representative institutions or programs it accredits; (ii) Review of public comment and other third-party information solicited by the Secretary, as well as any other information provided to the Secretary, concerning the performance of the agency in relation to the requirements of this part; and (iii) Review of complaints or legal actions involving the agency. (2) The designated Department official's evaluation may also include a review of information directly related to institutions or programs accredited or preaccredited by the agency, relative to their compliance with the accrediting agency's standards, the effectiveness of the agency's standards, or the agency's application of those standards. (c) The designated Department official_ (1) Prepares a written analysis of the accrediting agency; (2) Sends the analysis and all supporting documentation, including all third-party comments received by the Secretary, to the agency in advance of the Advisory Committee meeting; and (3) Specifies a time period before the Advisory Committee meeting during which the agency may provide the designated Department official with any written comments on the analysis. (d) The accrediting agency provides any written comments it chooses to make to the designated Department official before the expiration of the time period specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. (e) The designated Department official provides the Advisory Committee with the accrediting agency's application and supporting documentation, the designated Department official's analysis of the application, all information relied upon in developing the analysis, any response by the agency to the analysis, any Department rebuttal to the agency's response, and any third-party information the Secretary receives regarding the agency. (f) The designated Department official provides the agency with a copy of any Department rebuttal provided to the Advisory Committee under paragraph (e) of this section. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099b) ยง602.12 Review by the National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity. (a)(1) The Advisory Committee considers an accrediting agency's application at a public meeting and invites the designated Department official, the agency, and other interested parties to make oral presentations at the meeting. (2) The designated Department official arranges for a transcript to be made of the Advisory Committee meeting. (b) At the conclusion of the meeting, the Advisory Committee recommends that the Secretary approve or deny recognition of the accrediting agency or defer a decision on the agency's application.
