FR940513-2-00017 FR940513-2-00012 COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION Merger of the Commodity Exchange, Inc., and the New York Mercantile Exchange AGENCY: Commodity Futures Trading Commission. ACTION: Notice of the proposed merger of the Commodity Exchange, Inc., and the New York Mercantile Exchange and of proposed rules and rule amendments to implement that merger. SUMMARY: The New York Mercantile Exchange (``NYMEX'') has submitted a plan to merge NYMEX and the Commodity Exchange, Inc., (``COMEX'') and proposed new rules and rule amendments to implement the merger. Acting pursuant to the authority delegated by Commission Regulation 140.96, the Division of Trading and Markets has determined to publish the proposal for public comment. The Division believes that publication of the proposal is in the public interest and will assist the Commission in considering the views of interested persons. DATES: Comments must be received on or before June 13, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Clarence Sanders, Attorney, Division of Trading and Markets, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 2033 K Street NW., Washington, DC 20581. Telephone: (202) 254&hyph;8955. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Description of Proposed Rules and Rule Amendments By a letter dated May 6, 1994, NYMEX submitted for Commission approval pursuant to Section 5a(a)(12)(A) of the Commodity Exchange Act (``Act'') proposed rule amendments designed to implement a Plan of Merger (``Plan'') between NYMEX and COMEX. 1 Under the Plan, COMEX would remain a separate corporate entity, but would be restructured as a wholly owned subsidiary of NYMEX (the ``COMEX Division''). Current COMEX memberships would be converted to transferable trading rights in the COMEX Division of NYMEX which would allow the holders access to COMEX Division markets. The Plan also would provide for certain cross-access trading rights between members of NYMEX and members of the COMEX Division. 1 The merger plan as set forth has been approved by the governing boards of both exchanges and by a vote of their memberships. The COMEX Division would be governed by a Board of Directors selected by NYMEX. The COMEX Board would be advised by a COMEX Governors Committee on matters pertinent to specifically identified rights and obligations of the COMEX Division membership. The COMEX Governors Committee would be composed of ten members elected by the COMEX Division membership and also include three appointed members representing NYMEX. Except for the rules proposed to establish the newly created governance system for the COMEX Division, and to govern the associated rights and obligations of the COMEX Division membership, the proposed rule changes for the COMEX Division are substantively the same as existing NYMEX rules, which have previously received Commission approval. II. Request for Comments The Commission requests comments from interested persons concerning any aspect of the proposed merger of COMEX and NYMEX that commenters believe raises issues under the Act or Commission regulations. Copies of the proposed rules and related materials are available for inspection at the Office of the Secretariat, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 2033 K Street NW., Washington, DC 20581. Copies also may be obtained through the Office of the Secretariat at the above address or by telephoning (202) 254&hyph;6314. Some materials may be subject to confidential treatment pursuant to 17 CFR 145.5 or 145.9. Any person interested in submitting written data, views, or arguments on the proposed merger or proposed new rules or rule amendments should send such comments to Jean A. Webb, Secretary, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 2033 K Street NW., Washington, DC 20581, by the specified date. Issued in Washington, DC, on May 10, 1994. Alan L. Seifert, Deputy Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11747 Filed 5&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6351&hyph;01&hyph;P
