FR940328-1-00052 FR940328-1-00023 Rodrigues fody ( Foudia flavicans )._1980 petition, ICBP endangered, proposed U.S. endangered; another small insectivorous weaver of the family Ploceidae; occurs only on the island of Rodrigues, a part of Mauritius in the Indian Ocean. Formerly abundant in a variety of habitats on the island, by 1983 only about 100 individuals survived in remnant patches of evergreen forest. The main problem appears to be competition with the related Madagascar fody ( Foudia madagascariensis ), which was introduced by people and which evidently has adapted better to all habitats except mature forest (E). Since the latter habitat has been largely destroyed by human activity, the range of F. flavicans has been greatly reduced (A). In addition, the species is threatened by predation from introduced rats (C) and by the effects of cyclones (E). Djibouti francolin ( Francolinus ochropectus )._1991 petition, ICBP endangered, proposed U.S. endangered; a ground-dwelling, partridgelike bird of the family Phasianidae; restricted to highland forest in the country of Djibouti in northeastern Africa. Its restricted habitat is rapidly being destroyed by overgrazing, clearing, and other human activity (A). Only about 1,500 birds were thought to survive in 1985. Freira ( Pterodroma madeira )._1991 petition, ICBP endangered, proposed U.S. endangered; a small sea bird of the family Procellariidae (petrels and shearwaters); known to breed only in the mountains of Madeira, an island possession of Portugal in the Atlantic Ocean. It has declined because of human bird and egg collectors (B), predation by introduced rats (C), and possibly natural climatic changes (E). Only 20 breeding pairs may survive. Alaotra grebe ( Tachybaptus rufolavatus )._1991 petition, ICBP endangered, proposed U.S. endangered; a small diving bird of the family Podicipedidae; known primarily from Lake Alaotra and adjacent marshes in northeastern Madagascar. Human alteration of the limited habitat of the Alaotra grebe (A), especially the introduction of exotic fish, resulted in a great increase there of the much more widespread little grebe ( Tachybaptus ruficollis ) and to extensive hybridization between the two species (E). It appears that the resulting genetic swamping of the Alaotra grebe is irreversible. White-breasted guineafowl ( Agelastes meleagrides )._1991 petition, ICBP endangered, proposed U.S. endangered; a medium-sized ground-dwelling bird of the family Numididae, related to turkeys and peacocks; originally occurred throughout the rainforest zone from Sierra Leone to Ghana. This species evidently is dependent on primary forest and is unable to survive in the dense undergrowth of secondary forest. It has disappeared from most of its range, mainly because of timber exploitation (A). It also has been severely affected by human hunting pressure (B). It may survive only in Ivory Coast and Liberia, and in only small numbers even there.
