FR941222-0-00003 FR941222-0-00001 9 CFR Part 92 [Docket No. 93&hyph;006&hyph;3] Importation of Certain Cattle From Mexico; Identification Requirements AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: We are amending the animal importation regulations to require that certain spayed heifers imported into the United States from Mexico be marked with a permanent, legible ``M x '' on the right hip, and that certain steers imported into the United States from Mexico be marked with a permanent, legible ``M'' on the right hip, rather than on the jaw. These marking requirements are necessary to ensure that all steers and spayed heifers imported into the United States from Mexico, except those imported directly to slaughter or in-bond for feeding and return to Mexico, are clearly identifiable as being of Mexican origin. These marking requirements will facilitate the disease surveillance and traceback activities conducted in the United States under the National Cooperative State-Federal Bovine Tuberculosis Eradication Program. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 23, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. David Vogt, Senior Staff Veterinarian, Import-Export Animals Staff, Veterinary Services, APHIS, USDA, P.O. Drawer 810, Riverdale, MD 20738. The telephone number for the agency contact will change when agency offices in Hyattsville, MD, move to Riverdale, MD, during January 1995. Telephone: (301) 436&hyph;8170 (Hyattsville); (301) 734&hyph;8170 (Riverdale). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulations in 9 CFR part 92 prohibit or restrict the importation of certain animals into the United States to prevent the introduction of communicable diseases of livestock and poultry. Subpart D of part 92 (§§92.400 through 92.435), referred to below as the regulations, pertains to the importation of ruminants. Sections 92.424 through 92.429 of the regulations contain specific provisions regarding the importation of ruminants, including cattle, from Mexico. One of the diseases addressed by the regulations is bovine tuberculosis (referred to below as tuberculosis). Tuberculosis is a serious communicable disease of cattle, bison, and other species, including humans, caused by Mycobacterium bovis. Tuberculosis in animals causes weight loss, general debilitation, and sometimes death. Each year, approximately 1 million cattle are imported into the United States from Mexico. The vast majority of those cattle_about 99 percent_are young steers; the remaining 1 percent consists of spayed heifers and intact cattle (i.e., calves, bulls, and unspayed females). The steers and spayed heifers are, with few exceptions, consigned to pastures or feedlots for finish feeding prior to slaughter. Most intact cattle are integrated into herds in the United States for breeding purposes. The period between 1982 and 1992 saw a significant increase in the number of Mexican-origin cattle found at slaughter in the United States to be infected with tuberculosis. In 1982, 78 samples submitted from slaughtered Mexican-origin cattle showed evidence of tuberculosis; that number rose to 613 in 1992. In 1982, 33 percent of the tuberculosis investigations at slaughter involved Mexican origin cattle; in 1992, that number rose to 81 percent. That increase in the incidence of tuberculosis in Mexican-origin cattle led the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) to publish in the Federal Register on November 12, 1993 (58 FR 59963&hyph;59965, Docket No. 93&hyph;006&hyph;1), a proposed rule to amend the regulations to require that spayed heifers and intact cattle (i.e., calves, bulls, and unspayed female cattle) imported into the United States from Mexico be branded with an ``M'' on the jaw using a hot iron, which was the same requirement that applied to most steers imported from Mexico. Based on the comments we received from individuals and organizations opposed to that proposal, as well as public concern that branding on the jaw caused unnecessary distress to cattle, we withdrew the November 12, 1993, proposed rule referenced above and replaced it with an alternative proposal. In the alternative proposal, which was published in the Federal Register on August 24, 1994 (59 FR 43506&hyph;43508, Docket No. 93&hyph;006&hyph;2), we proposed to amend the regulations to require that certain spayed heifers imported into the United States from Mexico be marked with a permanent, legible ``M x '' on the right hip, and that certain steers imported into the United States from Mexico be marked with a permanent, legible ``M'' on the right hip, rather than on the jaw. We solicited comments concerning our alternative proposal for a 60-day period ending October 24, 1994. We received more than 12,000 comments by that date. They were from private citizens, animal rights organizations, a member of Congress, cattle industry associations, ranchers, representatives of State governments, and a veterinary medical association. We carefully considered all of the comments we received. They are discussed below. Many commenters did not address the specific provisions of the proposed rule; rather, they either demanded that APHIS discontinue face branding or stated that they supported APHIS' proposal to discontinue face branding of steers. We have, therefore, taken such comments to support that aspect of the proposal that would change the location of the ``M'' brand on steers from the jaw to the right hip. A few commenters objected to the proposed rule in its entirety because they felt that APHIS should conduct its disease surveillance activities as it sees fit and should not capitulate to outside pressure to change its methods. We have made no changes in this final rule based on such comments because we believe that the provisions of the proposed rule and this final rule do not negatively affect APHIS' ability to conduct its disease surveillance activities. Several commenters felt that moving the brand from the face to the hip was no improvement, and that all M-branding should be discontinued. We have made no changes in this final rule based on such comments because we continue to believe, for the reasons discussed below, that some type of permanent marking is necessary to identify cattle imported into the United States from Mexico. One commenter urged APHIS to keep the location of the brand on the jaw because branding on other locations can markedly reduce the value of the hide. While it is true that marking methods such as hot-iron branding and freeze branding do damage the hides of cattle and would likely result in some loss of value, many private entities such as cattle owners and feedlots routinely brand cattle on areas of the hide that would have trimmed to produce a ``clean'' hide. Moreover, we do not believe that the economic considerations associated with the placement of the brand on the hip are significant enough to warrant such a change in this final rule, especially given the degree of public support for our proposal to relocate the brand from the jaw to the hip. Two commenters stated that the location of the brand should remain on the jaw, which has been set aside by some State livestock agencies for ``government'' brands. They argued that brands on the hip would be less visible and could be easily confused with registered ownership brands_a number of which are similar to the ``M'' or ``M x '' mark_or feedlot brands. The same location specified for the ``M'' or ``M x '' mark has been used by APHIS for the placement of ``S'' brands under the brucellosis regulations in 9 CFR part 78 since 1983, and we are unaware of any identification problems resulting from that requirement. In terms of the visibility of the ``M'' or ``M x '' mark, the mark will be predictably located on each animal, so we believe that State and Federal animal health personnel will be able to readily discern the mark when necessary. Therefore, we have made no changes in this final rule as a result of those comments.
