FR940805-1-00094 FR940805-1-00013 (2) Multiple occupancy requirements. Where used, multiple occupancy rooms shall provide: (i) a minimum of sixty square feet of floor space per occupant in the sleeping area of which no more than four square feet is closet or wardrobe space; (ii) natural light; (iii) access to toilets, washbasins and showers, with some degree of privacy; and (iv) some degree of privacy in the sleeping area. (3) Space, furnishings and conditions for dayrooms. The facility shall provide dayroom space sufficient for facility residents. The dayroom shall provides: (i) natural light; (ii) a minimum of thirty-five square feet of space per resident; and (iii) seating and writing surfaces, sufficient for the number of residents who use the dayroom. (4) Toilets. The facility shall provide operable toilets at a minimum ratio of one for every twelve residents in male facilities and one for every eight residents in female facilities. Urinals may be substituted for up to one-half of the toilets in male facilities. All housing units with three or more residents shall have two toilets. (5) Wash basins. Residents shall have access to operable wash basins with hot and cold running water in the housing units at a minimum ratio of one basin for every twelve occupants. (6) Showers. Residents shall have access to operable showers with temperature-controlled hot and cold running water at a minimum of one shower for every eight residents. Water for showers shall be thermostatically controlled to temperatures ranging from one hundred degrees to one hundred-twenty degrees Fahrenheit. (7) Housing for the disabled. Disabled residents shall be housed in a manner that provides for their safety in compliance with 25 U.S.C. 794 (the Rehabilitation Act of 1973) as amended, 41 CFR 101&hyph;19.6 (Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards), and 43 CFR Part 17, yet prevents their being discriminated against in their use of the facility. (8) Exercise and recreation areas. The facility shall provide access to outdoor, covered or enclosed exercise areas. Outdoor exercise areas shall provide a minimum of one thousand five hundred square feet of unencumbered space; covered and enclosed exercise areas shall provide a minimum of one thousand square feet of unencumbered space. Exercise areas shall be adequate in size and type to ensure that each resident shall be offered at least one hour of access daily regardless of climatic conditions. (9) Multi-purpose and interview rooms. The facility shall provide a minimum of one accessible multi-purpose room and one accessible interview room. (10) Visiting spaces. The facility shall provide space and furnishings for group activities and visits. The space shall allow contact between residents and visitors. (11) Food service spaces. When the facility provides for food preparation, it shall have adequate space for food processing, storage, refrigeration and sanitation. Toilet and wash basin facilities shall be available to food service personnel and residents in the vicinity of the food preparation area. The square footage of the kitchen shall be appropriate to the needs of the facility. The facility shall provide a dining area with a minimum of fifteen square feet per occupant. (12) Storage spaces. The facility shall provide the following storage spaces: (i) a secure, well-ventilated janitor closet, which includes sink and adequate space for the storage of cleaning implements and supplies; (ii) secure storage for flammable, toxic and caustic items; and (iii) storage space for resident clothing, bedding, mattresses, personal hygiene items and facility supplies. (13) Laundry. The facility shall have a minimum of one operable washer and one operable dryer, appropriate to the level of use, or equivalent laundry services available in the community. (14) Medication storage. The facility shall provide space for the secure storage of medications kept in the facility. (15) Staff toilets. The facility shall provide staff toilets that residents shall not use. (16) Public spaces. The facility shall provide public restroom(s) and a visitor waiting or entry with an adequate number of seats to accommodate anticipated visitors outside resident living areas. (17) Administration. The facility shall provide adequate space for its administrative functions. This space shall include an office for the administrator, work space for clerical staff, space for duplication of copies, supply and equipment storage, space for storage of facility records and space for meetings. (18) Staff. The facility shall provide adequate space for staff assigned to work in the facility. These spaces include an area in which they can store personal property, change clothes and shower, and an area in which training, meetings, briefings and breaks can occur. (19) Mechanical. The facility shall provide separate and adequate space for mechanical systems and equipment. ยง10.33 Institutional operations. (a) Security and control _(1) Full coverage of posts. At least one staff person shall be on the facility premises, awake, available and responsible to residents' needs twenty-four hours a day. The staffing pattern of the facility shall concentrate staff at the times when most residents are in the facility. (2) Supervision of coed activities. Facility staff shall supervise male and female residents in coed activities and spaces continuously and directly. (3) Male and female staff requirement. When both males and females are housed in the facility, at least one male and female staff member shall be on duty at all times. (4) Prohibited supervision. No resident or group of residents shall be given control or authority over other residents. (5) Counts. The facility shall have a system to physically count residents that includes strict accountability for residents assigned to work and education release and other approved temporary releases. (6) Movement. Community residential staff shall regulate all resident movement outside the facility. (7) Transportation of residents. The administrator shall govern the safe and secure transportation of residents outside the facility.
