FR941116-0-00031 FR941116-0-00006 Further, the FAA notes that one operator and a manufacturer, Pneudraulics, already have provided these data to the FAA, and the final rule has been revised to add certain Pneudraulics valves to the category of valves subject to a 1,000-flight hour leak check interval. (Without the submission and approval of this data, these valves would have been required to be leak checked at the 200-flight hour interval.) Differences Between Paragraphs (a) and (b) of the Rule One commenter maintains that the FAA's safety objective in addressing the ``blue ice'' issue should be to ensure that each and every operator has a comprehensive lavatory drain service program in place. The commenter points out that the FAA attempted this approach under the provisions of proposed paragraph (b), but made the conditions of compliance more stringent than those of proposed paragraph (a), such that no operator would elect to comply with paragraph (b). The commenter considers this unfortunate since it will result in a less effective ``blue ice'' prevention program fleetwide. The FAA acknowledges that a difference exists between the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b), both in the supplemental NPRM and in this final rule. However, as explained elsewhere in this preamble, the FAA has revised several requirements of paragraph (b) of the final rule to make it more ``attractive'' to operators. Certain of these revised requirements include extended leak check intervals for some valves. The FAA does consider that revising the maintenance program to include the procedures specified in paragraph (b) will be more effective overall in addressing ``blue ice'' as an on-going issue. The provisions of paragraph (b) are more comprehensive in approach: they include requirements not only for leak checks of the valves, but replacement of valve seals, repetitive visual inspections for leakage, procedures for reporting leakage, and training programs to inform pertinent personnel on ``blue ice'' awareness. The FAA considers that it is appropriate to maintain the provisions of paragraph (a) as an option, so that operators without an FAA-approved maintenance program will have some means to comply with the rule. Along this same line, another commenter points out other differences between the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b). The commenter indicates that any valve service history data that is gathered by an operator complying with paragraph (a) may not be as valuable as data gathered by an operator complying with paragraph (b). Unless there is a specific, scheduled maintenance program, there is no way to determine if a valve may have begun leaking before a leak check was conducted and was subsequently repaired; therefore, merely passing a leak check successfully, as under the provisions of paragraph (a), does not verify the valve's reliability. The FAA acknowledges this commenter's observations. However, the FAA expects that some operators will choose to comply with the provisions of paragraph (b) and will provide the FAA with valve service history data. These data may indicate that the current leak check intervals are acceptable for operators operating under a maintenance program, but should be shortened for operators without a maintenance program. If, as the commenter suggests, leak tests alone prove to be inadequate to prevent ``blue ice'' formation, the FAA may consider revising this rule at a later time to modify or delete paragraph (a). Alternative Recordkeeping Several commenters request that a revision be made to proposed paragraph (b) that would allow for the use of an alternative method of recordkeeping to that otherwise required by Federal Aviation Regulations ยง121.380 (14 CFR 121.380), ``Maintenance recording requirements''. The commenters' main concern is that it should be clear to the cognizant Principal Maintenance Inspectors (PMI), and other FAA officials in the years ahead, that once the maintenance program revision is made and approved, the AD is ``signed off as complete.'' No other special records should be required to track the various tasks specified in proposed paragraph (b) (such as valve seal replacement, training, reporting procedures, visual checks, etc.), which are in addition to the recordkeeping requirements that now exist within each of the affected operator's maintenance program. The FAA does not concur with the commenters' request for many of the same reasons it did not concur with a similar request made in response to the previous supplemental NPRM. The FAA considers that, even though this AD would affect the maintenance program, it is of such importance that it warrants other than ``normal'' procedures to be followed in certain aspects. Some method of recordkeeping must be maintained to ensure that the required valve seal changes and periodic leak checks continue, and to ensure that the procedures required by this AD are not eventually dropped from any operator's maintenance program.
