FR940713-2-00132 FR940713-2-00077 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34323; File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;15] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. Relating to Solicited Transactions July 6, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on May 3, 1994, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. (``CBOE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Exchange proposes to adopt a new Rule 6.9 that would regulate the execution of ``solicited orders,'' as that term is defined in the rule; would set forth specific priority principles applicable to such orders; and would restrict trading by members and associated persons possessing knowledge of imminent undisclosed solicited transactions. The text of the proposal is available at the Office of the Secretary, CBOE and at the Commission. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose Of, and Statutory Basis For, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B) and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose Of, and Statutory Basis For, the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of the proposed rule change is to regulate the execution of ``solicited'' transactions in options, i.e., options transactions having terms that are pre-negotiated prior to the time the orders comprising the transaction are exposed to the trading crowd on the CBOE floor. The proposed rule change also restricts trading in any class of an option, as well as trading in the underlying security or any ``related instrument,'' by CBOE members and their associated persons who have knowledge of an imminent solicited transaction in options of that class. This prohibition applies until all terms are disclosed to the trading crowd or until execution of the solicited transaction cannot reasonably be considered imminent given the passage of time since the transaction was agreed upon. The Exchange believes that it is appropriate to permit solicitation between potential buyers and potential sellers of options in advance of the time they send actual orders to the trading crowd on the Exchange. The Exchange states that complex options orders, such as spreads, straddles and combination orders, as well as stock-option orders, often require the ``advance shopping'' that is characteristic of a solicited transaction. The Exchange believes that such interactions between buyers and sellers and the resulting solicited transactions can enhance liquidity and depth at the CBOE by bringing orders to the floor that might otherwise be difficult to effect. Nevertheless, if the orders that comprise a solicited transaction are not suitably exposed to the order interaction process on the CBOE floor, the execution of such orders would not be consistent with CBOE rules designed to promote order interaction in an open-outcry auction. For example, Rule 6.43 requires bids and offers to be made at the post by public outcry, and Rule 6.74 imposes specific order exposure requirements on floor brokers seeking to cross buy orders with sell orders. Solicited transactions by definition entail negotiation, and if the orders that comprise a solicited transaction are not adequately exposed to the floor auction, the crowd cannot have sufficient time to digest and react to those orders' terms. The pre-negotiation inherent in the solicitation process thus can enable the parties to a solicited transaction to preempt the crowd to an execution at the pre-negotiated price. Proposed Rule 6.9 is intended to preserve the right to solicit orders in advance of submitting a proposed trade to the crowd, while at the same time assuring that original orders that are the subject of a solicitation are exposed to the auction market in a meaningful way. For instance, the proposed rule change would require a member representing an original order that is the subject of a solicitation to disclose the terms of the original order to the crowd before the original order can be executed. CBOE believes that such disclosure would eliminate the unfairness that can be associated with pre-negotiated transactions and would subject the order that is the subject of the solicitation to full auction interaction with other orders in the crowd. To promote disclosure at the inception of a solicitation period, rather than later, and to encourage solicited persons to bid or offer at prices that improve the current market, CBOE's rule change would establish a series of priority principles for solicited transactions. Priority would be accorded depending on whether the original order is disclosed throughout the solicitation period; whether the solicited order improves the best bid or offer in the crowd; and whether the solicited order matches the original order's limit. Thus, when the original order is disclosed in advance of the solicitation and the solicited order both matches the disclosed original order's limit and improves the market, the solicited order will have priority over other orders in the crowd and may trade with the original order at the improved bid or offered price, subject to the customer limit order book priorities set forth in Rule 6.45. When a solicited order does not match the original order's limit and does not improve the market, however, it will not have priority over other bids and offers represented in the crowd even if the original order was disclosed to the crowd for the full solicitation period. A responsive solicited order will not have priority to trade with the original order even if the solicited order improves the market; instead, in that instance, others in the crowd may trade ahead of the solicited person at the improved price. In addition to requiring disclosure of original orders and clarifying the priority principles applicable to solicited transactions, proposed Rule 6.9(e) would make it prohibited conduct, inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade, for any member or associated person who has knowledge of all the material terms of an original order and a solicited order that matches the original order's price, to enter an order to buy or sell an option of the same class as any option that is the subject of the solicitation prior to the time the original order's terms are disclosed to the crowd or the execution of the solicited transaction can no longer reasonably be considered imminent. This prohibition would extend to orders to buy or sell the underlying security or any ``related instrument,'' as that term is defined in the Rule. The CBOE believes that these prophylactic requirements are necessary to prevent members and associated persons from using undisclosed information about imminent solicited option transactions to trade the relevant option or any closely-related instrument in advance of persons represented in the relevant options crowd. The CBOE believes that proposed Rule 6.9 will improve the CBOE auction by clarifying the requirements applicable to solicited transactions and by enabling the Exchange to initiate enforcement proceedings in appropriate cases under specific rules. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with section 6(b) of the Act in general and section 6(b)(5) in particular in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trades and to protect investors and the public interest. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition CBOE does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Written comments on the proposed rule change were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period: (i) As the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (a) By order approve such proposed rule change, or (b) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved.
