FR940505-1-00401 FR940505-1-00012 (A) A static pressure leak test using ST&hyph;30, TP&hyph;91&hyph;2 or CARB TP&hyph;201.3 shall be performed at least once per calendar year or upon alteration or repair of facilities equipped with a vacuum-assist Phase II system. (B) A static pressure leak test using ST&hyph;30, TP&hyph;91&hyph;2 or CARB TP&hyph;201.3 shall be performed at least once every two years or upon alteration or repair of facilities equipped with a balanced Phase II system. (C) A liquid blockage test using ST&hyph;27, TP&hyph;91&hyph;2, or CARB TP&hyph;201.2 shall be performed at least every five years. (v) For existing gasoline storage and dispensing facilities, if the facility has not been verified for functional Phase I or Phase II vapor recovery systems within the last four years before the date of promulgation of this section, then functional tests shall be performed at the facility within one year of the date of promulgation of this section. Facilities which have been tested within four years and have the test results documented, shall perform the reverification tests within five years from the date of the tests. All other existing facilities shall be tested within one year of the date of promulgation of this section. Reverification of static pressure integrity shall be performed within one year after promulgation of this section for vacuum-assist systems or two years after promulgation or after the last test, whichever is earliest, for balanced systems. (7) Recordkeeping. All permits or licenses to operate the facility or to operate a specific system at the facility shall be current at all times. The records required in paragraphs (j)(7) (i) through (iv) of this section shall be maintained at each facility for a minimum of five years, and should be made available to EPA and local enforcement personnel upon request. (i) Verification that the vapor recovery system meets or exceeds the requirements of the tests specified in paragraphs (j)(6) (i), (ii), and (iv) of this section shall be maintained. The test results shall be dated and shall contain names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the parties responsible for the system installation and/or testing. (ii) All maintenance conducted on any part of the vapor recovery system shall be logged on a maintenance record maintained in chronological order showing dates, description of any equipment replaced with its location, and a description of the system problem which resulted in repairs. The log shall also indicate the time period and duration of each malfunction of the system. (iii) A file of all inspection reports issued by inspecting agencies shall be maintained in chronological order. (iv) A chronologically organized file of all compliance records issued by regulating agencies shall be maintained separately from the inspection reports. (k) Emissions from Waste Burning. (1) Applicability. On or after January 1, 1996, any person conducting agricultural burning or open burning shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (k) (4) and (5) of this section. For the purposes of this section, the affected areas include the Sacramento Metro Area, the Los Angeles-South Coast Air Basin Area, and the Ventura County Area as described for ozone in 40 CFR 81.305. (2) Definitions. For the purposes of paragraph (k) of this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in ยง52.2950. Agricultural burning means open outdoor fires used in the following operations: agricultural operations; forest management; range improvement; improvement of land for wildlife and game habitat; disease or pest prevention; operation or maintenance of a system for the delivery of water used in any agricultural operation, forest management, range improvement, land improvement for wildlife and game habitat, and disease or pest prevention operation; wildland vegetation management. Agricultural operations means the production of materials produced wholly from operations in the growing and harvesting of crops or raising of fowl or animals for the primary purpose of making a profit, of providing a livelihood, or of conducting agricultural research or instruction by an educational institution. In connection with open burning of materials produced from agricultural operations are the burning of grass and weeds in or adjacent to fields in cultivation or being prepared for cultivation, and the burning of materials not produced wholly from agricultural operations, but which are intimately related to the growing or harvesting of crops and which are used in the field (e.g., trays for drying raisins, date palm protection paper, and fertilizer and pesticide sacks or containers where the sacks or containers are emptied in the field.) Designated agency means any agency designated by the State Air Resources Board as having authority to issue agricultural burning permits. The U.S. Forest Service, the California Department of Forestry, local air districts, local fire control agencies are designated for their respective jurisdictions. Forest management burning means the use of open fires, as part of a forest management practice, to remove forest debris or for forest management practices which include timber operations, silvicultural practices or forest protection practices. Local air district means any of the following districts: El Dorado County Air Pollution Control District (APCD), Feather River Air Quality Management District (AQMD), Placer County APCD, Sacramento Metropolitan AQMD, South Coast AQMD, Ventura County APCD, Yolo-Solano APCD. No-burn day means a day on which agricultural burning and open burning are prohibited by the EPA, State Air Resources Board, or local air district due to a predicted exceedence of the State ambient air quality standard (0.09 ppm) for ozone. Open burning means planned open burning of trash, leaves, and refuse from all activities except agricultural operations, forest management, range improvement, improvement of land for wildlife and game habitat, disease or pest prevention, operation or maintenance of a system for the delivery of water used in any agricultural operation, forest management, range improvement, land improvement for wildlife and game habitat, and disease or pest prevention operation, and wildland vegetation management where the products of combustion are not directed through a flue. Permissive-burn day means a day on which agricultural burning and open burning are allowed by the EPA, State Air Resources Board, or local air district. Range improvement burning means the use of open fires to remove vegetation for a wildlife, game or livestock habitat or for the initial establishment of an agricultural practice on previously uncultivated land. Silvicultural practices means establish, development, care and reproduction of stands of timber. Timber operations means cutting or removal of timber or other forest vegetation. Waste burning means agricultural burning, range management burning, forest management burning, and open burning. Wildland vegetation management burning means the use of prescribed burning conducted by a public agency, or through a cooperative agreement or contract involving a public agency, to burn land predominantly covered with chaparral, trees, grass, or standing brush. (3) No-burn day determination. A no-burn day may be declared by the USEPA, State Air Resources Board, or local air district if an exceedence of the State ambient air quality standard for ozone (0.09 ppm) is predicted. The following conditions will be evaluated each day for predicting the ozone level for the following day.
