FR940817-1-00048 FR940817-1-00013 Administrative cost savings are expected to add to the benefits. The most substantial component of these savings should result from reducing the current annual requirement for IA renewal to a biennial one. The FAA estimates that these cost savings for the FAA would amount to $.71 million on a discounted basis over a 10-year period. A provision that would allow mechanics to substitute a requalification course for the requirement to work at least 6 months over the previous 2 years in order to maintain one's currency would benefit employers by not only increasing the pool of available qualified mechanics, but also by saving them the administrative costs involved in checking an applicant's qualifications for the job. These benefits could not be quantified. Regulatory Flexibility Determination The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (RFA) was enacted by Congres to ensure that small entities are not unnecessarily and disproportionately burdened by government regulations. The RFA requires agencies to review rules which may have a ``significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.'' Small entities include businesses, nonprofit organizations, and government jurisdictions. The proposed regulation will affect individuals only and is, therefore, not expected to have a significant impact on a substantial number of small businesses. International Trade Impact The proposed rule would have a negligible impact on trade opportunities for U.S. firms doing business overseas or on foreign firms doing business in the United States. The proposed rule primarily affects individuals, not businesses involved in the sale of aviation products or services. Federalism Implications The regulation proposed herein will not have substantial direct effects on the states, on the relationship between the national government and the states, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this proposal would not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Conclusion For the reasons discussed in the preamble, and based on the findings in the Regulatory Flexibility Determination and the International Trade Impact Analysis, the FAA has determined that this proposed regulation is not a significant regulatory action under Executive Order 12866. In addition, the FAA certifies that this proposal, if adopted, would not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. This proposal is not considered significant under DOT Order 2100.5, Policies and Procedures for Simplification, Analysis, and Review of Regulations. A draft regulatory evaluation of the proposal, including an initial Regulatory Flexibility Determination and International Trade Impact Analysis, has been placed in the docket. A copy may be obtained by contacting the person identified under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT. List of Subjects 14 CFR Part 65 Air safety, Air transportation, Aircraft, Airmen, Aviation safety, Drug abuse, Narcotics, Parachutes, Transportation. 14 CFR Part 66 Air safety, Air transportation, Aircraft, Airmen, Aviation safety, Drug abuse, Narcotics, Transportation.
