FR940516-1-00120 FR940516-1-00006 Ozone is a powerful oxidant causing lung damage and reduced respiratory function after relatively short periods of exposure (approximately one hour). The oxidizing effect of ozone can irritate the nose, mouth, and throat causing coughing, choking, and eye irritation. In addition, ozone can also impair lung function and subsequently reduce the respiratory system's resistance to disease, including bronchial infections such as pneumonia. Elevated ozone levels can also cause aggravation of pre-existing respiratory conditions such as asthma. 11 Ozone can cause a reduction in performance during exercise even in healthy persons. In addition, ozone can also cause alterations in pulmonary and extrapulmonary (nervous system, blood, liver, endocrine) function. 11 United States Environmental Protection Agency, Review of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for Ozone_Assessment of Scientific and Technical Information: OAQPS Staff Paper, EPA&hyph;450/2&hyph;92&hyph;001, June 1989, pp. VI&hyph;11 to 13. The current NAAQS for ozone of 0.12 part per million (ppm) is set at a level that, with an adequate margin of safety, is protective of public health. However, ozone has also been shown to damage forests and crops, watershed areas, and marine life. 12 The NAAQS for ozone is frequently violated across large areas in the United States, and after 20 years of efforts aimed at reducing ozone-forming pollutants, although EPA has reported a trend toward lower average ozone concentrations from 1982 to 1989, 13 the ozone standard has proven to be exceptionally difficult to achieve. High levels of ozone have been recorded even in relatively remote areas, since ozone and its precursors can travel hundreds of miles and persist for several days in the lower atmosphere. Ozone damage to plants, including both natural forest ecosystems and crops, occurs at ozone levels between 0.06 and 0.12 ppm. 14 Repeated exposure to ozone levels above 0.04 ppm can cause reductions in the yields of some crops above ten percent. 15 While strains of some crops are relatively resistant to ozone, many crops experience a loss in yield of 30 percent at ozone concentrations below the NAAQS. 16 The value of crops lost to ozone damage, while difficult to estimate precisely, is on the order of $2 billion per year in the United States. 17 The effect of ozone on complex ecosystems such as forests is even more difficult to quantify. However, there is evidence that some forest types are negatively affected by ambient levels of ozone. 18 Specifically, in the San Bernadino Mountains of southern California, ozone is believed to be the agent responsible for the slow decline and death of ponderosa pine trees in these forests since 1962. 19 12 U.S. EPA, Review of NAAQS for Ozone. 13 NRC, Rethinking the Ozone Problem, p. 61. 14 U.S. EPA, Review of NAAQS for Ozone, p. X&hyph;10. 15 U.S. EPA, Review of NAAQS for Ozone, p. X&hyph;10. 16 U.S. EPA, Review of NAAQS for Ozone, p. X&hyph;10. 17 U.S. EPA, Review of NAAQS for Ozone, p. X&hyph;22. 18 U.S. EPA, Review of NAAQS for Ozone, p. X&hyph;27. 19 U.S. EPA, Review of NAAQS for Ozone. p. X&hyph;29. Finally, by trapping energy radiated from the earth, tropospheric ozone may contribute to heating of the earth's surface, thereby contributing to global warming (that is, the greenhouse effect, 20 although tropospheric ozone is also known to reduce levels of UVB radiation reaching the earth's surface, the increase of which is expected to result from depletion of stratospheric ozone. 21 20 NRC, Rethinking the Ozone Problem, p. 22. 21 The New York Times, September 15, 1992, p. C4. VII. Technology Assessment In the draft RSD, EPA presents a comprehensive technology assessment supporting the emission standards proposed for each class of engines in this notice. This assessment demonstrates that small SI engine manufacturers will be technically capable of achieving the proposed emission standards and will not be capable of achieving lower emission standards in this Phase 1 rule. This assessment also considers factors of noise, energy, and safety as outlined in section 213(a)(3) of the CAA. The public docket for this rulemaking contains a lengthier version of this Technology Assessment section.
