FR940222-2-00010 FR940222-2-00007 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration [Docket No. 940229&hyph;4029; I.D. 120893A] Atlantic Shark Fisheries AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Notice of control date for entry into the Atlantic shark fisheries. SUMMARY: This notice announces that anyone entering any Atlantic shark fishery after February 22, 1994 (control date), may not be assured of future access to or an allocation of the shark resource in the Atlantic Ocean under the Fishery Management Plan for Atlantic Sharks (FMP). This notice is intended to promote awareness of potential eligibility criteria for access to the Atlantic shark fisheries and to discourage new entries into the fisheries based on economic speculation while the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) contemplates whether and how access to the Atlantic shark resources should be controlled. ADDRESSES: Comments on the control date established herein should be directed to: Richard H. Schaefer, Director, Office of Fisheries Conservation and Management (F/CM), National Marine Fisheries Service, 1335 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD, 20910. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: C. Michael Bailey, 301&hyph;713&hyph;2347, FAX 301&hyph;713&hyph;2299, Kevin Foster, 508&hyph;281&hyph;9260 or Michael E. Justen, 813&hyph;893&hyph;3161. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Atlantic shark fisheries are defined and managed under regulations at 50 CFR part 678 under the authority of the Magnuson Fisheries Conservation and Management Act (Magnuson Act). The Magnuson Act Amendments of 1990, Pub. L. 101&hyph;627, transferred management authority over the Atlantic shark fisheries to the Secretary as of November 28, 1990. One of the concerns of the Atlantic shark industry, and the Secretary, is that current participants in the fisheries who will bear the brunt of the management restrictions on the fisheries, which are necessary for stock rebuilding, may not be the ones to whom future benefits accrue. To address these concerns, and to avoid speculative entry into a fishery that is overfished and may be overcapitalized, the Secretary is establishing a control date of February 22, 1994, for possible limited entry. The date selected is the date of publication. Vessels that have not entered the shark fishery prior to this date may not be allowed entry if a limited entry program, based on any criteria (such as individual catch levels or gear type used) that is developed. Also, NMFS advises that vessels already in the fishery may not meet eligibility criteria when and if these criteria are established. For the purposes of this notice, NMFS has not developed specific criteria to define entry into a shark fishery. Entry into the fishery may mean either purchase of a shark vessel or fishery permit, investment in the construction or modification of a vessel or gear for the purpose of fishing for Atlantic sharks (directly or incidentally), the documented landing of a specified quantity of Atlantic sharks, or a specified number of Atlantic shark landings. The Secretary, after full public process, may adopt one or more of these definitions of entry into the shark fishery at the time a limited access regime is proposed, but may choose other options as well. Speculative entry into a fishery often is responsible for a rapid increase in fishing effort in fisheries already fully- or over-developed. Those seeking possible windfall gain from a potential management change can exacerbate the original problems. To help distinguish bona fide and established Atlantic shark fishermen from speculative entrants into the fishery, a control date may be set before beginning discussions and planning of limited access regimes. As a result, fishermen are notified that entering an Atlantic shark fishery after that date will not necessarily assure them of future access to the fishery resource on grounds of previous participation. This establishment of a control date does not commit the Secretary to any particular management regime or criterion for entry into Atlantic shark fisheries. Fishermen are not guaranteed future participation in the Atlantic shark fisheries regardless of their date of entry or intensity of participation in the fishery before or after the control date. The Secretary may subsequently choose a different control date, or he may choose a management regime that does not make use of such a date. The Secretary is free to apply other qualifying criteria for fishery entry. The Secretary may give varying considerations to fishermen in the fisheries before and after the control date. Finally, the Secretary may choose to take no further action to control entry or access to the fisheries. Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq. Dated: February 15, 1994. Nancy Foster, Deputy Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, National Marine Fisheries Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3832 Filed 2&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;P
