FR940505-2-00045 FR940505-2-00034 To be considered for funding applicants must include in the application a signed letter from the EZ/EC Applicant Entity, if already selected, and from the unit or units of local government which will be signing off on the EZ/EC Application for designation, pledging cooperation with the applicant as a member of the group engaged in development of the Strategic Plan in their community. Applicants are encouraged to seek similar letters from other agencies or organizations in their community involved in the Strategic Planning process. 6. Sub-Contracting or Delegating Projects An applicant will not be funded where the proposal is for a grantee to act as a mere conduit of funds to a third party without performing a substantive role itself. This prohibition does not bar subcontracting or subgranting for specific services or activities needed to conduct the project. 7. Maintenance of Effort The activities funded under this program announcement must be in addition to, and not in substitution for, activities previously carried on without Federal assistance. Also, funds or other resources currently devoted to activities designed to meet the needs of the poor within a community, area, or State must not be reduced in order to provide the required matching contributions. When legislation for a particular block grant permits the use of its funds as match, the applicant must show that it has received a real increase in its block grant allotment and must certify that other anti-poverty programs will not be scaled back to provide the match required for this project. (See Attachment B) Part D_Submission of Applications 1. Application Submission Applications may be mailed to the Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., 6th Floor OFM/DDG&hyph;EZ/EC, Washington, DC 20447. Hand delivered applications are accepted during the normal working hours of 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, on or prior to the established closing date at: Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 6th Floor OFM/DDG, 901 D Street, SW., Washington, DC 20447. An application will be considered to be received on time if sent on or before the closing date as evidenced by a legible U.S. Postal Service postmark or a legibly dated receipt from a commercial carrier. (Applicants are cautioned to request a legibly dated U. S. Postal Service postmark or to obtain a legibly dated receipt from a commercial carrier or the U. S. Postal Service. Private metered postmarks are not acceptable as proof of timely mailing.) 2. Late Applications Applications which do not meet one of these criteria are considered late applications. The ACF Division of Discretionary Grants will notify each late applicant that its application will not be considered in this competition. 3. Extension of Deadline The ACF Office of Community Services may extend the deadline for all applicants because of acts of God such as floods, hurricanes, etc., or when there is a disruption of the mails. However, if the Office of Community Services does not extend the deadline for all applicants, it may not waive or extend the deadline for any applicant. Applications once submitted are considered final and no additional materials will be accepted. One signed original application and two copies should be submitted. Part E_Contents of Application, Appendices, and Intergovernmental Review 1. Contents of Application Each application submission should include a signed original and two additional copies of the application. Each application should include the following in the order presented: a. A completed Standard Form 424 which has been signed by an official of the organization applying for the grant who has authority to obligate the organization legally; [Note: The original SF&hyph;424 must bear the original signature of the authorizing representative of the applicant organization] b. Budget Information-Non-Construction Programs (SF&hyph;424A) Note that grant funds under this Announcement may only be used for Salaries, Travel, and Contract/Consultant Services (Budget Categories a, c, and f). Attach to the SF 424A a breakout of total project costs reflecting Federal (OCS funds) and matching non-Federal resources (including funds from other Federal programs) along with budget justification. (See Attachment A, SF&hyph;424 and SF&hyph;424A) c. Filled out, signed and dated Assurances_Non-Construction Programs (SF&hyph;424B); d. By signing and submitting this application the applicant is certifying that it will comply with the Federal requirements concerning Drug-Free Workplace and debarment regulations; e. Restrictions on Lobbying, Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements: Filled out, signed and dated form found at Attachment D; f. Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, SF&hyph;LLL: Filled out, signed and dated form found at Attachment D, if necessary;
