FR940617-0-00174 FR940617-0-00026 (b) If water is removed by condensation, the sample gas temperature or sample dewpoint must be monitored either within the water trap or downstream. It may not exceed 7 ○C. §89.309&hyph;96 Analyzers required for gaseous emissions. (a) Analyzers. The following instruments are required for analyzing the measured gases: (1) Carbon Monoxide (CO) analysis. (i) The carbon monoxide analyzer must be of the non-dispersive infrared (NDIR) absorption type. (ii) The use of linearizing circuits is permitted. (2) Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) analysis. (i) The carbon dioxide analyzer must be of the non-dispersive infrared (NDIR) absorption type. (ii) The use of linearizing circuits is permitted. (3) Oxygen (O 2 ) analysis. Oxygen (O 2 ) analyzers may be of the paramagnetic (PMD), zirconia (ZRDO) or electrochemical type (ECS). (4) Hydrocarbon (HC) analysis. (i) The hydrocarbon analyzer must be of the heated flame ionization (HFID) type. (ii) If the temperature of the exhaust gas at the sample probe is below 190 ○C, the temperature of the valves, pipework, and so forth, must be controlled so as to maintain a wall temperature of 190 ○C # 11 ○C. If the temperature of the exhaust gas at the sample probe is above 190 ○C, the temperature of the valves, pipework, and so forth, must be controlled so as to maintain a wall temperature greater than 180 ○C. (iii) The oven must be capable of maintaining temperature within 2 ○C of the set point. (iv) Fuel and burner air must conform to the specifications in §89.312&hyph;96. (v) The percent of oxygen interference must be less than 3 percent, as specified in §89.319&hyph;96(d). (5) Oxides of nitrogen (NO X ) analysis. (i) This analysis device must consist of the subsequent items, following the sample probe, in the given order: (A) Pipework, valves, and so forth, controlled so as to maintain a wall temperature above 60 ○C. (B) A NO 2 to NO converter. The NO 2 to NO converter efficiency must be at least 90 percent. (C) An ice bath or other cooling device located after the NO X converter. (D) A chemiluminescent detector (CLD). (ii) The quench interference must be less than 3.0 percent as measured in §89.318&hyph;96. (b) Other gas analyzers yielding equivalent results may be used with advance approval of the Administrator. (c) The following requirements must be incorporated in each system used for testing under this subpart. (1) Carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide measurements must be made on a dry basis (for raw exhaust measurement only). Specific requirements for the means of drying the sample can be found in §89.309&hyph;96(e). (2) Calibration or span gases for the NO X measurement system must pass through the NO 2 to NO converter. (d) The electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) of the equipment must be on a level as to minimize additional errors. (e) Gas drying. Chemical dryers are not an acceptable method of removing water from the sample. Water removal by condensation is acceptable. A water trap performing this function and meeting the specifications in §89.308&hyph;96(b) is an acceptable method. Means other than condensation may be used only with prior approval from the Administrator. §89.310&hyph;96 Analyzer accuracy and specifications. (a) Measurement accuracy_general. The analyzers must have a measuring range which allows them to measure the concentrations of the exhaust gas sample pollutants with the accuracies shown in Table 3 in Appendix A of this subpart. (1) Response time. The analyzer response time must be measured and accounted for before recording of data begins. (2) Precision. The precision of the analyzer must be, at worst, # 1 percent of full-scale concentration for each range used at or above 100 ppm (or ppmC) or # 2 percent for each range used below 100 ppm (or ppmC). The precision is defined as 2.5 times the standard deviation(s) of 10 repetitive responses to a given calibration or span gas.
