FR940817-1-00061 FR940817-1-00014 The current rule requires the issuer of the stock appreciation right to have been subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act for at least a year prior to the transaction, and to have filed all reports and statements thereby required. Under the proposal, a one-year reporting history no longer would be required. Instead, the issuer simply would have to have filed all required reports and statements for a year prior to the transaction, or such shorter time as the issuer had been subject to Section 13(a). G. Grant and Award Transactions 1. Disinterested Administration Two amendments are proposed to the exemption of grant and award transactions based on disinterested administration of the employee benefit plan. 51 First, the provision that permits a director to remain disinterested although he or she elects to receive in securities ``an annual retainer fee'' would be changed to permit receipt of ``a director's fee,'' thus broadening the term to clarify that a meeting fee or other director's fee would be included. 52 Second, the requirement that the securities elected to be received constitute an ``equivalent amount'' to the cash would be deleted. 53 The current requirement could impair companies' ability to provide directors with an adequate incentive to elect the receipt of compensation in securities. Comment is requested, however, as to whether some limitation should remain in order to assure that the director's receipt of stock is adequately linked to the fee, rather than a separate stock grant. 51 See also n. 18, above. 52 Proposed Rule 16b&hyph;3(c)(2)(i)(C). See General Signal Corporation (Feb. 5, 1993). 53 The term ``equivalent amount'' has been construed to include the number of shares computed applying a price discount of five or ten percent of the fee. See Bowater Incorporated (Aug. 16, 1991) and General Signal Corporation (Feb. 5, 1993), respectively. 2. Formula Plans To assure that objective criteria govern the making of awards under formula plans, the rule currently requires that the plan itself restrict the frequency with which the terms of the formula may be amended to not more than once every six months, with limited exceptions. 54 Under the proposal, no written restriction would need to be placed in the plan. Instead, the rule would require that the plan not be amended periodically and in no event more often than every six months, with the same exceptions as currently permitted. 55 In addition, a reference to the automatic nature of a formula plan would be added to clarify that the rule does not permit discretionary awards. 56 54 The terms of the formula may be amended to comport with changes in the Internal Revenue Code, ERISA, or the rules thereunder. 55 Proposed Rule 16b&hyph;3(c)(2)(ii)(B). 56 Proposed Rule 16b&hyph;3(c)(2)(ii)(A). 3. Six Month Holding Period Under the proposal, the six-month holding period for securities obtained in a grant and award transaction would not apply to securities disposed of in a transaction that is exempted by rule from Section 16(b), such as a bona fide gift. 57 In addition, it is proposed that the six-month holding period for dividend equivalent rights (``DERs'') and shares purchased pursuant to the reinvestment of dividends should be deemed to commence on the date of acquisition of the shares on which the DERs or dividends are paid. 58 If adopted, should this treatment apply only to dividends and DERs paid at a rate that does not exceed dividends paid on the issuer's common stock? Moreover, should this treatment be limited to dividends paid on a broadly held class of securities, so that neither the timing nor the amount of dividend paid would be subject to manipulation by insiders? 57 Proposed Rule 16b&hyph;3(c)(1). 58 Id. Under current interpretation, the six-month holding period is deemed to commence on the date the dividend or DER is granted or allocated to the participant. See Hewitt Associates (Apr. 30, 1991) Q. 2(b); and Davis Polk & Wardwell (Aug. 23, 1991). Of course, pro rata dividends paid in stock with respect to all securities of the same class would continue to be exempt pursuant to Rule 16a&hyph;9. H. Exemptions for Distributions Currently, distributions to plan participants of securities acquired in an exempt manner under Rule 16b&hyph;3 are also exempt. 59 As proposed, this exemption would be broadened so it would apply to all distributions of plan securities, whether those securities were acquired pursuant to Rule 16b&hyph;3, an exemption under the former rules, or in a nonexempt manner. 60 Such an exemption appears appropriate where these distributions merely change the form of the participant's beneficial ownership, not its extent. Of course, if the participant then sells the securities, the sale would be subject to Section 16. 59 Rule 16b&hyph;3(g) [17 CFR 240.16b&hyph;3(g)]. 60 This revised provision would be redesignated as Rule 16b&hyph;3(g)(3). This would change the result in Cravath, Swaine & Moore (May 6, 1991) Q. 8, and Cravath, Swaine & Moore (Oct. 22, 1991) Q. 5. When a plan distributes the cash value of securities in participants' accounts, rather than the securities themselves, such a distribution would be viewed as a sale. As proposed, the rule would expand the categories of exempt cash distributions to plan participants. First, distributions of securities and cash, or the deferral of such distributions, incident to death, retirement, disability or termination of employment, would be exempt. 61 Such distributions and deferrals currently are exempt if effected by means of a participant-directed election. 62 The proposed rule would codify the staff's interpretation that the exemption is available even when the transaction is not made pursuant to a participant's election. 63 61 Proposed Rule 16b&hyph;3(g)(1). 62 Rule 16b&hyph;3(d)(1)(ii). 63 See Merrill Lynch & Co. (Sept. 1, 1992) Q. 7. This new exemption also would apply to distributions of securities and cash pursuant to ESOP diversification elections permitted by the Internal Revenue Code. 64 In addition, the proposed rule 65 would provide that any involuntary distribution of securities or cash (including cash in lieu of fractional shares) for the purpose of satisfying the limitations on employee elective contributions and employer matching contributions imposed by the Internal Revenue Code is exempt. 66 Comment is requested as to whether distributions of securities or cash mandated by the Internal Revenue Code 67 to begin following the participant's attainment of age 701/2 years, whether or not the participant has retired or otherwise terminated employment, also should be exempted. 64 See Section II.A.2, above. 65 Proposed Rule 16b&hyph;3(g)(2). 66 The proposed rule would expand the staff's interpretive position in Health Management Associates, Inc. (Mar. 6, 1992), which provides that distributions of securities or cash to satisfy such I.R.C. limitations are not withdrawals for purposes of Rule 16b&hyph;3(d)(2)(i)(B), and that an associated cash-out of fractional shares is exempt from short-swing profit recovery if the acquisition of the shares was exempt under Rule 16b&hyph;3. 67 I.R.C. Section 401(a)(9). I. Maximum Number of Shares Requirement In order for a plan transaction to be exempt, the current rule requires that the plan set forth in writing the basis for determining insider eligibility to participate, and either the price at which securities may be offered and the amount of securities to be awarded or the method by which such price and amount are to be determined. Under the proposal, 68 application of this exemptive condition would be restricted to plans subject to the shareholder approval requirement, as was the case under former Rule 16b&hyph;3. 68 Proposed Rule 16b&hyph;3(a)(1). Additionally, it appears that the manner in which shares are counted in any Rule 16b&hyph;3 plan appropriately may be specified in the plan, or, to the extent not so specified, left to the discretion of plan administrators. Accordingly, effective as of the date of publication of this release, the staff no longer will answer interpretive requests regarding share counting, and the interpretive letters addressing this subject 69 no longer will be required to be followed. Of course, the maximum number of shares issuable under a plan will be subject to disclosure in the course of obtaining shareholder approval for the plan. 69 Palmer & Dodge (Oct. 2, 1991); Frederic W. Cook & Co., Inc. (May 15, 1992); Merrill Lynch & Co. (Aug. 28, 1992) Q. 1 and 2; and Merrill Lynch & Co. (Sept. 1, 1992) Q. 1.
