FR940921-2-00064 FR940921-2-00058 DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Occupational Safety and Health Administration Advisory Committee on Construction Safety and Health; Appointment of New Members AGENCY: Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), U.S. Department of Labor. ACTION: Notice of appointment of members. Notice is hereby given that appointments have been made to fill fifteen (15) vacancies on the Advisory Committee on Construction Safety and Health (ACCSH). The vacancies were created by the expiration of the terms of the fifteen (15) members on March 23, 1994. Pursuant to 29 CFR 1912.3(g), the terms of members are being staggered to provide for continuity in the membership of the ACCSH. Accordingly, seven members are being appointed for one-year terms and seven members are being appointed for two-year terms. As provided by 29 CFR 1912.3(f), the member designated by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) does not have a fixed term. The new membership of the Committee, the categories represented and the terms of appointment are as follows: Employee Mr. John B. Moran, Director, Occupational Safety & Health, Laborers' National Health and Safety Fund (reappointed for one year). Mr. William C. Rhoten, Director of Safety and Health for United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices of the Plumbing and Pipefitting Industry of the United States and Canada (new appointment for one year). Dr. Knut Ringen, Director, The Center to Protect Workers' Rights (new appointment for two years). Dr. Ringen has been appointed to Chair the Advisory Committee. Mr. William J. Smith, Jr., Director of Safety and Health, International Union of Operating Engineers (new appointment for one year). Ms. Lauren Sugarman, Executive Director, Chicago Women in Trades (new appointment for two years). Employer Mr. Stewart C. Burkhammer, Vice President and Manager of Safety and Health, Bechtell Construction Co. (reappointed for two years). Mr. Stephen J. Cloutier, Corporate Safety Manager, Metric Constructors, Inc. (reappointed for one year). Ms. Bernice Jenkins, Corporate Compliance Officer, P.J. Dick Inc./Trumbull Corporation (new appointment for two years). Ms. Kathryn G. Thompson, Chair and Chief Executive Officer, Kathryn G. Thompson Development Company (reappointed for one year). Mr. Theodore E. Webster, President and Chief Operating Officer, Webster Engineering Company, Inc. (new appointment for two years). State Mr. Al Meier, Commissioner of Labor, State of Iowa (reappointed for one year). Mr. John A. Pompeii, Administrator, Oregon Occupational Safety and Health Division (new appointment for two years). Representatives Qualified by Knowledge and Experience Dr. Ana Maria Osorio, Chief, Division of Environmental and Occupational Disease Control, California Department of Health Services (new appointment for one year). Ms. Judy A. Paul, Registered Nurse, Private Consulting Services (new appointment for two years). Federal Ms. Diane Dunkin Porter, Assistant Director for Legislation and Policy, NIOSH (reappointment). The terms of these members run from the date this notice was signed. The Advisory Committee on Construction Safety and Health was established under section 107 of the Contract Work Hours and Safety Standards Act and 7(b) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 to advise the Secretary of Labor on matters pertaining to construction safety and health. For Additional Information Contact: Tom Hall, Division of Consumer Affairs, Room N&hyph;3647, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210, Telephone (202) 523&hyph;8615. Signed at Washington, D.C., this 15th day of September, 1994. Joseph A. Dear, Assistant Secretary of Labor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23345 Filed 9&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLLING CODE 4510&hyph;26&hyph;M
