FR940426-1-00040 FR940426-1-00006 The Fedway court was concerned that ATF enforcement actions could hinder legitimate competitive activities. Consequently, the opinion states that if ATF suspects a particular practice places retailer independence at risk then the agency must provide substantial support backing up its suspicion. This substantial support is especially necessary where the anticompetitive nature of the means to induce is ``nowhere apparent on its face.'' Factual or substantive proof is necessary, the court stated, to ensure that the Government does not take an overly-broad enforcement posture in its efforts to prevent potential threats to retailer independence and risk outlawing conduct that fosters a competitive alcohol market. In the Fedway proceeding, the court held this factual basis was not met because the only datum or evidence presented was the fact that certain retailers purchased less of a rival product. In summary, the court offered the following guidance about this statutory element: Congress, we are satisfied, used ``exclusion'' to indicate placement of retailer independence at risk by means of a ``tie'' or ``link'' between the wholesaler and the retailer or by any other means of wholesaler control. [We demand] a factual showing that retailer independence is potentially threatened. .␣.␣. [ATF should] take reasonable account of both policy interests underlying the [trade practice] provisions. .␣.␣. that the alcohol industry requires special oversight and regulation. .␣.␣. and the value of pro-competitive wholesale promotions. This value derives not only from the traditional benefits of competition in terms of lower prices and improved quality, but also .␣.␣. from the fact that a competitive alcohol market helps deter the formation of a corrupt black market. Finally, in arriving at a reasonable interpretation of ``exclusion''.␣.␣. the Bureau must take care to distinguish rationally between those promotions it decides are lawful and those it decides are not.
