FR940406-1-00020 FR940406-1-00007 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Office of the Secretary 32 CFR Part 91 RIN 0790&hyph;AF64 Revitalizing Base Closure Communities_Base Closure Community Assistance AGENCY: Department of Defense, DoD. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The proposed rule publishes for comment the guidance required by section 2908 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994. Section 2908 of the Act provides authority for the Secretary of Defense to transfer real property or facilities available as a result of a base closure, to persons paying the cost of environmental restoration activities on the property. DATES: Comments must be received by July 5, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments must be forwarded to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Economic Security, room 3D854, The Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Steven Kleiman or Frank Savat, telephone (703) 614&hyph;5356. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In many cases the most difficult obstacle to getting property into productive reuse after a base closes is environmental restoration, because the Department of Defense cannot convey title to property until this is accomplished. The potential exists that persons who are interested in developing the property could clean it more quickly and efficiently than the government. This section provides a proposed rule which in its final form would allow the Department to transfer a property for the cost of cleanup to persons who agree to perform the environmental restoration. If the estimated value of the base exceeds the cost of cleanup, the buyer shall make up the difference. The Department of Defense and the Environmental Protection Agency will continue to consult regarding the implementation of Public Law 103&hyph;160, section 2908. List of Subjects in 32 CFR Part 91 Community development, Environmental protection, Government employees, Homeless Military personnel, Surplus Government property. Accordingly, 32 CFR part 91 is proposed to be amended to read as follows: PART 91_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 91 continues to read as follows: Authority: 10 U.S.C. 2687 note. 2. Section 91.7 is proposed to be amended by adding a new paragraph (j) to read as follows: ยง91.7 Procedures. * * * * * (j) Transfer of real property or facilities to persons paying the cost of environmental restoration activities on the property. (1) In many cases the most difficult obstacle to getting property into productive reuse is environmental restoration, because the Department of Defense cannot convey title to property until this is accomplished. The potential exists that persons who are interested in developing the property could clean it more quickly and efficiently than the government. This section proposes instructions to implement a new authority which allows the Department of Defense to transfer a property for the cost of cleanup to persons who agree to perform the environmental restoration. If the estimated value of the base exceeds the cost of cleanup, the buyer shall make up the difference. (2) Section 2908 of Title XXIX of Public Law 103&hyph;160 authorizes the Secretary of Defense, at any time before December 1, 1998, to enter into agreements to transfer by deed, real property or facilities at closing installations to a person who agrees to perform all required environmental cleanup, waste management, and environmental compliance activities. (3) The authority may be exercised in the following manner: (i) An agreement to transfer may be executed with any person, provided that person can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Secretary concerned the ability to adequately perform all required environmental clean-up, waste management and environmental compliance activities. (ii) The property and facilities subject to the agreement must be located in an installation closed or to be closed under a base closure law, as defined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and at the time the agreement is executed must be available exclusively for the use, or expression of an interest in use, of a local redevelopment authority under Public Law 103&hyph;160, section 2905. The reuse contemplated in the agreement must be consistent with the applicable local redevelopment plan.
