FR940805-0-00058 FR940805-0-00021 Comment: A commenter recommended dropping the priority in §388.22(b)(2) for distance education on the grounds that there is no evidence that distance education produces better results at less cost. Discussion: The Secretary believes that distance education is needed in some States and wants to ensure that a mechanism exists to demonstrate innovative approaches to learning. Changes: None. Enhanced Employment Outcomes for Specific Populations Priority (§388.22(b)(3)) Comment: A commenter requested clarification of the heading for §388.22(b)(3), which refers to ``specific populations'' although the text that follows refers to ``all individuals or specified groups.'' Discussion: The Secretary believes that it is up to the State agency to determine whether in-service training to improve employment outcomes will be targeted narrowly or broadly. Activities directed to improving employment outcomes for all population groups or for a specific target group are permitted under this priority. Changes: None. General Comment: A commenter observed that the NPRM retains most of the language in the current regulations and does not accurately reflect the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992 (the 1992 Amendments), particularly provisions related to State and strategic plans. Discussion: The Secretary believes that extensive changes have been proposed in the current regulations and is confident that all requirements in the 1992 Amendments have been implemented. Changes: None. Priorities (§388.22) Comments: Two commenters supported reserving a portion of funds for priorities, but believe this reserve should be divided between priorities based on need and priorities based on responsiveness or quality of the application and innovative approaches. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the three priorities listed in the proposed regulations address significant needs of State agencies and that no further division of the priorities into categories is needed. Changes: None. Comment: Regarding §388.22, which sets the Secretary's priorities, a commenter asked if an application that addresses issues or activities other than the three priorities listed can be eligible for quality funds. Discussion: The Secretary responds that only applications that respond to the priorities already identified by the Secretary in the regulations for this program or priorities established through future rulemaking will be considered when allocating the quality funds. Changes: None. Basic State Agency Award Formula (§388.21) Comments: Four commenters objected to the proposed formula in §388.21 whereby 80 percent of the funds available would be distributed based on the number of staff and 20 percent of the funds available would be distributed based on quality. They believe that the split penalizes States with small populations with limited capacity to write grants. In the commenters' view, the distribution does not take into account extra travel costs in a State with a large geographic area, and a commenter suggested increasing the small State agency minimum share. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the proposed formula maximizes the amount of funds available for basic awards while ensuring that a reasonable amount is available for small agencies and for the Secretary's priorities. Changes: None. Comment: A commenter noted that §388.21 does not state what the minimum score is that an applicant must receive in order for its application to be approved by the Secretary or how it is to be computed. Discussion: In order to make funding decisions, the Secretary sets a minimum score for each competition after all applications have been reviewed. The minimum score will be computed through an analysis of all reviewed applications to determine those that are in the fundable range. Changes: None.
