FR941007-1-00043 FR941007-1-00008 VII. Automatic Cutoff Devices As discussed previously, NHTSA has concluded that Standard No. 208 currently allows automatic cutoff devices. NHTSA requests comments on whether the agency should regulate automatic cutoff devices. As part of this rulemaking proceeding, NHTSA requests comments on whether any or all of the proposals in this notice relating to warning lights, readiness indicators, owner's manuals, and labels should also apply to vehicles equipped with automatic cutoff devices. NHTSA believes that the vehicle manufacturers, in developing automatic cutoff devices, will attempt to guard against the possibility of air bags being automatically deactivated when they should be providing protection. Nevertheless, for the purpose of possible future rulemaking, the agency requests comments on the necessity for NHTSA's taking steps to ensure that air bag protection remains activated at all appropriate times. VIII. Consumer Education The agency actively works with consumer groups to promote child safety, and has been instrumental in reversing the stance long held by the American Academy of Pediatrics that infant restraints may be placed in the front seat. Additional consumer education is a necessary ingredient toward a successful attainment of the philosophy embodied in this rulemaking. Toward that end, NHTSA will work actively with the interested parties to further promote infant safety and to minimize any risk to infants from passenger side air bag. NHTSA invites comments in this important area. IX. Proposed Effective Date If adopted, the proposed amendments would become effective 30 days following publication of the final rule. X. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices A. Executive Order 12866 and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures NHTSA has considered the impact of this rulemaking action under E.O. 12866 and the Department of Transportation's regulatory policies and procedures. This rulemaking document was reviewed under E.O. 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and Review.'' This action has been determined to be ``significant'' under the Department of Transportation's regulatory policies and procedures. Absent this rulemaking, and given a vehicle population in which all cars and light trucks are equipped with driver and passenger air bags, an estimated 1,050 air bag deployments a year will occur in pickup trucks and two-seater vehicles when a front passenger seat is occupied by an infant in a rear-facing infant seat. The level of the injuries resulting from these deployments are uncertain, but may well be severe. In an effort to assess the potential for safety trade-offs resulting from the failure to reactivate the air bag after it has been deactivated for the benefit of infant passengers, the agency estimated that only about one percent of the vehicles which would be permitted to have a cutoff device are likely to be carrying an infant. If one assumes for the purpose of analysis that the older occupants of 10 percent of these vehicles did not reactivate the air bag for the benefit of non-infant passengers, approximately 3 occupants who are at least one year old may receive AIS 2&hyph;5 (survivable) injuries. In addition, for every one percent of all affected vehicles in which the older occupants deliberately turn off the air bag, 1&hyph;3 fatalities and 23&hyph;32 additional injuries could occur each year. Since the agency believes that the percentage of vehicles in which the passenger air bag is inadvertently or deliberately deactivated would be fairly small, the number of infants who would avoid potentially serious injury far exceeds the number of non-infants who might be injured. NHTSA estimates that the per vehicle price impact for the addition of a passenger air bag cutoff device is $10.15 in 1993 dollars. This cost reflects a cost of $5.15 for the cutoff device and $5.00 for the light sensor that allows the warning light to have variable levels of brightness. NHTSA has not estimated the annual costs of this proposal, as that figure is dependent on the number of vehicles voluntarily equipped with manual cutoff devices.
