FR940323-0-00048 FR940323-0-00020 PART 2513_STATE PLAN: PURPOSE, APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND SELECTION CRITERIA Sec. 2513.10␣Who must submit a State Plan? 2513.20␣What are the purposes of a State Plan? 2513.30␣What information must a State Plan contain? 2513.40␣How will the State Plans be evaluated? Authority: 42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq. §2513.10 Who must submit a State Plan? The fifty States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico, through a Corporation-approved State Commission, Alternative Administrative Entity, or Transitional Entity must submit a comprehensive national and community service plan (``State Plan'') in order to apply to the Corporation for support under parts 2515 through 2524 of this chapter. §2513.20 What are the purposes of a State Plan? The purposes of the State Plan are: (a) To set forth the State s plan for promoting national and community service and strengthening its service infrastructure, including how Corporation-funded programs fit into the plan; (b) To establish specific priorities and goals that advance the State's plan for strengthening its service program infrastructure and to specify strategies for achieving the stated goals; (c) To inform the Corporation of the relevant historical background of the State's infrastructure for supporting national and community service and other volunteer opportunities, as well as the current status of such infrastructure; (d) To assist the Corporation in making decisions on applications to receive formula and competitive funding under §2521.30 of this chapter and to assist the Corporation in assessing a State's application for renewal funding for State administrative funds as provided in part 2550 of this chapter; and (e) To serve as a working document that forms the basis of on-going dialogue between the State and the Corporation and which is subject to modifications as circumstances require. §2513.30 What information must a State Plan contain? The State Plan must include the following information: (a) An overview of a State's experience in coordinating and supporting the network of service programs within the State that address educational, public safety, human, and environmental needs, including, where appropriate, a description of specific service programs. This overview should encompass programs that have operated independently of and/or without financial support from the State; (b) A description of the State's priorities and vision for strengthening the service program infrastructure, including how programs proposed for Corporation funding fit into this vision. The plan should also describe how State priorities relate to any national priorities established by the Corporation; (c) A description of the goals established to advance the State's plan, including the strategies for achieving such goals. With respect to technical assistance activities (if any) and programs proposed to be funded by the Corporation, the plan should describe how such activities and programs will be coordinated with other service programs within the State. The plan should also describe the manner and extent to which the proposed programs will build on existing programs, including Corporation programs such as both the K&hyph;12 and Higher Education components of the Learn and Serve America program, and programs funded under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act and other programs; (d) A description of the extent to which the State entity has coordinated its efforts with the State educational agency (SEA) in the SEA's application for school-based service learning funds; (e) A description of how the State reached out to a broad cross-section of individuals and organizations to obtain their participation in the development of the State plan, including a discussion of the types of organizations and individuals who were actually involved in the process and the manner and extent of their involvement; and (f) Such other information as the Corporation may reasonably require. §2513.40 How will the State Plans be evaluated? State plans will be evaluated on the basis of the following criteria: (a) The quality of the plan as evidenced by: (1) The development and quality of realistic goals and objectives for moving service ahead in the State; (2) The extent to which proposed strategies can reasonably be expected to accomplish stated goals; (3) The extent of input in the development of the State plan from a broad cross-section of individuals and organizations including community-based agencies; organizations with a demonstrated record of providing educational, public safety, human, or environmental services; residents of the State, including youth and other prospective participants, State Education Agencies; traditional service organizations; and labor unions; (b) The sustainability of the national service efforts outlined in the plan, as evidenced by the extent to which they are supported by: (1) The State, through financial, in-kind, and bi-partisan political support, including the existence of supportive legislation; and (2) Other support, including the financial, in-kind, and other support of the private sector, foundations, and other entities and individuals; and (c) Such other criteria as the Corporation deems necessary.
