FR940419-1-00014 FR940419-1-00006 On May 1991, the General Accounting Office (GAO) issued a report to Congress in which it assessed the adequacy of OSHA's policies and procedures for determining whether hazards have been abated. The report (GAO/HRD&hyph;91&hyph;35) (Ex. 1) 1 found that these policies and procedures have limitations that impede the Agency's ability to detect employers who have failed to abate the safety and health hazards for which they have been cited. GAO found that OSHA's policies: (1) Do not require, but merely request, employers to provide evidence of abatement, and (2) inadequately address confirmation of hazard abatements found at construction worksites. 1 ``Ex.,'' followed by a number, designate the exhibit in the docket containing the referenced document. The GAO report concluded that OSHA would obtain improved evidence of abatement if its regulations required employers to provide specific documentation that they have abated hazards. The report further concluded that such a requirement would enhance OSHA's ability to detect noncomplying employers and determine where to conduct follow-up inspections. Employers also would be more likely to abate hazards because they would have to provide specific evidence of abatement. Accordingly, GAO recommended that OSHA promulgate a regulation requiring employers to submit detailed evidence of what corrective actions have been taken to abate hazards. GAO was also concerned about hazard abatement problems in the construction industry due to the mobility of hazardous equipment. The report's conclusion stated: OSHA needs to confirm abatement of construction hazards in such a way that they will not be repeated at subsequent worksites. OSHA's practice of accepting worksite closing as a form of abatement allows the continuation of procedures and practices that perpetuate hazardous conditions. Consequently, contractors can continue to use a defective piece of equipment, untrained employees, or inadequate procedures and processes at subsequent worksites. OSHA should require contractors to take abatement actions that will correct what caused the hazard rather than just eliminate the hazard at the inspection site. (emphasis added) (GAO/HRD&hyph;91&hyph;35) The second GAO recommendation was for OSHA to revise its polices so that (1) citations to employers at construction worksites require correcting the condition, equipment, or procedure that create the hazard, and (2) employers will not be able to ``abate'' hazards solely by moving to another location. Although not referenced in the GAO report, unsuspecting employees may be exposed to similar hazards under conditions in which the place of employment and equipment are permanent, but there is a frequent turnover of employees in temporary jobs or employees are rotated frequently through different job assignments. Also, workers in mobile crews who visit different job sites should have available hazard warning information regarding defective equipment which they must operate.
