FR940805-0-00034 FR940805-0-00012 Costs of Delivering Custom-Ordered Items The proposed regulations provide that, notwithstanding the general requirement that costs incurred in transporting goods from a taxpayer's storage facility to its retail sales facility are required to be capitalized, costs incurred outside a storage facility in delivering custom-ordered items to a retail sales facility are not required to be capitalized. For this purpose, the proposed regulations provide that any costs incurred on a loading dock are treated as incurred outside a storage facility. The preamble to the proposed regulations also states that the Service is considering eliminating this exception altogether. Commentators contended that the custom-order exception should not be eliminated because these delivery costs are more appropriately characterized as costs incurred to ship goods directly to a customer rather than as costs incurred to internally move inventory. In addition, commentators asserted that the custom-order exception should not be limited to costs incurred outside a storage facility in delivering custom-ordered items to a retail sales facility. These commentators believe that all costs incurred in delivering custom-ordered items to a retail sales facility should be deductible, regardless of whether they are incurred inside or outside a storage facility. These final regulations retain the custom-order exception. The Service and Treasury believe that limiting this exception to costs incurred outside a storage facility in delivering custom-ordered items to a retail sales facility provides for a better matching of income and related expenses. Costs of Transporting Goods to a Related Person The proposed regulations provide that distribution costs do not include costs incurred by a taxpayer in delivering goods to a related person. The proposed regulations further provide that when a taxpayer sells goods to a related person, the costs of transporting the goods are included in determining the basis of the goods that are sold, and hence in determining the resulting gain or loss from such sale, for all purposes of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder. For purposes of this provision, the proposed regulation states that persons are related if they are described in section 267(b) or section 707(b). One commentator argued that the requirement to capitalize costs incurred by a taxpayer in delivering goods to a related person is contrary to the purported purpose of section 263A and can result in the permanent disallowance of the capitalized costs. The commentator noted that if the capitalization of costs incurred in transporting property between related parties produces or increases a loss, the loss disallowance rules in sections 267(a)(1) and 707(b)(1) may in some instances permanently disallow the loss. Thus, the commentator argued that the requirement to capitalize costs incurred by a taxpayer in delivering goods to a related person is unfair because it results in harsher treatment than the treatment of internal transportation costs carried on within a single entity. These final regulations retain the rule contained in the proposed regulations. The Service and Treasury continue to believe that the cost of transporting goods between related parties is properly treated as a capitalizable handling cost for all purposes (i.e., not just for timing purposes, but also for character purposes). In addition, the very limited potential for loss disallowance under sections 267(a)(1) and 707(b)(1) could result from any one of a number of properly capitalizable costs (e.g., storage costs, production costs, etc.) other than handling costs associated with transporting goods to a related party. Moreover, the fact that sections 267(a)(1) and 707(b)(1) will result in loss disallowance only in unusual circumstances does not justify the additional complexity that would result to all taxpayers from the series of rules that would be necessary to accommodate the treatment requested by the commentator. Transfers for Tax Avoidance Purposes The proposed regulations provide that the District Director may require appropriate adjustments to valuations of inventory and other property subject to section 263A if the transfer of property is made to another person for a principal purpose of tax avoidance. The example provided in the proposed regulations states that the District Director may require a taxpayer using the simplified production method (as described in ยง1.263A&hyph;2(b)) to apply that method to transferred inventories immediately prior to a transfer under section 351 if a principal purpose of the transfer is tax avoidance. The Service and Treasury continue to believe that the Secretary has the authority to prescribe regulations to prevent taxpayers from using related parties, pass-thru entities, or intermediaries to avoid the application of section 263A. Therefore, the final regulations retain the anti-abuse rule contained in the proposed regulations with one clarifying modification that substitutes ``a principal purpose to avoid the application of section 263A'' for ``a principal purpose of tax avoidance.'' Effective Dates These final regulations are applicable to costs incurred in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1993. In the case of property that is inventory in the hands of the taxpayer, however, these regulations are effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1993. Accounting Method Changes If a taxpayer must change its method of accounting as a result of these regulations, the taxpayer generally must file a Form 3115, Application for Change in Accounting Method, with the Commissioner in accordance with the requirements of ยง1.446&hyph;1(e)(3)(i) and Rev. Proc. 92&hyph;20, 1992&hyph;1 C.B. 685. If, however, as a result of these regulations a taxpayer changes its method of accounting in its first taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 1994, then the change must be made pursuant to Rev. Proc. 94&hyph;49, 1994&hyph;30 I.R.B., dated July 25, 1994.
