FR940527-1-00105 FR940527-1-00014 17. Provider-Specific File This file is a component of the PRICER program used in the fiscal intermediary's system to compute DRG payments for individual bills. The file contains records for all prospective payment system eligible hospitals, including hospitals in waiver States, and data elements used in the prospective payment system recalibration processes and related activities. Beginning with December 1988, the individual records were enlarged to include pass-through per diems and other elements. Beginning with December 1991, the individual records were enlarged to include elements related to the capital prospective payment system. Media: Tape/Cartridge File Cost: $500.00 per file Periods available: FY 1987 through FY 1994 (December updates) Media: Diskette File Cost: $265.00 Periods Available: FY 1994 PPS Update 18. HCFA Medicare Case-Mix Index File This file contains the Medicare case-mix index by provider number as published in each year's update of the Medicare hospital inpatient prospective payment system. The case-mix index is a measure of the costliness of cases treated by a hospital relative to the cost of the national average of all Medicare hospital cases, using DRG weights as a measure of relative costliness of cases. Two versions of this file are created each year. They support the following: •NPRM published in the Federal Register , usually by the end of May. •Final rule published in the Federal Register , usually by the first week of September. Media: Diskette Price: $145.00 per year Periods available: FY 1985 through FY 1993, and FY 1992 for Severity DRGs 19. Table 5 DRG File This file contains a listing of DRGs, DRG narrative description, relative weight, geometric and arithmetic mean lengths of stay, and day outlier trim points as published in the Federal Register . The hardcopy image has been copied to diskette. There are two versions of this file as published in the Federal Register : 1. NPRM, usually published by the end of May. 2. Final rule, usually published by the first week of September. Media: Diskette File cost: $145.00 Periods available: FY 1994 PPS Update, and Severity DRGs 20. PPS Payment Impact File This file contains data used to estimate payments under Medicare's hospital inpatient prospective payment systems for operating and capital-related costs. The data are taken from various sources, including the Provider-Specific File, the PPS-VI and PPS-VII Minimum Data Sets, and prior impact files. The data set is abstracted from an internal file used for the impact analysis of the changes to the prospective payment systems published in the Federal Register . This file is available for release 1 month after the final rule is published in the Federal Register , usually during the first week of September. Media: Diskette File Cost: $145.00 Periods available: FY 1994 PPS Update 21. AOR/BOR Tables This diskette contains data used to develop the DRG relative weights. It contains mean, maximum, minimum, standard deviation and coefficient of variation statistics by DRG for length of stay and standardized charges. The BOR tables are ``Before Outliers Removed'' and the AOR is ``After Outliers Removed.'' (Outliers refers to statistical outliers, not payment outliers.) Media: Diskette File cost: $145.00 Periods available: FY 1994 PPS Update, and Severity DRGs For further information concerning these data tapes, contact Mary R. White at (410) 597&hyph;3671. In addition, certain other data, such as area wage data and data used to construct the Puerto Rico standardized amounts, are available in hard copy format. Commenters interested in examining hard copy data should contact John Davis at (410) 966&hyph;5654. We realize that commenters may be interested in obtaining data other than those we have discussed above. These commenters should direct their requests to John Davis at the number provided above. Finally, in lieu of obtaining data through the mail, certain data may also be available for inspection at the central office of the Health Care Financing Administration in Baltimore, Maryland. Commenters interested in obtaining more information about this alternative for reviewing data should also contact John Davis. C. Public Comments Because of the large number of items of correspondence we normally receive on a proposed rule, we are not able to acknowledge or respond to them individually. However, in preparing the final rule, we will consider all comments concerning the provisions of this proposed rule that we receive by the date and time specified in the ``Dates'' section of this preamble and respond to those comments in the preamble to that rule. We emphasize that, given the statutory requirement under section 1886(e)(5) of the Act that our final rule for FY 1995 be published by September 1, 1994, we will consider only those comments that deal specifically with the matters discussed in this proposed rule.
