FR940324-2-00046 FR940324-2-00032 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention RIN 0905&hyph;ZA03 [CDC&hyph;416] Announcement of a Cooperative Agreement to the Ambulatory Sentinel Practice Network Summary The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announces the availability of fiscal year (FY) 1994 funds for a sole source cooperative agreement with the Ambulatory Sentinel Practice Network (ASPN) for the Laboratory Medicine Quality Improvement Program. Approximately $200,000 is available in FY 1994 to fund this cooperative agreement. It is expected that the award will begin on May 1, 1994, and will be made for a 12-month budget period within a project period of up to 5 years. Funding estimates may vary and are subject to change. Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress and the availability of funds. The purpose of this cooperative agreement is to increase the ability of the primary care physician to determine: (1) Problems that exist in the total process of laboratory testing, (2) how often problems occur, (3) what impact these problems have on patient care, and (4) what interventions can be developed to improve the total testing process. Activities to achieve these ends will include two primary focus areas. The first area of focus is studying the extent and nature of problems in the diagnosis and treatment of patients caused by inaccurate laboratory test results. The second area of focus is studying the effect of errors on patient care in each component of the clinical laboratory testing process to include the following: (a) Communication between the attending physician and the clinical laboratory which is to conduct the tests; (b) selection of the tests to be performed; (c) limits applicable to the tests selected; (d) acquisition of the specimen to be tested; (e) transportation of the specimen to the laboratory, (f) storage of the specimen by the laboratory, (g) analysis of the specimen by the laboratory; and, (h) reporting of the results by the laboratory. These studies will be addressed by individual primary care physicians and others in the practices affiliated with ASPN using investigative strategies established in cooperation with CDC. Specific activities include the development of protocols and survey forms, data analysis and creation of interventions to improve the total testing process in primary care physicians' practices. CDC will: (1) Collaborate in questionnaire development for profiling ASPN clinicians and practices, problem identification, and results analysis; (2) collaborate in the development and implementation of surveillance for specific types of laboratory problems occurring in the pre- and post-analytic phases of the testing process. This includes collaborating on card questionnaire development, data analysis, and writing summaries of the results; (3) collaborate in the development and implementation of focused surveillance for problems occurring in the analytic phase of the testing process. CDC will assist with card questionnaire development, data analysis, and writing summaries of the results; (4) collaborate in the development and implementation of a patient-oriented sentinel method. CDC will assist with questionnaire development, results analysis, and writing summaries of the results; (5) collaborate in the development of recommendations for improving the total testing process in ASPN practices. CDC will also collaborate in developing the methods for testing these recommendations and measuring changes in quality of the testing process. This will include developing specific recommendations for quality improvement interventions, assisting with developing measurement tools, analyzing results, and writing summaries of the results; (6) assist ASPN staff with presentations (including visuals, materials, etc.) of the progress towards achieving objectives at each of the annual ASPN convocations. CDC staff will also assist in the presentations at the annual ASPN convocations; and (7) assist ASPN staff in the preparation of manuscripts related to the activities in this project. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of ``Healthy People 2000,'' a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to priority area 22 improving surveillance and data systems by the Year 2000. (For ordering a copy of ``Healthy People 2000,'' see the section WHERE TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL INFORMATION .) Authority This program is authorized under section 317(k)(3) of the Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C. 247b(k)(3), as amended. Eligible Applicant Assistance will be provided only to the Ambulatory Sentinel Practice Network (ASPN). No other applications are solicited. The program announcement and application kit have been sent to ASPN. ASPN is a non-profit organization of primary health care practitioners in the United States and Canada. ASPN's goal is to increase and refine the primary care knowledge base by studying the problems that occur in the primary care setting. ASPN is the most appropriate organization to conduct the work under this cooperative agreement because:
