FR940127-1-00068 FR940127-1-00018 Reporting by physicians and other health care professionals of adverse experiences associated with the administration of most products is strictly voluntary. As the agency's primary source of adverse event information, this voluntary reporting system has revealed significant adverse events and drug interactions associated with products that could not be identified during the preapproval testing. There are many instances of important public health actions that have been the direct or indirect result of information provided through voluntary reporting by individual health professionals. The removal of the antibiotic temafloxacin (Omniflox) from the market, research concerning the danger of concurrent use of the antihistamine terfenadine (Seldane) when taken with either the antifungal ketoconazole or the antibiotic erythromycin, and the warning labeling requirement for latex products are just a few examples that demonstrate why FDA strongly encourages voluntary reporting by physicians and other health professionals. In a major effort to increase voluntary reporting of serious adverse events by health professionals, FDA recently announced a new reporting system called MEDWATCH. This program is designed to make it easier for health care providers to report serious adverse events and to clarify what type of information should be reported. The agency believes that preserving the confidentiality of the identities of the patient and of third parties involved with an adverse event report, such as the physician or others identified in the report, is essential to the success of the adverse event reporting system. Accordingly, although the substantive content of adverse event reports is public information under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552, FDA regulations have long protected the confidentiality of the patient, reporter, and institution involved in the adverse event (ยง20.111 (21 CFR 20.111)). These regulations, which have been in place since 1974, have enabled FDA to obtain voluntary reports of adverse events and to protect the confidentiality of information that could identify the patient involved. Although these regulations protect the release of confidential information by FDA, they do not protect the release of the same information contained in reports held by drug, biologic, and device manufacturers. Various State and local governments have laws, regulations, or rules that permit disclosure of this information in litigation, through discovery or otherwise. Recently, plaintiffs in several product liability and medical malpractice cases have attempted to discover the identities of reporters and patients named in adverse event reports in the possession of the product manufacturers. As discussed above, this same information is protected from public disclosure when it is contained in similar or identical reports submitted to FDA and in FDA's possession. To avoid jeopardizing the willingness of the health care community to make reports of adverse events to manufacturers and FDA, the agency believes that a similar confidentiality rule is needed to prevent disclosure or threats of disclosure of the identity of reporters or subjects of adverse event reports in the possession of manufacturers. To ensure meaningful reporting under the new MEDWATCH program, FDA believes that additional steps must be taken to safeguard the confidentiality of the identities of those involved with adverse event reports. State and local laws, regulations, or rules that permit or require the disclosure of patient and reporters' identities interfere with the agency's objective of ensuring the safety of human drugs, biologics, and devices. Therefore, FDA is proposing to amend its regulations to prohibit the disclosure of such information contained in reports held by FDA, as provided currently, and similar information held by manufacturers. The proposal also would preempt State and local laws, regulations, or rules that permit or require such disclosure. Disclosure would be permitted if both the reporter and the person identified in the report consent to disclosure or if there is a discovery order in malpractice litigation between the subject of the report and the reporter of the adverse event. B. FDA Adverse Event Reporting Programs 1. Drug and Non-Vaccine Biological Products FDA receives postmarketing adverse drug reaction (ADR) reports directly from manufacturers, health professionals, and consumers. An adverse drug or biologic experience means any adverse event associated with the use of the product in humans, whether or not the event is considered related to the drug or biologic. Included are events that occur in the course of professional use, from drug overdose (whether intentional or accidental), from drug abuse, from drug withdrawal, and any failure of an expected pharmacological action (ยง314.80 (21 CFR 314.80(a)). FDA regulations require drug manufacturers to report to FDA serious and unexpected adverse reactions and increased frequency of serious expected reactions. These reports must be filed within a specific time after the manufacturer receives the information. Manufacturers are also required to submit periodic reports of all adverse reactions (ยง314.80). FDA has proposed similar adverse experience reporting requirements for manufacturers of licensed biological products (March 29, 1990, 55 FR 11611) and expects to publish final regulations in the near future. The reporting of these adverse reactions by health professionals to either manufacturers or FDA, however, is strictly voluntary. (Health care providers are required to report certain adverse events associated with specific vaccines under the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act. See section I.B.3 of this document.) The agency is also preparing a proposed rule to require adverse drug reaction reporting by manufacturers of nonprescription drug products.
