FR940426-2-00118 FR940426-2-00075 3. Use of its own resources, including how it will maximize the use of any Section 8 set-aside awarded to it. 4. Use of HUD-owned properties or properties with mortgages held by HUD in a variety of geographic locations. 5. Efforts to promote economic or neighborhood development and/or employment opportunities for project area residents; and 6. Ability to move housing to construction/rehabilitation start in a short time frame. Applications received during each 15 calendar-day period, beginning 30 days after publication of this NOFA, will be evaluated against each other. Applications will be selected on the basis of numerical ratings assigned to the criteria identified above. Additional, more detailed information and instructions with respect to the above criteria, as well as on application and program procedures in general, are contained in HUD Notice 94&hyph;19, which will be provided pension funds upon request to the HUD program headquarters office referred to above. The Department will formally notify each pension fund as to whether or not it was selected to participate in this demonstration program and the amount of set-aside awarded. (F) Guidelines on Eligible Projects Pension funds selected by HUD to participate in this demonstration must submit proposals for projects they wish to finance to the Department for approval. Each pension fund will be required to use at least 50% of its section 8 set-aside in connection with HUD-owned properties or properties with mortgages held by HUD unless the Department determines that the overall statutory provision to this effect will be met and approves an exception. New construction projects are eligible under this demonstration. In addition, the following types of existing projects are eligible for substantial rehabilitation: A multifamily project owned by the Secretary or subject to a mortgage held by the Secretary that is delinquent, under a workout agreement, or being foreclosed upon by the Secretary; A multifamily project eligible for assistance as a troubled project under section 201 of the Housing Community Development Amendments of 1978; A multifamily project located in an empowerment zone or enterprise community designated pursuant to Federal law;
