FR940620-1-00092 FR940620-1-00009 (ii) Necessary for installation, operation, maintenance, or training purposes (other than detailed manufacturing or process data); (iii) Corrections or changes to government-furnished technical data or computer software; (iv) Otherwise publicly available or have been released or disclosed by the contractor or a subcontractor without restrictions on further use, release or disclosure other than a release or disclosure resulting from the sale, transfer, or other assignment of interest in the technical data or computer software to another party or the sale or transfer of some or all of a business entity or its assets to another party; (v) Data or software in which the Government has acquired previously unlimited rights under another government contract or through a specific license; and (vi) SBIR data upon expiration of the SBIR data rights period. (2) Limited rights. The Government shall have limited rights in technical data, that were not generated under this contract, pertain to items, components or processes developed exclusively at private expense, and are marked, in accordance with the marking instructions in paragraph (f)(1) of this clause, with the legend prescribed in subparagraph (f)(2) of this clause. (3) Restricted rights in computer software. The government shall have restricted rights in noncommercial computer software required to be delivered or otherwise furnished to the Government under this contract that were developed exclusively at private expense and were not generated under this contract. (4) SBIR data rights. (i) Except for technical data, including computer software documentation, or computer software in which the Government has unlimited rights under paragraph (b)(1) of this clause, the Government shall have SBIR data rights in all technical data or computer software generated under this contract during the period commencing with contract award and ending upon the date five years after completion of the project from which such data were generated. (ii) The Government may not release or disclose SBIR data to any person, other than its support services contractors, except_ (A) As expressly permitted by the contractor; (B) For evaluational purposes; or, (C) A release, disclosure, or use that is necessary for emergency repair or overhaul of items operated by the Government. (iii) A release or disclosure of SBIR data to the Government's support services contractors, or a release or disclosure under paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(B) or (c) of this clause, may be made only if, prior to release or disclosure, the intended recipient is subject to the use and non-disclosure agreement at 227.403&hyph;7 or is a Government contractor receiving access to the technical data or software for performance of a Government contract that contains the clause at 252.227&hyph;7025, ``Limitations on the Use or Disclosure of Government Furnished Information Marked with Restrictive Legends.'' (5) Specifically negotiated license rights. The standard license rights granted to the government under paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this clause may be modified by mutual agreement to provide such rights as the parties consider appropriate but shall not provide the Government lesser rights in technical data, including computer software documentation, than are enumerated in paragraph (a)(14) of this clause or lesser rights in computer software than are enumerated in paragraph (a)(17) of this clause. Any rights so negotiated shall be identified in a license agreement made part of this contract. (6) Prior Government rights. Technical data, including computer software documentation, or computer software that will be delivered, furnished, or otherwise provided to the government under this contract, in which the government has previously obtained rights shall be delivered, furnished, or provided with the pre-existing rights, unless_ (i) The parties have agreed otherwise; or, (ii) Any restrictions on the government's rights to use, modify, release, perform, display, or disclose the technical data or computer software have expired or no longer apply. (7) Release from liability. The contractor agrees to release the Government from liability for any release or disclosure of technical data, computer software, or computer software documentation made in accordance with paragraphs (a)(14), (a)(17), or (b)(4) of this clause, or in accordance with the terms of a license negotiated under paragraph (b)(5) of this clause, or by others to whom the recipient has released or disclosed the data, software, or documentation and to seek relief solely from the party who has improperly used, modified, reproduced, released, performed, displayed, or disclosed contractor data or software marked with restrictive legends. (c) Rights in derivative computer software or computer software documentation. The government shall retain its rights in the unchanged portions of any computer software or computer software documentation delivered under this contract that the contractor uses to prepare, or includes in, derivative software or documentation. (d) Third party copyrighted technical data and computer software. The contractor shall not, without the written approval of the contracting officer, incorporate any copyrighted technical data, including computer software documentation, or computer software in the data or software to be delivered under this contract unless the contractor is the copyright owner or has obtained for the Government the license rights necessary to perfect a license or licenses in the deliverable data or software of the appropriate scope set forth in paragraph (b) of this clause and, prior to delivery of such_ (1) Technical data, has affixed to the transmittal document a statement of the license rights obtained; or, (2) Computer software, has provided a statement of the license rights obtained in a form acceptable to the contracting officer. (e) Identification and delivery of technical data or computer software to be furnished with restrictions on use, release, or disclosure. (1) This paragraph does not apply to technical data or computer software that were or will be generated under this contract or to restrictions based solely on copyright.
