FR940628-1-00093 FR940628-1-00015 Furthermore, this alternative does not waive any of the other use limits under the existing IFQ program or under the changes proposed to the program by this action. For example, a person may only hold two QS blocks for an IFQ regulatory area, or one QS block if any unblocked QS is held. Also, a person cannot exceed the QS use limit by transfer. These limits would prevent a person from receiving, by transfer, the two blocks created by dividing a block because its size exceeded the QS use limit. If a person held any QS for an IFQ regulatory area, blocked or unblocked, the most he/she would be able to receive by transfer would be one block. If a person did not hold any QS for an IFQ regulatory area, he/she would still be prevented from receiving both blocks, because the sum of the QS in both blocks would exceed the QS use limit for that regulatory area. Other Changes to the IFQ Regulatory Language This action proposes changes to the transfer procedure in 50 CFR part 676 to accommodate the Modified Block Proposal, and to further clarify the transfer process. First, a definition of transfer of QS or IFQ would be included in the introductory paragraph of §676.21. Second, §676.21(e) would be revised and placed at §676.21 (a), (b), and (c). Third, procedures designed specifically for transferring QS blocks would be placed in §676.21(d). Fourth, procedures for transfers of QS or IFQ resulting from court orders, operation of law, or as part of security agreements would be clarified and placed in §676.21(e). Fifth, transfer restrictions specific to regulatory areas would be expanded and placed in §676.21(f). Making the transfer process easier to understand is the impetus for these proposed changes. NMFS is particularly interested in public comments regarding these changes to the existing transfer process for QS and IFQ, which was published in the Federal Register on November 9, 1993 (58 FR 59375). Section 304(a)(1)(D) of the Magnuson Act requires the Secretary to publish regulations proposed by a Council within 15 days of receipt of the FMP amendments and regulations. At this time, the Secretary has not determined that the FMP amendments these regulations would implement are consistent with the national standards, other provisions of the Magnuson Act, and other applicable laws. The Secretary, in making final determinations about the FMP amendments and in promulgating final rules under both the Magnuson and Halibut Acts, will take into account the data, views, and comments received during the comment period. Classification The Council prepared an IRFA as part of the RIR, which describes the impact this proposed rule would have on small entities, if adopted. The analysis in the IRFA indicates that by reducing consolidation, the Modified Block Proposal may increase the total cost of harvesting the fishery resource, thereby decreasing the net economic benefits of the IFQ program and increasing harvesting costs to small entities. The analysis also indicates that by reducing consolidation, the Modified Block Proposal may result in higher levels of harvesting employment. Higher levels of harvesting employment and the maintenance of diversity in fishing operations participating in the IFQ program are the main goals of the Modified Block Proposal. A copy of the analysis is available from the Council (see ADDRESSES ). This proposed rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 676 Fisheries, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: June 22, 1994. Henry R. Beasley, Acting Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 50 CFR part 676 is proposed to be amended as follows:
