FR940104-0-00083 FR940104-0-00016 (4) Not in excess of three years has experienced or will experience an economic hardship. (c) No borrower is eligible for a deferment, or a loan made under this part while serving in a medical internship or residency program. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq .) ยง685.205 Forbearance. (a)(1) A Direct Loan Program borrower or endorser may receive forbearance from the Secretary if the borrower or endorser is willing but unable to make scheduled loan payments. ``Forbearance'' means permitting the temporary cessation of payments, allowing an extension of time for making payments, or temporarily accepting smaller payments than previously scheduled. A forbearance is granted by the Secretary only if the borrower or endorser requests forbearance, and_ (i) The Secretary believes that the borrower or endorser intends to repay the loan but, due to poor health or other acceptable reasons, is currently unable to make scheduled payments; or (ii) The borrower's payments of principal are deferred under ยง685.204 and the Secretary does not subsidize the interest benefits on behalf of the borrower under ยง685.200(a)(2). (2) If payments of interest are forborne, they are capitalized. (b) Mandatory forbearance. (1) Medical or dental interns or residents. Upon receipt of a written request and sufficient supporting documentation from a borrower serving in a medical or dental internship or residency program, the Secretary grants forbearance renewable at 12-month intervals to a borrower_ (i) For the length of time remaining in the borrower's medical or dental internship or residency that must be successfully completed before the borrower may begin professional practice or service; or (ii) For the length of time that the borrower is serving in a medical or dental internship or residency program leading to a degree or certificate awarded by an institution of higher education, a hospital, or a health care facility that offers postgraduate training. (2) Borrowers and endorsers with high debt burdens. Upon receipt of a written request and sufficient supporting documentation from an endorser, or from a borrower (other than a borrower who is serving in a medical or dental internship or residency described in paragraph (i)(1) of this section), the Secretary grants forbearance in increments of up to one year, for periods that, collectively, do not exceed three years, if the borrower or endorser_ (i) Is currently obligated to make payments on Title IV loans; and (ii) The amount of such payments each month (or a proportional share if the payments are due less frequently than monthly) is collectively equal to or greater than 20 percent of the borrower or endorser's monthly disposable income. (3) Borrowers and endorsers in National and Community Service. Upon receipt of a written request and sufficient supporting documentation from a borrower or endorser serving in a national service position for which the borrower or endorser receives a national service educational award under the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993, the Secretary grants forbearance for the duration of the borrower's or endorser's term of service under that statute. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq .) ยง685.206 Borrower responsibilities and defenses. (a) The borrower shall give the school, as part of the origination process for a Federal Direct Stafford, Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford, or Federal Direct PLUS loan_ (1) A statement, as described in 34 CFR part 668, that the loan will be used for the cost of the student's attendance; (2) Information demonstrating that the borrower is eligible for the loan; (3) Information concerning the outstanding FFEL Program and Direct Loan Program loans of the borrower and, for a parent borrower, of the student, including any Federal Consolidation loan or Federal Direct Consolidation loan used to discharge a Federal Stafford, Federal PLUS loan, Federal Direct Stafford, Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford or Federal Direct PLUS loan; (4) A statement authorizing the school to release information to the Secretary relevant to the student's eligibility to borrow or to have a parent borrow on the student's behalf ( e.g. , the student's enrollment status, financial assistance, and employment records). (b) The borrower shall promptly notify_ (1) The Secretary of any change of name, address, student status to less than half-time, employer, or employer's address; and (2) The school of any change in address during enrollment. (c) Borrower defenses. A Direct Loan Program borrower may assert as a defense against the repayment of the loan a claim based on the act or omission of the school only if_ (1) The act or omission gives rise to a cause of action against the school recognized under the law of the State in which the school attended by the student was located; (2) Prior to asserting the claim as a defense to repayment, the borrower presented that claim to the school and received no satisfaction; and (3) The borrower presented the claim in writing to the Department within 18 months of the date the loan was disbursed to the borrower. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq. )
