FR941027-2-00053 FR941027-2-00027 Individuals who request information in writing. FEC 11 System name: Contributor Name Index System. System location: Federal Election Commission, Washington, DC 20463. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Individuals who have been listed on campaign finance reports as having given $200 or more per transaction to a Federal candidate or their supporting political committee. Categories of records in the system: On-line disk storage electronic data processing index of names. Authority for maintenance of the system: 2 U.S.C. 441a. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Commission staff and the public may use this system to ascertain whether and to what extent named individuals have made contributions to Federal candidates and political committees. Routine use for disclosure to the Department of Justice for use in litigation: It shall be a routine use of the records in this system of records to disclose them to the Department of Justice when: (a) The agency, or any component thereof; or (b) Any employee of the agency in his or her official capacity; or (c) Any employee of the agency in his or her individual capacity where the Department of Justice has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) The United States, where the agency determines that litigation is likely to affect the agency, or any of its components, is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and the use of such reports by the Department of Justice is deemed by Federal Election Commission to be relevant and necessary to the litigation, provided, however, that in each case the agency determines that disclosure of the records to the Department of Justice is a use of the information contained in the records that is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected. Routine use for Agency disclosure in litigation: It shall be a routine use of records maintained by this agency to disclose them in a proceeding before a court or adjudicative body before which the agency is authorized to appear when: (a) The agency, or any component thereof; or (b) Any employee of the agency in his or her official capacity; or (c) Any employee of the agency in his or her individual capacity where the agency has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) The United States, where the agency determines that litigation is likely to affect the agency, or any of its components, is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and the Federal Election Commission determines that, on a case-by-case basis, use of such records is relevant and necessary to the litigation, provided, however, that the agency determines that disclosure of the records is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining and disposing of records in the system: Storage: On-line disk storage electronic data. Retrievability: Indexed by last name of contributor.
