FR940523-2-00005 FR940523-2-00003 Forest Service Newspapers To Be Used for Publication of Legal Notice of Appealable Decisions and Publication of Notice on Proposed Actions for Southern Region; Alabama, et al. AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: Deciding Officers in the Southern Region will publish notice of decisions subject to administrative appeal under 36 CFR part 215 and 217 in the legal notice section of the newspapers listed in the Supplementary Information section of this notice. As provided in 36 CFR 215.5(a) and 217.5(d), the public shall be advised, through Federal Register notice, of the principal newspaper to be utilized for publishing legal notices of decisions. Newspaper publication of notices of decisions is in addition to direct notice of decisions to those who have requested notice in writing and to those known to be interested in or affected by a specific decision. In addition, Responsible Officials in the Southern Region will also publish notice of proposed actions under 36 CFR part 215 in the newspapers that are listed in the Supplementary Information section of this notice. As provided in 36 CFR 215.5(a), the public shall be advised, through Federal Register notice, of the principal newspapers to be utilized for publishing notices on proposed actions. DATES: Use of these newspapers for purposes of publishing legal notices of decisions subject to appeal under 36 CFR parts 215 and 217, and notices of proposed actions under 36 CFR part 215 shall begin on or after the date of this publication. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jean Paul Kruglewicz, Regional Appeals Coordinator, Southern Region, Planning and Budget, 1720 Peachtree Road, NW., Atlanta, Georgia 30367&hyph;9102, Phone: 404&hyph;347&hyph;4867. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Deciding Officers in the Southern Region will give legal notice of decisions subject to appeal under 36 CFR part 217 and Responsible Officials in the Southern Region will give notice of decisions subject to appeal under 36 CFR part 215 in the following newspapers which are listed by Forest Service administrative unit. Responsible Officials in the Southern Region will also give notice of proposed actions under 36 CFR part 215 in the following principal newspapers which are listed by Forest Service administrative unit. The timeframe for comment on a proposed action shall be based on the date of publication of the notice of the proposed action in the principal newspaper. The timeframe for appeal shall be based on the date of publication of the legal notice of the decision in the principal newspaper for both 36 CFR parts 215 and 217. The following newspapers will be used to provide notice. Southern Region Regional Forester Decisions Affecting National Forest System lands in more than one state of the 13 states of the Southern Region and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Atlanta Journal, published daily in Atlanta, GA. Southern Region Regional Forester Decisions Affecting National Forest System lands in only one state of the 13 states of the Southern Region and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico will appear in the principal newspaper elected by the National Forest(s) of that state. National Forests in Alabama, Alabama Forest Supervisor Decisions Montgomery Advertiser, published daily in Montgomery, AL. District Rangers Decisions Bankhead Ranger District: Northwest Alabamian, published weekly (Monday & Thursday) in Haleyville, AL. Conecuh Ranger District: The Andalusia Star, published daily (Tuesday through Saturday) in Andalusia, AL. Oakmulgee Ranger District: The Tuscaloosa News, published daily in Tuscaloosa, AL. Shoal Creek Ranger District: The Anniston Star, published daily in Anniston, AL. Talladega Ranger District: The Daily Home, published daily in Talladega, AL. Tuskegee Ranger District: Tuskegee News, published weekly (Thursday) in Tuskegee, AL. Caribbean National Forest, Puerto Rico Forest Supervisor Decisions El Nuevo Dia, published daily in Spanish in San Juan, PR. San Juan Star, published daily in San Juan, PR. District Ranger Decisions El Horizonte, published weekly (Wednesday) in Fajardo, PR.
