FR941207-2-00040 FR941207-2-00031 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Public Health Service National Toxicology Program; Availability of the Seventh Annual Report on Carcinogens The HHS' National Toxicology Program (NTP) today announces the availability of the Seventh Annual Report on Carcinogens. The Annual Report on Carcinogens, prepared by the National Toxicology Program (NTP), U.S. Public Health Service, is issued by the Secretary of the Department of Health Service, (DHHS) pursuant to an amendment to the Public Health Service Act (section 262, Pub. L. 95&hyph;622) which requires the Secretary to publish an annual report that contains ``a list of all substances (i) which either are known to be carcinogens and (ii) to which a significant number of persons residing in the United States are exposed *␣*␣*.'' The law also states that the reports should provide available information on the nature of exposures, the estimated numbers of persons exposed, and the extent to which the implementation of Federal regulations decreases the risk to public health from exposure to these chemicals. For the purpose of the Report, ``known'' carcinogens are defined as those substances for which the evidence from human studies indicates that there is causal relationship between exposure to the substance and human cancer. Substances ``which may reasonably be anticipated to be carcinogens'' are defined as those for which there is limited evidence of carcinogenicity in humans or sufficient evidence of carcinogenicity in experimental animals. Substances in the above categories, for which potential exposure of persons residing in the United States has been demonstrated, are included in the Report. The Seventh Annual Report does not contain all known carcinogens or substances reasonably anticipated to be carcinogens. Additional substances with identified carcinogenic properties as defined above will be included in subsequent Annual Reports. New entries in the Seventh Annual Report were chosen from those designated by the agencies participating in the preparation of the Report, from those tested within the National Toxicology Program and the National Cancer Institute Carcinogenesis Bioassay Program; or from those evaluated by the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), a component of the World Health Organization (WHO), located in Lyon, France. The Seventh Annual Report on Carcinogens Summary does not contain specific information on regulations promulgated by regulatory health agencies. In most other respects, the information is the same as that in the full report. Copies will be sent automatically to those on the mailing list; others may request a single copy without charge by writing the NTP Central Data Management, MD A0&hyph;02, P.O. Box 12233, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709. Copies of the complete Report are available from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161. Tel: 800&hyph;553&hyph;6847. There is a $105.00 charge for the document plus a $8.00 per order shipping and handling charge. Ask for Report No. PB 95&hyph;109781 when ordering. Comments on the Seventh Annual Report on Carcinogens are welcome. Corrections, suggestions, or any additional information should be addressed to Annual Reports on Carcinogens, NTP Public Information Office, MD B2&hyph;04, P.O. Box 12233, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709. Dated: November 29, 1994. Kenneth Olden, Director, National Toxicology Program. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30022 Filed 12&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4140&hyph;01&hyph;M
