FR940916-1-00124 FR940916-1-00016 Because this proposed rule passes the benefit-to-cost test on operational savings alone, FRA did not fully quantify the savings that will accrue to the industry due to accidents/incidents that are prevented by the proposed rule. Although FRA believes that the proposed rule will significantly enhance safety, it is very difficult to quantify that improvement. However, FRA did develop a method by which such savings could be quantified. The method has been described in the Appendix to the Regulatory Analysis, and FRA solicits comments and information from the industry on how to improve the method. FRA searched the railroad accident/incident data base for the most recent five-year period. The search consisted of sorting the data base by cause code using a set of causes judged to have high potential for at least some reduction due to the provisions of the proposed rule. See FRA Guide to Preparing Accident/Incident Reports. The set of cause codes selected included: (a) Air hose burst/disconnected; (b) Obstructed brake pipe; (c) Handbrake broken/defective/not set; (d) Brake rigging down/dragging; (e) Brake valve malfunction; (f) Other brake wear/damage; (g) Other brake defects; (h) Over heated roller bearing; (i) Broken wheel flange; (j) Broken wheel plate; (k) Broken wheel hub; (l) Worn wheel flange; (m) Worn wheel tread; (n) Wheel tread flat; (o) Built-up wheel tread; and (p) Loose wheel. Although some of the causes are not directly related to the brake system. These causes were selected because they are either an indication of a possible brake system problem or because a better trained brake system inspector (as required by the proposed rule) conducting a more thorough mechanical and brake inspection (as required by the proposed rule) should detect more problems with car components that are highly visible during brake system inspections (wheels and bearings). For each of these accident/incident causes, FRA used the collective judgment of experienced individuals to estimate the fraction that would be prevented by the proposed rule. For example, requiring air dryers will reduce the incident of brake pipe blockage due to ice. Thus, some percentage of the obstructed brake pipe incidents will be prevented. The percentage estimates ranged from 10 percent to 50 percent, with an average of about 20 percent. A detailed discussion of this method and its application has been included in the Appendix to the Regulatory Analysis. In its effort to estimate the cost savings that would be produced by an avoidance of a percentage of these accidents/incidents, FRA's analysis of the accident/incident costs has been limited to data supplied by the industry. The accident/incident information supplied by the industry under the heading, ``railroad property damage,'' does not include costs such as wreck clearance, damage to lading, train delay, emergency response, environmental clean-up, or other associated costs which may be very substantial in some accidents. To the extent that these additional costs are relevant, the benefits of this proposed rule may be underestimated. Consequently, FRA encourages commenters to provide any information that they have as to the extent of FRA's underestimation in this analysis, and any suggestions they may have for capturing, or estimating, the full costs of these accidents/incidents. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5 U.S.C. ยง601 et seq. ) requires a review of proposed rules to assess their impact on small entities. In reviewing the economic impact of the rule, FRA concluded that it will have a minimal economic impact on small entities. There are no direct or indirect economic impacts for small units of government, businesses, or other organizations; therefore, it is certified that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities under the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. Paperwork Reduction Act This proposed rule contains proposed information collection requirements. Because the policy of the Federal Government is to minimize the regulatory record keeping burden placed on private industry, a separate analysis of the record keeping burden resulting from the proposed regulations was performed. The new rules were designed to require only records that are good business practice that have value to the railroads beyond merely meeting Federal requirements. Although FRA recognizes that the proposed rules impose a significant record keeping burden on the industry, FRA believes that the written procedures and record keeping requirements are an integral part of this proposal and are necessary to its overall effectiveness. FRA feels that it would be impossible to reduce or eliminate any of the proposed written procedures or record keeping requirements without seriously undermining the entire approach taken by FRA in developing these proposed rules. Most of the records required are a form of, or supplement to, what is now being kept by the railroads voluntarily for their own purposes. Many of the requirements to keep records are optional, but are necessary to take advantage of the financial incentives offered by the new rules.
