FR941222-0-00016 FR941222-0-00003 Response. The DSC is enclosed within the HSM and is not exposed to external water. Laboratory experiments have indicated a general corrosion rate of less than 0.00001 inches per year for similar stainless steels. The NRC believes these experiments more accurately bound DSC corrosion than experiences in unrelated industries. For the 50-year design life of the DSC, the expected corrosion would therefore not result in exceeding a corrosion depth of 0.0005 inches. This will not affect the DSC performing its intended safety functions. Because of the low corrosion rates expected for stainless steel, periodic inspections for deterioration of the DSC are not considered necessary. Therefore, inspections are not required. The support rails for the DSC have an extremely hard-alloy steel applied to the sliding surface, are ground to a smooth finish, and are coated with a dry film lubricant to prevent corrosion and to reduce the coefficient of friction. Furthermore, the environment inside the HSM is protected from rain and it is kept dry by the heat load from the DSC. Therefore, it is highly unlikely that corrosion between the stainless steel and the hard alloy steel surface of the support rail will occur to any significant extent. These conclusions and analyses regarding the very small likelihood of corrosion indicate that there is reasonable assurance that the DSC can be removed from the HSM when required. C.3. Comment. One commenter questioned whether the screens between the casks, which are essential to cooling, will remain clear of debris and how they can be cleaned if they become partially clogged. Another commenter was concerned about how the roof screen was inspected, stating that it seems likely that insects, animals, and birds will be attracted to the warm air coming from the outlet vents. Several commenters remained concerned about vent blockage that can completely cover and block screening and vents particularly from insects such as paper wasps, that build huge nests, and swarms of midges that are common to the Great Lakes. How are the screens attached? Response. As stated in the Certificate of Compliance, a licensee using the Standardized NUHOMS must conduct a daily visual surveillance of the exterior of air inlets and outlets (front wall and roof bird screen). In addition, the licensee must perform a daily close-up inspection to ensure that no material accumulates between the modules to block the air flow. If the surveillance shows blockage of air vents, the licensee is required to clear the vent blockage by following procedures developed by each user of the Standardized NUHOMS. If the screen is damaged, the licensee must replace the screen. The required daily surveillance and temperature measurements should readily detect blockage of the vents or screens by insects, animals, or birds in a timely manner, leading to the removal of the obstruction before damage occurs from high temperatures. The bird screen is made of stainless steel wire cloth tack-welded to stainless steel strips, which are attached to the HSM with stainless steel wedge anchors. C.4. Comment. One commenter expressed concern about the presence of burrowing and other nuisance animals that have posed problems at other waste sites. Response. Burrowing and other nuisance animals are not expected to pose problems for the Standardized NUHOMS. Because of the robust system design, animals will not be able to get to the radioactive material or cause damage such that water could cause movement of the radioactive material. Burrowing under the concrete pad would not cause damage to safety-related components. Further, large-scale burrowing would likely be detected by the daily surveillance or other activities related to the operation of the storage area. C.5. Comment. One commenter wanted additional radiation monitoring because of the calculated higher dose rates over previous NUHOMS designs. The commenter stated that these higher dose rates are not consistent with the objective of maintaining occupational exposures ALARA, and that site-specific applications should provide detailed procedures and plans to meet ALARA guidelines and 10 CFR Part 20 requirements with respect to operation and maintenance. Response. No additional radiation monitoring has been specifically identified or required for the Standardized NUHOMS. However, 10 CFR Parts 20, 50, and 72 require that licensees comply with ALARA. In addition, 10 CFR 72.212(b)(6) requires each licensee to review its radiation protection program to determine that their effectiveness is not decreased by use of the Standardized NUHOMS. Further, 10 CFR 72.212 (b)(9) requires each licensee to conduct storage activities in accordance with appropriate written procedures. If the results of these licensee activities indicate that additional procedures are required then the licensee is required to implement the procedures. C.6. Comment. One commenter was concerned about the optical survey equipment used to align the transfer cask with the HSM before transfer. What checks are made on this optical equipment and what regulations apply? Response. The optical equipment used to align the transfer cask with the HSM is optional and is an operational convenience. However, the licensee must meet Technical Specifications 1.2.9 in the Certificate of Compliance. Therefore, only appropriate calibrations or checks to assure compliance with this technical specification are appropriate.
