FR940810-1-00006 FR940810-1-00001 Because the Department believes that the rule conforms in many ways to prevailing practice, it believes that airlines and ticket agents can implement the proposed changes at little, if any, cost. We invite specific cost data to help us evaluate the cost to the industry of complying with the proposed requirements if any commenter believes the cost to be burdensome. In particular, the Department is interested in comments regarding its proposal to cover all types of long-term wet leases. Opponents of this aspect of the proposal should support their comments with economic or other data that would assist the Department in distinguishing among types of wet lease for the purpose of protecting consumers from unfair and deceptive practices. As discussed above, the Department also requests that commenters address its concern that, despite the separate written notice that is being proposed, the current approach to printing flight coupons may mislead the consumer. The Department recognizes that the airlines and ticket agents will require time to implement the proposed separate written notice requirement. The Department is proposing that the final rule be effective 60 days after publication, but it requests comments on other possible effective dates. In addition, we invite information about the time necessary to implement inclusion of the transporting carrier's identity on flight coupons if we should adopt a rule requiring this. The Department also proposes to remove 14 CFR 399.88 of the Policy Statements, since the proposed rule would replace it. Regulatory Analyses and Notices The Department has determined that this action is not a significant regulatory action under Executive Order 12866 or under the Department's Regulatory Policies and Procedures. The Department has placed a regulatory evaluation that examines the estimated costs and impacts of the proposal in the docket. The Department certifies that this rule, if adopted, would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Although many ticket agents and some air carriers are small entities, the Department believes that the costs of notification will be minimal. The Department seeks comment on whether there are small entity impacts that should be considered. If comments provide information that there are significant small entity impacts, the Department will prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis at the final rule stage. The Department does not believe that there would be sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a federalism assessment. Paperwork Reduction Act The proposed rule does not contain information collection requirements that require approval by the Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 2507 et seq.). List of Subjects 14 CFR Part 257 Air carriers, Foreign air carriers, and Consumer protection. 14 CFR Part 399 Administrative practice and procedure, Air carriers, Air rates and fares, Air taxis, Consumer protection, and Small business. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, the Department of Transportation denies the petition for rulemaking in Docket 48710 and proposes to add part 257 and to amend part 399 as follows: 1. Part 257 is added to read as follows: PART 257_DISCLOSURE OF CODE-SHARING ARRANGEMENTS AND LONG-TERM WET LEASES Sec. 257.1␣Purpose. 257.2␣Applicability. 257.3␣Definitions. 257.4␣Unfair and Deceptive Practice. 257.5␣Notice Requirement. Authority: Sections 204 and 411, Pub. L. 85&hyph;726, as amended, 72 Stat. 743 and 769; 49 U.S.C. §§40113(a) and 41712. §257.1 Purpose. The purpose of this part is to ensure that ticket agents doing business in the United States, air carriers, and foreign air carriers tell consumers clearly when the air transportation they are buying or considering buying involves a code-sharing arrangement or a long-term wet lease, and that they disclose to consumers the transporting carrier's identity. §257.2 Applicability. This rule applies to: (a) Direct air carriers and foreign air carriers that participate in code-sharing arrangements or long-term wet leases involving scheduled passenger air transportation; and (b) Ticket agents doing business in the United States that sell scheduled passenger air transportation services involving code-sharing arrangements or long-term wet leases.
