FR940617-0-00181 FR940617-0-00026 (a) The FID hydrocarbon analyzer shall receive the initial and periodic calibration as described in this section. The HFID used with petroleum-fueled diesel (compression-ignition) engines shall be operated to a set point # 5.5 ○C between 185 and 197 ○C. (b) Initial and periodic optimization of detector response. Prior to introduction into service and at least annually thereafter, adjust the FID hydrocarbon analyzer for optimum hydrocarbon response as specified in this paragraph. Alternate methods yielding equivalent results may be used, if approved in advance by the Administrator. (1) Follow good engineering practices for initial instrument start-up and basic operating adjustment using the appropriate fuel (see §89.312&hyph;96(e)) and zero-grade air. (2) One of the following procedures is required for FID or HFID optimization: (i) The procedure outlined in Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) paper No. 770141, ``Optimization of a Flame Ionization Detector for Determination of Hydrocarbon in Diluted Automotive Exhausts''; author, Glenn D. Reschke. This procedure has been incorporated by reference. See §89.6. (ii) The HFID optimization procedures outlined in § 86.331&hyph;79 of this chapter. (iii) Alternative procedures may be used if approved in advance by the Administrator. (3) After the optimum flow rates have been determined, record them for future reference. (c) Initial and periodic calibration. Prior to introduction into service and monthly thereafter, the FID or HFID hydrocarbon analyzer shall be calibrated on all normally used instrument ranges using the steps in this paragraph. Use the same flow rate and pressures as when analyzing samples. Calibration gases shall be introduced directly at the analyzer, unless the ``overflow'' calibration option of §86.1310&hyph;90(b)(3)(i) of this chapter for the HFID is taken. (1) Adjust analyzer to optimize performance. (2) Zero the hydrocarbon analyzer with zero-grade air. (3) Calibrate on each used operating range with propane-in-air (dilute) or propane-in-nitrogen (raw) calibration gases having nominal concentrations starting between 10&hyph;15 percent and increasing in at least six incremental steps to 90 percent of that range. The incremental steps are to be spaced to represent good engineering practice. For each range calibrated, if the deviation from a least-squares best-fit straight line is 2 percent or less of the value at each data point, concentration values may be calculated by use of a single calibration factor for that range. If the deviation exceeds 2 percent at any point, the best-fit non-linear equation which represents the data to within 2 percent of each test point shall be used to determine concentration. (d) Oxygen interference optimization. Choose a range where the oxygen interference check gases will fall in the upper 50 percent. Conduct the test, as outlined in this paragraph, with the oven temperature set as required by the instrument manufacturer. Oxygen interference check gas specifications are found in §89.312&hyph;96(d). (1) Zero the analyzer. (2) Span the analyzer with the purified synthetic air specified in §89.312&hyph;96(b)(4). (3) Recheck zero response. If it has changed more than 0.5 percent of full scale repeat paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section to correct problem. (4) Introduce the 5 percent and 10 percent oxygen interference check gases. (5) Recheck the zero response. If it has changed more # 1 percent of full scale, repeat the test. (6) Calculate the percent of oxygen interference (designated as percent O 2 I ) for each mixture in paragraph (d)(4) of this section. E:GRAPHICSER17JN94.006 A =hydrocarbon concentration (ppmC) of the span gas used in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. B =hydrocarbon concentration (ppmC) of the oxygen interference check gases used in paragraph (d)(4) of this section. E:GRAPHICSER17JN94.007 D =percent of full-scale analyzer response due to A . (7) The percent of oxygen interference (designated as %O 2 I ) must be less than # 3.0 percent for all required oxygen interference check gases prior to testing. (8) If the oxygen interference is greater than the specifications, incrementally adjust the air flow above and below the manufacturer's specifications, repeating paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(7) of this section for each flow. (9) If the oxygen interference is greater than the specification after adjusting the air flow, vary the fuel flow and thereafter the sample flow, repeating paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(7) of this section for each new setting. (10) If the oxygen interference is still greater than the specifications, repair or replace the analyzer, FID fuel, or burner air prior to testing. Repeat this section with the repaired or replaced equipment or gases. §89.320&hyph;96 Carbon monoxide analyzer calibration. (a) Calibrate the NDIR carbon monoxide as described in this section.
