FR940712-2-00045 FR940712-2-00037 B. Adoption of Alternative Indexed Revenue Test In July 1992, the Board proposed to establish two alternative methods that a section 20 subsidiary could elect to use to determine compliance with the 10 percent limit on ineligible securities activities in place of the gross revenue test. 3 In proposing these alternative tests, the Board noted that historically unusual changes in the level and structure of interest rates have distorted the revenue test as a measure of the relative importance of ineligible securities activities in a manner that was not anticipated when the 10 percent limit was adopted in 1989. 4 To address this problem, the Board first proposed an alternative revenue test indexed to interest rate changes that would allow for adjustment of the current revenue of a section 20 subsidiary to account for the unanticipated interest rate conditions. In January 1993, the Board adopted an optional alternative indexed revenue test. 5 3 57 FR 33507, July 29, 1992. 4 The Board pointed out that, in contrast to conditions in 1989, there was an unusually wide difference between short- and long-term rates. Since eligible securities tend to be shorter term than ineligible securities, the unusually sharp increase in the steepness of the yield curve had the effect of making it appear, based on revenue data, that the eligible securities activities of at least some section 20 subsidiaries had been reduced, even though the relative proportion of eligible and ineligible securities activities being conducted by those subsidiaries remained essentially the same. 5 79 Federal Reserve Bulletin 226 (1993). Under the indexed revenue test, current interest and dividend revenues from eligible and ineligible activities for each quarter are increased or decreased by an adjustment factor provided by the Board based on the average duration of a section 20 subsidiary's eligible and ineligible securities portfolio. The adjustment factors, which vary according to specific time periods of average duration, represent the ratio of interest rates on Treasury securities in the most recent quarter to those in September 1989. C. Proposed Asset-Based Test At the same time that the indexed revenue test was proposed, the Board also proposed an alternative asset-based test. Specifically, the Board proposed that the 10 percent limit would be computed by using average daily assets held in connection with ineligible securities activities and with other activities. The Board recognized that in 1987, when it initially decided to use revenue as the appropriate measure of the section 20 limit on ineligible securities activities, the Board had expressed two concerns about a test based on average assets. One concern was that an asset-based test might be manipulated, for example, through ``matched book'' repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements for government securities. The second concern was that an average asset test, even if computed on a daily basis, would not include securities that were underwritten by the section 20 subsidiary but that were held only for a few hours, which is typical in many underwriting transactions. Accordingly, when the Board proposed an alternative asset-based test in 1992, the Board requested comment on possible modifications to address these concerns. A number of banking organizations commenting on the Board's proposal supported adoption of an asset-based alternative measure for computing the 10 percent limit. These comments stated that, like the indexed revenue proposal, a limit based on assets would be less susceptible than the unadjusted revenue test to unusual changes in interest rate conditions. Those supporting the asset-based test also stated that this test would be easier and less costly to apply than a measure that required adjustments to revenue data and would allow for greater predictability in the management of the operations of the subsidiary. Many commenters also opposed establishing any specific restrictions to address the potential for manipulative transactions. These commenters believed that the capital and funding requirements needed to support such transactions, as well as earnings considerations and market-imposed credit risk constraints, would effectively curtail the excessive use of asset transactions conducted solely to increase the level of eligible assets. Commenters also observed that implementation of such separate limits would be difficult in practice. On the question of the treatment of intra-day holdings of securities that are being underwritten, while there was some support for including the value of such securities for purposes of applying an asset-based test, other comments opposed counting the value of such holdings on the grounds that the 10 percent limit should measure only assets that pose a risk to the section 20 subsidiary. After considering these comments, the Board decided to defer adoption of an alternative asset-based test, noting that the Board was not then able to assess the potential practical effect of the test. II. Proposed Alternative Test A. Need for an Improved Alternative to the Gross Revenue Test Since the decision to defer consideration of the asset-based test, the Board has had a greater opportunity to review and analyze the operations of section 20 subsidiaries. At the outset, the Board notes that, during this time period and in the entire seven year period since the Board first approved the creation of section 20 subsidiaries, the Board has not uncovered evidence of unsafe or unsound practices, conflicts of interest, or other conduct related to the operations of these subsidiaries that has impaired the condition of the affiliated depository institutions or the banking organizations as a whole. The available evidence further suggests that these subsidiaries have exerted a beneficial procompetitive influence on the securities markets in which they compete. When the section 20 subsidiaries were first authorized, the Board selected revenue, rather than asset values or sales volume, as the best overall measure of ineligible securities activities because the Board believed that such a test would pose the fewest operational difficulties and provide the most accurate indication of the relative importance of specific activities. The Board also noted that although the applicants had argued that a variety of factors could be used to judge ``engaged principally'' status, a single uniform standard was desirable. 6 6 Citicorp, supra, 73 Federal Reserve Bulletin at 484. However, subsequent events have shown that the susceptibility of results from the gross revenue measure to distortion caused by changes in interest rate conditions casts doubt on the appropriateness of that test. Although the indexed revenue test addresses these concerns, it necessarily involves increased operational difficulties. For some section 20 subsidiaries, the costs and resources needed to implement the indexed revenue test, with the need for complicated duration models and the calculation of the duration of all securities in a section 20 subsidiary's portfolio on a regular basis, may provide a disincentive for using that test. 7 7 At present only four section 20 subsidiaries are using the indexed revenue test.
