FR940505-1-00384 FR940505-1-00012 (g) Municipal solid waste landfills. (1) Applicability. This section shall apply to all municipal solid waste (MSW) landfills with a maximum design capacity of greater than 111,000 tons of solid waste, although facilities that have received less than 500,000 tons of decomposable solid waste during their operational lifetime are only subject to the requirements of paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section. The refuse density shall be assumed to be 1,300 pounds per cubic yard and the decomposable fraction shall be assumed to be 70% by weight unless other site-specific factors are submitted to and approved by EPA. For the purposes of this section, the affected area refers to the Sacramento Metro Area for ozone as described at 40 CFR 81.305. (2) Definitions. For the purposes of paragraph (g) of this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in ยง52.2950. Active landfill means any MSW landfill which received waste at any time during the past six months. Baseline condition means there are no leaks existing at: (1) Any location on the surface of the landfill covered by final cover; (2) Any location on the surface of the landfill which has been covered by intermediate cover for over 6 months; and (3) Any location along the gas transfer path of the gas collection system. Control device means any device that disposes of the collected gas by one or more of the following means: combustion, gas treatment and subsequent sale, sale and processing off site, or other equivalent methods. Decomposable solid waste means any material which is not non-decomposable inert solid waste. Design capacity means the maximum amount of waste a landfill can accept, as specified in the construction permit issued by the county or State agency responsible for regulating the landfill. Destruction/treatment efficiency means a measure of the ability of the control device to combust, transform, or otherwise prevent the emissions to the atmosphere of non-methane organic compounds in landfill gas, expressed as a percentage. Energy recovery equipment means any equipment that uses landfill gas to produce useful energy. Excavation means any movement of landfill cover that triggers notification requirements of any government agency. Final cover means cover material that is applied on areas where additional cells are not to be constructed and, therefore, must be highly resistant to erosion. Gas collection system means a series of collectors and associated piping and equipment which provides a gas transfer path to the control device. Gas transfer path means the piping, pumps, and other equipment used to transfer evolved landfill gas from the point of gas evolution through the control device. Household waste means any solid waste (including garbage, trash, and sanitary waste in septic tanks) derived from households (including single and multiple residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, ranger stations, crew quarters, campgrounds, picnic grounds, and day-use recreation areas). Industrial solid waste means solid waste generated by manufacturing or industrial processes, that is not a hazardous waste regulated under subtitle C of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6901&hyph;6992k). Such waste may include, but is not limited to, the following manufacturing processes: electric power generation; fertilizer/agricultural chemicals; food and related products/by-products; inorganic chemicals; iron and steel manufacturing; leather and leather products; nonferrous metals manufacturing/foundries; organic chemicals; plastics and resins manufacturing; pulp and paper industry; rubber and miscellaneous plastic products; stone, glass, clay, and concrete products; textile manufacturing; transportation equipment; and water treatment. This term does not include mining waste or oil and gas waste. Intermediate cover means cover material that is applied on areas where additional cells are not to be constructed for extended periods of time and, therefore, must resist erosion for a longer period of time than daily cover. Landfill means an area of land or an excavation in which wastes are placed for permanent disposal, and which is not a land application unit, surface impoundment, injection well, or waste pile. Landfill gas means any gas derived through a natural process through the decomposition of organic waste deposited in a landfill or from the evolution of volatile organic species in the waste.
