FR941007-1-00103 FR941007-1-00009 (3) To consider applications for: (i) Domestic branches by state member banks (12 U.S.C. 321); (ii) Merger in which the resulting bank would be a state member bank (12 U.S.C. 1828); and (iii) Formation of, acquisition of banks by, and mergers of, bank holding companies (12 U.S.C. 1842). (b) Community reinvestment obligation. State member banks have a continuing and affirmative obligation to help meet the credit needs of their communities, including low- and moderate-income areas, consistent with safe and sound operations. (c) Purposes. The purposes of this part are to implement the community reinvestment obligation of State member banks; to explain how the Board assesses the performance of State member banks in satisfying the community reinvestment obligation; and to describe how that performance is taken into account in certain applications. (d) Scope _(1) General. This part applies to all state member banks that are in the business of extending credit to the public, including wholesale or limited purpose banks, as defined in ยง228.12 of this part. (2) Certain special purpose banks. This part does not apply to a bankers bank that engages exclusively in providing services for other depository institutions and for their officers, directors and employees, or to other special purpose banks described in ยง228.100 of this part. ยง228.12 Definitions. For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply: (a) Affiliate means any company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another company. For purposes of this part, the term ``control'' has the meaning given to that term in 12 U.S.C. 1841(a)(2), and a company is under common control with another company if both companies are directly or indirectly controlled by the same company. (b) Area median income means the median family income for the MSA in which a person or geography is located or, in the case of a person or geography located outside an MSA, the higher of the county median family income or the statewide nonmetropolitan median family income. (c) Automated teller machine (ATM) means an automated, unstaffed banking facility with a fixed site owned or operated by or operated exclusively for the bank at which deposits are received, cash dispersed, or money lent. (d) Bank means a state chartered bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System. (e) Branch means a staffed banking facility (shared or unshared) licensed as a branch with a fixed site at which deposits are received, checks paid, or money lent, including a mini-branch in a grocery store or a branch operated in conjunction with any other local business or nonprofit organization. (f) Community development loan means a loan (including a line of credit, commitment, or letter of credit) that addresses affordable housing (including multifamily rental housing) or other community economic development needs not being met by the private market; provided the loan: (1) Primarily benefits low- or moderate-income individuals, businesses or farms with gross annual revenues less than or equal to $1 million, or businesses or farms that qualify as small businesses under a Small Business Administration program;
