FR940202-2-00163 FR940202-2-00073 A. Application Each application shall include all of the information, materials, forms, and exhibits listed in section III. B. below, with the exception of applications submitted by Sponsors selected for a Section 202 fund reservation within the last three funding cycles, and must be indexed and tabbed. Previously selected Section 202 Sponsors are not required to submit the information described in B. 2. (a), (b) and (c) below (Exhibit 2, a., b., and c. of the application which are the articles of incorporation, (or other organizational documents), by-laws, and the IRS tax exemption, respectively). The Field Office will base its determination of the eligibility of a new Sponsor for a reservation of section 202 capital advance funds on the information provided in the application. Field Offices will verify a Sponsor's indication of previous HUD approval by checking the project number and approval status with the appropriate Field Office. If there has been a change in any of the eligibility documents since its previous HUD approval, the Sponsor must submit the updated information in its application. In addition to this relief of paperwork burden in preparing applications, applicants will be able to utilize information and exhibits previously prepared for prior applications under section 202, section 811 or other funding programs. Examples of exhibits that may be readily adapted or amended to decrease the burden of application preparation include, among others, those on previous participation in the section 202 or section 811 programs; applicant experience in provision of housing and services; supportive services plan; community ties, and experience serving minorities. B. General Application Requirements 1. Form HUD&hyph;92015&hyph;CA, Application for Section 202 Supportive Housing Capital Advance. 2. Evidence of each Sponsor's legal status as a private, nonprofit organization or nonprofit consumer cooperative, including the following: (a) Articles of Incorporation, constitution, or other organizational documents; (b) By-laws; (c) IRS tax exemption ruling (this must be submitted by all Sponsors, including churches). A nonprofit organization organized in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and exempt from income taxation under Puerto Rico law, or a consumer cooperative that is tax exempt under State law, has never been liable for payment of Federal income taxes, and does not pay patronage dividends may be exempt from the requirement set out in the previous sentence if they are not eligible for tax exemption; and (d) Resolution of the board, duly certified by an officer, that no officer or director of the Sponsor or Owner has or will have any financial interest in any contract with the Owner or in any firm or corporation which has or will have a contract with the Owner and which includes a current listing of all duly qualified and sitting officers and directors by title and the beginning and ending date of each person's term. [ Note: Sponsors who have received a section 202 fund reservation within the last three funding cycles are not required to submit the documents described in (a), (b), and (c), above. Instead, sponsors must submit the project number of the most recently selected application and the field office to which it was submitted. If there have been any modifications or additions to the subject documents, indicate such, and submit the new material.] 3. CHAS certification. The Sponsor must submit a certification by the jurisdiction in which the proposed project will be located that the Sponsor's application is consistent with the jurisdiction's HUD-approved CHAS for FY 1994. The certification must be made by the unit of general local government if it is required to have, or has, a complete CHAS. Otherwise the certification may be made by the State, or if the project will be located in a unit of general local government authorized to use an abbreviated strategy, by the unit of general local government if it is willing to prepare such a CHAS. All CHAS certifications must be made by the public official responsible for submitting the CHAS to HUD. All CHAS certifications must be submitted as part of the application by the application submission deadline set forth in this NOFA, except as provided in the next paragraph. The required CHAS must therefore have been submitted more than 60 days before the application submission deadline, since HUD has 60 days to review and approve the CHAS. Where the certification of consistency is permitted to be submitted after the application submission deadline, as described in the next paragraph, the CHAS must be submitted for approval in time for the certification to be made by the later date. In no event will an application be considered if the CHAS has not been submitted for approval by the application submission deadline. If the required certification will be made by a unit of general local government with respect to an abbreviated strategy, and such CHAS has been submitted by the application submission deadline but has not yet been approved by HUD, the deadline will not be applied to the certification for consistency. Instead, the application must include a written statement from the public official responsible for submitting the CHAS that the jurisdiction has submitted an abbreviated strategy for FY 1994 for HUD approval and that the application is consistent with the CHAS. If HUD approved the CHAS, the required certification that the application is consistent with a HUD-approved CHAS for FY 1994 must be submitted before June 2, 1994. An application will not be selected for funding unless the CHAS is approved and the required certification is made by June 2, 1994. The CHAS regulations are published in 24 CFR part 91. 4. E.O. 12372. A certification that the Sponsor has submitted a copy of its applications, if required, to the State agency (single point of contact) for State review in accordance with Executive Order 12372. 5. SF&hyph;424. A certification on SF&hyph;424, Application for Federal Assistance, that the Sponsor(s) is not delinquent on the repayment of any Federal debt.
