FR940627-0-00225 FR940627-0-00019 Sponsor means person who initiates and supports, by provision of financial or other resources, a study or a person who submits a study to EPA in response to the CAA Section 211(b) or 211(e) Fuels and Fuel Additives Registration Rule or a testing facility, if it both initiates and actually conducts the study. Study means any experiment, at one or more test sites, in which a test system is exposed to a test atmosphere under laboratory conditions to determine or help predict the health effects of that exposure in humans, other living organisms, or media. Study completion date means the date the final report is signed by the study director. Study director means the individual responsible for the overall conduct of a study. Study initiation date means the date the protocol is signed by the study director. Test substance means a vapor and/or aerosol mixture composed of engine/motor vehicle emissions and clean, filtered air which is administered directly, or indirectly, by the inhalation route to a test system in a study which develops data to meet the registration requirements of CAA section 211(b) or (e). Test system means any animal, microorganism, chemical or physical matrix, to which the test, control, or reference substance is administered or added for study. This definition also includes appropriate groups or components of the system not treated with the test, control, or reference substance. Testing facility means a person who actually conducts a study, i.e. , actually uses the test substance in a test system. ``Testing facility'' encompasses only those operational units that are being or have been used to conduct studies. TSCA means the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq. ). (3) Applicability to studies performed under grants and contracts. When a sponsor or other person utilizes the services of a consulting laboratory, contractor, or grantee to perform all or a part of a study to which this section applies, it shall notify the consulting laboratory, contractor, or grantee that the service is, or is part of, a study that must be conducted in compliance with the provisions of this section. (4) Statement of compliance or non-compliance. Any person who submits to EPA a test in compliance with registration regulations issued under CAA section 211(b) or section 211(e) shall include in the submission a true and correct statement, signed by the sponsor and the study director, of one of the following types: (i) A statement that the study was conducted in accordance with this section; or (ii) A statement describing in detail all differences between the practices used in the study and those required by this section; or (iii) A statement that the person was not a sponsor of the study, did not conduct the study, and does not know whether the study was conducted in accordance with this section. (5) Inspection of a testing facility. (i) A testing facility shall permit an authorized employee or duly designated representative of EPA, at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner, to inspect the facility and to inspect (and in the case of records also to copy) all records and specimens required to be maintained regarding studies to which this section applies. The records inspection and copying requirements shall not apply to quality assurance unit records of findings and problems, or to actions recommended and taken, except the EPA may seek production of these records in litigation or formal adjudicatory hearings. (ii) EPA will not consider reliable for purposes of showing that a test substance does or does not present a risk of injury to health or the environment any data developed by a testing facility or sponsor that refuses to permit inspection in accordance with this section. The determination that a study will not be considered reliable does not, however, relieve the sponsor of a required test of any obligation under any applicable statute or regulation to submit the results of the study to EPA. (6) Effects of non-compliance. (i) Pursuant to sections 114, 208, and 211(d) of the CAA, it shall be a violation of this section and a violation of this rule (40 CFR part 79, subpart F) if: (A) The test is not being or was not conducted in accordance with any requirement of this part; or (B) Data or information submitted to EPA under part 79, including the statement required by ยง79.60(a)(4), include information or data that are false or misleading, contain significant omissions, or otherwise do not fulfill the requirements of this part; or (C) Entry in accordance with ยง79.60(a)(5) for the purpose of auditing test data is denied. (ii) EPA, at its discretion, may not consider reliable for purposes of showing that a chemical substance or mixture does not present a risk of injury to health any study which was not conducted in accordance with this part. EPA, at its discretion, may rely upon such studies for purposes of showing adverse effects. The determination that a study will not be considered reliable does not, however, relieve the sponsor of a required test of the obligation under any applicable statute or regulation to submit the results of the study to EPA. (iii) If data submitted in compliance with registration regulations issued under CAA section 211(b) or section 211(e) are not developed in accordance with this section, EPA may determine that the sponsor has not fulfilled its obligations under 40 CFR part 79 and may require the sponsor to develop data in accordance with the requirements of this section in order to satisfy such obligations. (b) Organization and Personnel. (1) Personnel. (i) Each individual engaged in the conduct of or responsible for the supervision of a study shall have education, training, and experience, or combination thereof, to enable that individual to perform the assigned functions. (ii) Each testing facility shall maintain a current summary of training and experience and job description for each individual engaged in or supervising the conduct of a study. (iii) There shall be a sufficient number of personnel for the timely and proper conduct of the study according to the protocol.
