FR940927-2-00107 FR940927-2-00073 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY [Treasury Order Number 140&hyph;01] Federal Law Enforcement Training Center; Authority Delegation Dated: September 20, 1994. 1. By virtue of the authority vested in the Secretary of the Treasury, including the authority vested by 31 U.S.C. 321(b) and the Government Employees Training Act (5 U.S.C. 4101&hyph;4118), as implemented by Executive Order 11348 of April 20, 1967, the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC), as a bureau within the Department with a Director as the bureau head, shall provide interagency training facilities and programs. 2. The Functions of the FLETC shall be to: a. Provide training to participating Federal organization personnel and serve as an interagency law enforcement training center for Federal agencies as well as an intergovernmental law enforcement training organization for State, local and international agencies, and private security personnel; b. Provide the facilities, equipment, and support services necessary for conducting basic and advanced training for law enforcement personnel, including food, lodging, recreation programs and administrative services for students; c. Provide support, administrative, and training personnel for common training programs to: (1) Consolidate requirements of participating agencies and develop training curricula; (2) Develop course content and instructional methodologies to ensure that materials are designed to meet objectives; and (3) Instruct and evaluate students; d. Conduct research in law enforcement training methods and curriculum content to maintain state-of-the-art expertise in adult learning methodology; and e. Provide advice and technical assistance to the participating organizations, State and local law enforcement organizations, and international organizations in determining their needs for law enforcement training, in developing curriculum and course content, and in teaching methods and techniques for the advanced training which they provide at the FLETC. 3. The Director, FLETC, shall provide: a. Executive direction and overall management to the FLETC's training sites, programs and support activities while ensuring that organizational program goals and priorities are administered in the most sound, effective, efficient, and economical fashion; b. Impetus for establishing and monitoring long-range and strategic FLETC plans and goals; c. Overall managerial direction for the effective and efficient performance of the functions of the FLETC, including evaluation of students and removal of students from training for such matters as deficiency in training, health, or conduct; and d. Advice to the Under Secretary (Enforcement) and Assistant Secretary (Enforcement) relative to executive level policy and program administration of Federal law enforcement activities. 4. The Director, FLETC, shall have the authority to: a. Appoint uniformed personnel as special policemen; b. Make all rules and regulations; and c. Annex to such rules and regulations such reasonable penalties (not to exceed those prescribed in 40 U.S.C. 318[c]) as will ensure their enforcement for the protection of persons and property at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers, Brunswick, Georgia, and Artesia, New Mexico, and such other FLETC sites as may be appropriate. This authority shall be exercised in accordance with the Act of June 1, 1948, as amended (62 Stat. 281; 40 U.S.C. 318&hyph;318[c]). 5. FLETC Operations. The Department of the Treasury is the executive agency for operating the FLETC and serves as the established point of authority for implementation of Federal regulations and policies having governmentwide application. Within this concept: a. All employees of the FLETC staff will either be appointed under the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury and shall be employees of the Department of the Treasury, or they will be detailed from their respective agencies for a specific period of time to the FLETC; and b. FLETC operations will be financed by separate appropriations to the Department of the Treasury to be used to pay costs of salaries, equipment, and other expenses. 6. Cancellation. Treasury Order 140&hyph;01, ``Federal Law Enforcement Training Center'', dated January 13, 1987, is superseded. Lloyd Bentsen, Secretary of the Treasury. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23868 Filed 9&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4810&hyph;25&hyph;P
