FR940404-2-00181 FR940404-2-00092 John W. Farquhar, Vice President, Scientific and Technical Services, Food Marketing Institute, Washington, District of Columbia Gerald Guest, Consultant, Center for Veterinary Medicine, Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services Anthony Hepton, Vice President, Quality Assurance, Dole Packaged Foods Company, San Francisco, California Julia C. Howell, Scientific and Regulatory Affairs Department, The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, Georgia Thad M. Jackson, Director of Issue Management, Nestle USA, Inc., Washington, District of Columbia Gordon Kemp, Director, Science Policy Affairs, Animal Health Group, Pfizer, Incorporated, Groton, Connecticut Eddie Kimbrell, Holland and Knight, Washington, District of Columbia Rodney E. Leonard, Executive Director, Community Nutrition Institute, Washington, District of Columbia C. W. McMillan, President, McMillan & Farrell Associates, Washington, District of Columbia Thomas D. Pierce, Manager, Corporate Quality Assurance, Hershey Foods Corporation, Hershey, Pennsylvania Leslie G. Sarasin, Executive Vice President, Public Policy and Staff Counsel, American Frozen Food Institute, McLean, Virginia United States Delegation to the Group of Rapporteurs on Pollution and Energy, Twenty-Sixth Session, Economic Cooperation for Europe (ECE), Geneva, July 5&hyph;8, 1993 Representative Thomas Baines, Senior Project Director, Office of Mobile Sources, Environmental Protection Agency, Ann Arbor, Michigan Private Sector Advisers Richard A. Bishop, John Deere Company, Product Engineering Center, Waterloo, Iowa Donald C. Dowdall, Caterpillar Incorporated, Peoria, Illinois Marcel Halberstadt, American Automobile Manufacturers Association, Detroit, Michigan Robert A. Jorgensen, Cummings Engine Company, Inc., Columbus, Indiana United States Delegation to the 34th Session of the Marine Environment Protection Committee (MEPC), International Maritime Organization (IMO), London, July 5&hyph;9, 1993 Representative Rear Admiral Robert E. Kramek, USCG, Chief of Staff, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Alternate Representative Joseph J. Angelo, Associate Program Director, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Advisers Robert Blumberg, Office of Marine Law and Policy, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Commander William Chubb, USCG, Assistant Chief, Marine Environmental Protection Division, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Margo Jackson, Assistant General for Ocean Services, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Captain Michael J. Donohoe, USCG, Chief, Marine Environmental Protection Division, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Marian Mlay, Director for Oceans and Coastal Protection Division, Environmental Protection Agency Commander Peter A. Popko, USCG, Assistant Chief, Merchant Vessel Inspection and Documentation Division, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Private Sector Advisers Joseph Cox, American Institute of Merchant Shipping, Washington, DC Sally Ann Lentz, Ocean's Advocates, Washington, DC R. Keith Michel, President, Herbert Engineering Corp., San Francisco, California Robert Somerville, President, American Bureau of Shipping, New York, New York
