FR940325-0-00101 FR940325-0-00016 * * * * * (c) *␣*␣* (4) The Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan developed in accordance with the guidance in §11.81 of this part. If existing data are not sufficient to develop the Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan as part of the Assessment Plan, the Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan may be developed later, at any time before the completion of the Injury Determination or Quantification phases. If the Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan is published separately, the public review and comment will be conducted pursuant to §11.81(d) of this part. 7. Section 11.32 is amended by revising paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(A) and (f)(2), and by removing paragraph (f)(3) to read as follows: §11.32 Assessment Plan_development. (a) Pre-development requirements. *␣*␣* (2) *␣*␣* (iii)(A) The authorized official shall send a Notice of Intent to Perform an Assessment to all identified potentially responsible parties. The Notice shall invite the participation of the potentially responsible party, or, if several parties are involved and if agreed to by the lead authorized official, a representative or representatives designated by the parties, in the development of the type and scope of the assessment and in the performance of the assessment. The Notice shall briefly describe, to the extent known, the site, vessel, or facility involved, the discharge of oil or release of hazardous substance of concern to the authorized official, and the resources potentially at risk. The Notice shall also contain a statement of authority for asserting trusteeship, or co-trusteeship, over those natural resources identified as potentially at risk. * * * * * (f) Plan review. *␣*␣* (2) The purpose of this review is to ensure that the selection of methodologies for the Quantification and Damage Determination phases is consistent with the results of the Injury Determination phase, and that the use of such methodologies remains consistent with the requirements of reasonable cost, as that term is used in this part. 8. Section 11.35 is revised to read as follows: §11.35 Assessment Plan_preliminary estimate of damages. (a) Requirement. When performing a type B assessment pursuant to the requirements of subpart E of this part, the authorized official shall develop a preliminary estimate of: the anticipated costs of restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources for the injured natural resources; and the compensable value, as defined in §11.83(c) of this part, of the injured natural resources, if the authorized official intends to include compensable value in the damage claim. This preliminary estimate is referred to as the preliminary estimate of damages. The authorized official shall use the guidance provided in this section, to the extent possible, to develop the preliminary estimate of damages. (b) Purpose. The purpose of the preliminary estimate of damages is for reference in the scoping of the Assessment Plan to ensure that the choice of the scientific, cost estimating, and valuation methodologies expected to be used in the damage assessment fulfills the requirements of reasonable cost, as that term is used in this part. The authorized official will also use the preliminary estimate of damages in the review of the Assessment Plan, as required in §11.32(f) of this part, to ensure the requirements of reasonable cost are still met. (c) Steps. The preliminary estimate of damages should include consideration of the ability of the resources to recover naturally and, if relevant, the compensable value through the recovery period with and without possible alternative actions. The authorized official shall consider the following factors, to the extent possible, in making the preliminary estimate of damages:
