FR940728-0-00033 FR940728-0-00010 (1) Tolled by MMS's receipt of a substantially complete request for refund or credit pursuant to ยง230.453; or (2) Tolled by a general tolling notice issued by MMS and published in the Federal Register in circumstances where MMS believes a substantial number of requests for refund or credit could result as a consequence of a pending administrative or judicial proceeding or other action. The running of the 2-year period will be tolled for the time period specified in the notice; or (3) Stopped by an application for unitization of OCS leases with respect to any excess payment that may result from the reallocation of production among leases after the unit or revision is approved; or (4) Tolled by a notice filed by a person at the address stated in ยง230.453(f) stating that a specifically identified action or proceeding may result in payments made on an OCS lease becoming excess payments. The notice must include: (i) A list of affected leases and sales months; (ii) The specific action or proceeding that could result in payments becoming excess; (iii) An estimate of the amount that could be subject to a request for refund or credit; and (iv) The person's MMS-established payor code. (b) A request for refund or credit that is filed timely by a person who made an excess payment on an OCS lease does not stop or toll the running of the 2-year period with respect to any excess payment made by any other person on that lease. ยง230.460 Lease suspension. If MMS suspends an OCS lease pursuant to 30 CFR 250.10(b)(6), a person who has made excess rental payments for the period of suspension may request a refund or credit of any excess payments pursuant to this subpart. If the request for refund or credit is filed more than 2 years after MMS received the excess rentals, the excess payment will not be refunded, recouped, or credited against future rentals due on the same lease. ยง230.461 Transactions not subject to section 10. (a) A request for refund of, or any other action to recover, excess payments made by a refiner/purchaser under a royalty-in-kind contract for royalty oil produced from an OCS lease is not subject to section 10. (b) If MMS approves a unit agreement on the OCS, or a revision to a unit, a person may file amended Forms MMS&hyph;2014 within the time period MMS prescribes, reallocating production among its affected leases. A person must file a request for refund or credit pursuant to this subpart only if, and to the extent that, there is a net reduction in the royalty that person previously paid for the leases committed to the unit as a result of the amendments. (c) A person may amend Form MMS&hyph;2014 to adjust volume and royalty reports among OCS leases within a unit within the same sales month without filing a request for refund or credit pursuant to this subpart, except that a request for refund or credit must be filed to the extent that there is a net reduction in the royalty previously paid for the leases committed to the unit as a result of the amendments. (d) A person who pays more money than the total royalty due as reported on the Form MMS&hyph;2014 accompanying the payment, where all amounts reported on the Form MMS&hyph;2014 are correct, may submit a request for refund of the overpaid amounts. The request for refund is not subject to section 10's requirements unless the Form MMS&hyph;2014 includes reports for only one OCS lease. Any overpayment subject to this paragraph may not be recovered by recoupment. (e) A person may reduce an estimate balance, established for any lease product pursuant to MMS instructions, by submitting a credit adjustment on a Form MMS&hyph;2014, or a request for refund, for all or part of the established estimate balance. A credit adjustment or request for refund to recover all or part of an estimate balance authorized by this paragraph is not subject to the requirements of section 10. (f) (1) If adjustment of an estimated oil transportation allowance or estimated gas transportation allowance pursuant to 30 CFR 206.105(e) and 206.157(e), respectively, results in an overpayment for any sales month because the estimated transportation costs were less than the actual costs, a person may submit a credit adjustment on a Form MMS&hyph;2014 to recoup, or may request a refund of, the overpayment. The credit adjustment or request for refund authorized by this paragraph is not subject to the requirements of section 10, and MMS approval is not required before reporting the credit adjustment. (2) If adjustment of an estimated gas processing allowance pursuant to 30 CFR 206.159(e) results in an overpayment for any sales month because the estimated processing costs were less than the actual costs, a person may submit a credit adjustment on a Form MMS&hyph;2014 to recoup, or may request a refund of, the overpayment. The credit adjustment or request for refund authorized by this paragraph is not subject to the requirements of section 10, and MMS approval is not required before reporting the credit adjustment. (3) If a person makes an error in the report of actual transportation or processing costs pursuant to paragraphs (f)(1) or (f)(2) of this section, any subsequent adjustment to the report that results in a credit is subject to section 10 and the requirements of this subpart. (g) If a person pays pursuant to an MMS order and challenges the obligation to pay in an administrative appeal or judicial action, and if the person is successful in a challenge to all or part of the MMS order to pay, section 10 does not apply to the refund or recoupment of the disputed payment or portion thereof. (h) MMS approval is not required for an adjustment by any person to the amount reported for a report month that results in a credit of not more than an amount established periodically by MMS and published in the Federal Register . However, no adjustment may be reported more than 2 years after the date MMS received the Form MMS&hyph;2014 including the excess payment. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18395 Filed 7&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;MR&hyph;M
