FR940617-2-00188 FR940617-2-00103 Action Subject to Intergovernmental Review AGENCY: Small Business Administration. ACTION: Notice of Action Subject to Intergovernmental Review Under Executive Order 12372. SUMMARY: This notice provides for public awareness of SBA's intention to refund twenty-two existing Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs) on October 1, 1994. Currently there are 56 SBDCs operating in the SBDC program. The following SBDCs are intended to be refunded, subject to the availability of funds: Alabama, Alaska, Connecticut, Delaware, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, New York, Ohio, Puerto Rico, Dallas, Houston, Lubbock, San Antonio, Vermont, Virgin Islands, and West Virginia. This notice also provides a description of the SBDC program by setting forth a condensed version of the program announcement which has been furnished to each of the SBDCs to be refunded. This publication is being made to provide the State single points of contact, designated pursuant to Executive Order 12372, and other interested State and local entities, the opportunity to comment on the proposed refunding in accord with the Executive Order and SBA's regulations found at 13 CFR Part 135. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 15, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be addressed to Ms. Johnnie L. Albertson, Associate Administrator for SBDC Program, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street SW., Fifth Floor, Washington, DC 20416. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Same as above. Action Subject to Intergovernmental Review SBA is bound by the provisions of Executive Order 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs.'' SBA has promulgated regulations spelling out its obligations under that Executive Order. See 13 CFR Part 135, effective September 30, 1983. In accord with these regulations, specifically 135.4, SBA is publishing this notice to provide public awareness of the pending application of twenty-two existing Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs) for refunding. Also published herewith is an annotated program announcement describing the SBDC program in detail. This notice is being published three months in advance of the expected date of refunding these SBDCs. Relevant information identifying these SBDCs and providing their mailing address is provided below. In addition to this publication, a copy of this notice is being simultaneously furnished to the affected State single point of contact which has been established under the Executive Order.
