FR940228-1-00113 FR940228-1-00010 The Secretary proposes to specify that an institution's participation ends on the date that an institution's period of participation, as specified under proposed §668.13 governing certification procedures, expires, or the institution's provisional certification is revoked in accordance with the procedures outlined in that proposed section. This change would be made pursuant to provisions of section 498(g) and (h) of the HEA. The Secretary proposes to specify that an institution's participation in the FFEL programs ends on the date that the Secretary has determined that the institution's cohort default rate, for each of the three most recent fiscal years for which the Secretary has determined the institution's rate, is equal to or greater than the threshold rates listed under proposed §668.17(c)(2). This change simply makes the provisions of proposed §668.26 consistent with those of proposed §668.17. Finally, the Secretary proposes to specify that an institution's participation ends on the date that the Secretary receives a notice from the appropriate SPRE that the institution's participation should be withdrawn. This change is mandated by section 494C(h) of the HEA. The Secretary proposes to add to the requirements for an institution when the institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program ends, that the institution shall, if the institution's participation in the NEISP or SSIG Program ended, inform immediately the State in which the institution is located of that fact. Further, notwithstanding the requirements for the treatment of Title IV, HEA program funds found in this section, the institution must follow the instructions of that State concerning the end of that participation. The Secretary also proposes to add that if the institution's participation in all the Title IV, HEA programs end has ended, the institution must inform the Secretary of how the institution will arrange for the collection of any outstanding loans made under the National Defense/Direct Student Loan and ICL programs. These changes are necessary to make the Student Assistance General Provisions regulations consistent with specific program regulations. Subpart G_Fine, Limitation, Suspension and Termination Proceedings Section 668.81␣Scope and Special Definitions The Secretary proposes to make technical changes to this section consistent with changes proposed throughout these proposed regulations. The Secretary proposes to clarify in this section that the procedures under this section do not apply in the case of an institution that fails to qualify for provisional certification because the institution does not meet the factors of financial responsibility. In addition, the procedures under this section would not apply in the case of an institution where the institution's period of provisional certification has expired, nor would they apply in the case of an institution that has its provisional certification revoked. These changes are necessary to make the scope of Subpart G of these regulations consistent with provisions in section 498(g) and (h) of the HEA. Section 690.83␣Submission of Reports Section 487(c)(7) of the HEA provides that, if, in the course of any audit conducted after December 31, 1988 pursuant to the audit requirements of section 487(c) of the HEA and Department regulations implementing those requirements, the Department discovers or is informed of any Title IV, HEA program assistance (specifically, Federal Pell Grant Program funds) that an institution has provided to its students in accordance with program requirements, but the institution has not previously received credit or reimbursement for these disbursements, the institution may offset the amount of those disbursements against liabilities owed under the audit, or if no liabilities arise from the audit, may receive reimbursement from the Department for those amounts. The HEA requires that the development of NPRMs for implementation of changes made by the Amendments to Parts B (Federal Family Education Loan programs), G (general provisions relating to the student assistance programs) or H (Program Integrity Triad) of Title IV of the HEA, is subject to the negotiated rulemaking process. Although this provision relates directly to the Federal Pell Grant Program, it is contained in Part G of the HEA. Therefore, it has been included in this NPRM instead of the Federal Pell Grant Program NPRM, which was not subject to the negotiated rulemaking process.
