FR940831-2-00170 FR940831-2-00106 Nonforeign Area Cost-of-Living Allowances Price Survey Data Collection Procedures Interview Guidelines Three types of information are collected in price surveys: price of goods and services, rental prices and related information, and home owner prices and related information. The following are the typical interview questions used to collect these data. Price Information Collection 1. What is the regular (non-sale) price of XX (a specific item or service)? Examples of items include, but are not limited to: Chuck Roast, Bone In. Price per pound. Average size package (e.g., not a `family' or `bonus' pack). 1st Choice: Arm pot roast. 2nd Choice: Eye roast. Peas, Frozen. Price for 10 ounce package. 1st Choice: Bird's Eye. 2nd Choice: Major brand of equivalent quality. Men's Jeans. Price for one pair of blue jeans. 1st Choice: Levi's # 501 jeans. 2nd Choice: Equivalent quality jeans. Automobile, New. `Sticker' price of current year model Honda Civic DX, four door sedan, 1.5 liter, four cylinder engine. (Price options, fees, financing, and taxes separately.) Example of services include, but are not limited to: Restaurant Service. Price of seafood platter_mixed seafood (e.g., not `steak and lobster' or `crab leg' platter). If salad and side dish not included with entree, price house salad and baked potato or order of french fries. Include price of coffee, tax, and 15 percent tip. Film Developing. Price to process and print 35 millimeter, 24 exposure, 100 ASA color roll film. Single prints only, standard size and finish. Doctor, Office Visit. Typical fee, after the initial visit, for an office visit when medical advice or simple treatment is all that is needed. Do not include the charge for a complete physical examination, injections, medication, laboratory tests, or similar services. Oil Change. Price of a regular oil change including oil and filter for a current year model Honda Civic DX sedan, 1.5 liter, 4 cylinder engine. 2. Prices of many of the items can be obtained ``off-the-shelf'' without assistance. Occasionally, when a specific item is not available, assistance from sales or other personnel may be required to identify and price substitution items of comparable quality and quantity. 3. Prices of most services are obtained by telephone or personal interview. A few services are priced with little or no assistance. For example, prices may be obtainable from a displayed price schedule, list, or menu. Housing Component_Rental Information Collection 1. Describe the location, size, layout, number and types of rooms, and square footage of your rental units. 2. Are they apartments, duplexes, town houses, detached houses, or other types of units? Describe. 3. Are there additional amenities (e.g., pool, sauna, tennis courts, gym)? If so, describe. 4. What is the monthly rent? What is the amount of the security deposit (if any)? What other kinds of fees or assessments are there? 5. Are utilities included? Which ones? If you can, please provide information on average monthly or annual costs of utilities paid by tenants. 6. Are term leases usually required? What are the conditions and penalties associated with the lease?
