FR941116-0-00173 FR941116-0-00022 §1414.6 Appeals. The appeal regulations set forth in part 780 of this title are applicable to this part. §1414.7 Paperwork Reduction Act assigned numbers. The information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 35 and an OMB control number has been assigned. §1414.8 Definitions. The terms defined in part 1413 of this chapter and part 719 of this title shall be applicable to this part except as otherwise provided in this section. Alternative crops means experimental and industrial crops grown in arid and semiarid regions that conserve soil and water, as determined by ASCS. Certain alternative crops are approved for RCC use for 1994. Conservation plan means the document containing the decisions of producers with respect to the location, land use, tillage systems and conservation treatment measures and schedule of implementation. The conservation plan also includes plans which have been established on highly erodible cropland in order to control erosion on such land. ES means the Extension Service, an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture which is generally responsible for coordinating the information and educational programs of the Department. Farming operations and practices includes the integration of crops and crop-plant variety selection, rotation practices, tillage systems, soil conserving and soil building practices, nutrient management strategies, biological control and integrated pest management strategies, livestock production and management systems, animal waste management systems, water and energy conservation measures, and health and safety considerations. Grass means perennial grasses commonly used for haying or grazing. Highly erodible land means land that has an erodibility index of 8 or more. Integrated farm management plan (plan) means a comprehensive, multiyear, site-specific plan that meets the requirements of §1414.12. Legume means forage legumes (such as alfalfa or clover) or any legume grown for use as forage or green manure, but not including any bean crop from which the seeds are harvested. Resource conserving crop (RCC) means legumes, legume-grass mixtures, legume-small grain mixtures, legume-grass-small grain mixtures, and alternative crops, including such failed crop if the crop was planted in a timely, workmanlike manner and failed because of a natural disaster or other condition beyond the control of the producer. Resource-conserving crop rotation means a crop rotation that includes at least one resource-conserving crop that reduces erosion, maintains or improves soil fertility and tilth, interrupts pest cycles, or conserves water. SCS means the Soil Conservation Service, an agency within the United States Department of Agriculture which is generally responsible for providing technical assistance in matters of soil and water conservation and for administering certain conservation programs of the Department. Small grain shall not include malting barley or wheat, except for wheat interplanted with other small grain crops for nonhuman consumption. §1414.9 Acreage enrollment. (a) To the extent practicable, the total acreage enrolled in the program shall be limited to no less than 3,000,000 and no more than 5,000,000 acres of cropland during each of the calendar years 1991 through 1997. (b) Because of the limitation in paragraph (a) of this section, acreage will be allocated to States and will be available to participants on a first-come-first-served basis. Subpart B_Agreement and Enrollment Provisions §1414.10 Eligibility. To be eligible to participate in the IFM, a producer must: (a) Prepare a plan for approval by SCS; (b) Actively apply the terms and conditions of the plan; (c) Devote to a resource-conserving crop, on the average through the life of the agreement, not less than 20 percent of each crop acreage base (CAB) on a farm enrolled under such program; (d) Comply with the terms and conditions of any annual acreage limitation program in effect for each CAB on a farm enrolled in the integrated farm management program; (e) Keep such records as ASCS may require; and (f) Timely submit a report of acreage in accordance with part 718 of this title that lists all crops and land uses which are subject to the agreement for all cropland on the farm for the crop year. §1414.11 Agreements. (a) A producer shall enter into an agreement with CCC for a period of not less than 3 years nor more than 5 years, which may be renewed upon mutual agreement between CCC and the producer. (b) Eligible producers may offer to enter into an agreement for any or all CAB's on the farm with CCC by executing such agreement and submitting it to the county ASCS office where the records for the farm are maintained not later than a date specified in the announcement of the annual acreage reduction program. (c) The agreement shall provide that producers on the farm must agree to devote to a resource-conserving crop, on the average through the life of the agreement, not less than 20 percent of each CAB on a farm enrolled under such program.
