FR940713-2-00041 FR940713-2-00026 Billing Month: The billing month for power sold under this schedule shall end at 2400 hours CDT or CST, whichever is currently effective, on the last day of each calendar month. Dated: July 1, 1994. Wholesale Power Rate Schedule CK&hyph;1&hyph;C Availability: This rate schedule shall be available to public bodies served through the facilities of Kentucky Utilities Company, (hereinafter called the Customers.) Applicability: This rate schedule shall be applicable to electric capacity and energy available from the Dale Hollow, Center Hill, Wolf Creek, Cheatham, Old Hickory, Barkley, J. Percy Priest and Cordell Hull Projects (all of such projects being hereinafter called collectively the ``Cumberland Projects'') and sold in wholesale quantities. Character of Service: The electric capacity and energy supplied hereunder will be three-phase alternating current at a nominal frequency of sixty hertz. The power shall be delivered at nominal voltages of 161,000 volts to the transmission systems of Kentucky Utilities Company. Points of Delivery: The points of delivery will be at interconnecting points between the Tennessee Valley Authority system and the Kentucky Utilities Company system. Other points of delivery may be as agreed upon. Monthly Rate: The monthly rate for capacity and energy sold under this rate schedule shall be: Demand charge: $2.738 per kilowatt/month of total contract demand. Energy Charge: None. Additional Energy Charge: 7.247 mills per kilowatt-hour. Transmission Charge: The transmission charge will be that negotiated between the Government and Kentucky Utilities Company and will be subject to adjustment according to the terms of the contracts. Energy to be Furnished by the Government: The Government shall make available each contract year to the Customer from the Projects through the Customer's interconnections with TVA and the Customer will schedule and accept an allocation of 1,500 kilowatt-hours of energy delivered at the TVA border for each kilowatt of contract demand. A contract year is defined as the 12 months beginning July 1 and ending at midnight June 30 of the following calendar year. The energy made available for a contract year shall be scheduled monthly such that the maximum amount scheduled in any month shall not exceed 220 hours per kilowatt of the Customer's contract demand and the minimum amount scheduled in any month shall not be less than 60 hours per kilowatt of the Customer's contract demand. The Customer may request and the Government may approve energy scheduled for a month greater than 220 hours per kilowatt of the Customer's contract demand; provided, that the combined schedule of all SEPA Customers outside TVA and served by TVA does not exceed 220 hours per kilowatt of the total contract demands of these Customers. In the event that any portion of the capacity allocated to the Customers is not initially delivered to the Customers as of the beginning of a full contract year, the 1500 kilowatt hours shall be reduced 1/12 for each month of that year prior to initial delivery of such capacity. For billing purposes, each kilowatt of capacity will include 1500 kilowatt-hours energy per year. Customers will pay for additional energy at the additional energy rate. Billing Month: The billing month for power sold under this schedule shall end at 2400 hours CDT or CST, whichever is currently effective on the last day of each calendar month. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16991 Filed 7&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
