FR941220-2-00033 FR941220-2-00024 Thermal-Hydraulic The heat load analysis performed for the expansion to 2600 licensed storage locations considered all 2,645 actual storage locations filled. Therefore, the initial conclusions are not changed and no re-analysis is required. The thermal-hydraulic calculations which used 125 ○ F pool water temperature, have shown that the cladding temperatures (<219 ○ F) will be well below the local fuel pool water saturation temperature of approximately 240 ○ F. The maximum cladding temperatures will be low enough to preclude nucleate boiling. Analysis has demonstrated that with an abnormal heat load from 2,732 fuel assemblies in the spent fuel pool, the temperature of the pool will be maintained within the Technical Specification limit to 125 ○ F. Therefore, since this limit will be maintained, other restrictions such as the temperature differential of the spent fuel pool liner will also be maintained. Thus, there is no reduction in the margin of safety from a thermal-hydraulic point of view. Mechanical and Structural The additional 45 storage locations were part of the fuel pool expansion of which only 2,600 fuel assemblies were licensed for storage. The fuel storage racks are designed to maintain the spent fuel assemblies in a safe configuration through all environmental and abnormal loadings, such as an SSE or impact due to spent fuel assembly drop. Structural and seismic analyses of the racks have established margins against tilting, deflection or movement to preclude impact of the racks with each other or with the pool walls. It is shown that the rack modules will undergo infinitesimal rotations if seismic excitation 50% over the SSE loading are imposed. The threshold of kinematic instability is not even approached. Analyses performed to arrive at the above conclusions indicate that margins in all areas of structural concern exist. The racks are placed in the pool as individual stand-alone structures, do not load pool walls directly, and are uncoupled from pool liner temperature rise. To limit the out-of-phase motion of adjacent racks due to non-symmetric loading of the racks, Oyster Creek procedures for loading spent fuel pool racks require the racks to be loaded symmetrically, i.e. the total fuel assemblies stored in any one quadrant of a rack will not deviate by more than 10% of the average of the four quadrants. This limitation will remain in effect for storage of 2,645 fuel assemblies. In summary, the additional 45 fuel bundles in storage will not decrease structural margins since there is no associated physical change to the storage facility and the 2,645 fuel assemblies were considered in the original analysis which demonstrated that the acceptance criteria were met. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appear that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. The Commission is seeking public comments on this proposed determination. Any comments received within 30 days after the date of publication of this notice will be considered in making any final determination. Normally, the Commission will not issue the amendment until the expiration of the 30-day notice period. However, should circumstances change during the notice period such that failure to act in a timely way would result, for example, in derating or shutdown of the facility, the Commission may issue the license amendment before the expiration of the 30-day notice period, provided that its final determination is that the amendment involves no significant hazards consideration. The final determination will consider all public and State comments received. Should the Commission take this action, it will publish in the Federal Register a notice of issuance and provide for opportunity for a hearing after issuance. The Commission expects that the need to take this action will occur very infrequently. Written comments may be submitted by mail to the Rules Review and Directives Branch, Division of Freedom of Information and Publications Services, Office of Administration, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, and should cite the publication date and page number of this Federal Register notice. Written comments may also be delivered to Room 6D22, Two White Flint North, 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland, from 7:30 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. Federal workdays. Copies of written comments received may be examined at the NRC Public Document Room, the Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC. The filing of requests for hearing and petitions for leave to intervene is discussed below. By January 19, 1995, the licensee may file a request for a hearing with respect to issuance of the amendment to the subject facility operating license and any person whose interest may be affected by this proceeding and who wishes to participate as a party in the proceeding must file a written request for a hearing and a petition for leave to intervene. Requests for a hearing and a petition for leave to intervene shall be filed in accordance with the Commission's ``Rules of Practice for Domestic Licensing Proceedings'' in 10 CFR Part 2. Interested persons should consult a current copy of 10 CFR 2.714 which is available at the Commission's Public Document Room, the Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC, and at the local public document room located at the Ocean County Library, Reference Department, 101 Washington Street, Toms River, New Jersey 08753. If a request for a hearing or petition for leave to intervene is filed by the above date, the Commission or an Atomic Safety and Licensing Board, designated by the Commission or by the Chairman of the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board Panel, will rule on the request and/or petition; and the Secretary or the designated Atomic Safety and Licensing Board will issue a notice of hearing or an appropriate order. As required by 10 CFR 2.714, a petition for leave to intervene shall set forth with particularity the interest of the petitioner in the proceeding, and how that interest may be affected by the results of the proceeding. The petition should specifically explain the reasons why intervention should be permitted with particular reference to the following factors: (1) The nature of the petitioner's right under the Act to be made party to the proceeding; (2) the nature and extent of the petitioner's property, financial, or other interest in the proceeding; and (3) the possible effect of any order which may be entered in the proceeding on the petitioner's interest. The petition should also identify the specific aspect(s) of the subject matter of the proceeding as to which petitioner wishes to intervene. Any person who has filed a petition for leave to intervene or who has been admitted as a party may amend the petition without requesting leave of the Board up to 15 days prior to the first prehearing conference scheduled in the proceeding, but such an amended petition must satisfy the specificity requirements described above. No later than 15 days prior to the first prehearing conference scheduled in the proceeding, a petitioner shall file a supplement to the petition to intervene which must include a list of the contentions which are sought to be litigated in the matter. Each contention must consist of a specific statement of the issue of law or fact to be raised or controverted. In addition, the petitioner shall provide a brief explanation of the bases of the contention and a concise statement of the alleged facts or expert opinion which support the contention and on which the petitioner intends to rely in proving the contention at the hearing. The petitioner must also provide references to those specific sources and documents of which the petitioner is aware and on which the petitioner intends to rely to establish those facts or expert opinion. Petitioner must provide sufficient information to show that a genuine dispute exists with the applicant on a material issue of law or fact. Contentions shall be limited to matters within the scope of the amendment under consideration. The contention must be one which, if proven, would entitle the petitioner to relief. A petitioner who fails to file such a supplement which satisfies these requirements with respect to at least one contention will not be permitted to participate as a party. Those permitted to intervene become parties to the proceeding, subject to any limitations in the order granting leave to intervene, and have the opportunity to participate fully in the conduct of the hearing, including the opportunity to present evidence and cross-examine witnesses. If a hearing is requested, the Commission will make a final determination on the issue of no significant hazards consideration. The final determination will serve to decide when the hearing is held. If the final determination is that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration, the Commission may issue the amendment and make it immediately effective, notwithstanding the request for a hearing. Any hearing held would take place after issuance of the amendment. If the final determination is that the amendment request involves a significant hazards consideration, any hearing held would take place before the issuance of any amendment.
