FR941006-1-00107 FR941006-1-00016 Although the prevalence of iron deficiency in the U.S. population is low (Ref. 2), maintenance of adequate iron stores in women of childbearing age and in young children is an important public health issue. A woman's recommended daily allowance (RDA) for iron during pregnancy doubles from 15 to 30 mg/day (Ref. 3). The importance of prenatal iron supplementation in preventing depletion of iron stores in pregnant women has been shown in several clinical trials (Ref. 4). Thus, pregnant women are often counseled to increase their iron intake through dietary changes and the use of iron-containing supplements or drugs. A committee of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) has recommended that all pregnant women should be screened for iron deficiency anemia at the first prenatal visit and at least once during each subsequent trimester (Ref. 5). The NAS committee recommended, however, that iron supplementation should only be given when iron status is low or marginal, as indicated by hemoglobin and serum ferritin, in comparison with standard values recommended by NAS for the specific trimester of pregnancy. When these clinical indicators reveal deficient iron status, the NAS committee recommended that the clinician prescribe 60 to 120 mg of supplemental iron per day. If iron status is marginal, the NAS committee recommended that the clinician prescribe 30 mg of supplemental iron per day. If iron status is normal, the NAS committee recommended that these be no iron supplementation. Aside from the iron needs that arise during pregnancy, women of child-bearing age have a higher requirement for iron than other adults. (The RDA for women of child-bearing age is 15 mg/day because of the depletion of iron through menstrual blood loss. It is 10 mg/day for adult males and older adult women (Ref. 3).) The difficulty of obtaining dietary intakes high enough to replace those losses through consumption of a normal diet is responsible for iron deficiency in some women of child-bearing age. For these women also, the use of iron-containing products may be prudent. Iron deficiency also affects young children (the RDA for iron for children is 10 mg/day), particularly during the rapid growth period from 6 months to 4 years of age. Some young children fail to develop adequate iron stores to supply the iron needed for their metabolic functions during this early growth period. Data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES II) for children show that the prevalence of impaired iron status ranges from an estimated 3 to 12 percent (Ref. 2). Thus, iron supplementation may also be indicated in children whose iron needs are not met through dietary intake.
