FR940324-1-00034 FR940324-1-00009 EPA's current policy permits entry to certain vehicles on a case-by-case basis. EPA proposes to formalize this policy to grant exemptions to individual owners (individuals and businesses) to import their personal vehicles ( i.e. , vehicles not imported for the purpose of resale), provided they have proven that their vehicles were: (1) Originally manufactured to be identical, in all material respects, to a vehicle described in an OEM's application for certification, or (2) modified to be identical in all material respects to a vehicle described in an OEMs application for certification. EPA is not proposing to change individual vehicle owners' responsibility for payment of any Gas Guzzler taxes applicable to vehicles they import. EPA's proposal also offers individual importers the option of having an ICI import their vehicle or engine for the purpose of modifying it to be identical in all material respects to a vehicle or motor vehicle engine certified by the OEM for sale in the United States. Vehicles imported under this option must be modified by the ICI according to OEM instructions, but do not have to be tested. EPA is confident that detailed instructions provided by an OEM specifying parts to be installed and adjustments to be performed will be sufficient to make a vehicle or engine identical in all material respects to a certified vehicle or engine, because these modifications will result in the vehicle or engine having the same parts and parameters as are described in the OEM's application for certification, which describes the vehicles or engines produced by the OEM within a given certified engine family. Individual vehicle owners who might otherwise have to incur the greater expense of ICI testing for a vehicle they wish to import may benefit from this option, if modification instructions can be obtained from the OEM. C. Emission Standards Today, EPA is proposing to delete the requirement that nonconforming light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks imported pursuant to 40 CFR 85.1505 or 85.1509 meet current year emission standards. 3 Instead of meeting current year emission standards, these vehicles will be allowed to meet emission standards (with applicable deterioration factors applied) that were in effect at the time of original vehicle production, with a few exceptions. These vehicles must, however, meet such emission standards using the currently applicable testing procedures, and must meet all applicable current model year fuel economy requirements. EPA is not proposing to change ICIs' status as small volume manufacturers and they must comply with corporate average fuel economy (CAFE) requirements as imposed by the Department of Transportation (DOT). This revision would give owners of older motor vehicles a way to import their vehicles. Many of these vehicles are now effectively excluded from importation due to the high cost of modification to meet current model year standards, which may be greater than the value of the vehicle involved. 3 This proposal does not change the emission standards for new motor vehicles imported by the original equipment manufacturers. This proposal changes only the emission standards for motor vehicles that were originally produced in earlier years than the model year of importation. EPA would continue, as under current regulations, to define the useful life of imported nonconforming vehicles as a period of time or mileage of use in the United States, beginning with the date and mileage at the time of a vehicle's release to the owner or purchaser. Consequently, this proposal would not affect the warranty and recall requirements pursuant to 40 CFR 85.1508 and 85.1510 or any other requirement under that subpart. D. Other Issues (1) Precertification Exemption Today's proposal revises the precertification exemption available to ICIs pursuant to 40 CFR 85.1511(b)(3) for the importation of nonconforming prototype vehicles for use in certification. Presently, the ICI must obtain written approval from the Administrator prior to importing such nonconforming motor vehicles, must use the vehicle to obtain a certificate of conformity, and must obtain a certificate of conformity within 180 days of importation. In this rulemaking, EPA retains these provisions, and proposes additional requirements regarding the number of precertification exemptions given to an ICI at any given time and EPA's criteria for granting precertification exemptions pursuant to 40 CFR 85.1511(b)(3) while other precertification exemptions are pending. In addition, a provision is made for extension of the 180 day time limit under certain circumstances. A precertification exemption allows an ICI to bring a vehicle or engine into the U.S. for the purpose of obtaining a certificate of conformity.
