FR940524-2-00039 FR940524-2-00027 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention RIN 0905&hyph;ZA40 [Announcement_426] National Program of Cancer Registries Introduction The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announces the availability of fiscal year (FY) 1994 funds for cooperative agreements to support statewide cancer registries. The program will serve two purposes: Part I: To support and enhance existing State cancer registries so that they are statewide and population-based. Part II: To plan, implement, and support statewide population-based cancer registries where State registries do not currently exist. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of ``Healthy People 2000,'' a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and to improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to the priority areas of Cancer and Surveillance and Data Systems. (For ordering a copy of ``Healthy People 2000,'' see the section ``Where To Obtain Additional Information.'') Authority This program is authorized by sections 399H, 399I, 399J, and 399L [42 U.S.C. 280e, e&hyph;1 and e&hyph;4] of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by Public Law 102&hyph;515, the Cancer Registries Amendment Act. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Eligible Applicants Eligible applicants for part I or for part II are the official public health agencies of States, or academic or nonprofit organizations designated by the State to operate the State's cancer registry. This includes the District of Columbia, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau. Competition is limited to these States in accordance with the authorizing legislation, the Cancer Registries Amendment Act of 1992. Eligible applicants may apply for either part I or part II. Part I: Applicants applying for part I must have a central registry at the State level, continuous and recent data collection efforts, existing core staff, and policies and procedures in place. State health agencies or their designees requesting funds to support and enhance existing State cancer registries (part I) are not eligible to apply for funds for planning and implementation of statewide cancer registries (part II). Part II: Only States with a limited or no established State cancer registry are eligible to apply for funds for planning and implementation of a statewide cancer registry. State health agencies or their designees requesting funds for planning and implementing a statewide, population-based cancer registry (part II) are not eligible to apply for funds for the support and enhancement of existing State cancer registries (part I). Availability of Funds Approximately $14 million is available in FY 1994 to fund programs under parts I and II of this announcement:
