FR940607-2-00061 FR940607-2-00048 For security purposes, the facility is located within a fenced, controlled area. The main entry gate to the facility is open during operating hours; during these hours, a security officer is posted at this gate to preclude unauthorized entry. During nonoperating hours, the main entry gate is locked and a security officer is posted at this gate; this security officer also makes periodic patrols of the facility during nonoperating hours. The remaining six gates to the facility are normally locked with a key lock during both operating and nonoperating hours; keys to these locks are contained in a sealed ( i.e., ``break'') box next to each of these gates. During emergency events ( e.g., fire or explosion), evacuees will break the seals to these boxes, remove the keys, and unlock the gates to effect emergency egress from the facility. Access to the tank area is controlled, and only authorized personnel are permitted to enter the area. The tanks (including tank valves and connections), associated equipment building, and surrounding area are inspected by designated inspector/supervisors for spills, structural integrity/damage, proper grounding, the presence of sparks and open flames/other ignition sources, accessibility and proper space segregation between tanks, and notation of liquids in the tanks; these inspection procedures are required as part of the facility's Operating Permit issued by the EPA. These inspections are conducted daily during regular operating periods. Instead of complying with the standard, the applicant contends that specific safety procedures and engineering provisions used during the draining and flushing operations will provide protection equal to, or better than, the standard. These procedures and provisions are discussed below. 1. Operators are supervised during the transfer of PCBs or ignitable materials. 2. Waste-handling ( i.e., draining and flushing) areas are clearly marked with warning signs and routinely inspected (at least once daily during regular operating periods) by designated inspectors/supervisors to assure that hazardous concentrations of vapors generated by combustible/flammable liquids are not permitted to accumulate in a waste-handling area when ignition sources are present. No meters are used to monitor diesel fuel vapors in waste-handling areas because the vapor pressure of diesel fuel ( i.e., 0.4 mm Hg @ 68 ○F) is too low to register on commercially-available gas meters or the photometric meters ( i.e., HNu units) used normally to monitor volatile vapors. 3. Smoking is prohibited inside the processing building. 4. Hot work permits are required prior to any activity that may generate a source of ignition. Draining and flushing operations do not take place when a work permit is issued for repairs in the processing area. 5. During loading/unloading operations, transportation vehicles containing ignitable substances are secured to prevent movement, and grounded to reduce the potential for static discharge. 6. No ignitable wastes are processed in uncontrolled areas. 7. All pumps, hoses, and connections are checked by system operators for leaks and ruptures prior to operation, and at least once daily during regular operating hours by designated inspectors/supervisors. 8. Direct ventilation is provided during these draining and flushing operations by a wall-mounted exhaust fan located adjacent to the processing area. This fan circulates air at 12,000 cubic feet per minute ( i.e., 18 air changes per hour), thereby preventing accumulation of diesel fuel vapors inside the building.
