FR940822-0-00018 FR940822-0-00008 In light of the Atkins v. Parker and Goldberg v. Kelly decisions, we do not believe that full appeal rights under our administrative review system are required in situations where claimants are contesting only the State legislative or executive action which results in a change in the level(s) of the federally administered State supplementary payments. Instead, under these regulations, claimants will receive notice of the State-initiated mass change and be given appeal rights only with respect to the calculation of their individual benefit amount made pursuant to the mass change. These procedures follow the rationale of the Atkins v. Parker decision which distinguished adverse actions based on mass changes from adverse actions based on the facts of an individual case and still provide an opportunity to contest the factual bases or the application of rules to particular facts as is required by the Goldberg v. Kelly decision. In cases where the individual desires to appeal the reduction, suspension or termination resulting from a State-initiated mass change only to dispute the propriety, fairness, or legality, for example, of the mass change, and presents no claim that his or her benefits have been improperly calculated, then we believe that the Act and procedural due process do not require that we provide such an individual the right to appeal that action. As indicated above, State supplementary payment levels are established by the States. Any change in those levels as they apply across the caseload of State supplementary payment recipients is, for the most part, a matter within the control and jurisdiction of the States. We are required to administer the States' payment levels under the Act, regulations and provisions of the Federal/State Supplementation Agreements and have no right, power or authority to find State-initiated mass changes in those levels to be unfair, illegal or improper, nor can we order the States to increase those payment levels. In preparing these regulatory changes, we have noted the Secretary's regulations for the Administration for Children and Families regarding the availability of a hearing in cases of mass change in the Aid to Families With Dependent Children program. Those regulations provide in 45 CFR 205.10(a)(5) that ``[a] hearing need not be granted when either State or Federal law requires automatic grant adjustments for classes of recipients unless the reason for an individual appeal is incorrect grant computation.'' We believe that a similar approach is appropriate where a mass change in the level of a federally administered State supplementary payment is the result of State legislative or executive action.
