FR940317-1-00103 FR940317-1-00013 (d) The investigation will be made in accordance with the regulations of the department of which the installation is a part. Also, information will be obtained as to whether the claimant is a member of a foreign force or civilian component, or dependent of such a member or employee. If so, the following will be listed: (1) Any benefits the claimant may be entitled to from his or her own government whether he or she has applied, or intends to apply, for such benefits. (2) The value of any benefits to which the claimant may be entitled, which he or she may have received, or both. (e) The investigating officer will arrange with the commanding officer of the foreign unit to which a member of a foreign force or civilian component is assigned, or the immediate superior of such member, to obtain from such member the pertinent information and required reports. If the member is assigned or attached to a United States organization or installation, information and reports will be obtained in accordance with the procedure applicable to United States personnel. (f) Notwithstanding the provisions of department regulations, a copy of the report of investigation will be forwarded to the Commander, USARCS immediately upon completion. §536.110 Claims procedures. (a) Place and time of filing. A claim should be filed with the commanding officer of the United States military installation nearest the place where the incident occurred, but may be filed at any other such installation, within two years of its accrual. Immediately upon receipt, a copy will be forwarded to Commander, USARCS. The claim and supporting documents will conform to the regulations of the department of which the place of filing is a part. Claims filed with a sending State official within 2 years of their accrual will be accepted as timely if received by a U.S. claims office (§536.5) before the passage of a total of 21/2 years from the date of accrual. (b) Processing of claims. A claim normally will be processed by the installation that first investigated the incident from which it arose in accordance with the pertinent departmental regulations. The commanding officer of an installation with which a claim is filed may by direct communication ascertain whether the incident from which it arose was investigated by another installation, and, if so, may transmit the claim for further processing to that installation. Upon completion of investigation, the claim file will be forwarded to the Commander, USARCS. (c) Official duty claims. Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2734b, claims generated by the sending State personnel, while engaged in the performance of official duties, are settled by a person designated in §536.111 in the manner provided for claims generated by personnel of the armed forces of the United States, that is, under the MCA (subpart C), the FTCA (subpart D) or the Army Maritime Claims Settlement Act (subpart H). The Commander, USARCS, will obtain scope of employment determinations from sending State officials under the conditions set forth in Article VIII, NATO SOFA. Payments made are subject to pro rata reimbursement by the sending State (paragraph 5, Article VIII, NATO SOFA (DA Pam 27&hyph;162, appendix L)). (d) Exgratia claims. Claims arising from off-duty activities of sending State personnel are, after investigation, processing, and evaluation, referred by the Commander, USARCS to sending State officials for a determination as to whether an exgratia payment will be offered (paragraph 6, Article VIII, NATO SOFA (DA Pam 27&hyph;162, appendix L)). §536.111 Settlement authority. The Commander, USARCS, or designees, are delegated sole authority to settle claims under this subpart. §536.112 Advance payments. Advance payments in partial settlement of meritorious claims to alleviate immediate hardship are authorized as provided in subpart B of this part, advanced payments. §536.113 Litigation. Officials designated by departmental regulations as responsible for reporting the initiation of legal proceedings involving their department will take the following action upon the commencement of legal proceedings: (a) Report the initiation of the proceeding by electrical message to the Litigation Division, Office of TJAG, submitting the information required by departmental regulation for reports of commencement of proceedings, with a copy to Commander, USARCS. (b) Notify the proper United States Attorney and furnish him or her with copies of all process and pleadings. (c) Forward by fastest means available to the Litigation Division, Office of TJAG, three copies of all process, pleadings, and related papers. (d) Unless otherwise directed by TJAG, prepare an investigative (litigation) report in the manner prescribed by departmental regulations and submit three copies to Litigation Division, Office of the TJAG, AR 27&hyph;40; AFR 110&hyph;3; Navy JAG Manual, chapter 13. §536.114 Assistance to foreign forces. (a) In order that claims cognizable under this section will be treated as nearly as possible as if they arose from activities of United States personnel, all possible assistance will be provided to commanding officers of foreign units and to members thereof. (b) The commanding officer of an installation at which a foreign unit is stationed will furnish to the commanding officer of the foreign unit copies of regulations and forms relating to claims, and, when applicable, will provide instructions for the members of the unit with respect to the pertinent State laws and reporting of accidents. (c) The commanding officer of an installation to whom a request for information or assistance is made by foreign personnel or to whom a report of an incident is made will provide, to the extent permitted by security regulations, the requested information or assistance.
