FR940505-1-00421 FR940505-1-00012 (ii) Emission control records. Any facility complying with the provisions of paragraph (r)(3)(i) of this section through the provisions of paragraph (r)(3)(ii) of this section with air pollution control equipment shall maintain applicable records of system operating parameters, including temperatures, pressures, fuel flow rate, and steam production rate, repair, fuel moisture, and all VOC control measures. (iii) Reporting. The Administrator and APCO shall be notified within 48 hours of any event or incident that results in a known exceedance of this standard. (iv) Retention of records. All records maintained pursuant to this section shall be retained and available for inspection by the Administrator for the previous five-year period. (s) RACT determination: Reynolds Metals Company. (1) Applicability. The provisions of paragraph (s) of this section shall apply to the Reynolds Metals Company or any subsequent owner or operator of the Reynolds Metals Company's Rocklin Plant located at 3939 Cincinnati Avenue, Rocklin, California. (2) Definitions. For the purposes of paragraph (s) of this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in ยง52.2950. Air pollution control officer ( APCO) means the Executive Officer or his or her delegate of an air quality management district or an air pollution control district. Capture efficiency means the quantity of an air contaminant that is collected into the control device versus the total amount emitted, expressed as a percentage. This is defined by the following equation: E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.113 Control efficiency means the quantity of air contaminant removed from the inlet stream to the control device, expressed as a percentage. This is defined by the following equation: E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.114 Lubricant applicator is an apparatus used to apply a surface lube. Oven is a chamber within which heat is used for one or more of the following purposes: dry, bake, cure, or polymerize a surface coating or ink. Pounds of VOC per gallon of lubricant less water and less exempt compounds means the weight of VOC per combined volume of VOC and coating solids and is calculated by the following equation: G voc =(W s _W w _W es ) / (V m _V w _V es ) 6where: G voc =Pounds VOC per gallon lubricant less water and exempt compounds;
