FR940721-2-00062 FR940721-2-00035 (6) The Department of Justice for investigating and prosecution violations of the Social Security Act to which criminal penalties attach, or other criminal statutes as they pertain to Social Security Act programs, for representing the Secretary, and for investigating issues of fraud by agency officers or employees, or violation of civil rights. (7) The Railroad Retirement Board for administering provisions of the Railroad Retirement and Social Security Acts relating to railroad employment. (8) Peer Review Organizations and Quality Review Organizations in connection with their review of claims, or in connection with studies or other review activities, conducted pursuant to Part B of Title XI of the Social Security Act. (9) State Licensing Boards for review of unethical practices or nonprofessional conduct. (10) Providers and suppliers of services (and their authorized billing agents) directly or dealing through fiscal intermediaries or carriers, for administration of provisions of title XVIII. (11) An individual or organization for a research, evaluation, or epidemiological project related to the prevention of disease or disability, or maintenance of health if HCFA: a. Determines that the use or disclosure does not violate legal limitations under which the record was provided, collected, or obtained: b. Determines that the purpose for which the disclosure is to be made: (1) Cannot be reasonably accomplished unless the record is provided in individually identifiable form. (2) Is of sufficient importance to warrant the effect and/or risk on the privacy of the individual that additional exposure of the record might bring, and (3) There is reasonable probability that the objective for the use would be accomplished: c. Requires the information recipient to: (1) Establish reasonable administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of the record, and (2) Remove or destroy the information that allows the individual to be identified at the earliest time at which removal or destruction can be accomplished consistent with the purpose of the project, unless the recipient presents an adequate justification of a research or health nature for retaining such information, and (3) Make no further use or disclosure of the record except: (a) In emergency circumstances affecting the health or safety of any individual; (b) For use in another research project, under these same conditions, and with written authorization of HCFA; (c) For disclosure to a properly identified person for the purpose of an audit related to the research project, if information that would enable research subjects to be identified is removed or destroyed at the earliest opportunity consistent with the purpose of the audit; (d) When required by law. d. Secures a written statement attesting to the information recipient's understanding of and willingness to abide by the provisions. (12) State welfare departments pursuant to agreements with the Department of Health and Human Services for administration of State supplementation payments for determination of eligibility for Medicaid, for enrollment of welfare recipients for medical insurance under section 1843 of the Social Security Act for quality control studies, for determining eligibility of recipients of assistance under titles IV and XIX of the Social Security Act, and for the complete administration of the Medicaid program. (13) A congressional office from the record of an individual in response to an inquiry from the congressional office at the request of that individual.
