FR940513-2-00112 FR940513-2-00047 Response: No change. The Office of Drug Pricing is developing proposed audit guidelines which will be published in the Federal Register with public comment invited. All comments regarding suggested audit procedures, currently received, will be considered at that time. Entity Participation Comment: An entity should be viewed as not participating in the program (and therefore as ineligible to receive its discounts) if it has not given its Medicaid provider number of the Office of Drug Pricing. Comment: We have amended part 2 of the notice to require entities to provide one of the following: (1) A pharmacy Medicaid number (the number which the entity uses to bill Medicaid for medications), or (2) their all-inclusive Medicaid number (e.q., ``FQ'' number), or (3) notification that it does not bill Medicaid for all outpatient drugs. These numbers will be posted on the electronic bulletin board (Electronic Data Retrieval System or EDRS), maintained by the Office of Drug Pricing, to indicate which covered entities have elected to participate in the program. For access to the EDRS call (301) 549&hyph;4992. Comment: All covered entities should be required to notify manufacturers 30 days before they wish to access PHS pricing. Response: We have amended part 6 of the notice to provide that entities will be added to or deleted from the eligibility list on a quarterly basis only. The Office of Drug Pricing will update the list 2 weeks before each calendar quarter, giving lead time for pricing changes and appropriate communications with wholesalers, GPOs, and purchasing agents. Group Purchasing Arrangements Comment: Allow eligible DSHs to continue GPO participation for manufacturers who are not offering PHS pricing and prohibit GPO participation with respect to all complying manufacturers. Response: No change. Generally, we have found that entities are receiving PHS pricing. The Office of Drug Pricing has, at every opportunity, communicated its willingness to assist entities when there are problems with accessing PHS pricing. The Office has investigated all complaints of manufacturer noncompliance immediately and was and is willing to take appropriate enforcement action if necessary. This is the proper course for dealing with any manufacturer non-compliance, rather than attempting to compensate for continued non-compliance by disregarding the statutory GPO provisions. Purchasing Agents Comment: Distinguish clearly between a purchasing agent and a GPO for purposes of the DSH/GPO prohibition, only. Response: We have amended part 8 of the notice to distinguish a purchasing agent from a group purchasing arrangement for purposes of the DSH/GPO prohibition. A purchasing agent would not be considered operating as a group purchasing arrangement if the following conditions are met: (1) the purchasing agent is not associated with a group purchasing organization; (2) no collective bargaining by a group of hospitals occurs; (3) the negotiations of PHS pricing are separate activities for each individual DSH; (4) a separate agreement with each DSH is executed; (5) as part of the agreement, there will be no sharing or pricing information; and (6) all final decisions concerning product and price acceptance will be made by each individual DSH. Comment: Do not require manufacturers to sell directly to a purchasing agent, a GPO, or a contract pharmacy, but solely to covered entities and their wholesalers. Response: No change. It is a customary business practice for manufacturers to sell to intermediaries as well as directly to the entity. Entities often use purchasing agents or contract pharmacies, or participate in GPOs. By placing such limitations on sales transactions, manufacturers could be discouraging entities from participating in the program. Manufacturers may not single out covered entities from their other customers for restrictive conditions that would undermine the statutory objective. Manufacturer Contracts Which Require Entity Compliance Comment: Permit a manufacturer to require the covered entities to sign a contract containing only the manufacturer's normal business policies (e.g., routine information necessary to set up and maintain an account) if this is a usual business practice of the manufacturers. Response: We have amended part 11 of the notice to state that this prohibition against a contract between a manufacturer and a covered entity regarding entity compliance with section 340B provisions or the Office of Drug Pricing program guidelines does not encompass entity/manufacturer contracts that contain provisions relating to normal business activities, requests for standard information, or other appropriate contract provisions. Comment: Declare null and void provisions in manufacturer contracts signed by entities pursuant to section 340B which deal with assurances of entity compliance with section 340B. Response: No change. While the Office of Drug Pricing has no legal authority to declare null and void provisions of contracts between covered entities and manufacturers, it is our position that manufacturers may not enforce such provisions. General Comment: Post Medicaid provider numbers of all eligible DSH outpatient clinics on the electronic bulletin board. Response: No change. The Office of Drug Pricing has developed proposed criteria to determine the eligibility of DSH outpatient clinics. These criteria will be published in the Federal Register , and the public will be invited to comment. Comment: Might certain activity generate a new Medicaid Best Price? Response: No change. Because the Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA) Medicaid Rebate Program deals with Best Price calculations, the Office of the Drug Pricing will refer all Best Price questions to the agency. For further information in this regard, please call Al Beachley, Branch Chief, Medicaid Drug Rebate Operations Branch, HCFA, at (410) 966&hyph;3225. Comment: Establish a procedure whereby manufacturers will be able to determine which purchasing groups are eligible to purchase on behalf of covered entities and receive the PHS pricing. Response: We have amended part 7 of the notice to require any group which purchases covered outpatient drugs at OHS pricing on behalf of an eligible covered entity to have written authority from the entity to purchase its covered outpatient drugs. The purchasing group must provide documentation of this purchase authority to the manufacturer upon request. This rule does not supersede the statutory limitations regarding DSH participation in GPOs or group purchasing arrangements. Comment: Establish a prime vendor program designating certain wholesalers to service PHS covered entities similar to programs established with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Department of Defense (DOD), and the Bureau of Prisons (BOP). Response: No change. The Office of Drug Pricing is in the early stages of developing a pilot prime venter program and has considered, among others, the various programs of VA, DOD, and BOP. (C) Revised Entity Guidelines Set forth below are the final entity guidelines, revised based on the analysis of the comments described above. (1) Confidential Drug Pricing Information
