FR940429-0-00204 FR940429-0-00015 Comments: A dozen commenters objected to the proposed requirement that institutions have written procedures or information regarding several key aspects of the administration of the Title IV, HEA programs. Most of these commenters stated that the proposed requirement was burdensome and would create a lot of paperwork with no discernible benefit. One commenter noted that communications processes and structures are dynamic by nature and thus subject to frequent changes. Another commenter expressed concern that the Secretary was trying to dictate the pattern and frequency of communications among college offices. This commenter added that while development of written procedures such as those proposed would be good management practice, the Secretary should not regulate such practices. Some of the commenters recommended that this proposed requirement be removed entirely. Other commenters recommended that the requirement be imposed only on institutions that did not have a record of administering the Title IV, HEA programs successfully or only on larger institutions. Several commenters suggested that institutions be able to show compliance through their computer systems. One commenter, concerned that the time required to provide detailed documentation would take valuable time away from the smoothly running delivery of aid, recommended that general delineation of responsibilities be considered sufficient. Another commenter recommended that institutions be permitted to work out the method and frequency of communication. One commenter asked that the Secretary clarify how this provision relates to multi-campus institutions if the proposal were retained in final regulations. Discussion: The Secretary is not persuaded that mandating written procedures or information covering certain aspects of Title IV, HEA administration is an inappropriate or unnecessary administrative standard. However, the Secretary appreciates the concern of commenters who perceived certain areas of the proposal to be unduly burdensome. The Secretary agrees that the burden to an institution of having to prepare written procedures for or written information indicating the nature and frequency of communication of pertinent information among all the offices that have an impact on the administration of the Title IV, HEA programs outweighs the benefit that this provision would provide to the Secretary. The Secretary also agrees that, unless compliance problems relevant to the listed responsibilities are identified, institutions may satisfy the requirement that an institution have written procedures for or written information indicating the responsibilities of the various offices with respect to the approval, disbursement, and delivery of Title IV, HEA program assistance and the preparation and submission of reports to the Secretary by a general written description of the responsibilities of the various offices. Changes: The requirement that an institution has to prepare written procedures for or written information indicating the nature and frequency of communication of pertinent information among all the offices that have an impact on the administration of the Title IV, HEA programs has been removed from these regulations. Comments: A number of commenters discussed the issue of appropriate separation of awarding and disbursing functions. Many of these commenters said the prohibition on having family members perform the two functions would be onerous, particularly in a small, family-run institution. In a similar vein, some commenters noted that in a small institution the owner works and has responsibility over all facets of the institution. At small institutions, it is very difficult to provide for organizational independence. Many commenters suggested deleting the new language that references family members and individuals that have control over both functions and relying on the annual audit process to test for adequate internal controls. Discussion: This standard was strengthened to provide additional deterrence to collusion, which is a big problem at institutions that engage in fraud and at many institutions that fail to make refunds. The strengthened language also gives the Secretary added, needed authority to terminate institutions that engage in collusion. While the Secretary understands the concern of small family-run institutions that arranging for someone outside the family to perform one or both tasks will be burdensome, the suggestion that the Secretary delete the new language and rely on the required financial and compliance audit is not realistic. At very small institutions, the auditor would probably conclude that there are no internal controls because there are only two or three employees_often the owners. Changes: None. Comments: The Secretary received in excess of sixty comments on the provisions that address satisfactory academic progress. The vast majority of commenters were opposed to the proposed addition of ยง668.16(e)(3)(ii)(B), which stipulates that undergraduate students would be expected to complete their educational programs within 150% of the published length of the programs as a standard for measuring a student's satisfactory academic progress. They recommended that the proposed new provision be removed. A few commenters argued that implementation of the provision would be an infringement of the academic freedom of institutions. Many others asserted that requiring this level of detail in an institution's satisfactory academic progress standards is unwarranted, because it interferes with institutions' academic procedures, and argued that the proposed new requirement bears no discernible relationship to administrative capability standards. A few commenters opposed the inclusion of any satisfactory academic progress requirements in the standards for determining administrative capability. Many commenters were opposed to the proposed new criterion governing the maximum time frame because they believed that it does not take into consideration the academic career patterns of nontraditional students who work and have varying hours, attend part-time, or need remedial academic help, often interspersing developmental courses with courses taken for credit. One commenter contended that this provision would discriminate against students who change majors or eligible programs. Some commenters argued that implementation of the proposed provision would result in the cut-off of Title IV, HEA program funds to students in these categories even though the students may be serious and highly motivated. Thus, students who would otherwise be able to complete an eligible program would be denied that opportunity because they could continue with their education only if they received Title IV, HEA program assistance. Two commenters recommended that students be permitted to appeal this provision on a case-by-case basis. One commenter concurred with the provision as written and stated the standard is part of the current policy of the commenter's institution. One commenter stated that the required increments of time for the establishment of a maximum time frame in which the student must complete his or her educational program do not work for a program such as court reporting, where the time it takes students to complete a given amount of work may vary from 3 to 12 months. Discussion: Because students are required by Title IV of the HEA to maintain satisfactory progress to receive Title IV, HEA program assistance, it is only logical that an institution's ability to administer Title IV, HEA programs must be judged, in part, on the existence and implementation of an adequate satisfactory progress policy. The proposed addition is a codification of longstanding policy and is consistent with the requirements of the Student-Right-to-Know Act.
