FR940620-1-00053 FR940620-1-00009 (i) Are publicly available without restrictions; (ii) Have been provided to the United States without restriction; or, (iii) Have been otherwise made available without restriction other than a release or disclosure resulting from the sale, transfer, or other assignment of interest in the software to another party or the sale or transfer of some or all of a business entity or its assets to another party. (2) Pre-challenge requests for information. (i) After consideration of the situations described in 227.403&hyph;13(c)(3), contracting officers may request the person asserting a restriction to furnish a written explanation of the facts and supporting documentation for the assertion in sufficient detail to enable the contracting officer to determine the validity of the assertion. Additional supporting documentation may be requested when the explanation provided by the person making the assertion does not, in the contracting officer's opinion, establish the validity of the assertion. (ii) If the person asserting the restriction fails to respond to the contracting officer's request for information or additional supporting documentation or if the information submitted does not justify the asserted restriction, a challenge should be considered. (3) Transacting matters directly with subcontractors. The clause at 252.227&hyph;7037 obtains the contractor's agreement that the Government may transact matters under the clause directly with a subcontractor, at any tier, without creating or implying privity of contract. Contracting officers should permit a subcontractor or supplier to transact challenge and validation matters directly with the Government when_ (i) A subcontractor's or supplier's business interests in its technical data would be compromised if the data were disclosed to a higher tier contractor; or, (ii) There is reason to believe that the contractor will not respond in a timely manner to a challenge and a failure to respond would jeopardize a subcontractor's or supplier's right to assert restrictions; or, (iii) Requested to do so by a subcontractor or supplier. (4) Challenge notice. Do not issue a challenge notice unless there are reasonable grounds to question the validity of an assertion. Assertions may be challenged whether or not supporting documentation was requested from the person asserting the restriction. Challenge notices must be in writing and issued to the contractor or, after consideration of the situations described in 227.403&hyph;13(c)(3), the person asserting the restriction. The challenge notice must include the information in paragraph (d) of the clause at 252.227&hyph;7037, ``Validation of Asserted Restrictions.'' (5) Extension of response time. The contracting officer, at his or her discretion, may extend the time for response contained in a challenge notice, as appropriate, if the contractor submits a timely written request showing the need for additional time to prepare a response. (6) Contracting officer's final decision. Contracting officers must issue a final decision for each challenged assertion, whether or not the assertion has been justified. (i) A contracting officer's final decision that an assertion is not justified must be issued as soon as practicable following the failure of the person asserting the restriction to respond to the contracting officer's challenge within sixty (60) days, or any extension to that time granted by the contracting officer. (ii) A contracting officer who, following a challenge and response by the person asserting the restriction, determines that an asserted restriction is justified, shall issue a final decision sustaining the validity of the asserted restriction. If the asserted restriction was made subsequent to submission of the contractor's offer, add the asserted restriction to the contract Attachment. (iii) A contracting officer who determines that the validity of an asserted restriction has not been justified shall issue a contracting officer's final decision within the time frames prescribed in 252.227&hyph;7037, ``Validation of Asserted Restrictions.'' As provided in paragraph (f) of that clause, the Government is obligated to continue to respect the asserted restrictions through final disposition of any appeal unless the Agency Head notifies the person asserting the restriction that urgent or compelling circumstances do not permit the Government to continue to respect the asserted restriction. (7) Multiple challenges to an asserted restriction. When more than one contracting officer challenges an asserted restriction, the contracting officer who made the earliest challenge is responsible for coordinating the Government challenges. That contracting officer shall consult with all other contracting officers making challenges, verify that all challenges apply to the same asserted restriction and, after consulting with the contractor, subcontractor, or supplier asserting the restriction, issue a schedule that provides that person a reasonable opportunity to respond to each challenge.
