FR941110-0-00074 FR941110-0-00016 The nursing home reform provisions of OBRA '87 reconfigured the way in which HCFA and the States would track nursing home compliance with Federal requirements and approach enforcement remedies. The survey and certification provisions, set forth at sections 1819(g) and 1919(g) of the Act, require implementation of a flexible survey cycle for Medicare skilled nursing facilities and Medicaid nursing facilities so that standard surveys are conducted at intervals not later than 15 months after the date of the previous standard survey with a statewide average interval that does not exceed 12 months. The legislative history of OBRA '87 and the National Academy of Science's Institute of Medicine (IoM) study (1986) are plain in their stated reasons for this change from the rigid, time limited system of having surveys for all facilities follow a 12 month cycle. First, a flexible survey cycle provides less predictability to the scheduling of surveys, thus reducing the opportunities for certain providers, by anticipating the survey, to achieve only temporary compliance for the short term period around the time of survey. Second, flexible survey cycles allow survey agencies to better allocate their limited resources by increasing the frequency of surveys for problem facilities while allowing other facilities with a better record of compliance to be less rigorously monitored. Additionally, because time limited agreements have automatic cancellation clauses, a significant paperwork and recordkeeping burden results from the frequent need to conduct resurveys as a means of avoiding provider agreement expirations. Third, the enforcement provisions of nursing home reform, set forth at sections 1819(h) and 1919(h) of the Act, are designed to work in the context of provider agreements that do not have a fixed ending date. Specifically, sections 1819(h)(2)(C) and 1919(h)(3)(D) of the Act speak to the ability of the Secretary to continue payments for up to 6 months after the identification of deficiencies if certain criteria, described in those sections, are met. Sections 1819(h)(2)(D) and 1919(h)(2)(C) of the Act require the Secretary and States to impose denials of payment for new admissions should deficient facilities fail to achieve compliance within 3 months after they have been determined not to comply with Federal requirements. In both cases, these remedies make sense only where a facility's provider agreement has no set expiration date. We reach this conclusion because under a time limited agreement survey system in which surveys are typically conducted shortly before the expiration of provider agreements, facilities would have only the shortest period of time to correct deficiencies if they are to be entitled to renewed agreements. The statutory remedies described above, however, contemplate periods of time that far exceed what would be available under a time limited agreement system for providers to achieve compliance. For HCFA and the States to attempt to fit this survey system into the procedures described in sections 1819(h) and 1919(h) of the Act would require the wholesale revamping of surveys so that they occur no later than mid-way through the term of the 12 month provider agreement. Such a radical departure from more than 20 years of practice would require the kind of massive reallocation of survey resources that is not possible under a time limited agreement survey system and would likely cause many facilities to go unsurveyed by the time their time limited agreements are scheduled to expire. Of equal significance, we do not believe that the Congress would approve of a survey system in which the decisions about renewal of a provider agreement are made as far as 6 months prior to the expiration of that agreement, since determinations of compliance made so far in advance may not be reflective of the degree of facility compliance at the time the agreement is set to expire.
