FR940912-0-00044 FR940912-0-00006 (h) Directors and management_ (1) Board of directors. Briefly describe the composition of boards of directors of the disclosure entities. List the name of each director of such entities, including the director's term of office and principal occupation during the past 5 years, or state that such information is available upon request pursuant to §630.3(f). (2) Management. List the names of chief executive officers and presidents of disclosure entities, including position title, length of service at current position, and positions held during the past 5 years. (i) Compensation of directors and senior officers. State that information on the compensation of directors and senior officers of System banks is contained in each bank's annual report to shareholders and that the annual report of each bank is available to investors upon request pursuant to §630.3(f). (j) Related party transactions. (1) Briefly describe how System institutions, in the ordinary course of business and subject to regulation by the FCA, may enter into loan transactions with related parties, including their directors, officers, and employees, the immediate family members (as defined in §620.1(e) of this chapter) of such persons, and any organizations with which such persons and their immediate family members are affiliated. (2) On a comparative basis for each of the fiscal years covered by the balance sheet, state the aggregate amount of the following: (i) Loans made to related parties; (ii) Loans outstanding at yearend to related parties; (iii) Loans outstanding at yearend to related parties that are made on more favorable terms than those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with unrelated borrowers; and (iv) Loans outstanding at yearend to related parties that involve more than a normal risk of collectibility (as defined in §620.1(i) of this chapter). (k) Relationship with independent public accountant. If a change in the accountant who has previously examined and expressed an opinion on the Systemwide combined financial statements has taken place since the last annual report to investors or if a disagreement with an accountant has occurred that the Funding Corporation would be required to report to the FCA under part 621 of this chapter, disclose the information required by §621.4(c) and (d) of this chapter. (l) Financial statements. Furnish Systemwide combined financial statements and related footnotes prepared in accordance with GAAP, and accompanied by supplemental information prepared in accordance with the requirements of §630.20(m). The Systemwide combined financial statements shall provide investors and potential investors in FCS debt obligations with the most meaningful presentation pertaining to the financial condition and results of operations of the System. The Systemwide combined financial statement and accompanying supplemental information shall be audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by a qualified public accountant (as defined in §621.2(i) of this chapter). The Systemwide combined financial statements shall include the following: (1) A balance sheet as of the end of each of the 2 most recent fiscal years; and (2) Statements of income, statements of changes in capital stock and surplus (or, if applicable, statements of changes in protected borrower capital and capital stock and surplus), and statements of cash flows for each of the 3 most recent fiscal years. (m) Supplemental information. Furnish supplemental information regarding the components of the Systemwide combined financial statements that has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of this paragraph and any additional guidance or instructions provided by the FCA. (1) At a minimum, the supplemental information shall include the following: (i) Supplemental balance sheet information as of the end of the most recent fiscal year; and
