FR940803-1-00066 FR940803-1-00014 The oval pigtoe was described from the Chattahoochee River, near Columbus, Georgia. Historically, this species was one of the most widely distributed mussels endemic to the Apalachicolan Region. It occurred throughout the mainstems and several tributaries of both the Flint (16 sites) and Chipola (10 sites) river systems, at 5 sites in the Chattahoochee River system including one mainstem site, all associated with the Fall Line in Alabama and Georgia, at 6 sites in the Ochlockonee River mainstem above Talquin Reservoir in Florida and Georgia, at a single site on the lower Suwannee River and 15 sites in the upper Santa Fe River system, its major tributary, in north Florida, and at a site in Econfina Creek, in northwest Florida (Clench and Turner 1956, Butler 1993). Fifty-four total historical sites are known. Existing populations have been verified from 21 sites, including 5 scattered tributaries (7 sites) of the Flint River system and a single mainstem site, 4 Chipola River sites and 1 in its tributary Dry Creek, 6 upper Ochlockonee River mainstem sites, and single sites in both the New River in the upper Santa Fe River system, and in Econfina Creek (Butler 1993). Recent surveys have documented the extirpation of the oval pigtoe from approximately two-thirds of its historical range, with no populations persisting in Alabama. Once a species of localized abundance (Clench and Turner 1956), oval pigtoe populations sometimes numbered in the hundreds (van der Schalie 1940). However, recent collections of the oval pigtoe are generally small, and rarely exceed a dozen individuals at any one site. The Service in its recent survey located only a single specimen from the entire Flint River mainstem. It is not known whether existing populations are sufficient in numbers to sustain the species. The oval pigtoe does not tolerate impoundments. The Chipola slabshell (Elliptio chipolaensis ) is a medium- sized species reaching a length of about 85 mm (3.3 in). The shell is ovate to subelliptical, somewhat inflated and with the posterior ridge starting out rounded but flattening to form a prominent biangulate margin. The shell surface is smooth and chestnut in color. Dark brown coloration may appear in the umbonal region and the remaining surface may exhibit alternating light and dark bands. The umbos are prominent, well above the hingeline. Internally, the umbonal cavity is rather deep. The lateral teeth are long, slender, and slightly curved, with two in the left and one in the right valve. The pseudocardinal teeth are compressed and crenulate, with two in the left and one in the right valve. Nacre color is salmon, becoming more intense dorsally and somewhat iridescent posteriorly. The Service considers Unio chipolaensis to be a synonym of Elliptio chipolaensis. The Chipola slabshell was described from the Chipola River in Florida. Clench and Turner (1956) restricted the type locality to the Chipola River, 1 mile north of Marianna, Jackson County, Florida. Until recently, this species was considered endemic to the Chipola River system, occurring in the mainstem above Dead Lake and a few of the larger tributaries, all in Florida (van der Schalie 1940, Clench and Turner 1956). A single record of this mussel from a tributary of the Chattahoochee River in extreme southeastern Alabama has been verified by Butler (1993). These localities bring the total number of historic sites the Chipola slabshell inhabited to nine. The Chipola slabshell is known to persist only at four Chipola River mainstem sites and in Dry Creek, with the populations from Spring Creek (Chipola River system) and the Chattahoochee River system apparently extirpated. The numbers of specimens from recent collections indicate that populations are generally small, except at one site in the lower mainstem where three dozen specimens were recently observed (W. McCullagh, pers. comm.). The Chipola slabshell has the most restricted range of the Apalachicolan Region mussels. This species does not tolerate impoundments, but is more tolerant of silt than the other species of mussels. The purple bankclimber ( Elliptoideus sloatianus ) is a large, heavy shelled, strongly sculptured mussel reaching a length of about 200 mm (8.0 in). A well developed posterior ridge extends from the umbos to the posterior ventral margin of the shell. The posterior slope and the disk just anterior to the posterior ridge are sculptured by several irregular ridges that vary greatly in development. Umbos are low, extending just above the dorsal margin of the shell. Internally, there is one pseudocardinal tooth in the right valve and two in the left valve. The lateral teeth are very thick and slightly curved. Nacre color is whitish near the center of the shell becoming deep purple towards the margin, and very iridescent posteriorly. The Service recognizes Unio sloatianus, Unio atromarginatus, Unio aratus, and Unio plectophorus as synonyms of Elliptoideus sloatianus. The purple bankclimber was described from the Chattahoochee River and its type locality is restricted to the Chattahoochee River at Columbus, Georgia (Clench and Turner 1956).
