FR940203-2-00024 FR940203-2-00017 Corps of Engineers Regulatory Guidance Letters Issued by the Corps of Engineers AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, DoD. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The purpose of this notice is to provide current Regulatory Guidance Letters (RGL's) to all interested parties. RGL's are used by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Headquarters as a means to transmit guidance on the permit program (33 CFR 320&hyph;330) to its division and district engineers (DE's). Each future RGL will be published in the Notice section of the Federal Register as a means to insure the widest dissemination of this information while reducing costs to the Federal Government. The Corps no longer maintains a mailing list to furnish copies of the RGL's to the public. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Ralph Eppard, Regulatory Branch, Office of the Chief of Engineers at (202) 272&hyph;1783. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: RGL's were developed by the Corps as a system to organize and track written guidance issued to its field agencies. RGL's are normally issued as a result of evolving policy; judicial decisions and changes to the Corps regulations or another agency's regulations which affect the permit program. RGL's are used only to interpret or clarify existing regulatory program policy, but do provide mandatory guidance to Corps district offices. RGL's are sequentially numbered and expire on a specified date. After a RGL's expiration date has passed, it no longer constitutes mandatory guidance for Corps district and division offices. Nevertheless, many expired RGL's still provide useful, non-mandatory guidance which Corps field offices have the discretion to follow. On the other hand, some RGL's have been superseded by specific provisions of subsequently issued regulations or RGL's. In addition, other expired RGL's, in whole or in part, may not be consistent with current Corps policy. The Corps incorporates most of the guidance provided by RGL's whenever it revises its permit regulations. There were three RGL's issued by the Corps during 1993, and all were published in the Notices section of the Federal Register upon issuance. We are hereby publishing all current RGL's, beginning with RGL 91&hyph;1 and ending with RGL 93&hyph;3. We will continue to publish each RGL in the Notice Section of the Federal Register upon issuance and in early 1995, we will again publish the complete list of all current RGL's. Dated: January 19, 1994. Approved: John R. Brown, Colonel, Corps of Engineers, Executive Director of Civil Works.
