FR940628-1-00052 FR940628-1-00010 42 CFR Chapter I PART 50_[AMENDED] 1. Subpart F is added to 42 CFR Part 50 to read as follows: Subpart F_Responsibility of Applicants for Promoting Objectivity in Research for Which PHS Funding Is Sought 50.601␣Purpose. 50.602␣Applicability. 50.603␣Definitions. 50.604␣Institutional responsibility regarding Significant Financial Interests of Investigators. 50.605␣Management of Significant Financial Interests. 50.606␣Remedies. 50.607␣Other HHS regulations that apply. Subpart F_Responsibility of Applicants for Promoting Objectivity in Research for Which PHS Funding Is Sought Authority: 42 U.S.C. 216, 289b&hyph;1, 299c&hyph;3. §50.601 Purpose. This subpart promotes objectivity in research by requiring that each Institution that applies for PHS grants or cooperative agreements for research ensure there is no reasonable expectation that the design, conduct, and reporting of the research to be funded pursuant to the application will be biased by any Significant Financial Interest of an Investigator responsible for the design, conduct, or reporting of the research. §50.602 Applicability. This subpart is applicable to each Institution that applies for PHS grants or cooperative agreements for research and, through the implementation of this subpart by each Institution, to each Investigator participating in research covered by this subpart; provided, that this subpart does not apply to SBIR Program Phase I applications. In those few cases where an individual, rather than an institution, is an applicant for PHS grants or cooperative agreements for research, PHS Awarding Components will make case-by-case determinations on the steps to be taken to ensure that the design, conduct, and reporting of the research will not be biased by any Significant Financial Interest of the individual. §50.603 Definitions. As used in this subpart: HHS means the United States Department of Health and Human Services, and any components of the Department to which the authority involved may be delegated. Institution means any domestic or foreign, public or private, entity or organization (excluding a Federal agency). Investigator means the principal investigator and any other person at the Institution who is responsible for the design, conduct, or reporting of research funded by PHS, or proposed for such funding. For the purposes of the requirements of this subpart relating to financial interests, ``Investigator'' includes the Investigator's spouse and dependent children. PHS means the Public Health Service, an operating division of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and any components of the PHS to which the authority involved may be delegated. PHS Awarding Component means the organizational unit of the PHS that funds the research that is subject to this subpart. Public Health Service Act or PHS Act means the statute codified at 42 U.S.C. 201 et seq. Research means a systematic investigation designed to develop or contribute to generalizable knowledge relating broadly to public health, including behavioral and social-sciences research. The term encompasses basic and applied research and product development. As used in this subpart, the term includes any such activity for which research funding is available from a PHS Awarding Component through a grant or cooperative agreement whether authorized under the PHS Act or other statutory authority. Significant Financial Interest means anything of monetary value, including but not limited to, salary or other payments for services (e.g., consulting fees or honoraria); equity interests (e.g., stocks, stock options or other ownership interests); and intellectual property rights (e.g., patents, copyrights and royalties from such rights). The term does not include: (1) Salary, royalties, or other remuneration from the institution; or any ownership interests in the institution, if the institution is an applicant under the SBIR Program; (2) Income from seminars, lectures, or teaching engagements sponsored by public or nonprofit entities; (3) Income from service on advisory committees or review panels for public or nonprofit entities; or (4) Financial interests in business enterprises or entities if the value of such interests do not exceed $5,000 per annum if salary, fees or other continuing payments or represent more than a 5% ownership interest for any one enterprise or entity when aggregated for the investigator and the investigator's spouse and dependent children.
