FR940323-0-00068 FR940323-0-00020 (b) Revision. The Corporation will provide a State Commission notified under paragraph (a) of this section with a reasonable opportunity to revise and resubmit the application. At the request of the State Commission, the Corporation will provide technical assistance to the State Commission as part of the resubmission process. The Corporation will promptly reconsider an application resubmitted under this paragraph. (c) Redistribution. The amount of any State's allotment under §2521.30(a) of this chapter for a fiscal year that the Corporation determines will not be provided for that fiscal year will be available for redistribution by the Corporation to the States, Territories and Indian Tribes with approved AmeriCorps applications as the Corporation deems appropriate. Subpart E_Evaluation Requirements §2522.500 What are the purposes of an evaluation? Every evaluation effort should serve to improve program quality, examine benefits of service, or fulfill legislative requirements. §2522.510 What types of evaluations are States, grant-making entities, and programs required to perform? All grantees and subgrantees are required to perform internal evaluations which are ongoing efforts to assess performance and improve quality. Grantees and subgrantees may, but are not required to, arrange for independent evaluation which are assessments of program effectiveness by individuals who are not directly involved in the administration of the program. The cost of independent evaluations is allowable. §2522.520 What types of internal evaluation activities are required of programs? Programs are required to: (a) Continuously assess management effectiveness, the quality of services provided, and the satisfaction of both participants and persons served. Internal evaluation activities should seek frequent feedback and provide for quick correction of weaknesses. The Corporation encourages programs to use internal evaluation methods such as community advisory councils, participant advisory councils, peer reviews, quality control inspections, and customer and participant surveys; (b) Track progress toward objectives. Objectives will be established by programs and approved by the Corporation. Programs must submit to the Corporation (or State or grantmaking entity as applicable) periodic performance reports and, as part of an annual report, an annual performance report; (c) Collect and submit to the Corporation (through the State or grantmaking entity as applicable) the following data: (1) Information on participants including the total number of participants in the program, and the number of participants by race, ethnicity, age, gender, economic background, education level, ethnic group, disability classification, geographic region, and marital status; (2) Information on services conducted in areas classified as empowerment zones (or redevelopment areas), in areas that are targeted for special economic incentives or otherwise identifiable as having high concentrations of low-income people, in areas that are environmentally distressed, in areas that are adversely affected by Federal actions related to the management of Federal lands, in areas that are adversely affected by reductions in defense spending, or in areas that have an unemployment rate greater than the national average unemployment rate; (3) Other information as required by the Corporation; and (d) Cooperate fully with all Corporation evaluation activities. §2522.530 What types of activities are required of States or grantmaking entities to evaluate the effectiveness of their subgrantees? In cases where a State or grantmaking entity is the direct grantee they will be required to: (a) Ensure that subgrantees comply with the requirements of this subpart; (b) Track program performance in terms of progress towards pre-established objectives and ensure that corrective action is taken when necessary. Submit periodic performance reports and, as part of an annual report, an annual performance report to the Corporation for each subgrantee; (c) Collect from programs and submit to the Corporation the descriptive information required in this subpart; and (d) Cooperate fully with all Corporation evaluation activities.
