FR940413-0-00034 FR940413-0-00007 Comment: Examples 2, 5 and 11 (now 10) are cited as situations where the Canadian shipper should be listed as the ultimate consignee. Response: It would not be possible for the foreign shipper to be listed as the consignee or ultimate consignee on entry documents at the time of immediate delivery, entry or release. The notice of clarification indicated the party in the United States to whom merchandise is sold or consigned. It is this party who is required to be identified in the entry documents. Comment: Example 9 is cited as a case where a Canadian company is listed on the entry documents as the buyer. The merchandise is shipped to a trucking company in the United States, presumably for shipment to the buyer in Canada. It is suggested that the Canadian buyer be listed as the ultimate consignee on U.S. entry documents. Response: The U.S. trucking company is properly listed as the ultimate consignee in this situation. Customs Regulations call for using the premises to which the merchandise is to be delivered in the United States as the effective ultimate consignee on the entry, when there is no known U.S. buyer at the time of immediate delivery, entry or release. Comment: It was requested that a new example be issued for entries filed on merchandise that arrives by pipeline. Response: The examples do not cover this because the mode of transportation is not a factor in identifying the ultimate consignee. Comment: One commenter gave examples where the consignee or premises could change after the entry has been processed. Response: It is the party to whom the merchandise is sold or consigned, or the premises to which it is to be delivered, at the time of entry or release, which must be listed in the Customs entry or release documents. Comment: One commenter wanted to know who the consignee would be if an importer was shipping merchandise from Canada ``directly'' to Mexico, through the United States, and chose to make a consumption entry. The commenter pointed out that the merchandise might be free of duty and both the client and the carrier might not want the shipment to move in-bond. Response: A situation where a shipment moves from the point of entry to exportation from the United States is outside the scope of ยง142.3(a)(6). Consequently, Customs will establish a procedure to accommodate importers who wish to file a consumption entry for merchandise that will transit the United States. Conclusion After careful consideration of the comments received and further review of the matter, Customs has determined to adopt the examples without substantive change, with the exception of one example (Example 10 in the notice of clarification) which is removed because the special steel invoice the subject thereof is no longer being used. The succeeding examples are renumbered accordingly. In addition, the following two typographical errors are corrected: in Example 5, the reference to ``Example 4'' is changed to ``Example 3''; and in Example 9, the second sentence beginning with ``Acme shops'' is changed to ``Acme ships''. Examples Example 1. ABC Company, a distributor of telephone equipment located in Seattle, Washington, places an order with Canadian Bell Limited of Vancouver, Canada, and arranges for the importing carrier to deliver the goods directly to several customers of ABC Company in the U.S. ABC Company is the ultimate consignee for Customs purposes, since that is the party which purchased the merchandise from the Canadian shipper. Example 2. XYZ Limited is a Canadian company which produces and delivers baked goods to twenty retail food stores in the U.S. on a daily basis. Since the baked goods are ordered/purchased separately from the Canadian supplier by the individual stores in the U.S., each of these stores is the ultimate consignee for Customs purposes. Example 3. Montreal Furniture Company, a Canadian manufacturer of office furniture, leases storage space at the Champlain Warehouse Service in Champlain, New York. As orders are received from customers in the U.S., delivery is made from the Champlain storage facility.
