FR940104-1-00003 FR940104-1-00001 §1030.20 Product prices. The following product prices shall be used in calculating the basic Class II formula price pursuant to §1030.51(b) and the component prices defined in §1030.50 as follows: * * * * * (e) Monthly Cheddar Cheese Price. The Monthly Cheddar Cheese Price means the National Cheese Exchange (Green Bay) monthly average price for 40 pound blocks of cheddar cheese as calculated and reported each month by the Dairy Division, Agricultural Marketing Service in Dairy Market News. (f) Whey Protein Concentrate Price. The Whey Protein Concentrate Price means the monthly average whey protein concentrate price (central and western (f.o.b.) edible 34 percent protein) calculated and reported each month by the Dairy Division, Agricultural Marketing Service in Dairy Market News. Revise §1030.30 to read as follows: §1030.30 Reports of receipts and utilization. On or before the 10th day after the end of each month, each handler shall report for such month to the market administrator, in the detail and on the forms prescribed by the market administrator as follows: (a) Each handler described in §1030.9(a), (b) and (c) shall report for each plant of the handler (except if a handler requests and is approved by the market administrator, a handler may file a consolidated report for supply plants and/or a consolidated report for distributing plants) the following information: (1) Product pounds, pounds of butterfat, pounds of protein and pounds of solids-not-fat other than protein contained in: (i) Receipts of producer milk, including producer milk diverted by the handler, and (ii) Receipts of milk from handlers described in §1030.9(c). (2) Product pounds of butterfat contained in: (i) Receipts of fluid milk products not included in (a)(1) above and bulk fluid cream products from any source; (ii) Receipts of other source milk; (iii) Inventories at the beginning and end of the month of fluid milk products and products specified in §1030.40(b)(1); (iv) The utilization or disposition of all milk, filled milk, and milk products required to be reported pursuant to this paragraph. (b) Each handler operating a partially regulated distributing plant shall report with respect to such plant in the same manner as prescribed for reports required by paragraph (a) of this section. Receipts of milk that would have been producer milk if the plant had been fully regulated shall be reported in lieu of producer milk. Such report shall show also the quantity of any reconstituted skim milk in route disposition in the marketing area. (c) Each handler not specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall report with respect to its receipts and utilization of milk, filled milk, and milk products in such manner as the market administrator may prescribe. Revise §1030.31 to read as follows: §1030.31 Payroll reports. (a) On or before the 25th day after the end of each month, each handler described in §1030.9(a), (b), and (c) shall report to the market administrator its producer payroll for such month, in the detail prescribed by the market administrator, showing for each producer: (1) Name and address; (2) The total pounds of milk received from such producer; (3) The pounds of butterfat contained in such milk; (4) The pounds of protein contained in such milk; (5) The pounds of solids-not-fat other than protein (Other Solids) contained in such milk; (6) The price per pound of butterfat, protein and Other Solids, the gross amount due, the amount and nature of any deductions, and the net amount paid. (b) Each handler operating a partially regulated distributing plant who elects to make payment pursuant to §1030.76(b) shall report for each dairy farmer who would have been a producer if the plant had been fully regulated in the same manner as prescribed for reports required by paragraph (a) of this section. Class and Component Prices In §1030.50, change the introductory sentence and add four component prices following the existing three paragraphs for Class prices as follows: §1030.50 Class prices and component prices. The Class prices for the month per hundredweight of milk containing 3.5 percent butterfat subject to the provisions of §1030.52, and the component prices for the month shall be as follows: * * * * * (d) Skim Milk Price. The skim milk price per hundredweight, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth cent shall be the Class III price less an amount computed by multiplying the butterfat differential computed pursuant to §1030.74 by 35. (e) Butterfat Price. The butterfat price per pound rounded to the nearest one-hundredth cent, shall be the sum of (1) the skim milk price per hundredweight for the month computed pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, divided by 100 and (2) the butterfat differential for the month, computed pursuant to §1030.74 multiplied by 10. (f) Protein Price. The protein price per pound, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth cent, shall be 1.32 times the monthly cheddar cheese price pursuant to §1030.20(e) plus .735 times the whey protein concentrate price pursuant to §1030.20(f) and subject to (g) of this section. (g) Other Solids Price. The other solids price per pound, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth cent, shall be the basic formula price pursuant to §1030.52(a) less the sum of (1) 3.5 times the butterfat price pursuant to §1030.50(e) and (2) the average protein content of the milk on which the basic formula price is based for the previous month as reported by the Department and adjusted for the current month by the Dairy Division times the protein price pursuant to §1030.50(f), and dividing the resulting price by the difference between (i) the average solids-not-fat content of the milk on which the basic formula price is based for the previous month as reported by the Department, and adjusted for the current month by the Dairy Division and (ii) the average protein content of the milk on which the basic formula price is based for the previous month as reported by the Department and adjusted for the current month by the Dairy Division. If the resulting price is less than zero, then the protein value shall be adjusted so that the other solids price equals zero.
