FR941122-0-00098 FR941122-0-00014 Section 551.103 is amended by adjusting the codification designations (former paragraph (a) becomes introductory text, and subordinate paragraphs (a)(1), (2), etc. become (a), (b), etc.) for the sake of editorial consistency. The nomenclature used in the introductory paragraph has been revised (the phrase ``institutions with detention-unit operations'' has been replaced by the phrase ``administrative institutions or institutions with administrative components housing U.S. Marshals' prisoners''). Newly designated paragraph (e) is revised to remove redundant information contained in the Bureau's rule on Intake Screening (see 28 CFR 522, subpart C) and to include reference to separation advisory. Newly designated paragraph (f) is revised to specify that institution guidelines governing telephone calls, including procedures for making unmonitored calls to an attorney, are provided to pretrial inmates rather than advice on these guidelines. This revision ensures that pretrial inmates will have complete guidance on the use of telephones at their disposal. A new paragraph (i) is added to specify that pretrial inmates shall have the opportunity to waive the right not to work, and former paragraph (a)(9) is redesignated as new paragraph (j). Section 551.104 is revised to state that, to the extent practicable, pretrial inmates will be housed separately from convicted inmates. Section 551.105(a) is revised to clarify that staff ordinarily will supervise a pretrial inmate as if classified ``In'' custody. There is no change in the intent of this section. Section 551.106 has been revised for the sake of clarity. There is no change in the intent of this section. Changes in statutory authority have removed provision of good time for inmates whose offenses were committed after November 1, 1987. Consequently §551.107 is removed, and a new §551.107 is added containing provisions for review of pretrial inmate status. These reviews afford pretrial inmates the opportunity to discuss with staff factors relating to the inmate's detention. The statute referenced in §551.109 is changed to reflect the current provision. The intent of this section is unchanged. Section 551.110 has been revised to remove references to waiver of separation. As revised, paragraph (b) specifies that pretrial inmates who do not participate in religious programs with convicted inmates have access to other religious programs. Section 551.111 is revised to indicate that the U.S. Marshals Service is also to be contacted for comment on a pretrial inmate's marriage request. In §551.112, paragraph (b) is amended to remove reference to waiver of separation. As revised, this paragraph specifies that pretrial inmates may be allowed the opportunity to have access to the institution's educational program when consistent with institution security and good order. Previously, this paragraph stated that such inmate may have full access. Some Bureau programs, for reasons of institution security and good order, may be inappropriate for pretrial inmates. In §551.113, paragraph (a) has been revised to remove reference to waiver of separation and to specify that pretrial inmates may be allowed the opportunity to receive counseling services with convicted inmates when consistent with institution and good order. Paragraph (b) has been revised to specify that staff shall ensure that pretrial inmates who do not receive counseling services with convicted inmates have access to other counseling services. In §551.115, paragraph (a) has been revised to remove reference to waiver of separation and to specify that pretrial inmates may be allowed the opportunity to participate with convicted inmates in recreational activities when consistent with institution security and good order or have access to other recreational activities. Paragraph (b) has been amended to clarify the intended meaning of a pretrial inmate in regular population. As revised, paragraph (b) now includes a cross reference to conditions for pretrial inmates in Administrative Detention or Disciplinary Segregation. Paragraphs (d) and (e) have been reordered for organizational reasons. There is no change in the intent of this section. In §551.116, the word ``continuing'' is replaced by the word ``serious''. Because these changes impose no further restrictions on inmates, deal with agency procedures designed to help ensure the continued protection of inmates, or conform to statutory provisions, the Bureau finds good cause for exemption from the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553) requiring notice of proposed rulemaking, the opportunity for public comment, and delay in effective date. Members of the public may submit comments concerning this rule by writing the previously cited address. These comments will be considered but will receive no response in the Federal Register . The Bureau of Prisons has determined that this rule is not a significant regulatory action for the purpose of E.O. 12866; this rule was reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. After review of the law and regulations, the Director, Bureau of Prisons has certified that this rule, for the purpose of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 96&hyph;354), does not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. List of Subjects in 28 CFR Part 551 Prisoners. Kathleen M. Hawk, Director, Bureau of Prisons.
