FR941007-2-00013 FR941007-2-00006 De Jure Analysis The PRC laws placed on the record of this case establish that the responsibility for managing companies owned by ``all the people'' has been transferred from the government to the enterprise itself. These laws include: ``Law of the People's Republic of China on Industrial Enterprises Owned by the Whole People,'' adopted on April 13, 1988 (1988 Law); ``Regulations for Transformation of Operational Mechanism of State-Owned Industrial Enterprises,'' approved on August 23, 1992 (1992 Regulations); and the ``Temporary Provisions for Administration of Export Commodities,'' approved on December 21, 1992 (Export Provisions). The 198l8 Law states that enterprises have the right to set their own prices ( see Article 26). This principle was restated in the 1992 Regulations ( see Article IX). The Export Provisions list those products subject to direct government control. Paper clips do not appear on the Export Provisions list and are not, therefore, subject to the constraints of these provisions. Consistent with Silicon Carbide, we determined that the existence of these laws demonstrates that ZMEC and ZLIP, companies owned by ``all the people,'' are not subject to de jure control. Since Lansheng was initially a company owned by ``all the people,'' the laws cited above establish that the government devolved control over Lansheng by law. The only additional law that may be pertinent to the de jure analysis of Lansheng as a share company is the Company Law (effective July 1, 1994). While Lansheng indicated that it was organized consistent with the Company Law, the law did not enter into force until nine months after the POI. In any event, this law does not alter the government's de jure devolution of control that occurred when the company was owned by ``all the people.'' Therefore, we have determined that Lansheng is not subject to de jure control. In light of reports 3 indicating that laws shifting control control from the government to the enterprises themselves have not been implemented uniformly, an analysis of de facto control is critical to determining whether respondents are, in fact, subject to governmental control. 3 See ``PRC Government Findings on Enterprise Autonomy,'' in Foreign Broadcast Information Service-China-93-133 (July 14, 1993) and 1992 Central Intelligence Agency Report to the Joint Economic Committee, Hearings on Global Economic and Technological Change: Former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe and China, Pt. 2 (102 Cong., 2d Sess) De Factor Control Analysis We analyze below the issue of de factor control based on the criteria set forth in Silicon Carbide. ZMEC In the course of verification, we confirmed that ZEMC's export prices are neither set by, nor subject to approval, by any government authority. This point was supported by ZMEC's sales documentation and company correspondence. We also confirmed, based on examination of documents related to sales negotiations, written agreements and other correspondence, that ZMEC has the authority to negotiate and sign contracts and other agreements independent of government authority. We further found that ZMEC retained proceeds from its export sales and made independent decisions regarding disposition of profits and financing of losses. ZMEC's financial and accounting records as well as joint venture and purchase contracts supported this conclusion. Finally, we have determined that ZMEC has autonomy from the central government in making decisions regarding the selection of management. Although ZMEC's appointment of management is acknowledged by the Zhejiang Machinery Bureau (ZMB), we have concluded that this does not constitute control by ZMB. Based on our examination of minutes of management nomination meetings, appointment announcements and correspondence between ZMEC and ZMB, verification established that the ZMB's involvement in ZMEC's management appointment process reflects nothing more than an administrative formality 4 . Furthermore, based on examination of correspondence files, we found no evidence of involvement by Zhejiang Commission of foreign and Economic cooperation (ZCOFTEC), or any other government authority, in any aspect of ZMEC's operations. For these reasons, we have determined that ZMEC is not subject to de facto control by governmental authorities. 4 As we confirmed at verification, the ZMB simply maintains communication with all companies in the machinery industry in the Zhejiang Province and provides general news, trade and statistical services for all companies in this industry.
