FR940204-0-00044 FR940204-0-00020 Summary of Comments and Recommendations In the December 11, 1992 proposed rule, all interested parties were requested to submit factual reports or information that might contribute to the development of a final determination. Appropriate Federal and State agencies, county governments, scientific organizations, and other interested parties were contacted and requested to comment. Newspaper notices were published in The Los Angeles Times on January 1, 1993, The San Francisco Sunday Examiner and Chronicle on January 3, 1993, and The San Diego Union-Tribune on February 4, 1993. The public comment period ended on February 9, 1993. A total of 548 comments were received. The Service received one letter from a Federal agency, three letters from State offices, and five from city or county agencies. Five hundred and ten of the comments were post cards from individuals urging support for the listing of the species. The Service received 29 letters from individuals and private organizations. Of those, only one expressed an opinion in opposition to listing the tidewater goby as endangered. The National Park Service (Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area) stated support for the listing of the tidewater goby as endangered and suggested locations within the recreation area boundaries that may be candidates for reintroduction of the species. The National Park Service also sought assistance from the Service in determining potential habitat locations on lands not under public ownership that may be acquired under its land acquisition program. Three California State agencies offered comments. The Topanga-Las Virgenes Resource Conservation District, a subdivision of State government, expressed full support for the listing of the goby. The California Coastal Commission stated, ``The acute vulnerability of the tidewater goby to man-induced changes of estuarine habitat makes the development of comprehensive management strategies and plans, including development of recovery plans, for this species imperative.'' The California Department of Fish and Game submitted information pertaining to a project to reestablish a population of tidewater gobies on Waddell Creek Lagoon. The population was reintroduced in the fall of 1991 and subsequently sampled in November 1992. Gobies were reported from three sites in the lagoon. The Department will continue to obtain information on that population as it is surveyed. Five letters of information were received from city or county agencies. Two of these, one from the County of Santa Barbara Resource Management Department and one from the City of Santa Cruz, detailed population occurrences that were already known to the Service. Two letters from the cities of San Buenaventura and Santa Barbara cited possible impacts to goby habitat due to proposed or ongoing projects. These letters listed threats that are discussed under Factor A in the ``Summary of Factors Affecting the Species'' section. The Santa Barbara County Flood Control and Water Conservation District stated support for listing, but expressed concerns regarding the designation of critical habitat. The Environmental Defense Center identified three issues concerning the proposed rule. Issue 1: The critical habitat finding failed to meet the standards of section 4 of the Endangered Species Act and under Northern Spotted Owl v. Lujan, 758 F. Supp. 621 (W.D. Wash. 1991). Service Response: The Service concurs that critical habitat should be designated for the tidewater goby. Information needed to complete required economic impact analyses consists of identifying Federal actions that might be precluded or modified by the destruction/adverse modification standard but not by the jeopardy standard. Moreover, it will be necessary to describe how these actions may be modified by application of the destruction/adverse modification standard. This information will provide a basis for analyses on the economic effects of designating critical habitat.
