FR941102-1-00035 FR941102-1-00006 (3) The certified or qualified person or approved instructor shall have 15 days from the date of receipt of the warning letter to respond to the district manager or begin remedial action as stated in the letter. §42.4 Notice of proposed action. (a) When the district manager has reason to believe that a certified person's conduct has led to, or contributed to a violation of training, safety or health standards, or that the certified person has failed to respond or deficiently responded to a requirement made by the district manager under §42.3, the district manager may notify that person in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, that_ (1) The certification, qualification or approval which the person presently holds is proposed to be temporarily suspended; or (2) The certification, qualification or approval which the person presently holds is proposed to be permanently revoked. (b) The notice of proposed action shall state_ (1) The performance required by the person under the applicable regulations; (2) How the individual failed to comply with the regulations; or (3) How the individual failed to adequately fulfill his or her responsibilities as an approved instructor or certified or qualified person. (c) The notice shall give the certified person 15 calendar days from the date of its receipt to submit information to or request an informational meeting with the district manager to discuss the circumstances which prompted the issuance of the notice. The notice shall state that if the person does not respond within the allotted time, the administrative record of the matter will close and MSHA may take action including, but not limited to, temporary decertification or permanent decertification. §42.5 Informational meeting. (a) If the certified person requests an informational meeting with the district manager under §42.4(c), the district manager or the district manager's representative shall hold such a meeting within 15 calendar days of receipt of the person's request. (b) At the informational meeting, the district manager shall_ (1) State the issues identified in the notice of proposed action; (2) State whether temporary or permanent decertification is under consideration and the information supporting such proposed action; (3) Provide an opportunity for the person to present evidence or witnesses to substantiate his or her position; (4) Notify the certified person of the anticipated date of the district manager's final decision; (5) Notify the certified person of the right to appeal any adverse decision rendered under §42.6; and, (6) Notify the person that the administrative record will remain open for 15 calendar days after the meeting date for the submission of additional information. (c) The district manager or designee shall keep a detailed record of the meeting and make it a part of the administrative record for the action. §42.6 Notice of district manager's decision. (a) The district manager shall issue a decision on whether to temporarily or permanently decertify, or take other appropriate action against a certified person within 30 calendar days after the close of the administrative record. This decision shall be based on a thorough evaluation of the entire administrative record. The district manager may_ (1) Temporarily decertify the person for a specific period of time; (2) Permanently decertify the person; or (3) Take any other action appropriate to the circumstances based on the evidence in the administrative record. (b) The administrative record shall include the following: (1) Background information. (2) Relevant correspondence between the district manager and the certified person. (3) Relevant documentary evidence. (4) Relevant district investigation reports. (5) Notes or transcripts of any informational meeting. (6) Witness statements. (c) The district manager's decision shall be in writing and shall contain the following information: (1) A statement of the decision. (2) A summary of the information supporting the decision or action. (3) Notification of the certified person's right to appeal the decision to the administrator if the decision involves an adverse action against the certified person. (4) A statement that the administrative record is available for review at the district office and that a copy is available upon request. (d) The decision shall be sent to the certified person by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall become effective 15 calendar days after it is received, unless appealed to the administrator under §42.7. §42.7 Appeal to the administrator. (a) A person subject to temporary or permanent decertification under §42.6 may appeal the district manager's decision to the appropriate administrator. The appeal shall be filed in writing with the administrator within 15 calendar days of the certified person's receipt of the decision. (b) Upon receipt of the appeal, the administrator shall_ (1) Acknowledge in writing the receipt of the certified person's appeal;
