FR940511-2-00006 FR940511-2-00004 (e) The impact of foreign competition on the economic welfare of the domestic industry; (f) The displacement of any domestic products causing substantial unemployment, decrease in the revenues of government, loss of investment or specialized skills and productive capacity, or other serious effects; and (g) Any other factors that are causing, or will cause, a weakening of our national economy. II. Public Hearings and Comment Procedures The public hearings are scheduled to be held in New York, New York on Monday, June 6, 1994; in Dallas, Texas, on Monday, June 13, 1994; and in Santa Clara, California, on Thursday, June 16, 1994. The hearings will commence at 8:30 a.m. and end at 5 p.m. The New York hearing will be held in the ceremonial courtroom of the U.S. Court of International Trade, One Federal Plaza. The Dallas hearing will be held at the Joe C. Thompson Amphitheatre, Cityplace Center East, 2711 N. Haskill. The Santa Clara hearing will be held at the City of Santa Clara Council Chambers, 1500 Wurburton Avenue. A. Procedure for Requesting Participation The Department encourages interested public participants to present their views orally at the hearings. Any person wishing to make an oral presentation at the hearings must submit a written request to the Department of Commerce at the address indicated in the ADDRESS section of this notice. The request to participate in the hearings must be accompanied by 10 copies of a summary of the oral presentation. The written request and summary must be received by the Department no later than Monday, May 23, 1994. In addition, the request to speak should contain a daytime phone number where the person who will be making the oral presentation may be contacted before the hearing. Please note that the submission of comments for presentation at the public hearings is separate from the request for written comments contained in the April 12, 1994, Federal Register notice. Since it may be necessary to limit the number of persons making presentations, the written request to participate in the public hearings should describe the individual's interest in the hearings and, where appropriate, explain why the individual is a proper representative of a group or class of persons that has such an interest. If all interested parties cannot be accommodated at the hearings, the summaries of the oral presentations will be used to allocate speaking time and to ensure that a full range of comments are heard. Each person selected to make a presentation will be notified by the Department of Commerce no later than 5 p.m. on Thursday, May 26, 1994. The Department will arrange the presentation times for the speakers. Attendees will be seated on a first-come, first-served basis. On the day of the hearing, persons selected to be heard should bring 100 copies of the summary of their oral presentation to the hearing address indicated in the DATES section of this notice. Copies of the requests to participate in the public hearings and the summaries of the oral presentations will be maintained at the Bureau of Export Administration's Freedom of Information Records Inspection Facility, room 4525, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20230, telephone (202) 482&hyph;5653. The records in this facility may be inspected and copied in accordance with the regulations published in part 4 of title 15 of the Code of Federal Regulations (15 CFR 4.1 et seq. ) Information about the inspection and copying of records at the facility may be obtained from Ms. Margaret Cornejo, the Bureau of Export Administration's Freedom of Information Officer, at the above address and telephone number, between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. B. Conduct of the Hearing The Department reserves the right to select the persons to be heard at the hearings, to schedule their respective presentations, and to establish the procedures governing the conduct of the hearing. Each speaker will be limited to 10 minutes, and comments must be directly related to the criteria listed in ยง705.4 of the ``regulations''. A Commerce official will be designated to preside at the hearings. Representatives from the Departments of Energy and Interior will also participate in the hearings. This will not be a judicial or evidentiary-type hearing. Only those conducting the hearing may ask questions, and there will be no cross-examination of persons presenting statements. Any further procedural rules for the proper conduct of the hearing will be announced by the presiding officer. Dated: May 6, 1994. Sue E. Eckert, Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11410 Filed 5&hyph;6&hyph;94; 3:08 pm] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DT&hyph;P
