FR940728-0-00010 FR940728-0-00004 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Part 73 RIN 3150&hyph;AD30 Annual Physical Fitness Performance Testing for Tactical Response Team Members, Armed Response Personnel, and Guards at Category I Licensees AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is amending its regulations regarding annual physical fitness performance testing for Tactical Response Team members, armed response personnel, and guards at fuel cycle facilities possessing formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material (Category I licensees). This action is necessary to ensure that these personnel are able to perform their assigned duties under conditions of strenuous tactical engagements. Tactical Response Team members, armed response personnel, and guards at these facilities will be required to participate in a continuing physical fitness program and, according to new criteria, pass an annual performance test. As an alternative to the fitness program and the performance test, the licensee will be permitted to develop and submit for NRC approval a content-based site specific test, to be administered quarterly, and to justify that this test duplicates the response duties that are expected of Tactical Response Team members, armed response personnel, and guards in the event of a strenuous tactical engagement. EFFECTIVE DATE: August 29, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Harry S. Tovmassian, Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone (301) 415&hyph;6231. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On December 13, 1991 (56 FR 65024), the Commission published proposed amendments to 10 CFR Part 73 that contained requirements relative to the physical fitness programs and day firing qualifications for security personnel at Category I fuel cycle facilities. Those amendments would have required Tactical Response Team (TRT) members, armed response personnel, and guards to participate in annual physical fitness performance testing and in a continuing physical fitness training program to ensure that these individuals achieve and maintain the required fitness level. During the resolution of the public comments for those proposed amendments, the NRC concluded that an acceptable alternative to the approach specified in the proposed rule would be for licensees to develop and submit for NRC approval a site specific content-based physical fitness performance test. To provide the public the opportunity to comment on the modified requirements, the NRC published yet another proposed rule on the physical fitness performance testing requirements on October 6, 1993 (58 FR 52035). Under the alternative included with the modified rule, the licensee will administer the test quarterly and justify that the test duplicates the response duties that a security force officer would perform during strenuous tactical engagements. The NRC recognizes that, in the absence of an ongoing physical fitness training program, the use of a content-based performance test may present risks of potential injury to security personnel. Each licensee should evaluate these risks of potential injury to unfit employees when choosing between the alternatives. The NRC will not object to the use of a content-based test on the basis of perceived risk of employee injury. Such risk of injury will be assumed by the licensee and/or the armed security persons. The comment period expired on December 20, 1993, with no public comments being received. Therefore, the Commission is publishing the requirements proposed on October 6, 1993 (58 FR 52035), as a final rule without any modification. Criminal Penalties The Commission notes that these amendments are issued under Sections 161 (b) and (i) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended. Therefore, violation of these regulations may subject a person to criminal sanctions under Section 223 of the Atomic Energy Act. Finding of no Significant Environmental Impact: Availability The Commission has determined under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended, and the Commission's regulations in Subpart A of 10 CFR Part 51, that this rule is not a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment, and therefore, an environmental impact statement is not required. The rule will not adversely affect either the safety of the operations carried out by licensees possessing formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material nor the routine release of, or exposure to, radioactivity. These amendments will specify (1) annual performance testing criteria and a minimum physical fitness training program or (2) a quarterly administered site specific content-based physical fitness performance test to assure that Tactical Response Team members, armed response personnel, and guards can adequately perform their duties under conditions of strenuous tactical engagement. The environmental assessment and finding of no significant impact on which this determination is based is available for inspection at the NRC Public Document Room, 2120 L Street, NW (Lower Level), Washington, DC. Single copies of the environmental assessment and finding of no significant impact are available from Mr. Harry Tovmassian, Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone (301) 415&hyph;6231. Paperwork Reduction Act Statement This rule amends information collection requirements that are subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.). These requirements were approved by the Office of Management and Budget approval number 3150&hyph;0002. The public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 41 hours per licensee respondent, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to the Information and Records Management Branch (T6 F33), U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555; and to the Desk Officer, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, NEOB&hyph;3019, (3150&hyph;0002), Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503. Regulatory Analysis The Commission has prepared a regulatory analysis on this rule. The analysis examines the costs and benefits of the alternatives considered by the Commission and provides a decision rationale for the chosen approach. The analysis is available for inspection in the NRC Public Document Room, 2120 L Street, NW (Lower Level), Washington, DC. Single copies of the regulatory analysis may be obtained from Ms. Carrie Brown, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone (301) 415&hyph;8092. Regulatory Flexibility Certification In accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, 5 U.S.C. 605(b), the Commission certifies that this rulemaking will not have a significant economic impact upon a substantial number of small entities. The rule will affect two Category I licensees. The companies that own these plants do not fall within the scope of the definition of ``small entities'' set forth in the Regulatory Flexibility Act or the Small Business Size Standards set out in regulations issued by the Small Business Administration in 13 CFR Part 121. Thus, this rule does not fall within the purview of the act.
