FR940607-2-00099 FR940607-2-00065 The NYSE also believes that, to the extent that the proposed rule change permits Floor professionals to initiate transactions on a more equal regulatory footing with other securities professionals, the proposed rule change is designed to eliminate unfair discrimination between brokers or dealers, as called for in Section 6(b)(5); to remove a burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act, as called for in Section 6(b)(8); and to promote fair competition among brokers and dealers, as called for in Section 11A(a)(1)(C)(ii). The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, with the requirements of Sections 6(b). 7 In particular, the Commission believes the proposal is consistent with the Section 6(b)(5) requirements that the rules of an exchange be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. 7 15 U.S.C. 78f(b) (1988). In light of the changes in market structure that have taken place since Rule 96 was adopted, the Commission believes that the benefits of the NYSE proposal outweigh any burdens it may impose. Specifically, the Commission has concluded that the proposed rule change should enhance the quality of the NYSE market. The NYSE established the membership categories of Competitive Trader and RCMM to provide a means by which NYSE members could, under certain conditions, add depth and liquidity to the market by initiating proprietary transactions on the Floor of the Exchange. 8 The Commission, however, notes that Rule 96 may frustrate that purpose, 9 to the extent it may be unnecessarily restrictive given the risks posed by Competitive Traders' and RCMMs' dealings in stocks in which they (or their member organization) have an option position. 10 8 For further discussion of the conditions for Competitive Trader and RCMM participation, see supra, notes 3&hyph;4. 9 The NYSE argues that the ability of a Competitive Trader or RCMM with an option position to trade the underlying stock pursuant to an off-Floor order may not be meaningful, given how these Floor professionals routinely conduct their business. If so, there could be a disincentive for any NYSE member who participates in the options market (or who is associated with a member organization that participates in the options market) to be active as a Competitive Trader or RCMM. 10 For further discussion of the risks of such activity and the safeguards contained in the NYSE proposal, see infra, notes 12&hyph;15 and accompanying text. After careful review, the Commission believes that the NYSE proposal may reduce the current disincentive for members, especially options market participants and their associated persons, to act as a Competitive Trader or RCMM given Rule 96's restrictions. 11 For instance, NYSE members currently serving as Competitive Traders and RCMMs could initiate proprietary Floor Trades in situations where they presently cannot do so; moreover, other members might be encouraged to serve in that capacity. In the Commission's view, an increase in the capital committed to such supplemental market making activities could improve the depth and liquidity of the NYSE market, particularly in times of market stress. 11 See supra, note 9 and accompanying text.
