FR940805-1-00105 FR940805-1-00013 (6) Showers. Residents shall have access to operable showers with temperature-controlled hot and cold running water at a minimum of one shower for every eight residents. Water for showers shall be thermostatically controlled to temperatures ranging from one hundred degrees to one hundred-twenty degrees Fahrenheit. (7) Housing for the disabled. Disabled residents shall be housed in a manner that provides for their safety in compliance with 25 U.S.C. 794 (the Rehabilitation Act of 1973) as amended, 41 CFR 101&hyph;19.6 (Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards), and 43 CFR Part 17, yet prevents their being discriminated against in their use of the facility. (8) Coeducational program space. If the facility houses both male and female residents, space shall be provided for coeducational activities. (9) Exercise and recreation areas. The facility shall provide access to outdoor, covered or enclosed exercise areas. Outdoor exercise areas shall provide a minimum of one thousand five hundred square feet of unencumbered space; covered and enclosed exercise areas shall provide a minimum of one thousand square feet of unencumbered space. Exercise areas shall be adequate in size and type to ensure that each resident shall be offered at least one hour of access daily regardless of climatic conditions. (10) Multi-purpose and interview rooms. The facility shall provide a minimum of one accessible multi-purpose room and one accessible interview room. (11) Visiting spaces. The facility shall provide space and furnishings for group activities and visits. The space shall allow contact between residents and visitors. (12) Food service spaces. When the facility provides for food preparation, it shall have adequate space for food processing, storage, refrigeration and sanitation. Toilet and wash basin facilities shall be available to food service personnel and residents in the vicinity of the food preparation area. The square footage of the kitchen shall be appropriate to the needs of the facility. The facility shall provide a dining area with a minimum of fifteen square feet per occupant. (13) Storage spaces. The facility shall provide the following storage spaces: (i) A secure, well-ventilated janitor closet, which includes sink and adequate space for the storage of cleaning implements and supplies; (ii) Secure storage for flammable, toxic and caustic items; and (iii) Storage space for resident clothing, bedding, mattresses, personal hygiene items and facility supplies. (14) Laundry. The facility shall have a minimum of one operable washer and one operable dryer, appropriate to the level of use, or equivalent laundry services available in the community. (15) Medication storage. The facility shall provide space for the secure storage of medications kept in the facility. (16) Staff toilets. The facility shall provide staff toilets that residents shall not use. (17) Public spaces. The facility shall provide public restroom(s) and a visitor waiting or entry with an adequate number of seats to accommodate anticipated visitors outside resident living areas. (18) Administration. The facility shall provide adequate space for its administrative functions. This space shall include an office for the administrator, work space for clerical staff, duplication of copies and supply and equipment storage, space for storage of facility records. and space for meetings. (19) Staff. The facility shall provide adequate space for staff assigned to work in the facility. These spaces include an area in which they can store personal property, change clothes and shower and an area in which training, meetings, briefings and breaks can occur. (20) Mechanical. The facility shall provide separate and adequate space for mechanical systems and equipment. ยง10.43 Institutional operations. (a) Security and control _(1) Full coverage of posts. At least one staff person shall be on the facility premises, awake, available and responsible to residents' needs twenty-four hours a day. The staffing pattern of the facility shall concentrate staff at the times when most residents are in the facility. (2) Supervision of coed activities. Facility staff shall supervise male and female residents in coed activities and spaces continuously and directly. (3) Male and female staff requirement. When both males and females are housed in the facility, at least one male and female staff member shall be on duty at all times. (4) Prohibited supervision. No resident or group of residents shall be given control or authority over other residents. (5) Counts. The facility shall have a system to physically count residents that includes strict accountability for residents assigned to work and education release and other approved temporary releases. (6) Movement. Community residential staff shall regulate all resident movement outside the facility. (7) Transportation of residents. The administrator shall govern the safe and secure transportation of residents outside the facility. (8) Use of vehicles. The administrator shall govern the use of departmental and personal vehicles for official purposes and shall prohibit the use of personal vehicles for transportation of residents. (9) Shift activity log. The facility shall maintain a written record of the following: (i) Personnel on duty; (ii) Resident population at the beginning and end of each shift; (iii) Record of counts taken; (iv) Shift activities; and (v) Unusual occurrences or incidents. (10) Weekly inspection. The administrator or designee shall inspect all facility spaces and equipment at least weekly, to determine the status of all security items and the sanitary condition of the facility. The administrator or designee shall document the inspection and initiate corrective action if needed. (11) Monthly inspection. The administrator shall inspect all areas of the facility at least monthly to determine the status of all safety items, determine the sanitary condition of the facility, document the inspection and initiate corrective action if needed. (12) Fire safety inspection. A qualified fire protection specialist shall inspect the facility to test the fire suppression and detection system, equipment and facility training in compliance with 29 CFR 1910.36(d), 1910.37(m), 1910.37(n), 1910.38, and 29 CFR 1960, Subpart D.
