FR940325-0-00097 FR940325-0-00016 Comment: One commenter asked the Department to acknowledge that its fiduciary responsibility to tribes extends to natural resource damage assessments involving tribal resources. This commenter requested that the Department develop funding mechanisms for natural resource damage assessments involving tribal resources. Response: Discussion of this issue is beyond the scope of this rulemaking. 2. Quality Assurance Plans Comment: Several commenters stated that the rule should be revised to eliminate the requirement that trustee officials adopt quality assurance plans that conform with EPA guidance. These commenters thought that EPA guidance on quality assurance is poorly suited for natural resource damage assessment work. One commenter noted that the Department had incorrectly stated that proposed ยง11.31(c)(4) contained a reference to EPA quality assurance guidance when in fact that reference is contained in ยง11.31(c)(3) of the existing rule. Response: In the July 22, 1993, Federal Register notice, the Department inadvertently suggested that proposed ยง11.31(c)(4) would require trustee officials to include in their Assessment Plans quality assurance plans that complied with EPA guidance. Section 11.31(c)(4) contains no reference to quality assurance plans. Section 11.31(c)(3), which was renumbered but not substantively affected by this rulemaking, does require that trustee officials develop a quality assurance plan that satisfies the requirements listed in EPA guidance, but only if that guidance is applicable. Further clarification is beyond the scope of this rulemaking. 3. Threat of a Release or Discharge Comment: Some commenters disagreed with the Department's statement in the July 22, 1993, Federal Register notice that the regulations may not be used to assess damages caused by a threat of a release or discharge. These commenters noted that section 107(a) of CERCLA specifically establishes liability for damages from a release or a threat of a release. Further, these commenters noted that natural resource damages include compensation for loss of use of a natural resource. Therefore, these commenters thought that if a threat of a release results in the loss of use of a natural resource, then trustee officials should be able to assess and bring a claim for natural resource damages. Response: Section 11.10, which was not affected by this rulemaking, provides that these regulations are only available for the assessment of damages resulting from a discharge of oil or a release of a hazardous substance. Although section 107(a) of CERCLA does refer to a release or a threat of a release, section 107(a)(4)(C) refers to damages for injury to, destruction of, or loss of natural resources ``resulting from such a release.'' Also, section 301(c) of CERCLA authorizes the Department to develop regulations for assessment of ``damages for injury to, destruction of, or loss of natural resources resulting from a release of oil or a hazardous substance.'' Therefore, the rule may only be used when there has been an actual release or discharge, as opposed to a threat of a release or discharge, and actual injury to, destruction of, or loss of a natural resource, as opposed to simply a reduction in use of a resource. Further clarification is beyond the scope of this rulemaking. 4. Coordination With Response Activities Comment: Some commenters thought that the rule should provide additional guidance on coordination of natural resource damage assessment activities with response activities. A few commenters stated that trustee officials should be required to participate in the remedial planning process. One commenter supported coordination of natural resource damage assessment activities and response activities but urged trustee officials to bear in mind the paramount need for rapid and effective cleanup. One commenter suggested that the On-Scene Coordinator be allowed to contact just one Federal trustee agency and one State trustee agency and that the contacted trustee agencies be required to notify all other trustee agencies. Response: The August 1, 1986, preamble to the original type B rule contains considerable discussion of the relationship between response actions and natural resource damage assessments. 51 FR 27681, 27692&hyph;93. Further clarification of the issue is beyond the scope of this rulemaking.
