FR940617-2-00228 FR940617-2-00118 Federal Share of the Project: The maximum Federal share of the project is not to exceed $50,000 for the 17 month project period. Applications for lesser amounts also will be considered for this project. Matching Requirement: Grantees must provide at least 25 percent of the total cost of the project. The total approved cost of the project is the sum of the ACF share and the non-Federal share. The non-Federal share maybe met by cash or in-kind contributions, although applicants are encouraged to meet their match requirements through cash contributions. Therefore, a project requesting $50,000 in Federal funds (based on an award of $50,000 per budget period), must include a match of at least $16,666 (25% of total project cost). Anticipated Number of Projects to be Funded: It is anticipated that five projects may be funded at the maximum level; more than five projects may be funded depending on the number of acceptable applications for lesser amounts which are received. CFDA: 93.671 Family Violence Prevention and Services: Family Violence Prevention and Services Act, as amended. Part III_The Review Process A. Eligible Applicants Before applications are reviewed, each application will be screened to determine that the applicant organization is an eligible applicant as specified under the selected priority area. Applications from organizations which do not meet the eligibility requirements for the priority area will not be considered or reviewed in the competition, and the applicant will be so informed. Each priority area description contains information about the types of agencies and organizations which are eligible to apply under that priority area. Since eligibility varies among priority areas, it is critical that the ``Eligible Applicants'' section under each specific priority area be read carefully. Only agencies and organizations, not individuals, are eligible to apply under any of the priority areas. On all applications developed jointly by more than one agency or organization, the applications must identify only one organization as the lead organization and official applicant. The other participating agencies and organizations can be included as co-participants, subgrantees or subcontractors. Any non-profit agency which has not previously received an award from the U. S. Department of Health and Human Services must submit proof of non-profit status with its grant application. The non-profit agency can accomplish this by either making reference to its listing in the Internal Revenue Service's (IRS) most recent list of tax-exempt organizations or submitting a copy of its letter from the IRS under IRS Code Section 501(c)(3). ACF cannot fund a non-profit applicant without acceptable proof of its non-profit status. B. Review Process and Funding Decisions Timely applications will be reviewed and scored competitively. Experts in the field, generally persons from outside of the Federal government, will use the appropriate evaluation criteria listed later in this Part to review and score the applications. The results of this review are a primary factor in making funding decisions. OCS reserves the option of discussing applications with, or referring them to, other Federal or non-Federal funding sources when this is determined to be in the best interest of the Federal government or the applicant. It may also solicit comments from ACF Regional Office staff, other Federal agencies, interested foundations, national organizations, specialists, experts, States and the general public. These comments, along with those of the expert reviewers, will be considered by OCS in making funding decisions. In making decisions on awards, OCS may give preference to applications which focus on or feature: Minority populations; a substantially innovative strategy with the potential to improve theory or practice in the field of human services; a model practice or set of procedures that holds the potential for replication by organizations involved in the administration or delivery of human services; substantial involvement of volunteers; substantial involvement (either financial or programmatic) of the private sector; a favorable balance between Federal and non-Federal funds available for the proposed project; the potential for high benefit for low Federal investment; a programmatic focus on those most in need; and/or substantial involvement in the proposed project by national or community foundations. To the extent possible, efforts will be made to ensure that funding decisions reflect an equitable distribution of assistance among the States and geographical regions of the country, rural and urban areas, and ethnic populations. In making these decisions, OCS may also take into account the need to avoid unnecessary duplication of effort.
