FR940803-1-00071 FR940803-1-00014 D. The Inadequacy of Existing Regulatory Mechanisms A scientific collecting permit is required by the State of Georgia to collect mussels for scientific purposes. However, dredging, brailling, or any form of mechanical harvest of mussels is illegal. In addition, a size limit has been placed on mussels harvested commercially in Georgia. Handpicking mussels requires only a resident or non-resident fishing license. In the State of Florida an individual must purchase a fishing license to collect mussels. Despite these permit requirements, there are no restrictions on the seasonality or sites of harvest, quantity, or species of mussels collected in Florida or Georgia. Alabama has recently imposed a set of guidelines concerning commercial harvest of mussels, including species-specific size limits, restricted areas for harvest, and closed seasons. Existing authorities available to protect aquatic systems, such as the Clean Water Act, administered by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers, have not been fully utilized and may have led to the degradation of aquatic environments in the Southeast Region, thus resulting in a decline of aquatic species. If these seven species are listed under the Act, it would provide protection under section 9 of the Act by prohibiting the take of these species except under Federal permit. Further, listing will require consultation with the EPA in relationship to water quality criteria, standards, and National Pollution Discharge Elimination System permits under the Clean Water Act, and implementation of actions to recover the species. E. Other Natural or Manmade Factors Affecting Its Continued Existence The range of these seven mussel species has been fragmented, and significant portions of the Apalachicola and Ochlockonee river systems have been permanently altered by various reservoirs. Many of the streams these species inhabit exhibit moderate to heavy degradation from poor land use practices. These factors have caused local extirpation and fragmentation of most of these species' populations. It is not known how many populations of these seven species are viable, but few juveniles have been observed in recent years. The restricted distribution of these seven mussels makes them vulnerable to extirpation from catastrophic events, such as toxic chemical spills. The introduced Asian clam ( Corbicula fluminea ) has invaded nearly all of the river systems in which these mussels occur, competing with native mussels for nutrients and space. Densities of Asian clams are sometimes heavy in Apalachicolan Region streams, with estimates running from approximately one hundred per square meter (Flint River, Sickel 1973) to thousands per square meter (Santa Fe River, Bass and Hitt 1974). In some streams the substrate has changed from one of a fairly homogeneous silty sand or sand to one with a gravel-like composition comprised of huge numbers of live and dead Asian clam shells. In some of these streams, the Gulf moccasinshell and Ochlockonee moccasinshell were once common but are now extirpated or severely reduced in numbers. This exotic species may be particularly competitive with small native mussels such as the diminutive moccasinshells. In developing this rule, the Service has assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by these seven mussels. Based upon these evaluations, the preferred action is to list the fat three-ridge, shiny-rayed pocketbook, oval pigtoe, Gulf moccasinshell, and Ochlockonee moccasinshell as endangered and the Chipola slabshell and purple bankclimber as threatened. These seven mussel species are endemic to the Apalachicolan Region in southeast Alabama, southwest Georgia, and north Florida, where they occur in from one to four isolated marine river systems. The fat three-ridge, Chipola slabshell, and Ochlockonee moccasinshell are endemic to single drainages, the former two species to the Apalachicola and the latter species to the Ochlockonee river systems. The shiny-rayed pocketbook and purple bankclimber are restricted to both the Apalachicola and Ochlockonee river systems, while the oval pigtoe is found in these two rivers in addition to the Suwannee River and Econfina Creek systems. The Gulf moccasinshell is now restricted to the Apalachicola River system and Econfina Creek.
