FR940303-0-00020 FR940303-0-00007 Office of the Secretary 14 CFR Parts 300, 302, 303, 325, and 385 49 CFR Parts 1, 7, 8, and 28 [OST Docket No. 1; Amdt. 1&hyph;261] Organization and Delegation of Powers and Duties; Delegations to the Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy, to the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs, to the Assistant to the Secretary and Director of Public Affairs, and to the Assistant General Counsel for Environmental, Civil Rights, and General Law AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This document amends the relevant regulations which contain delegations of authority to the Assistant Secretary for Policy and International Affairs. The title of the delegatee has been changed either to the Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy or to the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs, as appropriate, because a new Assistant Secretary position has been created. This rule is necessary to clarify which current delegations apply to the new Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy and which apply to the new Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs. This document also amends the relevant regulations which contain delegations of authority to the Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs. The title of the delegatee has been changed to the Assistant to the Secretary and Director of Public Affairs to reflect the new title of the head of that Office. Finally, this document also amends the relevant regulations which contain all remaining delegations of authority that should have been transferred in an earlier reorganization from the Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs to the Office of the General Counsel. These latter authorities are hereby delegated to the Assistant General Counsel for Environmental, Civil Rights, and General Law. EFFECTIVE DATE: This rule becomes effective March 3, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John T. Peak, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy at (202) 366&hyph;5416, or Steven B. Farbman, Office of the Assistant General Counsel for Regulation and Enforcement at (202) 366&hyph;9306, Department of Transportation, 400 7th Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On October 27, 1993, the Secretary of Transportation approved a reorganization of the Office of the Secretary by creating a new position of Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy and a new position of Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs. The title of the Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs was also changed by this reorganization to the Assistant to the Secretary and Director of Public Affairs. Thus, it is necessary to amend the relevant parts of the CFR in order to: (1) Clarify which current CFR delegations apply to the new Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy and which apply to the new Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs; (2) reflect the new title of the head of the Office of Public Affairs; and (3) bring certain other provisions of 49 CFR part 7 into conformity with 49 CFR 1.57b, now entitled, Delegations to the Assistant General Counsel for Environmental, Civil Rights, and General Law. Until now, all of these CFR parts have referred either to the Assistant Secretary for Policy and International Affairs, or to the Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs. A summary of the CFR parts affected follows.
