FR940418-0-00012 FR940418-0-00005 Main Branch Lake Shore Drive Columbus Drive Michigan Avenue Wabash Avenue State Street Dearborn Street Clark Street LaSalle Street Wells Street Franklin-Orleans Street South Branch Lake Street Randolph Street Washington Street Monroe Street Madison Street Adams Street Jackson Boulevard Van Buren Street Eisenhower Expressway Harrison Street Roosevelt Road 18th Street Canal Street South Halsted Street South Loomis Street South Ashland Avenue North Branch Grand Avenue Ohio Street Chicago Avenue N Halsted Street (1) From April 1 through November 30_ (i) The draws need to open only between the hours of 6:30 p.m. and 12 midnight on Tuesdays and Thursdays. (ii) The draws need to open only between the hours of 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. on Saturdays and on Sundays. (iii) From April 15 through June 15, the draws need to open on Wednesdays, only from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. (iv) The draws need to open only after notice has been given at least 24 hours in advance of their requested time of passage and only during the periods of times specified in (b)(1) (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of this section when no fewer than five vessels and not more than 25 vessels are available to transit through the draws during one scheduled opening. However, when circumstances preclude being able to assemble the minimum number of vessels, requests shall be made to the Chicago Bridge Desk to establish a scheduled time for bridge openings. Circumstances include vessels returning for repair and vessels in distress. (2) From December 1 through March 31, the draws of the highway bridges across the Chicago River, the North Branch of the Chicago River, North Branch Canal, and the South Branch of the Chicago River shall open on signal if at least 12 hours notice is given. (c) The draws on the Lake Shore Drive bridge across Ogden Slip need not be opened for the passage of vessels. (d) The draws of the North Avenue, Cortland Street, Webster Avenue, North Ashland Avenue, Chicago and Northwestern railroad, North Damen Avenue, and Belmont Avenue bridges across the North Branch of the Chicago River need not open for the passage of vessels. (e) The draw of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific railroad bridge across the North Branch Canal need not open for the passage of vessels. (f) The opening signal for all Chicago River bridges is three short blasts or by shouting; except that, four short blasts is the opening signal for the Chicago and Northwestern railroad bridge near West Kinzie Street and the Milwaukee Road bridge near West North Avenue and five short blasts is the opening signal for the Lake Shore Bridge when approaching from the north. Dated: April 13, 1994. Rudy K. Peschel, Rear Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, Commander, Ninth Coast Guard District. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9408 Filed 4&hyph;14&hyph;94; 1:46 pm] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;14&hyph;M
