FR940513-1-00094 FR940513-1-00020 50 CFR Part 651 [Docket No. 940532&hyph;4132; I.D. 041994D] Northeast Multispecies Fishery AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Proposed rule; request for comments. SUMMARY: NMFS issues this proposed rule to implement a revised part of Amendment 5 to the Northeast Multispecies Fishery Management Plan (FMP) for the winter flounder fishery (revised winter flounder exemption) that was initially disapproved on September 30, 1993. The New England Fishery Management Council (Council) has revised a provision that would exempt fishermen from some regulations for the winter flounder fishery, under certain conditions, if they are fishing only in state waters. The intended effect is to ensure adequate protection for winter flounder stocks, while minimizing the regulatory burden on fishermen. DATES: Comments on this proposed rule must be received by June 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments on the revised winter flounder exemption, proposed rule or supporting documents to Allen E. Peterson, Acting Regional Director, NMFS, 1 Blackburn Drive, Gloucester, MA 01930. Mark the outside of the envelope ``Comments on Winter Flounder Exemption.'' Copies of the revised winter flounder exemption, including the Environmental Assessment, are available upon request from Douglas G. Marshall, Executive Director, New England Fishery Management Council, 5 Broadway (Route 1), Saugus, MA 01906. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Susan A. Murphy, NMFS, Fishery Policy Analyst, 508&hyph;281&hyph;9252. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Council submitted Amendment 5 to the FMP on September 27, 1993. Two measures in the amendment were disapproved on September 30, 1993_a haddock possession limit, and the provisions for winter flounder fishing in state waters. The remainder of Amendment 5 was approved on January 3, 1994. Pursuant to section 304(b)(3)(A) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (Magnuson Act), the Council has submitted the revised winter flounder exemption as described in this proposed rule. The Council's submission of a revised haddock possession limit is not contained in this action. The disapproved measure for winter flounder established an exemption to the minimum mesh size and minimum fish size regulations when fishing for winter flounder in state waters, provided that a given state's regulations conformed with the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission's (ASMFC) Winter Flounder Plan (ASMFC Plan). The original submission for winter flounder was disapproved because this provision was added to Amendment 5 without adequate analysis, was poorly defined, and would likely have increased mortality of winter flounder and other multispecies. The revised winter flounder exemption, as described in this proposed rule, lists a detailed set of criteria under which a vessel holding a Federal Northeast multispecies permit may fish for winter flounder with mesh smaller than the minimum mesh requirement in the FMP, and retain winter flounder smaller than the minimum fish size for that species in the FMP. Currently, Federal regulations for winter flounder apply to all federally permitted vessels whether they are fishing in state waters or Federal waters. When a federally permitted vessel is fishing for winter flounder in state waters, the more restrictive of either the state or Federal regulations applies. Thus, even if an overall state management program is more restrictive, an individual Federal regulation, such as a minimum mesh size, applies if it is more restrictive than the individual state regulation.
