FR940707-2-00179 FR940707-2-00097 The amendments regarding size of displayed quotations and excess spread parameters will improve the quality of the third market, and thus, will facilitate efficient OTC trading of listed securities. The proposal will require CQS market makers to quote a minimum size of 200 or 500 shares, depending on price, volume, and number of market makers in the security; and will impose excess spread parameters comparable to those in the NASDAQ market. The proposal also allows principal market maker transactions in listed securities through CAES for securities in which the market maker is registered and active. The Commission does not perceive any basis for limiting CAES to agency orders. The proposal will not affect the provisions of the ITS Plan, which apply to both principal and agency transactions. The proposal will allow market makers to obtain electronic access to the quotations of other market makers through CAES and thus, will reduce reliance on telephone contact. The Amex, BSE, and NYSE submitted comment letters on the proposal. 20 These exchanges commented that the proposal does not apply to all third market makers, but applies only to third market makers currently registered as CQS market makers with the NASD. 21 The NYSE also commented that third market and exchange transaction reporting in listed securities are not consistent. 22 20 Supra note 5. 21 The NYSE commented that these firms may ``internalize'' customer orders by executing third market transactions ``in-house'' without exposing the orders to other market participants. The NYSE stated that NASD member firms may internalize customer orders by trading against such orders, or by holding themselves out, often through proprietary automatic execution systems, as willing to buy and sell listed securities. The NYSE believes that allowing brokerage firms to trade listed securities, without registering as CQS market makers or disseminating any quotations, allows trading of listed securities outside the provisions of ITS price protection rules. Id. 22 The NYSE believed that transaction reporting in the OTC market is not comparable to transaction reporting on exchanges because the NASD's rules require the price reported by market makers to be ``reasonably related to the prevailing market.'' See NASD Rules, Schedule G, Section 2. The Commission acknowledges that brokerage firms that execute transactions in listed securities in the OTC market are not required, by Commission or NASD Rules, to register with the NASD as market makers. Brokerage firms not registered with the NASD as market makers cannot disseminate quotations in CQS or NASDAQ for listed securities. 23 23 As discussed above, only CQS market makers may disseminate quotations through CQS or Nasdaq.
