FR940606-1-00014 FR940606-1-00008 A. Emission Reductions B. Secondary Environmental Impacts C. Energy Impacts D. Cost Impacts E. Economic Impacts IV. Process Descriptions and Control Technologies A. Process Descriptions B. Control Techniques V. Rationale for the Proposed Rule A. Regulatory Development Process for NESHAP B. Determining Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) ``Floors'' C. Selection of Pollutants and Source Category(ies) D. Selection of Emission Points Covered by the Proposed Rule E. Selection of the Basis for the Proposed Rule F. Selection of the Format of the Proposed Rule G. Selection of Emission Test Methods and Monitoring Requirements H. Selection of Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements I. Selection of Compliance Deadlines J. Operating Permit Program K. Solicitation of Comments VI. Administrative Requirements A. Public Hearing B. Docket C. Executive Order 12866 D. Paperwork Reduction Act E. Regulatory Flexibility Act F. Clean Air Act Section 117 G. Regulatory Review VII. Statutory Authority The proposed regulatory text is not included in this Federal Register notice, but is available in Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;20 or by written or telephone request from the Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center (see ADDRESSES). This notice with the proposed regulatory language is also available on the Technology Transfer Network (TTN), one of EPA's electronic bulletin boards. The TTN provides information and technology exchange in various areas of air pollution control. The service is free, except for the cost of a phone call. Dial (919) 541&hyph;5742 for up to a 14,400 bps modem. If more information on TTN is needed, call the HELP line at (919) 541&hyph;5384. I. Background The Act requires, under section 112, that EPA evaluate and control emissions of HAP. The control of HAP is to be achieved through promulgation of emission standards under sections 112(d) and (f) for categories of sources that emit HAP. Pursuant to section 112(c) of the Act, EPA published in the Federal Register the initial list of source categories that emit HAP on July 16, 1992 (57 FR 31576). This list includes major and area sources of HAP that the EPA intends to regulate before November of the year 2000. For the purposes of the proposed rule, aerospace industries refers to all facilities that manufacture aerospace vehicles or components and all facilities that rework (including repair) these aerospace vehicles or components. Aerospace vehicle or component is defined as any fabricated part, processed part, assembly of parts, or completed unit of any aircraft including, but not limited to, airplanes, helicopters, missiles, rockets, and space vehicles. Section 183(b)(3) of the Act requires the Administrator to issue control techniques guidelines (CTG) for volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions from aerospace coatings and solvents to such levels as the Administrator determines are achievable through adoption of best available control measures (BACM). The EPA is required to take into account the applicable requirements of section 112 in developing the guidelines. The organic HAP emissions limitations described in the remainder of this notice also address the VOC emissions from aerospace coatings and solvents. Thus, the control techniques evaluated for the MACT standard are also applicable to VOC emissions. The EPA traditionally issues a draft CTG containing recommended control levels for public comment. Rather than issue a separate draft CTG in this case, the EPA is using this notice to request public comment on a draft BACM, which is the same as the proposed MACT for coatings and solvents. Comments received on the proposed MACT rule will also be considered in formulating a final BACM. The information described here will also serve to provide guidance to the States for developing VOC rules to meet other Clean Air Act requirements. Certain low-usage coatings were not addressed in the NESHAP. These coatings are adhesives, sealants, and 30 specialty coatings which represent less than 6 percent of the total HAP emissions from the industry. Also, the EPA data analyses indicate that the MACT floor for these coatings would be no control. The EPA is requesting public comment on the need for a separate CTG providing guidance for the control of these coatings. II. Summary of the Proposed Rule Table 1 provides an overview of the proposed rule, including applicability; the standards for each affected source; test methods and procedures; and monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.
