FR941230-2-00140 FR941230-2-00072 Hate Crimes_$200,000 The Education Development Center, Inc., (EDC) is developing a multipurpose curriculum for hate crime prevention in the schools and sanctions for juveniles who commit hate crimes. This curriculum is being pilot tested in the 8th grade of the Collins Middle School in Salem, Massachusetts. Once the pilot is evaluated and the curriculum redesigned, EDC will test the revised curriculum in two additional sites to ensure that it is geographically and demographically representative. In consultation with the Office of Victims of Crime, EDC will develop a dissemination strategy for the curriculum and other products, including a judges' guide for dealing with bias crimes. No additional applications will be solicited in fiscal year 1995. Community Anti-Drug-Abuse Technical Assistance Voucher Project_$200,000 In July 1991, OJJDP entered into a cooperative agreement with the National Center for Neighborhood Enterprise (NCNE) to extend its outreach to community-based grassroots organizations around the country that are working effectively to solve the problems of youth drug abuse. The goals and objectives of this program are as follows: A. Goals 1. To allow various neighborhood groups to inexpensively purchase needed services through the use of technical assistance vouchers disbursed by NCNE. 2. To demonstrate the cost-effective use of vouchers to help neighborhood groups secure technical assistance for anti-drug-abuse projects to serve high-risk youth. 3. To extend OJJDP technical assistance to groups that are traditionally excluded because they lack the administrative sophistication, technical and grantsmanship skills, and resources to participate in traditional competitive grant programs. B. Objectives 1. To provide support to community groups in developing and implementing a strategy under the ``Weed and Seed'' program. 2. To function as a clearinghouse for information on community anti-drug-prevention initiatives. 3. To review all technical assistance applications and select 15&hyph;25 eligible community-based anti-drug programs for award of vouchers. This continuation award is designed to provide more than $90,000 in additional vouchers to an additional 25&hyph;30 organizations and to provide clearinghouse services to an additional 300 community groups. Vouchers, which range in value from $1,000 to $10,000, can be used for planning, proposal writing, program promotion, legal assistance, financial management, and other activities. Selection of awardees and amounts is determined by the degree to which applicants meet the following criteria: •Not previously funded by OJJDP or NCNE. •Lack of access to traditional funding sources.
