FR940418-1-00047 FR940418-1-00012 ยง40.6 Allowable administrative costs. (a) Not more than 15 percent of the funds available may be used to pay for the direct costs chargeable to the program. (b) The Higher Education Office shall consider the following as direct costs chargeable to the program: (1) Compensation of employees for the time and effort devoted specifically to the program; (2) Cost of materials acquired, consumed, or expended specifically for the purpose of the program; (3) Equipment and other approved capital expenditures; and (4) Other expenses incurred specifically to carry out the program. (c) No less than 85 percent of the funds must be used for grants to eligible students. Subpart B_Direct Student Grants ยง40.11 Eligible applicants. To be eligible for assistance from funds appropriated to the Bureau for the Higher Education Grant Program, an applicant must: (a) Be an Indian as defined in Section 40.2; (b) Be admitted for enrollment as a student in an eligible institution; (c) Apply for all available campus-based aid in a timely manner. (d) Have unmet financial need as determined by the eligible institution's Financial Aid Office according to the U.S. Department of Education's standard formula used to evaluate information the student supplies on their standard application form as required under 34 CFR part 668, Student Assistance General Provisions. ยง40.12 Filing applications. The ``Bureau of Indian Affairs Higher Education Grant Application'' form shall be used by all applicants for grants under this part. The form shall be available at the Higher Education Office. (a) Applications for grants under this Part shall be submitted to the Higher Education Office administering the program for the affected tribe(s). Those offices shall establish time-frames, including submission deadlines. (b) A complete application package consists of the following: (1) A fully completed Bureau Higher Education Grant Application Form; (2) A current Certificate of Indian Blood (CIB) from the tribe or the Bureau certifying that the applicant is a member of a tribe, or if not a member, appropriate documentation to support claim to descent;
