FR940912-2-00075 FR940912-2-00056 B. ``Syntex'' means Syntex Corporation, its predecessors, subsidiaries, divisions, and groups and affiliates controlled by Syntex, their directors, officers, employees, agents, and representatives, and their successors and assigns. C. ``Syva'' or ``Syva Company'' means Syva Company, a Delaware corporation and an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Syntex Corporation, its predecessors, subsidiaries, divisions, and groups and affiliates controlled by Syva, their directors, officers, employees, agents, and representatives, and their successors and assigns. D. ``Respondents'' means Roche and Syntex. E. ``Commission'' means the Federal Trade Commission. F. ``Acquisition'' means Roche's proposed acquisition of voting securities of Syntex pursuant to the Acquisition Agreement and Plan of Merger dated May 1, 1994. G. ``Patents'' means some, all or any part of all U.S. or foreign unexpired patents and patents issued in the future based upon patent applications filed in any country as of August 1, 1994, and all substitutions, continuations, continuations-in-part, divisions, renewals, reissues and extensions based on said patents, the applications therefor, or said patent applications. H. ``Drugs of abuse reagent products'' means diagnostic reagent products used for drugs of abuse testing, including without limitation, reagent, control and calibrator products used to test for cannabinoids or marijuana, cocaine and cocaine metabolites, opiates, amphetamines and methamphetamines, phencyclidine, methadone, methaqualone, propoxyphene, barbiturates, benzodiazepine, lysergic acid diethylamide, ethyl alcohol, or other controlled substances for which drugs of abuse testing is conducted. I. ``Syva Business'' means all of Syntex's United States rights, title and interest in and to: (1) drugs of abuse reagent products, including but not limited to, EMIT ® , EMIT ® II, and all patents, production technology and know-how related to the manufacture and sale of drugs of abuse reagent products in the United States; and (2) all of the Syva Company's assets and businesses as further delineated in Schedule A, attached hereto and made a part hereof. II It is further ordered that: A. Roche shall divest, absolutely and in good faith, within twelve (12) months of the date this order becomes final, the Syva Business, and shall also divest such additional ancillary assets and businesses and effect such arrangements as are necessary to assure the marketability, viability, and competitiveness of the Syva Business; provided that Roche is not required to divest any of the Syva assets and businesses identified in Part 2 of Schedule A, if such assets and businesses are not requested by the acquirer. B. Roche shall divest the Syva Business only to an acquirer that receives the prior approval of the Commission and that has made any necessary notice to or obtained any necessary approval from the FDA to manufacture and sell all of the Syva drugs of abuse reagent products, and only in a manner that has received the prior approval of the Commission. The purpose of the divestiture of the Syva Business is to ensure the continuation of the Syva Business as an ongoing, viable operation, engaged in the same business in which the Syva Business is engaged at the time of the proposed divestitute, and to remedy the lessening of competition resulting from the Acquisition as alleged in the Commission's complaint. C. Upon reasonable notice from the acquirer to Respondents, Respondents shall provide such personnel, information, technical assistance, advice and training to the acquirer as is necessary to transfer technology and know-how to assist the acquirer in obtaining any necessary FDA approval for the manufacture and sale of the Syva drugs of abuse reagent products and any other products identified in Schedule A that are acquired pursuant to this order. Such assistance shall include reasonable consultation with knowledgeable employees of Respondents and training at the acquirer's facility for a period of time sufficient to satisfy the acquirer's management that its personnel are appropriately trained in the manufacture of the Syva drugs of abuse reagent products and any other products identified in Schedule A that are acquired pursuant to this order. Respondents shall not charge the acquirer a rate more than their own direct costs for providing such technical assistance. D. Pending divestiture of the Syva Business, Respondents shall take such actions as are necessary to maintain the viability and marketability of the Syva Business and to prevent the destruction, removal, wasting, deterioration or impairment of any of the Syva Business except for ordinary wear and tear. III It is further ordered that: A. If Roche has not divested, absolutely and in good faith, and with the prior approval of the Commission, the Syva Business within twelve (12) months of the date this order becomes final, to an acquirer that has made any necessary notice to or obtained any necessary approval from the FDA to manufacture and sell Syva drugs of abuse reagent products, the Commission may appoint a trustee to divest the Syva Business.
