FR940418-0-00029 FR940418-0-00009 ยง64.1600 Definitions. (a) Aggregate Information. The term `aggregate information' means collective data that relate to a group or category of services or customers, from which individual customer identities or characteristics have been removed. (b) ANI. The term `ANI' (automatic number identification) refers to the delivery of the calling party's billing number by a local exchange carrier to any interconnecting carrier for billing or routing purposes, and to the subsequent delivery of such number to end users. (c) Calling Party Number. The term Calling Party Number refers to the subscriber line number or the directory number contained in the calling party number parameter of the call set-up message associated with an interstate call on a Signalling System 7 network. (d) Charge Number. The term ``charge number'' refers to the delivery of the calling party's billing number in a Signalling System 7 environment by a local exchange carrier to any interconnecting carrier for billing or routing purposes, and to the subsequent delivery of such number to end users. (e) Privacy Indicator. The term Privacy Indicator refers to information, contained in the calling party number parameter of the call set-up message associated with an interstate call on an Signalling System 7 network, that indicates whether the calling party authorizes presentation of the calling party number to the called party. (f) Signalling System 7. The term Signalling System 7 (SS7) refers to a carrier to carrier out-of-band signalling network used for call routing, billing and management. ยง64.1601 Delivery requirements and privacy restrictions. (a) Delivery. Common carriers using Signalling System 7 and offering or subscribing to any service based on Signalling System 7 functionality are required to transmit the calling party number associated with an interstate call to interconnecting carriers. (b) Privacy. Originating carriers using Signalling System 7 and offering or subscribing to any service based on Signalling System 7 functionality will only recognize *67 dialed as the first three digits of a call (or 1167 for rotary or pulse-dialing phones) as a caller's request for privacy on an interstate call. No common carrier subscribing to or offering any service that delivers calling party number may override the privacy indicator associated with an interstate call. The terminating carrier must act in accordance with the privacy indicator unless the call is made to a called party that subscribes to an ANI or charge number based service and the call is paid for by the called party. (c) Charges. No common carrier subscribing to or offering any service that delivers calling party number may: (1) Impose on the calling party charges associated with per call blocking of the calling party's telephone number, or (2) Impose charges upon connecting carriers for the delivery of the calling party number parameter or its associated privacy indicator. (d) Exemptions. Section 64.1601 shall not apply to calling party number delivery services: (1) Used solely in connection with calls within the same limited system, including (but not limited to) a Centrex, virtual private network, or private branch exchange system; (2) Used on a public agency's emergency telephone line or in conjunction with 911 emergency services, or on any entity's emergency assistance poison control telephone line; or (3) Provided in connection with legally authorized call tracing or trapping procedures specifically requested by a law enforcement agency. ยง64.1602 Restrictions on use and sale of telephone subscriber information provided pursuant to automatic number identification or charge number services. (a) Any common carrier providing Automatic Number Identification or charge number services on interstate calls to any person shall provide such services under a contract or tariff containing telephone subscriber information requirements that comply with this subpart. Such requirements shall: (1) Permit such person to use the telephone number and billing information for billing and collection, routing, screening, and completion of the originating telephone subscriber's call or transaction, or for services directly related to the originating telephone subscriber's call or transaction;
