FR941006-2-00209 FR941006-2-00113 If, following the end of the grant period, the sale of grant products results in revenues that exceed those costs, the revenue must continue to be used for the authorized purposes of the Institute-funded project or other purposes consistent with the State Justice Institute Act that have been approved by the Institute. See sections III.G. and XI.F. for requirements regarding project-related income. W. Availability of Research Data for Secondary Analysis Upon request, grantees must make available for secondary analysis a diskette(s) or data tape(s) containing research and evaluation data collected under an Institute grant and the accompanying code manual. Grantees may recover the actual cost of duplicating and mailing or otherwise transmitting the data set and manual from the person or organization requesting the data. Grantees may provide the requested data set in the format in which it was created and analyzed. X. Approval of Key Staff If the qualifications of an employee or consultant assigned to a key project staff position are not described in the application or if there is a change of a person assigned to such a position, a recipient shall submit a description of the qualifications of the newly assigned person to the Institute. Prior written approval of the qualifications of the new person assigned to a key staff position must be received from the Institute before the salary or consulting fee of that person and associated costs may be paid or reimbursed from grant funds. XI. Financial Requirements A. Accounting Systems and Financial Records All grantees, subgrantees, contractors, and other organizations directly or indirectly receiving Institute funds are required to establish and maintain accounting systems and financial records to accurately account for funds they receive. These records shall include total program costs, including Institute funds, State and local matching shares, and any other fund sources included in the approved project budget. 1. Purpose The purpose of this section is to establish accounting system requirements and to offer guidance on procedures which will assist all grantees/subgrantees in: a. Complying with the statutory requirements for the awarding, disbursement, and accounting of funds; b. Complying with regulatory requirements of the Institute for the financial management and disposition of funds; c. Generating financial data which can be used in the planning, management and control of programs; and d. Facilitating an effective audit of funded programs and projects. 2. References Except where inconsistent with specific provisions of this Guideline, the following regulations, directives and reports are applicable to Institute grants and cooperative agreements under the same terms and conditions that apply to Federal grantees. These materials supplement the requirements of this section for accounting systems and financial recordkeeping and provide additional guidance on how these requirements may be satisfied. a. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;21, Cost Principles for Educational Institutions. b. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;87, Cost Principles for State and Local Governments.
