FR940721-2-00168 FR940721-2-00086 • Environmental regulatory enhancement encompasses (but is not limited to) the planning, development, and application of laws, training, monitoring, and enforcement procedures, tribal courts, environmental laboratories and other facilities, and associated regulatory activities to strengthen the tribal government's capacity to enhance the quality of reservation life as measured by the reduction of pollutants in the air, water, soil, food and materials encountered by inhabitants of tribes and villages. • Language preservation is the maintenance of a language so that it will not decline to non-use. ``Language vitality'' is the active use of a language in a wide range of domains of human life. • Language replication is defined as the application of a language program model developed in one community to other linguistically similar communities. •Language survival is defined as the maintenance and continuation of language from one generation to another in a wide range of aspects of community life. B. General Considerations Non-ANA resources should be leveraged to strengthen and broaden the impact of the proposed project in the community. Project designs should explain how those parts of projects which ANA does not fund will be financed through other sources. For example, ANA does not fund construction. Applicants must show the relationship of non-ANA funded activities to those objectives and activities that are funded with ANA grant funds. Costs of fundraising, including financial campaigns, endowment drives, solicitation of gifts and bequests, and similar expenses incurred solely to raise capital or obtain contributions are unallowable under a grant award. However, even though these costs are unallowable for purposes of computing charges to Federal awards, they must be treated as direct costs for purposes of determining indirect cost rates and be allocated their share of the organization's indirect costs if they represent activities which (1) include the salaries of personnel, (2) occupy space, and (3) benefit from the organization's indirect costs. All projects funded by ANA must be completed, or self-sustaining or supported with other than ANA funds at the end of the project period. ``Completed'' means that the project ANA funded is finished, and the desired result(s) have been attained. ``Self-sustaining'' means that a project will continue without outside resources. ``Supported by other than ANA funds'' means that the project will continue beyond the ANA project period, but will be supported by funds other than ANA's. C. Activities That Cannot Be Funded By ANA The Administration for Native Americans does not fund projects that operate indefinitely or require ANA funding on a recurring basis. The Administration for Native Americans does not fund objectives or activities for the core administration of an organization. Under Competitive Area 2, ANA will consider funding core administrative capacity building projects at the village government level if the village does not have governing systems in place. However, functions and activities that are clearly project related are eligible for grant funding. For example, the management and administrative functions necessary to carry out an ANA approved project are not considered ``core administration'' and are, therefore, eligible costs. Additionally, ANA will fund the salaries of approved staff for time actually and reasonably spent to implement a funded ANA project. Projects or activities that generally will not meet the purposes of this announcement are discussed further in Part III, Section H, General Guidance to Applicants, below. D. Multi-Year Projects Applicants may apply for projects of up to three years. A multi-year project is a project on a single theme that requires more than 12 months to complete and affords the applicant an opportunity to develop and address more complex and in-depth strategies than can be completed in one year. Applicants are encouraged to develop multi-year projects. A multi-year project cannot be a series of unrelated objectives with activities presented in chronological order over a two or three year period. Awards, on a competitive basis, will be for a one-year budget period, although project periods may be for three years. Applications for continuation grants funded under these awards beyond the one-year budget period, but within the three-year project period, will be entertained in subsequent years on a non-competitive basis, subject to the availability of funds, satisfactory progress of the grantee and determination that continued funding would be in the best interest of the Government. Therefore, this program announcement does not apply to current ANA grantees with multi-year projects that apply for continuation funding for their second or third year budget periods. E. Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs This program is not covered by Executive Order 12372 or 45 CFR Part 100. F. The Application Process 1. Availability of Application Forms In order to be considered for a grant under this program announcement, an application must be submitted on the forms supplied and in the manner prescribed by ANA. The application kits containing the necessary forms and instructions may be obtained from: Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Administration for Native Americans, Room 348F, Hubert H. Humphrey Building, 200 Independence Avenue, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20201&hyph;0001, Attention: 93612&hyph;951, Telephone: (202) 401&hyph;7260.
