FR940627-0-00114 FR940627-0-00019 a. Content of Tiers. Except as may be modified by any applicable special provisions, the requirements of Tiers 1 and 2 are mandatory for all fuels and fuel additives. These requirements may be satisfied by manufacturers either on an individual basis or by way of a group submission consistent with the provisions of the grouping system. Under Tier 1, F/FA manufacturers are required to perform a literature search on the health and welfare effects of F/FA emissions, characterize the emissions, and provide a qualitative exposure analysis based on total annual production volume and market distribution data (see Section VII for details on Tier 1 requirements). The modeling analyses proposed in the NPRM have been eliminated from Tier 1 as explained in Section III.C of this preamble. Tier 2 (see Section VIII) includes biological testing for specific health effect endpoints, as well as general systemic and organ toxicity. The Tier 2 biological testing requires the exposure of laboratory animals to the whole emissions of fuels or additive/base fuel mixtures. 1 To the extent that previously conducted studies are available which are at least comparable to the specified guidelines for the chemical and/or biological tests required in Tiers 1 and 2, such existing data may be submitted in lieu of performing and reporting on new duplicative tests (see Section VII.A.2). 1 An additive must be mixed with the base fuel of its associated fuel family prior to generating emissions for testing (see Sections IV.A and IV.B.1). The results of Tiers 1 and 2 are to be reported to EPA according to the report formats described in Section XII. EPA will evaluate these results to determine if additional testing or analysis may be indicated under the provisions of Tier 3. For the purpose of peer review during this evaluation process, EPA may furnish the submitted data to, and consult with, other organizations, such as the Health Effects Institute. Tier 3 tests will be determined on a case-by-case basis at EPA's discretion, as discussed in Section IX. The specific objectives and scope of Tier 3 tests will vary depending on the concerns identified in the earlier tiers or any other information available to EPA. b. Timing of Requirements: Registered F/FAs. EPA proposed to require that Tier 1 and Tier 2 data be submitted within three years for registered F/FAs. In their comments on the proposal the regulated industry suggested that it would not be possible to complete Tier 2 testing within three years. As detailed in the Summary and Analysis of Comments, these commenters stated that the number of F/FAs to be tested, the time needed for development of detailed test protocols, and the lack of available test facilities were inconsistent with the three-year time frame for completion of Tier 1 and Tier 2 for all F/FAs (or groups). None of the commenters, however, suggested an alternative time frame within which the testing of all F/FAs (or groups) could be completed. EPA has thoroughly considered these comments and, accordingly, has taken a number of measures to streamline the program. As discussed later in this preamble, such measures include the deletion from the final rule of some requirements proposed in the NPRM (e.g., quantitative modeling requirements), modification of the Tier 2 testing scenario for greater efficiency, simplification of some of the grouping rules, and the addition of special provisions which will result in a smaller number of F/FA products requiring testing. Nevertheless, EPA recognizes that the number of laboratory facilities currently available to conduct the required emission-based toxicological tests is very limited. EPA expects that the promulgation of this rule will create a demand for testing laboratories which will encourage the reactivation, modification, and/or expansion of existing laboratories, as well as the development of new facilities, to accommodate the requirements of the F/FA registration program. However, there is likely to be a lag between the demand for and the availability of laboratory capacity. Thus, while EPA believes that some groups could complete the testing required by the rule in three years, it is likely that not all of the F/FAs to be tested could complete the requirements in the three-year time frame. Considering these factors, the final rule allows a six-year period for the conduct of Tier 2 testing for registered F/FAs. This longer period will provide the necessary start-up time for laboratories with previous experience in conducting studies reasonably similar to those required in Tier 2 to adapt or build the necessary facilities, organize the key technical personnel, and conduct verification procedures. In this regard, it is not necessary for each laboratory providing services for this program to employ experts in each of the toxicology specialty fields covered by Tier 2. EPA recognizes that some of the required expertise may be in short supply, and envisions that laboratories may subcontract with subspecialists as needed for evaluation of test results. Furthermore, biological laboratories which currently offer inhalation toxicology testing services, but are not equipped to generate and deliver engine emissions for such testing, should be able to obtain the additional equipment and engineering expertise they will need in a relatively short period of time. Addition of emission generation capabilities by such laboratories will be facilitated by the fact that the final rule allows the use of relatively inexpensive and possibly portable engine dynamometers for generating the required emissions for toxicological testing related both to light-duty and heavy-duty engine applications.
