FR940825-2-00139 FR940825-2-00093 The proposal defines the U.S. market 16 as the U.S. self-regulatory organizations that are members of the Intermarket Surveillance Group (``ISG'') 17 and whose markets are linked together by the Intermarket Trading System (``ITS''). 18 16 Id. 17 ISG was formed on July 14, 1983 to, among other things, coordinate more effectively surveillance and investigative information sharing arrangements in the stock and options markets. See Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, July 14, 1983. The most recent amendment to the ISG Agreement, which incorporates the original agreement and all amendments made thereafter, was signed by ISG members on January 29, 1990. See Second Amendment to the Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, January 29, 1990. The members of the ISG, (and accordingly, of the U.S. market) are: the Amex; the Boston Stock Exchange, Inc.; the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc.; the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc.; the Cincinnati Stock Exchange, Inc.; the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.; the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.; the Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc.; and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. Because of potential opportunities for trading abuses involving stock index futures, stock options and the underlying stock and the need for greater sharing of surveillance information for these potential intermarket trading abuses, the major stock index futures exchanges ( e.g., the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade) joined the ISG as affiliate members in 1990. 18 ITS is a communications system designed to facilitate trading among competing markets by providing each market with order routing capabilities based on current quotation information. The system links the participant markets and provides facilities and procedures for: (1) The display of composite quotation information at each participant market, so that brokers are able to determine readily the best bid and offer available from any participant for multiply trading securities; (2) efficient routing of orders and sending administrative messages (on the functioning of the system) to all participating markets; (3) participation, under certain conditions, by members of all participating markets in opening transactions in those markets; and (4) routing orders from a participating market to a participating market with a better price. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change will benefit investors by expanding the number of securities that may be linked to ELNs, thereby providing investors with enhanced investment flexibility. The Exchange further believes that it is appropriate to now include within the existing regulatory framework for ELNs, securities that are traded in the U.S. and that are issued by non-U.S. companies subject to reporting requirements under the Act because of the significant level of U.S. investor interest in both U.S. and non-U.S. highly capitalized and actively traded reporting companies. Because an ELN and the underlying security traded in the U.S. to which it will be linked will continue to be subject to the criteria presently contained in Sections 107A and 107B of the Guide, as enhanced herein, and the Exchange will have in place either a comprehensive market information sharing agreement with the primary exchange where the underlying security trades (in the case of an ADR, with the primary exchange in the country where the security underlying the ADR primarily trades) or the linked security will meet the proposed trading volume criteria where no such agreement exists, the Exchange believes that it will have the ability to inquire into potential trading problems or irregularities with respect to any particular ELN and the underlying security to which it is linked. The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of Section 6(b)(5) 19 in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, and to protect investors and the public interest. Specifically, in the Commission's order originally approving the listing and trading of ELNs, the Commission stated it would be willing to reexamine the issue of allowing ELNs linked to ADRs if such a decision were justified by the subsequent trading experience of ELNs and if sufficient safeguards were put into place to ensure the pricing integrity of both the ELN and the underlying ADR. 20 The Commission is satisfied that these preconditions have been satisfied. As of July 1, 1994, the Amex had 11 series of ELNs listed for trading. The Exchange represents that no problems have arisen and no complaints have been received by the Exchange with respect to the trading of these series of ELNs. 21 Accordingly, the trading history of ELNs overlying common stock issued by U.S. companies has not raised any regulatory concerns that would cause the Commission to be concerned about expanding the listing of ELNs to include ELNs linked to securities (including sponsored ADRs) that are traded in the U.S. on a national securities exchange or through NASDAQ and that are issued by non-U.S. companies subject to reporting requirements under the Act. 19 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). 20 See Exchange Act Release No. 32343, supra note 6, at note 13. 21 Telephone conversation between Claire McGrath, Managing Director and Special Counsel, Derivative Securities, Amex, and Brad Ritter, Attorney, Office of Derivatives and Equity Regulation, Division of Market Regulation, Commission, on July 19, 1994.
