FR940428-2-00160 FR940428-2-00072 New Hampshire General Permit, Permit No. NHG250000 In compliance with the provisions of the Federal Clean Water Act, as amended, (33 U.S.C. §§1251 et seq.; the ``CWA''), operators of industrial facilities discharging solely non-contact cooling water, as previously defined in Part III, located in New Hampshire are authorized to discharge to all waters, unless otherwise restricted by State Water Quality Standards, New Hampshire RSA 485&hyph;A:8, in accordance with effluent limitations, monitoring requirements and other conditions set forth herein. This permit shall become effective when issued. This permit and the authorization to discharge expire at midnight, five years from the effective date of the Federal Register publication. Operators of facilities within the general permit area who fail to notify the Director of their intent to be covered by this general permit and receive written notification of permit coverage, or those who are denied by the Director are not authorized under this general permit to discharge from those facilities to the receiving waters or areas named. Signed this 6th day of April, 1994. David A. Fierra, Director, Water Management Division, Environmental Protection Agency, Boston, MA. Part I A. Effluent Limitations and Monitoring Requirements 1. During the period beginning on the effective date and lasting through expiration, the permittee is authorized to discharge from each outfall on non-contact cooling water into all rivers of the State, unless restricted by the New Hampshire Fish and Game Department and New Hampshire Department of Environmental Services, Water Supply and Pollution Control Division. a. The discharge shall be limited and monitored as specified below: ␣ 1Effluent characteristic 1Discharge limitations other units (specify) 2Avg. monthly 2Max. daily 1Monitoring requirements 2Measurement frequency 2Sample type Flow, gpd Report Monthly Total daily. Temperature: Cold water fishery* 68 ○F(20 ○C Monthly 4 grabs, reporting maximum and average. Warm water fishery* 83 ○F (28.3 ○C pH (1) (1) Monthly 4 grabs, reporting maximum and minimum. LC 50 & C&hyph;NOEC, % (2) (2) 24-hour composite. *As determined by the New Hampshire Fish and Game Department. 1See Part I.B.1.a. 2See Part I.A.1.f. b. This permit does not allow for the addition of any biocide or chemical for any purpose to the water. c. There shall be no discharge of oil, floating solids, visible foam, debris or other visible pollutants. d. The effluent limitations for temperature and pH are based on the state water quality standards and are certified by the State. e. Samples taken in compliance with the monitoring requirements specified above shall be taken at the point of discharge. f. One chronic (and modified acute) toxicity text shall be performed on the non-contact cooling water discharge by the permittee upon request by EPA and/or the NHDES. Testing shall be performed in accordance with EPA toxicity protocol to be provided at the time of the request. The test shall be performed on a 24-hour composite sample to be taken during normal facility operation. The results of the test (C&hyph;NOEC and LC 50 ) shall be forwarded to the State and EPA within 30 days after completion.
