FR940228-1-00155 FR940228-1-00010 III. Program Participation Agreement A. Section 487(a)(5) requires an institution to provide assurances that the institution will provide, upon request and in a timely fashion, information relating to its administrative capability and financial responsibility to the Secretary, the designated State postsecondary review entity designated under subpart 1 of part H of Title IV of the HEA, the appropriate guaranty agency, and accrediting agency or association. Issues that the community was asked to address and the community's views: 1. How should agencies obtain this information from institutions? •Other agencies should obtain the information through IPEDS or accrediting agency annual reports. [San Francisco] •Requests should be made in writing to the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of the institution. [Kansas City] 2. Should there be a standard information-sharing format? •There should be a standard information sharing format provided that the institution is allowed to report using its accounting system. [Kansas City] •There needs to be a standard information sharing format that can be completed readily and corresponds to the institution's fiscal year. [New York] •The Department should provide a single form that can be used for all agencies. [Atlanta] B. Section 487(a)(8)(B) requires institutions that advertise job placement rates to make available to prospective students relevant State licensing requirements for any job for which the course of instruction is designed to prepare the student. Issues that the community was asked to address and the community's views: 1. How often should institutions be required to update licensing data? •Institutions should update the data whenever State licensing agencies require that updates or regulation must occur. [San Francisco, Kansas City, Atlanta] •Information always needs to be current. [New York] 2. Should there be a standard format for providing this information to prospective students? •A typical brochure should be used to convey information to students. [San Francisco] •There should not be a standard format for providing this information to prospective students. [Kansas City, New York, Atlanta] •The institution should use the States required format for providing consumer data to students. If the Secretary requires additional information, the information should be consistent with the formats that the institution already uses. [Kansas City] C. Section 487(a)(13) provides that an institution may not deny Federal financial aid to an eligible student because the student is studying abroad in a program approved for credit by the home institution. Issues that the community was asked to address and the community's views: 1. Should a consortium agreement be required? •A consortium agreement should not be required. [Kansas City, San Francisco] •A consortium agreement should be used for pre-approved work. Institutions need to ensure that two institutions are not giving aid at the same time. [New York] •A consortium agreement should be required if the student is paying tuition at the home institution and a second institution is involved. Otherwise no consortium agreement should be required. [Atlanta] 2. Does the study-abroad program have to be part of the student's program at the home institution? •The study abroad program need not be a part of the student's program at the home institution, but must count toward a degree at the institution. [Kansas City] •The study abroad program should be a part of the student's home program. [San Francisco, Atlanta]
