FR940323-2-00069 FR940323-2-00052 [OPPT&hyph;59334; FRL 4768&hyph;6] Certain Chemicals; Approval of a Test Marketing Exemption AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice announces EPA's approval of an application for test marketing exemption (TME) under section 5(h)(1) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) and 40 CFR 720.38. EPA has designated this application as TME&hyph;94&hyph;7. The test marketing conditions are described below. EFFECTIVE DATES: March 16, 1994. Written comments will be received until April 7, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Shirley Howard, New Chemicals Branch, Chemical Control Division (7405), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, Environmental Protection Agency, Rm. E&hyph;611, 401 M St. SW., Washington, D.C. 20460, (202) 260&hyph;3780. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 5(h)(1) of TSCA authorizes EPA to exempt persons from premanufacture notification (PMN) requirements and permit them to manufacture or import new chemical substances for test marketing purposes if the Agency finds that the manufacture, processing, distribution in commerce, use, and disposal of the substances for test marketing purposes will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to human health or the environment. EPA may impose restrictions on test marketing activities and may modify or revoke a test marketing exemption upon receipt of new information which casts significant doubt on its finding that the test marketing activity will not present an unreasonable risk of injury. EPA hereby approves TME&hyph;94&hyph;7. EPA has determined that test marketing of the new chemical substance described below, under the conditions set out in the TME application, and for the time period and restrictions specified below, will not present an unreasonable risk of injury to human health or the environment. Production volume, use, and the number of customers must not exceed that specified in the application. All other conditions and restrictions described in the application and in this notice must be met. Inadvertently the notice of receipt of the application was not published. Therefore, an opportunity to submit comments is being offered at this time. The complete nonconfidential document is available in the TSCA nonconfidential information center (NCIC), Rm. ETG&hyph;102 at the above address between 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays. EPA may modify or revoke the test marketing exemption if comments are received which cast significant doubt on its finding that the test marketing activities will not present an unreasonable risk of injury. The following additional restrictions apply to TME&hyph;94&hyph;7. A bill of lading accompanying each shipment must state that the use of the substance is restricted to that approved in the TME. In addition, the applicant shall maintain the following records until 5 years after the date they are created, and shall make them available for inspection or copying in accordance with section 11 of TSCA: 1.␣ Records of the quantity of the TME substance produced and the date of manufacture. 2.␣ Records of dates of the shipments to each customer and the quantities supplied in each shipment. 3.␣ Copies of the bill of lading that accompanies each shipment of the TME substance. TME&hyph;94&hyph;7 Date of Receipt: February 2, 1994. The extended comment period will close April 7, 1994. Applicant: Toranaga Technologies, Inc. Chemical: (G) Aliphatic Ester Oligomer. Use: (G) Adhesion promoter in electrically conductive ink formulation and adhesion promoter in plastic substrate materials and coatings. Production Volume: Confidential. Number of Customers: 25. Test Marketing Period: 24 months. Commencing on first day of commercial manufacture. Risk Assessment: EPA identified no significant health or environmental concerns for the test market substance. Therefore, the test market activities will not present any unreasonable risk of injury to human health or the environment. The Agency reserves the right to rescind approval or modify the conditions and restrictions of an exemption should any new information that comes to its attention cast significant doubt on its finding that the test marketing activities will not present any unreasonable risk of injury to human health or the environment. List of Subjects Environmental protection, Test marketing exemptions. Dated: March 16, 1994. Charles M. Auer, Director, Chemical Control Division, Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6839 Filed 3&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
