FR940303-0-00042 FR940303-0-00011 (b) Election under section 42(b)(2)(A)(ii)(II) to use the appropriate percentage for the month tax-exempt bonds are issued _(1) Time and manner of making election. In the case of any building to which section 42(h)(4)(B) applies, an election under section 42(b)(2)(A)(ii)(II) to use the appropriate percentage for the month tax-exempt bonds are issued must_ (i) Be in writing; (ii) Reference section 42(b)(2)(A)(ii)(II); (iii) Specify the percentage of the aggregate basis of the building and the land on which the building is located that is financed with the proceeds of obligations described in section 42(h)(4)(A) (tax-exempt bonds); (iv) State the month in which the tax-exempt bonds are issued; (v) State that the month in which the tax-exempt bonds are issued is the month elected for the appropriate percentage to be used for the building; (vi) Be signed by the taxpayer; and (vii) Be notarized by the 5th day following the end of the month in which the bonds are issued. (2) Bonds issued in more than one month. If a building described in section 42(h)(4)(B) (substantially bond-financed building) is financed with tax-exempt bonds issued in more than one month, the taxpayer may elect the appropriate percentage for any month in which the bonds are issued. Once the election is made, the appropriate percentage elected applies for the building even if all bonds are not issued in that month. The requirements of this paragraph (b), including the time limitation contained in paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section, must also be met. (3) Limitations on appropriate percentage. Under section 42(m)(2)(D), the credit allowable for a substantially bond- financed building is limited to the amount necessary to assure the project's feasibility. Accordingly, in making the determination under section 42(m)(2), an Agency may use an applicable percentage that is less, but not greater than, the appropriate percentage for the month the building is placed in service, or the month elected by the taxpayer under section 42(b)(2)(A)(ii)(II). (4) Procedures _(i) Taxpayer. The taxpayer must provide the original notarized election statement to the Agency before the close of the 5th calendar day following the end of the month in which the bonds are issued. If an authority other than the Agency issues the tax-exempt bonds, the taxpayer must also give the Agency a signed statement from the issuing authority that certifies the information described in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section. The taxpayer must file a copy of the election statement with the taxpayer's Form 8609 for the first taxable year in which credit is claimed for the building. The taxpayer must also retain a copy of the election statement.
