FR940523-2-00090 FR940523-2-00046 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Bureau of Land Management [CO&hyph;017&hyph;94&hyph;4210&hyph;05; COC&hyph;55577] Realty Action; Recreation and Public Purposes (R&PP) Act Classification; Colorado AGENCY: Bureau of Land Management, Interior. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The following public lands in Rio Blanco County, Colorado, have been examined and found suitable for classification for conveyance to Rio Blanco County under the provisions of the Recreation and Public Purposes Act (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq. ), as amended by the Recreation and Public Purposes Amendment Act of 1988. Rio Blanco County proposes to use the lands for a solid waste landfill. Sixth Principal Meridian, Colorado T. 2N., T. 97 W., Sec. 25, NW1/4, N1/2NE1/4SW1/4, NE1/4NW1/4SW1/4; Sec. 26, E1/2E1/2NE1/4. Containing 230 acres. All minerals, excluding the oil and gas, will be conveyed concurrently with the surface estate, pursuant to section 209(b) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1719(b)). The lands are not needed for federal purposes. Conveyance is consistent with current BLM land use planning, and would be in the public interest. The patent, when issued, will be subject to the following terms, conditions, and/or reservations: 1. Provisions of the Recreation and Public Purposes Act, the Recreation and Public Purposes Amendment Act, and all applicable regulations of the Secretary of the Interior. 2. A right-of-way reservation for ditches and canals constructed by authority of the United States under the Act of August 30, 1890 (43 U.S.C. 945). 3. Rio Blanco County, its successors or assigns, assumes all liability for and shall defend, indemnify, and save harmless the United States and its officers, agents, representatives, and employees (hereinafter referred to in this clause as the United States), from all claims, loss, damage, actions, causes of action, expense, and liability (hereinafter referred to in this clause as claims) resulting from, brought for or on account of, any personal injury, threat of personal injury, or property damage received or sustained by any person or persons (including the patentee's employees) or property growing out of, occurring, or attributable directly or indirectly, to the disposal of solid waste on, or the release of hazardous substances from the above described lands, regardless of whether such claims shall be attributable to: (1) The concurrent, contributory, or partial fault, failure, or negligence of the United States, (2) the sole fault, failure, or negligence of the United States. 4. Compliance with all Federal and State laws applicable to the disposal, placement, or release of hazardous substances. 5. Title shall revert to the United States upon a finding, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, that the patentee has not substantially developed the lands in accordance with the approved plan of development on or before the date five years after the date of conveyance. No portion of the land shall under any circumstance revert to the United States if any such portion has been used for solid waste disposal or for any other purpose which may result in the disposal, placement, or release of any hazardous substance. 6. If, at any time, the patentee transfers to another party ownership of any portion of the land not used for the purpose(s) specified in the application and approved plan of development, the patentee shall pay the Bureau of Land Management the fair market value, as determined by the authorized officer, of the transferred portion as of the date of transfer, including the value of any improvements thereon. 7. Oil and gas shall be reserved to the United States, together with the right to prospect for and remove the same. 8. A reservation of title to all archaeological and paleontological resources within the above described property, together with such right of ingress and egress, and temporary occupancy as is necessary to identify, inventory, monitor, preserve, protect, mitigate, and remove any of said resources within or from the described property. No construction or other intentional surface disturbance, except emergency response, may take place on lands where identified archaeologic or paleologic sites have been identified without prior written authorization from the United States. The United States may release any or all of the described property from this reservation at any time that it determines, in consultation with the State Historic Preservation Officer, that the property being released is no longer eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places or does not contain significant archaeological or paleological resources. Detailed information concerning this action is available for review at the office of the Bureau of Land Management, White River Resource Area, 73544 Highway 64, Meeker, Colorado. Upon Publication of this notice in the Federal Register , the lands will be segregated from all forms of appropriation under the public land laws, including the general mining laws, except for conveyance under the Recreation and Public Purposes Act, conveyance under section 209(b) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act, and leasing under the mineral leasing laws. For a period of 45 days from the date of publication in the Federal Register , interested persons may submit comments regarding the proposed conveyance or classification of the lands to the District Manager, Craig District Office, 455 Emerson Street, Craig Colorado 81625. Classification Comments: Interested parties may submit comments involving the suitability of the land for solid waste landfill purposes. Comments on the classification are restricted to whether the land is physically suited for the proposal, whether the use will maximize the future use or uses of the land, whether the use is consistent with local planning and zoning, or if the use is consistent with State and Federal programs. Application Comments: Interested parties may submit comments regarding the specific use proposed in the application and plan of development, whether the BLM followed proper administrative procedures in reaching the decision, or any other factor not directly related to the suitability of the land for a solid waste landfill. Any adverse comments will be reviewed by the State Director. In the absence of any adverse comments, the classification will become effective 60 days from the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Vern Rholl, Supervisory Realty Specialist, or B. Curtis Smith, Area Manager, White River Resource Area, P.O. Box 928, Meeker, Colorado 81641, (303) 878&hyph;3601. Dated: May 11, 1994. Robert Schneider, Associate District Manager. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12545 Filed 5&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;JB&hyph;M
