FR941202-2-00212 FR941202-2-00098 Method Blank: A clean sample processed simultaneously with and under the same conditions as samples containing an analyte of interest through all steps of the analytical procedures. (Glossary of Quality Assurance Terms, QAMS, 8/31/92). Method Detection Limit (Analytical Detection Limit): The minimum concentration of a substance (an analyte) that can be measured and reported with 99% confidence that the analyte concentration is greater than zero and is determined from analysis of a sample in a given matrix containing the analyte. (40 CFR Part 136 Appendix B). National Database: A database run by the Federal Government or its authorized agent that has public information readily available to the states participating in the NELAP program. It would include information regarding the current accreditation and accreditation process and status on a laboratory by laboratory basis. NELAC: National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Conference. A voluntary organization of state and federal environmental officials and interest groups purposed primarily to establish mutually acceptable standards for accrediting environmental laboratories. A subset of NELAP. NELAP: The overall National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program of which NELAC is a part. On-site: The laboratory facility, whether fixed or mobile, in the context of actually visiting the facility for evaluation or review of its program. Reagent Blank (method reagent blank): A sample consisting of reagent(s), without the target analyte or sample matrix, introduced into the analytical procedure at the appropriate point and carried through all subsequent steps to determine the contribution of the reagents and of the involved analytical steps. (Glossary of Quality Assurance Terms, QAMS, 8/31/92). PBM: Performance Based Methods. Participating Member: A state or federal agency identified by EPA as having met all the standards for an accrediting authority to accredit environmental laboratories. Performance Evaluation Program: The aggregate of providing rigorously controlled and standardized environmental samples to a laboratory for analysis, reporting of results, statistical evaluation of the results in comparison to peer laboratories and the collective demographics and results summary of all participating laboratories. Performance Evaluation Sample (PE): A sample, the composition of which is unknown to the analyst and is provided to test whether the analyst/laboratory can produce analytical results within specified performance limits. (Glossary of Quality Assurance Terms, QAMS, 8/31/92). Precision: The degree to which a set of observations or measurements of the same property, usually obtained under similar conditions, conform to themselves; a data quality indicator. Precision is usually expressed as standard deviation, variance or range, in either absolute or relative terms. (Glossary of Quality Assurance Terms, QAMS, 8/31/92). Preservation: Refrigeration and/or reagents added at the time of sample collection to maintain the chemical and/or biological integrity of the sample. Pure Reagent Water: Water in which an interferant is not observed at the MDL of the parameters of interest. (40 CFR Part 136) Quality Assurance Plan: A written description of the laboratory's quality assurance activities.
