FR940805-1-00090 FR940805-1-00013 (d) Correspondence and telephone _(1) Regulation of correspondence. The administrator shall regulate juvenile correspondence and shall make this policy available to all staff and juveniles. The administrator shall review this policy annually and update it as needed. (2) Limitations on juvenile correspondence. When the juvenile bears the mailing cost, the administrator shall not limit the volume of letters the juvenile can send or receive. (3) Indigents' correspondence. The administrator or designee shall provide indigent juveniles with a system that enables them to send a minimum of two letters per week. (4) Inspection of letters and packages. The administrator or designee may open juvenile letters and packages, both in-coming and out-going, to inspect them for contraband. The administrator or designee shall not read, censor, or reject letters or packages except where there is reliable information that there is a threat to order and security or that they are being used to further illegal activities. The administrator or designee shall notify juveniles when in-coming or out-going letters are rejected. The administrator or designee shall deposit any cash, checks, or money orders in the juvenile's account and shall issue a receipt to both the juvenile and the sender. The administrator or designee shall forward any contraband found to the appropriate law enforcement authority. The supervisor shall forward all mail within twenty-four hours of receipt except for Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. Juveniles shall be prohibited from carrying money. (5) Privileged correspondence. The administrator shall permit juveniles to send sealed letters to specified groups of persons and organizations including, but not limited to, courts, including probation staff, counsel, officials of the confining authority, administrators of grievance systems and members of the releasing authority. Mail to juveniles from this specified class of persons and organizations shall be opened only to inspect for contraband and only in the presence of the juvenile. (6) Holding and forwarding mail. The administrator or designee shall forward or return first-class letters and packages for juveniles after transfer or release. (7) Telephone. The administrator or designee shall provide for juvenile access to telephones. (e) Visiting _(1) Visiting rules. The administrator shall establish rules for visiting, which shall provide for informal communication, including the opportunity for physical contact. (2) Number of visitors. The administrator or designee shall limit the number of visitors a juvenile may receive and the length of the visits only to the degree necessary in terms of facility schedules, space and personnel constraints except where there are substantial reasons to justify such limitations. (3) Sobriety statement. Facility visitors and volunteers shall sign a sobriety statement. The statement shall stipulate that: (i) they are not under the influence of alcohol or illegal mood-altering substances; (ii) they are not carrying such substances on their person or in their belongings; and (iii) they consent to a breath test or non-invasive search as a condition of entry, if there is probable cause. (4) Searches (visiting). The administrator or designee shall provide clear instructions to staff and juveniles concerning juvenile and visitor search procedures and the approval required for visual observations of unclothed juveniles. (5) Special visits. The administrator or designee shall provide for special visits from persons who have travelled long distances, to hospitalized juveniles and to juveniles in disciplinary status. (6) Visitor personal property. Visitors shall not bring personal property into the secure area of the facility. (7) Visitor registration. The administrator or designee shall provide for visitor registration and identification on entry into the facility. Subpart D_Adult Community Residential Facilities ยง10.31 Administration and management. (a) General administration_ (1) Mission and goals. A written statement, which shall be updated as necessary, shall describe the philosophy, goals and policies of the facility. (2) Administration of facility. An administrator, whose responsibility and authority shall be documented, shall oversee each facility. The appointment shall be based on written qualifications. (3) Organization chart. An organization chart shall describe the facility's organization and chain of command. The chart shall be updated as needed. (4) Service provider roles. A Memorandum of Agreement (MOA), which shall be updated as needed and reviewed at least annually, shall define the role and function of employees of public or private agencies providing a service to the facility. The MOA shall specify the relation of service providers to the authority and responsibility of the administrator. (5) Interagency meetings. The administrator shall conduct regular meetings between the staff of criminal justice, detention, social service, health care and community residential agencies to develop and maintain effective interagency coordination. (6) Policy and procedure manual. All employees of the facility shall have access to a policy and procedure manual and its supporting documents. The Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, shall approve the manual and its supporting documents, which shall provide for the implementation of these standards and shall direct documentation of compliance. The administrator shall update the manual as needed and review it annually. (7) Dissemination of policy and procedure. The administrator shall disseminate approved, new or revised policies and procedures to designated staff, volunteers and, where appropriate, residents prior to implementation. Staff shall review and indicate in writing that they understand the content of policies and procedures prior to their implementation. (8) Channels of communication. The administrator or designee shall regularly disseminate information to staff prior to the beginning of their shift.
