FR941117-0-00083 FR941117-0-00011 ยง22.150 Standard pre-filing technical coordination procedure. For operations on certain channels in the Public Mobile Services, carriers must attempt to coordinate the proposed use of spectrum with other spectrum users prior to filing an application for authority to operate a station. Rules requiring this procedure for specific channels and types of stations are contained in the subparts governing the individual Public Mobile Services. (a) Coordination comprises two steps_notification and response. Each step may be accomplished orally or in writing. (b) Notification must include relevant technical details of the proposal. At minimum, this should include the following: (1) Geographical coordinates of the antenna site(s). (2) Transmitting and receiving channels to be added or changed. (3) Transmitting power, emission type and polarization. (4) Transmitting antenna pattern and maximum gain. (5) Transmitting antenna height above ground level. (c) Applicants and licensees receiving notification must respond promptly, even if no channel usage conflicts are anticipated. If any notified party fails to respond within 30 days, the applicant may file the application without a response from that party. (d) The 30-day period begins on the date of receipt of the notification by the party being notified. If the notification is by mail, this date may be ascertained by: (1) The return receipt on certified mail, (2) The enclosure of a card to be dated and returned by the party being notified, or (3) A reasonable estimate of the time required for the mail to reach its destination. In this case, the date when the 30-day period will expire must be stated in the notification. (e) All channel usage conflicts discovered during the coordination process should be resolved prior to filing of the application. If the applicant is unable or unwilling to resolve a particular conflict, the application may be accepted for filing if it contains a statement describing the unresolved conflict and a brief explanation of the reasons why a resolution was not achieved. (f) If a number of changes in the technical parameters of a proposed facility become necessary during the course of the coordination process, an attempt should be made to minimize the number of separate notifications. If the changes are incorporated into a completely revised notice, the items that were changed from the previous notice should be identified. (g) In situations where subsequent changes are not numerous or complex, the party receiving the changed notification should make an effort to respond in less than 30 days. If the applicant believes a shorter response time is reasonable and appropriate, it should so indicate in the notice and suggest a response date. (h) If a subsequent change in the technical parameters of a proposed facility could not affect the facilities of one or more of the parties that received an initial notification, the applicant is not required to coordinate that change with these parties. However, these parties must be advised of the change and of the opinion that coordination is not required. ยง22.157 Distance computation. The method given in this section must be used to compute the distance between any two locations, except that, for computation of distance involving stations in Canada and Mexico, methods for distance computation specified in the applicable international agreement, if any, must be used instead. The method set forth in this paragraph is considered to be sufficiently accurate for distances not exceeding 475 km (295 miles). (a) Convert the latitudes and longitudes of each reference point from degree-minute-second format to degree-decimal format by dividing minutes by 60 and seconds by 3600, then adding the results to degrees. E:GRAPHICSER17NO94.000 (b) Calculate the mean geodetic latitude between the two reference points by averaging the two latitudes: E:GRAPHICSER17NO94.001 (c) Calculate the number of kilometers per degree latitude difference for the mean geodetic latitude calculated in paragraph (b) of this section as follows: E:GRAPHICSER17NO94.002 (d) Calculate the number of kilometers per degree of longitude difference for the mean geodetic latitude calculated in paragraph (b) of this section as follows: E:GRAPHICSER17NO94.003 (e) Calculate the North-South distance in kilometers as follows: E:GRAPHICSER17NO94.004 (f) Calculate the East-West distance in kilometers as follows: E:GRAPHICSER17NO94.005 (g) Calculate the distance between the locations by taking the square root of the sum of the squares of the East-West and North-South distances: E:GRAPHICSER17NO94.006 (h) Terms used in this section are defined as follows: (1) LAT1 dd and LON1 dd are the coordinates of the first location in degree-decimal format. (2) LAT2 dd and LON2 dd are the coordinates of the second location in degree-decimal format. (3) ML is the mean geodetic latitude in degree-decimal format. (4) KPD lat is the number of kilometers per degree of latitude at a given mean geodetic latitude. (5) KPD lon is the number of kilometers per degree of longitude at a given mean geodetic latitude. (6) NS is the North-South distance in kilometers.
