FR941116-0-00109 FR941116-0-00022 (1) Sets forth the amendments provided by the 1993 Act, (2) Includes provisions from policy set forth for county ASCS offices, (3) Provides the rules for incomplete performance based on information provided by a representative of the Secretary, failure to fully comply, the Options Pilot Program, and the VPLP, (4) Makes minor editorial changes, and (5) Revises many of the sections for clarity. Discussion of Changes A. 7 CFR Part 718, Determination of Acreage and Compliance Section 718.10␣State Committee (STC) Responsibilities This section has been amended to allow STC's to set a per acre rate for acres in excess of 25 acres to reflect the cost involved nationally in performing measurement service from photographic slides, and to provide for the cost of furnishing reproductions of aerial photographs. Section 718.12␣Authority for Farm Entry and Securing Information This section has been amended to provide that a farm operator has 15 days to reply to the county office after receiving notice of refusal to permit entry and inspection on the farm. Section 718.21␣Measurement Services This section has been amended to include the requirements that must be met in order to keep the measurement service guarantee when a measurement service reveals acreage in excess of the permitted acreage. Section 718.22␣Acreage Reports This section has been revised to include provisions for destroying small grain acreage beyond the crop disposition date by haying and grazing, and to provide the name and number of the form on which producers report their acreage and land uses. Section 718.24␣Revised Reports This section had been amended to include the provisions for revising acreage reports for farms enrolled in the ARP, provisions for items that cannot be revised, when the revision adversely affects the program, provisions for releasing excess acreage conservation reserve (ACR) resulting from an acreage determination, and provisions for substituting acreage for previously reported ACR. Section 718.25␣Reporting out of Compliance This section has been amended to add available flex acreage to the maximum permitted acreage when determining if producers are in compliance with acreage planting restrictions. Section 718.26␣Farm Inspections This section has been amended to provide that producers that have an interest in a farm and are a warehouse operator, manager, or dealer are no longer required spot checks. This section also provides for required spot checks for farms on which there is unmarketed tobacco. Section 718.40␣Tolerance and Variance Rules Applicability This section has been amended to provide tolerance provisions for corn and grain sorghum acreage enrolled in the production adjustment programs, and to increase the tolerance to the larger of 1.0 acre or 5 percent not to exceed 50 acres. Section 718.42␣Skip Rows and Strip Crops This section has been amended to provide for determining a farm's history of planting 32-inch rows when producers have the option to consider the crop as either solid planted or skip row, and to include row widths that are wider than 32 inches when providing producers the option to consider the crop as either solid planted or skip row. Section 718.43␣Deductions This section has been amended to clarify that, for areas not devoted to the crop or land use that are located within the planted area, the part of any perimeter area that is more than 33 links in width shall be an internal deduction if the standard deduction is used. Section 718.45␣Notice of Measured Acreage This section had been revised to provide the number and name of the form on which written notice of measured acreage is provided to interested producers on the farm. Section 718.47␣Redeterminations This section has been amended by removing verbiage that the redetermination is final and is not appealable under part 780 of this chapter. When the 1990 Act established the National Appeals Division, all decisions and redeterminations made by STC's and County Committees (COC's) became appealable.
