FR940429-2-00132 FR940429-2-00089 Indicators of clear and documented evidence are: (i) There is a separate match letter on letterhead of the provider from each provider of match; (ii) Match letters show committed dollar levels at least equal to the dollar level in the first year budget; (iii) The match items provided are firm commitments not contingent upon any other action (e.g., state or county legislation, board of directors or local county legislation/approval); and (iv) For match other than in-kind, the required certification for new or expanded services is included. c. It has not submitted a participant fee-collection plan that proposes to collect at least 10 percent of the cost of the CHSP (up to 20 percent of adjusted incomes or the cost of providing the services, whichever is less). d. The proposal includes a retrofit or renovation component in the budget subject to section 802(a)(2) of the Act. e. The meals program does not provide at least one hot meal a day in a group setting SEVEN days a week, for some or all of the participants. (The meals program may be an existing program; it may be funded fully or in part with funds other than the CHSP.) f. A service coordinator is NOT included as part of the services program. (The coordinator may be paid fully or in part from funds other than the CHSP.) g. There is: _A pending civil rights suit against the applicant (or project owner, if different) brought by the Department of Justice; _An outstanding finding of non-compliance as a result of formal administrative proceedings under any of the statutes, regulations, or other requirements listed in the civil rights certification, unless the applicant is operating under a HUD-approved compliance agreement designed to correct the area(s) of noncompliance, or, in cases of noncompliance with state or local statutes, regulations or other requirements, is operating under a compliance agreement approved by the appropriate state or local agency designed to correct the area(s) of non-compliance. _A charge issued by the Secretary concerned against the applicant (or project owner, if different) under Section 810(g) of the Fair Housing Act as implemented by 24 CFR 103.400. _A pending denial of application processing by HUD or by FmHA under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, under the Attorney General's guidelines (28 CFR 50.3), or the HUD Title VI regulations (24 CFR 1.8) and procedures (HUD Handbook 8040.1), or under Section 504 of the rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the HUD Section 504 regulations (24 CFR 8.57); or, _An adjudication adverse to the applicant (or the project owner, if different) of a civil rights violation in a civil action brought against it under any of the statutes, regulations or other requirements listed in the civil rights certification, unless the sponsor is operating in compliance with a court order designed to correct the area(s) of noncompliance. h. There exist serious, unaddressed or outstanding Inspector General audit findings or HUD Headquarters/Field Office/FmHA State Office Management monitoring review findings for any of the applicant's (or project's, if different) ongoing management operations or in connection with its administration of existing grants; i. There exist serious, unaddressed or outstanding Inspector General audit findings or HUD Headquarters/Field Office/FmHA State Office FH&EO monitoring review findings for any of the applicant's (or project's, if different) ongoing management operations or in connection with its administration of existing grants; or, j. The applicant (or project owner, if different) is involved with litigation which could seriously jeopardize its ability to administer the CHSP. If an applicant (or project within an application) is determined to be the subject of a rejection on the basis of one or more of the above criteria, the HUD field office or FmHA Headquarters staff shall reject the application; the review cannot be completed nor the application scored. If the applicant agency is a governmental jurisdiction supporting one or more projects in multiple applications and the applicant agency is rejected, all projects submitted by that applicant agency will be disqualified. However, any individual project may be rejected without disqualifying the applicant agency, if a different legal entity. All applicants whose application(s) have been rejected by HUD field offices or FmHA Headquarters will be notified that they have been rejected, in writing, at the time the decision to reject is made. 4. Third, applicants will be reviewed for technical completeness (deficiency review). During the technical review process, if HUD or FmHA determines that an application is missing up to two exhibits (other than certifications), or has certain technical deficiencies, the applicant will be given 14 calendar days from the date of written notification in which to correct such deficiencies. The purpose of this process is to assist an applicant in completing a fundable proposal, and not to provide an opportunity for an application to be substantively improved, once it has been submitted. Curable, technical deficiencies relate to submission of a limited number of missing items, submission of items that are not necessary for HUD review under threshold review or selection criteria/ranking factors, e.g., a missing certification, inadvertent blank spot in certain forms and certifications or missing signature; substantive items for which information exists elsewhere in the application showing that the items have been created (e.g., an annual first year budget summary is missing, but there are sufficient program budgets to determine what the annual budget is; or revision of match letters to include missing data, when the amount of resources is clearly indicated); or, missing match letters in certain instances (see next paragraph). Submission of missing items or correction of technical deficiencies does not allow additional time to complete, amend or correct the application to overcome any substantive defects in the original submission. Thus, missing match letters, or corrected match letters adding the required certification of new or expanded qualifying resources must be submitted together with proof that the match was available to the applicant on or before the application deadline (e.g., copy of dated Board resolution approving the allocation of the match dollars). Also, missing documents dealing with applicant or project eligibility (e.g., articles of incorporation) must be dated on or before the application deadline date. The HUD Field Office or FmHA Headquarters will request documents as necessary to correct technical deficiencies in any CHSP application. (A FAX copy of an original document may NOT be submitted to meet any technical deficiency correction request.) A response to a letter request from HUD or FmHA to an applicant for correction of technical deficiencies must be received by the requesting HUD Field Office/FmHA Headquarters, by 3 p.m., Local Time on the 14th calendar day following the date on the request letter to the applicant. This means (for example) that if the deficiency letter to the applicant is dated June 15, 1994, the response must be received by 3 p.m., Local Time, in the HUD Field Office or FmHA Headquarters on June 29, 1994. Information provided after 3 p.m. on the fourteenth day of the correction period will be rejected as non-responsive. In any such situation, the application, or the appropriate project, will be rejected. All applicants are encouraged to review the Table of Contents provided in the application package. The Table of Contents identifies all technical exhibits needed for application processing. Filling in the appropriate page number indicates that the exhibit has been prepared. 5. HUD/FmHA reserves the right to reduce the amount of funding requested in any application. Examples of reasons to reduce initial funding requests during HUD Field office/FmHA Headquarters review include, but are not limited to: (a) activities proposed in any project are not eligible or not approved by HUD or FmHA; (b) HUD or FmHA determines that the cost of any particular component of a proposed program is more than necessary to make the activity feasible; and, (c) the cost of the grant is reduced to meet the funding limits of Section I.C(5). Reductions may take place in the Field offices as part of the review process. 6. Once threshold and technical reviews have been completed, HUD Field offices, or the FmHA Headquarters (as appropriate) will score all selection criteria. HUD Field offices will send preliminary scores and full reports to the HUD Regional offices. The Regional offices will: (a) Review all materials and preliminary ratings for accuracy and conformance to program policy; (b) make corrections, if necessary; (c) integrate the Field Office recommendations; (d) do final rating and ranking; and, (e) select projects. Within each HUD Regional allocation and the FmHA Headquarters allocation, applications will be rank-ordered by score.
