FR941205-2-00003 FR941205-2-00002 Request for nominations to three Advisory Committees serving the Klamath, Northwest Sacramento, and California Coast Provinces AGENCY: Forest Service. ACTION: Request for nominations of people to serve on one of three PIEC Advisory Committees for the Klamath, Northwest Sacramento, or California Coast Provinces. SUMMARY: The interagency groups responsible for implementing the President's Forest Plan in the Klamath, Northwest Sacramento and California Coast Provinces are forming three advisory committees to obtain advice and recommendations from agencies and interested publics. DATES: The due date for receipt of nominations is December 30, 1994. For Further Information Contact: Individuals with questions about the process or wishing to submit nominations for one of the provincial advisory committees should contact one of the following for a nomination packet: Northwest Sacramento Province: Duane Lyon, Shasta Trinity National Forests, (916) 246&hyph;5499. Nominations can be submitted by FAX to (916) 246&hyph;5045. Klamath Province: Virginia Bracken, Klamath National Forest, (916) 842&hyph;6131. Nominations can be submitted by FAX to (916) 842&hyph;6327. California Coast: Dan Chisholm, Forest Supervisor, Mendocino National Forest, (916) 934&hyph;3316. Nominations can be submitted by FAX to (916) 934&hyph;7384. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: There will be a total of 12 province advisory committees in northern California, Oregon and Washington working with federal agencies to implement the President's Forest Plan on federal lands in the Pacific Northwest. ``These advisory committees will help us work with the people as we move forward with ecosystem management,'' said Pacific Northwest Regional Forester John Lowe who is coordinating the effort for national forests in northern California, Oregon and Washington. ``These committees will supplement our regular public involvement efforts to help us make decisions that serve people and care for the land. We're eager to begin the dialogue.'' Each advisory committee will provide advice to the respective Province Interagency Executive Committee (PIEC) regarding implementation of a comprehensive ecosystem management strategy for federal lands within the province. While boundaries of the provinces include whole river drainages for broad ecosystem planning, the purpose of the advisory committees is to assist in implementing the President's Forest Plan, which is limited to federal lands within the range of the northern spotted owl. Therefore, preference for positions on the committees will likely be to individuals, agencies and groups most directly associated with those federal lands involved with the northern spotted owl. Map for geographic boundaries of each province included in nomination packet information. Each advisory committee will consist of no more than 29 members from the following entities. State, local and tribal governments. Public interest groups: to include representatives of environmental interests; different sectors of the forest products industry; and the recreation and tourism sectors. The committees may also include representatives of the following interests: fish, wildlife, forestry conservation organizations, special forest products, mining, grazing, and commercial fishing or charter fishing boat industry. All advisory committee meetings will be open to the public. Interested citizens may request time on the agenda to address the committee. All papers and documents used by the committee, including meeting minutes, will be available to the public. Applicants must be United States citizens, at least 18 years old, and will be recommended for appointment based on their personal knowledge of local and regional resource issues, and understanding of public land uses and activities; willingness to work toward mutually beneficial solutions to complex issues; respect and credibility in local communities; and commitment to attending advisory committee meetings held for the province. Advisory committee members must be willing to travel to meetings held throughout the provinces. Members will serve without pay, but reimbursement of travel and per diem is allowed for attendance at meetings called by the Chairperson of the advisory committee. Regional Forester John Lowe will consult with other agency leaders to decide who will be on the 12 province advisory committees. The first meetings of the advisory committees will be held early in 1995 and the frequency thereafter will be determined by each committee. Advisory committee recommendations are not legally binding and will not supersede the legally established decision authority granted to the federal agencies involved. Dated: November 22, 1994. Stephen Fitch, Forest Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29605 Filed 12&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
