FR940418-0-00052 FR940418-0-00012 §5.1 Establishment and appointment. From time to time the Board may establish by resolution special and standing committees of one or more members of the Board. The Board shall specify, in the resolution establishing any committee, whether the committee is authorized to submit recommendations or preliminary decisions to the Board, to conduct hearings for the Board, or otherwise to take action on behalf of the Board. Each committee may exercise only those duties, functions, and powers prescribed from time to time by the Board, and the Board may affirm, alter, or revoke any action of any committee. Each member of the Board may have access to all of the information and records of any committee at any time. The Chairman of the Board shall appoint the chairman and members of each committee, who serve terms which expire at the end of each annual meeting. Each committee chairman may assign responsibilities to members of the committee that are considered appropriate. The committee chairman, or the chairman's designee, shall preside at all meetings of the committee. §5.2 Committee procedure. Each committee establishes its own rules of procedure, consistent with these bylaws, and meets as provided in its rules. A majority of the members of a committee constitute a quorum, and may take action by majority vote of the members present. Except as specifically provided by statute, every portion of every meeting of every committee of more than one member, which is authorized to submit recommendations or preliminary decisions to the Board, to conduct hearings for the Board, or otherwise to take action on behalf of the Board, is open to public observation, and is subject to the requirements of §§7.1 through 7.8 of these bylaws. PART 6_MEETINGS (ARTICLE VI) Sec. 6.1␣Regular meetings, annual meeting. 6.2␣Special meetings. 6.3␣Notice of meetings. 6.4␣Attendance by conference telephone call. 6.5␣Minutes of meetings. 6.6␣Quorum and voting. Authority: 39 U.S.C. 202, 205, 401(2), (10), 1003, 3013; 5 U.S.C 552b (e), (g). §6.1 Regular meetings, annual meeting. The Board shall meet regularly each month and shall meet normally on the first Monday and Tuesday of each month. The first regular meeting of each calendar year is designated as the annual meeting. Consistent with the provisions of §7.5 of these bylaws, the time or place of a regular or annual meeting may be varied by a recorded unanimous vote of the entire membership of the Board, with the earliest practicable notice to the Secretary. The Secretary shall distribute to the members an agenda setting forth the proposed subject matter for any regular or annual meeting in advance of the meeting. §6.2␣Special meetings. Consistent with the provisions of §7.5 of these bylaws, the Chairman may call a special meeting of the Board at any place in the United States, with not less than 8 days' notice to the other members of the Board and to the Secretary, specifying the time, date, place, and subject matter of the meeting. By recorded vote a majority of the members of the Board may call a special meeting of the Board at any place in the United States, with the earliest practicable notice to the other members of the Board and to the Secretary, specifying the time, date, place and subject matter of the meeting. §6.3 Notice of meetings. The Chairman or the members of the Board may give the notice required under §6.1 or §6.2 of these bylaws in oral or written form. Oral notice to a member may be delivered by telephone and is sufficient if made to the member personally or to a responsible person in the member's home or office. Any oral notice to a member must be subsequently confirmed by written notice. Written notice to a member may be delivered by telegram or by mail sent by the fastest regular delivery method addressed to the member's address of record filed with the Secretary, and except for written notice confirming a previous oral notice, must be sent in sufficient time to reach that address at least 2 days before the meeting date under normal delivery conditions. A member waives notice of any meeting by attending the meeting, and may otherwise waive notice of any meeting at any time. Neither oral nor written notice to the Secretary is sufficient until actually received by the Secretary. The Secretary may not waive notice of any meeting. §6.4 Attendance by conference telephone call. Unless prohibited by law or by these bylaws, a member of the Board may participate in a meeting of the Board by conference telephone or similar communication equipment which enables all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other and which permits full compliance with the provisions of these bylaws concerning public observation of meetings. Attendance at a meeting by this method constitutes presence at the meeting, except that no Governor may receive compensation for any meeting attended in this manner. §6.5 Minutes of meetings. The Secretary shall preserve the minutes of Board meetings prepared under §4.7 of these bylaws. After the minutes of any meeting are approved by the Board, the Secretary shall promptly make available to the public, in the Communications Department at Postal Service Headquarters, or in another place easily accessible to the public, copies of the minutes, except for those portions which contain information inappropriate for public disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552(b) or 39 U.S.C. 410(c). §6.6 Quorum and voting. As provided by 39 U.S.C. 205(c), the Board acts by resolution upon a majority vote of those members who are present. No proxies are allowed in any vote of the members of the Board. Any 6 members constitute a quorum for the transaction of business by the Board, except: (a) In the appointment or removal of the Postmaster General, and in setting the compensation of the Postmaster General and Deputy Postmaster General, 39 U.S.C. 205(c)(1) requires a favorable vote of an absolute majority of the Governors in office; (b) In the appointment or removal of the Deputy Postmaster General, 39 U.S.C. 205(c)(2) requires a favorable vote of an absolute majority of the Governors in office and the Postmaster General;
