FR940713-2-00159 FR940713-2-00095 Discussion: The Secretary acknowledges the unique circumstances surrounding education and vocational training programs for incarcerated and detained individuals. This competition, however, is specifically designed to include all criminal offenders including those in community corrections settings and, therefore, does not exclude State systems that separate custody from instruction, as long as a private sector entity is involved in the proposed project as well. Changes: None. Definitions Comments: One commenter requested that the definition of ``community corrections'' be expanded to include individuals who may not be under the supervision of a parole or probation officer and are in the community, e.g., halfway house residents, pre-release residents, or work release program participants. Discussion: Under the absolute priority, individuals under the supervision of the criminal justice system, including halfway house residents, pre-release residents and work release program participants, are eligible to be served. (34 CFR 400.4 defines ``criminal offender'' as any individual who is charged with, or convicted of, any criminal offense, including a youth offender or a juvenile offender and ``correctional institution'' as any prison, jail, reformatory, work farm, detention center, or halfway house, community-based rehabilitation center, or any other similar institution designed for the confinement or rehabilitation of criminal offenders.) Only invitational priority 2_community corrections is limited to criminal offenders under the supervision of a parole or probation officer. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter suggested that the definition of ``life skills'' be aligned with the recommendations in a report issued by the Department of Labor, the Secretary's Commission on Achieving Necessary Skills (SCANS). The commenter suggested that the life skills definition be expanded to include a number of basic, thinking, interpersonal, and resource management skills including moral, social and religious values, managing personal finances, and human resources management. Discussion: The definition of ``life skills'' is consistent with many of the workplace competencies identified in SCANS. In this notice, ``life skills'' is broadly defined to include self-development, communication, job development, and education; however, certain limitations do exist. For example, ``life skills'' does not include moral, social and religious values, personal finances, and human resource management because these activities are not the types of assistance that are necessary for the success of projects that address the absolute priority established in this notice. Therefore, these are not included in the definition of ``life skills.'' Changes: None. Selection Criteria Comments: One commenter believed the State's colleges would be ineligible for assistance under the priority because the ``Program Factors'' selection criterion rewards correctional education programs that provide learning situated at worksite locations outside of institutions and requires interdisciplinary staff in-service education that includes security personnel. Discussion: The purpose of this competition is to demonstrate successful cooperation between the private sector and public agencies in vocational education programs, and to provide transition from correctional education programs to productive employment. This includes, among other things, work experience or employment based learning programs. The priority and selection criteria, however, do not stipulate where the work experience is to occur or how it may be accomplished, thus allowing the applicant creativity and flexibility in developing a model. Interdisciplinary staff in-service education involving security personnel is an important component found in comprehensive correctional education programs already funded by the Department of Education and, for this reason, is reflected in the selection criteria. Such interaction supports team building and an education system that is mutually beneficial to both education and corrections staff. Changes: None. Other Requirements Comments: Two commenters expressed concern regarding the requirement that projects funded under this competition not spend more than 10 percent of their grant funds for equipment. The commenters indicated that the Secretary's invitational priority for applications that incorporate the use of interactive instructional technologies, such as distance learning, in the context of both student learning and staff in-service training, would require a substantial investment in equipment. Discussion: The Secretary believes that limiting the amount of Federal funds used to purchase equipment to a maximum of 10 percent is appropriate for this competition. The Secretary also emphasizes that, while the use of Federal funds for equipment is limited to not more than 10 percent, matching funds may be used for this purpose. The primary purpose of this competition is to enhance, expand, and demonstrate successful training programs. If more than 10 percent of the Federal funds were to be used to purchase equipment, the intended purpose of the projects would be diminished. This restriction will help ensure that the funds available are used where they are needed most to train students. Projects funded under the Cooperative Demonstration Program must be capable of wide replication. If a large percentage of Federal funds are used to purchase equipment, the possibilities for replication become limited. The Secretary therefore, believes it is necessary to limit the use of Federal funds for equipment purchases, to ensure that project replication is possible and to improve accountability of funds for direct training of students. Changes: None.
