FR940104-1-00036 FR940104-1-00009 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 49 CFR Part 571 [Docket No. 93&hyph;94; Notice 1] RIN 2127&hyph;AE47 Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards; Antilock Brake Systems for Light Vehicles AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), DOT. ACTION: Advance notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration Authorization Act of 1991 directs this agency to initiate rulemaking to consider the need for any additional brake performance standards for passenger cars, including antilock brake standards. Pursuant to this mandate, the agency is issuing this notice to obtain responses to questions regarding the braking performance of passenger cars and other light vehicles and the need to require antilock brake systems on these vehicles. This notice poses questions about the desirability of a requirement that light vehicles be equipped with antilock brake systems (ABS), including questions about such a requirement's anticipated safety benefits, potential regulatory approaches and anticipated performance requirements and test procedures, the requirement's applicability, its schedule for implementation, and the anticipated costs. DATES: Comments on this notice must be received on or before March 7, 1994. ADDRESSES: All comments on this notice should refer to the docket and notice number and be submitted to the following: Docket Section, room 5109, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590 (Docket hours 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m.) FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. George Soodoo, Office of Crash Avoidance, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590 (202) 366&hyph;5892. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Table of Contents I. Background A. Existing and Proposed Standards B. Statutory Mandates C. Antilock Brake Systems D. Current Size of ABS Market II. NHTSA Activities Related to Braking Performance III. Issues for Possible Agency Action A. Overview of the Issues B. Safety Need C. Regulatory Approaches to Improving the Lateral Stability and Control of Light Vehicles D. Test Procedures E. Test Conditions F. Varieties of ABSs Permissible Under Potential Proposals G. Implementation H. Costs Associated with Potential Proposals IV. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices A. DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures B. Executive Order 12612 (Federalism) I. Background A. Existing and Proposed Standards Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 105, Hydraulic Brake Systems, specifies requirements for vehicles equipped with hydraulic brake systems. (49 CFR 571.105). Standard No. 105 applies to all vehicles except motorcycles that are equipped with hydraulic brakes. It has specific requirements which apply to passenger cars and to vehicles other than passenger cars with a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) (1) equal to or less than 10,000 pounds and (2) greater than 10,000 pounds. 1 The Standard's purpose is to ensure safe braking performance under normal and emergency conditions. The Standard includes a variety of performance requirements that evaluate a vehicle's service brake system in terms of stopping distance, partial failure, fade and recovery, water recovery, and spike stops. It also sets forth requirements related to a vehicle's parking brake performance. 1 This document will refer to passenger cars and other vehicles with a GVWR of 10,000 pounds or less (e.g., light trucks and vans and multipurpose passenger vehicles) as ``light vehicles.'' Where necessary to refer to passenger cars, ``passenger cars'' will be used, and where necessary to refer to vehicles with a GVWR of 10,000 pounds or less other than passenger cars, ``other light vehicles'' will be used.
