FR941128-1-00034 FR941128-1-00005 f. Source-Receptor Relationships HGSYSTEM estimates the expected area of exposure to concentrations above user-specified threshold values. By imposing conservation of mass, momentum and energy the concentration, density, speed and temperature are evaluated as a function of downwind distance. g. Plume Behavior 1. HFPLUME and PLUME: (1) are steady-state models assuming a top-hat profile with cross-section averaged plume variables; and (2) the momentum equation is taken into account for horizontal ambient shear, gravity, ground collision, gravity-slumping pressure forces and ground-surface drag. 2. HEGADAS: assumes the heavy cloud to move with the ambient wind speed, and adopts a power-law fit of the ambient wind speed for the velocity profile. 3. PGPLUME: simulates the passive-gas dispersion downwind of a transition point from HFPLUME or PLUME for steady-state and finite duration releases. h. Horizontal Winds A power law fit of the ambient wind speed is used. i. Vertical Wind Speed Not treated. j. Horizontal Dispersion 1. HFPLUME and PLUME: Plume dilution is caused by air entrainment resulting from high plume speeds, trailing vortices in wake of falling plume (before touchdown), ambient turbulence and density stratification. Plume dispersion is assumed to be steady and momentum-dominated, and effects of downwind diffusion and wind meander (averaging time) are not taken into account. 2. HEGADAS: This model adopts a concentration similarity profile expressed in terms of an unknown center-line ground-level concentration and unknown vertical/cross-wind dispersion parameters. These quantities are determined from a number of basic equations describing gas-mass conservation, air entrainment (empirical law describing vertical top-entrainment in terms of global Richardson number), cross-wind gravity spreading (initial gravity spreading followed by gravity-current collapse) and cross-wind diffusion (Briggs formula). 3. PGPLUME: It assumes a Gaussian concentration profile in which the cross-wind and vertical dispersion coefficients are determined by empirical expressions. All unknown parameters in this profile are determined by imposing appropriate matching criteria at the transition point. k. Vertical Dispersion See description above. l. Chemical Transformation Not treated. m. Physical Removal Not treated. n. Evaluation Studies 1. PLUME has been validated against field data for releases of liquified propane, and wind tunnel data for buoyant and vertically-released dense plumes. HFPLUME and PLUME have been validated against field data for releases of HF (Goldfish experiments) and propane releases. In addition, the plume rise algorithms have been tested against Hoot, Meroney, and Peterka, Ooms and Petersen databases. HEGADAS has been validated against steady and transient releases of liquid propane and LNG over water (Maplin Sands field data), steady and finite-duration pressurized releases of HF (Goldfish experiments; linked with HFPLUME), instantaneous release of Freon (Thorney Island field data; linked with the box model HEGABOX) and wind tunnel data for steady, isothermal dispersion. 2. The validation studies are contained in the following references: McFarlane, K., Prothero, A., Puttock, J.S., Roberts, P.T. and Witlox, H.W.M., 1990. Development and validation of atmospheric dispersion models for ideal gases and hydrogen fluoride, Part I: Technical Reference Manual. Report TNER.90.015. Thornton Research Centre, Shell Research, Chester, England. [EGG 1067&hyph;1151] (NTIS No. DE 93&hyph;000953) Witlox, H.W.M., McFarlane, K., Rees, F.J., and Puttock, J.S., 1990. Development and validation of atmospheric dispersion models for ideal gases and hydrogen fluoride, Part II: HGSYSTEM Program User's Manual. Report TNER.90.016. Thornton Research Centre, Shell Research, Chester, England. [EGG 1067&hyph;1152] (NTIS No. DE 93&hyph;000954) B.33␣SLAB Reference Ermak, D.L., 1990. User's Manual for SLAB: An Atmospheric Dispersion Model for Denser-than-Air Releases (UCRL&hyph;MA&hyph;105607), Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. Availability 1. The computer code is available on the Support Center for Regulatory Air Models Bulletin Board System (Upload/Download Area; see page B&hyph;1), and can also be obtained from: Energy Science and Technology Center, P.O. Box 1020, Oak Ridge, TN 37830, (615) 576&hyph;2606
