FR940603-2-00046 FR940603-2-00037 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Agency for Health Care Policy and Research Requests for Nominations of Members of Clinical Practice; Guideline Panel on Acute Myocardial Infarction The Agency for Health Care Policy and Research (AHCPR) has announced a request for proposals and intends to award a contract to a non-profit organization to develop a clinical practice guideline and to develop related medical review criteria, standards of quality, and performance measures for Acute Myocardial Infarction. The contractor will establish a panel of health care experts and consumers to assist in developing a clinical practice guideline on Acute Myocardial Infarction and to assist in developing medical review criteria, standards of quality, and performance measures. The AHCPR, on behalf of the contractor, invites nominations of qualified individuals to serve as chairperson(s) and members of the panel. Background The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1989 (Pub. L. 101&hyph;239) added a new title IX to the Public Health Service Act (the Act), which established the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research (AHCPR) to enhance the quality, appropriateness, and effectiveness of health care services, and access to such services. (See 42 U.S.C. 299&hyph;299c-6 and 1320b-12.) The Agency for Health Care Policy and Research Reauthorization Act of 1992 (Pub. L. 102&hyph;410), enacted on October 13, 1992, extended the authorization of AHCPR and amended certain provisions related to the development of clinical practice guidelines. In keeping with its legislative mandates, AHCPR is arranging for the development, periodic review, and updating of clinically relevant guidelines that may be used by physicians, other health care practitioners, educators, and consumers to assist in determining how diseases, disorders, and other health conditions can most effectively and appropriately be prevented, diagnosed, treated, and clinically managed. Medical review criteria, standards of quality, and performance measures are then developed based on the guidelines produced. Section 912 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 299b-1(b)), as amended by Public Law 102&hyph;410, requires that the guidelines: 1. Be based on the best available research and professional judgment; 2. Be presented in formats appropriate for use by physicians, other health care practitioners, medical educators, medical review organizations, and consumers; 3. Be presented in treatment-specific or condition-specific forms appropriate for use in clinical practice, educational programs, and reviewing quality and appropriateness of medical care; 4. Include information on the risks and benefits of alternative strategies for prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and management of the particular health condition(s); and 5. Include information on the costs of alternative strategies for prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and management of the particular health condition(s), where cost information is available and reliable. Section 913 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 299b-2) describes two mechanisms through which AHCPR can arrange for development of guidelines: 1. Panels of qualified experts and health care consumers may be convened; and 2. Contracts may be awarded to public and private non-profit organizations. The AHCPR has elected to use the contract process for development of a clinical practice guideline on Acute Myocardial Infarction. Section 914 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 299b-3(a)), as amended by Public Law 102&hyph;410, identifies factors to be considered in establishing priorities for guidelines, including the extent to which the guidelines would:
