FR940826-1-00055 FR940826-1-00008 16. A new ยง413.190 is added to read as follows: ยง413.190 Payment exception: Self-dialysis training costs. (a) To qualify for an exception to the prospective payment rate based on self-dialysis training costs, the facility must establish that it incurs per treatment costs for furnishing self-dialysis and home dialysis training that exceed the facility's payment rate for such training sessions. (b) To justify its exception request, a facility must_ (1) Separately identify those elements contributing to its costs in excess of the composite training rate; and (2) Demonstrate that its per treatment costs are reasonable and allowable. (c) HCFA considers the facility's total costs, cost finding and apportionment, including its allocation of costs, to determine if costs are properly reported by treatment modality. (d) Exception requests for a higher training rate are limited to those cost components relating to training such as technical staff, medical supplies, and the special costs of education (manuals and education material) and do not generally include overhead and other indirect costs. (e) Documentation: The facility must provide the following information to support its exception request: (1) A copy of the facility's training program. (2) Computation of the facility's cost per treatment for maintenance sessions and training sessions including an explanation of the cost difference between the two modalities. (3) Class size and patients' training schedules. (4) Number of training sessions required, by treatment modality, to train patients. (5) Number of patients trained for the current year and the prior 2 years on a monthly basis. (6) Projection for the next 12 months of future training candidates. (7) The number and qualifications of staff at training sessions. (f) Accelerated training exception: (1) An ESRD facility may bill Medicare for a dialysis training session only when a patient receives a dialysis treatment (which normally is three times a week). (2) If an ESRD facility elects to train all its patients using a particular treatment modality more often than during each dialysis treatment and, as a result, the number of its billable training dialysis sessions are reduced, the facility may request a composite rate limited to the lesser of the_ (i) Facility's projected training cost per treatment; or (ii) Cost per treatment the facility would have received in training a patient if it had trained patients only during a dialysis treatment. (3) An ESRD facility may bill a maximum per patient of 25 training sessions for hemodialysis training and 15 training sessions for continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis (CCPD) and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) training. (4) In computing the payment amount under an accelerated training exception, to ensure adequate patient training, HCFA uses a minimum number of training sessions per patient, (15 for hemodialysis and 5 for CAPD and CCPD) when the facility actually provides fewer than the minimum number of training sessions. (5) To justify an accelerated training exception request, an ESRD facility must document that all training sessions provided for a particular modality are provided during the shorter but more condensed period. (6) The facility must submit with the exception request a list of patients, by modality, trained during the most recent cost report period, and the list must include each beneficiary's_
