FR941028-2-00166 FR941028-2-00109 Table 1. Elements of a Risk Assessment for Tuberculosis (TB) in Health-care Facilities 1. Review the community TB profile (from public health department data). 2. Review the number of TB patients who were treated in each area of the facility (both inpatient and outpatient). (This information can be obtained by analyzing laboratory surveillance data and by reviewing discharge diagnoses or medical and infection-control records.) 3. Review the drug-susceptibility patterns of TB isolates of patients who were treated at the facility. 4. Analyze purified protein derivative (PPD)-tuberculin skin-test results of health-care workers (HCWs), by area or by occupational group for HCWs not assigned to specific area (e.g., respiratory therapists). 5. To evaluate infection-control parameters, review medical records of a sample of TB patients seen at the facility. Calculate Intervals From •Admission until TB suspected; •Admission until TB evaluation performed; •Admission until acid-fast bacilli (AFB) specimens ordered; •AFB specimens ordered until AFB specimens collected; •AFB specimens collected until AFB smears performed and reported; •AFB specimens collected until cultures performed and reported; •AFB specimens collected until species identification conducted and reported; •AFB specimens collected until drug-susceptibility tests performed and reported; •Admission until TB isolation initiated; •Admission until TB treatment initiated; and •Duration of TB isolation. Obtain the Following Additional Information •Were appropriate criteria used for discontinuing isolation? •Did the patient have a history of prior admission to the facility? •Was the TB treatment regimen adequate? •Were follow-up sputum specimens collected properly? •Was appropriate discharge planning conducted? 6. Perform an observational review of TB infection control practices. 7. Review the most recent environmental evaluation and maintenance procedures. BILLING CODE 4163&hyph;18&hyph;P ␣ E:GRAPHICSEN28OC94.000 E:GRAPHICSEN28OC94.001 BILLING CODE 4163&hyph;18&hyph;C
