FR941004-1-00057 FR941004-1-00016 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018&hyph;AC 98 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Proposed Endangered Status for the Plant Lessingia Germanorum (San Francisco Lessingia) and Threatened Status for the Plant Arctostaphylos Imbricata (San Bruno Mountain manzanita) From California AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) proposes endangered status pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act) for Lessingia germanorum (San Francisco lessingia), and threatened status for Arctostaphylos imbricata (San Bruno Mountain manzanita), two plants from the San Francisco peninsula of California. Lessingia germanorum occurs in central dune scrub, and is known from five sites on the Presidio in San Francisco County, and one site on San Bruno Mountain in San Mateo County, California. This taxon has been affected by and is endangered by competition with invasive alien vegetation, residential and commercial development, sand quarrying, increased pedestrian traffic and recreational activities, inadequate regulatory mechanisms, bulldozing, shading by native and non-native vegetation, incidental use of fertilizers, and other anthropogenic activities. Arctostaphylos imbricata occurs in coastal scrub habitat, and is only known from five small populations on San Bruno Mountain in San Mateo County; this plant has been affected by and is vulnerable to changes in fire frequency. This taxon is also threatened by collection, as it is used horticulturally as an ornamental plant. Because of the limited number of extant individuals of A. imbricata and L. germanorum and their severely restricted distribution, they also are subject to an increased likelihood of extinction from stochastic events. This proposal, if made final, would implement the Federal protection and recovery provisions afforded by the Act for these plants. DATES: Comments from all interested parties must be received by December 5, 1994. Public hearing requests must be received by November 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments and materials concerning this proposal should be sent to the Field Supervisor, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 2800 Cottage Way, Room E&hyph;1803, Sacramento, California 95825&hyph;1846. Comments and materials received will be available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kirsten Tarp (see ADDRESSES section) at 916/978&hyph;5805. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
