FR941004-2-00041 FR941004-2-00022 Defense Logistics Agency Privacy Act of 1974; Alteration of a Record System AGENCY: Defense Logistics Agency, DoD. ACTION: Alteration of a record system. SUMMARY: The Defense Logistics Agency proposes to alter an existing system of records notice subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended. The alteration consists of adding a routine use to the system of records notice S431.15 DLA-C, entitled Travel Record. This alteration also changes the system identifier from S431.15 DLA-C to S700.10 FO. DLA is also making an administrative change to all its systems with this notice. Under the Contesting record procedures category, all entries should read `The DLA rules for accessing records and for contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in DLA Regulation 5400.21; 32 CFR part 323; or may be obtained from the Privacy Act Officer.' DATES: The alteration will be effective without further notice on November 3, 1994, unless comments are received that would result in a contrary determination. ADDRESSES: Send comments to Privacy Act Officer, Programs and Analysis Division, Office of Planning and Resource Management, Defense Logistics Agency Administrative Support Center, Room 5A120, Cameron Station, Alexandria, VA 22304&hyph;6100. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Susan Sales at (703) 617&hyph;7583. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The complete inventory of Defense Logistics Agency record system notices subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended, have been published in the Federal Register and may be obtained from the address above. An altered system report, as required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(5) of the Privacy Act was submitted on September 21, 1994, to the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) pursuant to paragraph 4c of Appendix I to OMB Circular No. A&hyph;130, `Federal Agency Responsibilities for Maintaining Records About Individuals,' dated July 15, 1994 (59 FR 37906, July 25, 1994). The specific changes to the record system are set forth below followed by the system notice as altered in its entirety. Dated: September 29, 1994. Patricia L. Toppings, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. S431.15 DLA-C System Name: Travel Record (February 22, 1993, 58 FR 10893). Changes: * * * * * System identifier: Delete entry and replace with `S700.10 FO.' * * * * * System location: Delete entry and replace with `Records are maintained at all Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Primary Level Field Activities (PLFAs). Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to DLA's compilation of systems of records notices.' Categories of individuals covered by the system: Delete entry and replace with `All DLA military members and civilian employees who perform travel, Temporary Duty (TDY) or Permanent Change of Station (PCS); individuals of other DoD agencies serviced by DLA under an interservice support agreement; and public and private sector individuals traveling under invitational travel orders.' Categories of records in the system: Delete entry and replace with `Consists of name, Social Security Number, security clearance level, order number, travel itinerary, claim data, and financial details of real estate transactions.' Authority for maintenance of the system: Delete entry and replace with `Chapter 57, Title 5, United States Code (Travel, Transportation and Subsistence).' Purpose(s): Delete entry and replace with `Records are used in administering the travel program, managing and tracking funds, and accounting for employee status for pay and leave tracking purposes. Data is also used by offices of counsel to determine that expenses relating to the sale or purchase of a residence for a PCS are reasonable and customary for the locality of the transaction.' Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Insert as the second paragraph `Federal agency or private sector organization employing the traveler for funds control, personnel administration, or program management purposes.' Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Delete entry and replace with `Records are maintained in both paper and electronic form.' Retrievability: Delete entry and replace with `By name, Social Security Number, or order number.' Safeguards: Delete entry and replace with `Records are maintained in areas that are accessible only to individuals who must service the record in the performance of their official duties. Electronic records are password protected with access restricted to authorized users.' Retention and disposal: Delete entry and replace with `Records are retained for three years and then destroyed. Supervisory level records are retained until the individual separates or transfers at which time the records are destroyed.' System manager(s) and address: Delete entry and replace with `Finance Officers of the DLA Primary Level Field Activities (PLFAs). Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to DLA's compilation of systems of records notices.' Notification procedures: Delete entry and replace with `Individuals seeking to determine whether information about themselves is contained in this system of records should address inquiries to the Privacy Act Officer of the DLA PLFA. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to DLA's compilation of systems of records notices. Individual should provide full name and Social Security Number.' Record access procedures: Delete entry and replace with `Individuals seeking access to records about themselves contained in this system of records should address inquiries to the Privacy Act Officer of the DLA PLFA. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to DLA's compilation of systems of records notices. Individual should provide full name and Social Security Number.' Contesting record procedures: Delete entry and replace with `The DLA rules for accessing records and for contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in DLA Regulation 5400.21; 32 CFR part 323; or may be obtained from the Privacy Act Officer.' Record source categories: Delete entry and replace with `Information is collected from the individual, from the hiring activity's personnel office, and from travel and expense forms.' * * * * * S700.10 FO System name: Travel Record. System location: Records are maintained at all Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Primary Level Field Activities (PLFAs). Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to DLA's compilation of systems of records notices. Categories of individuals covered by the system: All DLA military members and civilian employees who perform travel, Temporary Duty (TDY) or Permanent Change of Station (PCS); individuals of other DoD agencies serviced by DLA under an interservice support agreement; and public and private sector individuals traveling under invitational travel orders. Categories of records in the system: Consists of name, Social Security Number, security clearance level, order number, travel itinerary, claim data, and financial details of real estate transactions. Authority for maintenance of the system: Chapter 57, Title 5, United States Code (Travel, Transportation and Subsistence). Purpose(s): Records are used in administering the travel program, managing and tracking funds, and accounting for employee status for pay and leave tracking purposes. Data is also used by offices of counsel to determine that expenses relating to the sale or purchase of a residence for a PCS are reasonable and customary for the locality of the transaction. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: Federal agency or private sector organization employing the traveler for funds control, personnel administration, or program management purposes. The `Blanket Routine Uses' set forth at the beginning of DLA's compilation of systems of records notices apply to this record system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Records are maintained in both paper and electronic form. Retrievability: By name, social security number or order number. Safeguards: Records are maintained in areas that are accessible only to individuals who must service the record in the performance of their official duties. Electronic records are password protected with access restricted to authorized users. Retention and disposal: Records are retained for three years and then destroyed. Supervisory level records are retained until the individual separates or transfers at which time the records are destroyed. System manager(s) and address: Finance Officers of the DLA Primary Level Field Activities (PLFAs). Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to DLA's compilation of systems of records notices. Notification procedures: Individuals seeking to determine whether information about themselves is contained in this system of records should address inquiries to the Privacy Act Officer of the DLA PLFA. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to DLA's compilation of systems of records notices. Individual should provide full name and Social Security Number. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to records about themselves contained in this system of records should address inquiries to the Privacy Act Officer of the DLA PLFA. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to DLA's compilation of systems of records notices. Individual should provide full name and Social Security Number. Contesting record procedures: The DLA rules for accessing records and for contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in DLA Regulation 5400.21; 32 CFR part 323; or may be obtained from the Privacy Act Officer. Record source categories: Information is collected from the individual, from the hiring activity's personnel office, and from travel and expense forms. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24472 Filed 10&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;F
