FR940124-0-00028 FR940124-0-00003 (c) The plan must be clear and complete enough to serve as a working document for implementation, as well as a basis for HUD review. §907.5 Resident consultation and involvement. (a) Consultation. In developing a proposed homeownership plan, and in carrying out the plan after HUD approval, the Housing Authority shall consult with residents of the homes to be designated pursuant to §907.2, and with any resident organization that represents them, as necessary and appropriate to provide them with information and a reasonable opportunity to make their views and recommendations known to the Housing Authority. Except where otherwise indicated by the context, ``resident'' means the same as ``tenant,'' as the latter term is used in the 1937 Act. In a case where vacant units are expected to be available for purchase, the Housing Authority shall consult with any resident organization or organizations that represent the prospective purchasers, as indicated by the eligibility standards stated in the plan, and with any Resident Management Corporation (RMC) formed by residents of the Housing Authority's public housing developments. While this Part gives the Housing Authority sole legal authority for final decisions as to whether or not to participate in the homeownership program under this part, as to whether or not to submit a proposed homeownership plan and the content of such a proposal, the Housing Authority shall give residents and their resident organizations full opportunity for input in the homeownership planning process, and full consideration of their concerns and opinions. (b) Negotiations. Where individual residents, a RMC, or another form of resident organization may wish to initiate discussion of a possible homeownership plan, the Housing Authority shall negotiate with them in good faith. Joint development and submission of the plan by the Housing Authority and RMC, or other resident organization, is encouraged. In addition, participation of a RMC or other resident organization in the implementation of the plan is encouraged. §907.6 Property that may be sold. (a) Types of Property. A homeownership plan may provide for sale of one or more single family homes designated pursuant to §907.2. A plan may provide for conversion of existing housing to homeownership or for homeownership sale of newly developed public housing. (b) Housing standards. The unit must be free from any defects that pose a danger to life, health, or safety and shall meet minimum housing standards (except as permitted below) before transfer of an ownership interest to a purchaser (or execution of a lease with an option to purchase). The minimum housing standards requirement shall be met either by complying with local housing codes or, if no local code exists, the housing quality standards established by HUD for the Section 8 Certificate program. The Housing Authority prior to sale shall inspect, or ensure inspection of, each unit to determine it does not pose an imminent threat to the life, health, or safety of current or future residents and that the property has passed recent fire and other applicable safety inspections conducted by appropriate local officials and that the unit does comply with minimum housing standards. Higher standards may be proposed by the Housing Authority or required by lenders. The property also must meet the requirements for elimination of lead-based paint hazards in HUD-associated housing, under subpart C of 24 CFR part 35. Further, the property must be in good repair, with the major components having a remaining useful life that is sufficient to justify a reasonable expectation that homeownership will be affordable by the purchasers. These standards must be met as a condition for sale of a dwelling to an individual purchaser (or execution of a lease with an option to purchase), unless the terms of sale (or lease) include measures to assure that the work will be completed within a reasonable time after the purchase (or lease), not to exceed two years (e.g., as a part of a mortgage financing package that provides the purchaser with a home improvement loan or pursuant to a sound sweat equity arrangement). §907.7 Methods of sale and ownership. (a) General. Any appropriate method of sale and ownership may be used, such as fee-simple conveyance or sales to resident-owned cooperatives or condominiums.
