FR940429-0-00023 FR940429-0-00009 HUD and FmHA response: The CHSP does not set income limits for the section 8 program or for the Section 236 program. The CHSP also does not set requirements regarding medicaid and section 551. The regulations concerning the definition of income and income limits for participants in the section 8 program can be found at 24 CFR (Code of Federal Regulations) Part 813. The CHSP interim rule has been simplified in the final version of the rule. Section XXX .220 of both the interim common rule and this final rule list the duties of the service coordinator. Comment: One commenter stated the rule appears to discriminate against the housing authority that has not been able to accumulate unrestricted funds sufficient to purchase services, and that many housing authorities already have in place (prior to 1992 and 1993), eligible housing for the elderly already adapted for use with frail elderly and persons with disabilities for the purpose of preventing unnecessary institutionalization, without having grant funds available to them under the Congregate Housing Service Program. This commenter also indicated that the interim common rule clearly contradicts the intent and spirit of the statute. HUD and FmHA response: Section 802(i)(1)(A)(i) of the National Affordable Housing Act requires that the cost for services under the CHSP be shared between the Secretary concerned and the grantee. The grantee or other third party shall provide 50% of the cost of providing the CHSP; the Secretary concerned shall provide no more than 40% of the cost of providing CHSP; and fees from the program participant shall provide at least 10% of the cost. HUD and FmHA recognize that there are many projects that already had supportive services programs in existence prior to the implementation of this CHSP and therefore, cannot use existing services as match for the CHSP. In accordance with the statutory requirement, only new or expanded services can be used as match. The matching funds provided by the grantee must cover at least 50% of the cost of providing supportive services under the CHSP. The rule is consistent with the statutory purpose which is to provide new or expanded supportive services in federally assisted housing to prevent premature institutionalization in a manner that respects the dignity of the elderly and persons with disabilities and the cost sharing requirements of the program. Comment: One commenter stated that the interim joint rule does not require applicants to address transition to other service programs in the event of cessation of CHSP funding. The commenter suggested that the rule include a provision which would provide that requests for grant application include a plan for the continuation of necessary services or transition to other service providers in the event CHSP funds are no longer available. HUD and FmHA response: While HUD and FmHA share the commenter's concern for a commitment from the applicant to continue to provide services in the event funds are no longer appropriated for this program, it was agreed not to impose any additional paperwork or commitments upon the applicant. Applicants are experiencing difficulties obtaining matching funds and it was agreed that requiring the grantees to factor in funds for continuation or transition to other service providers five years in advance would be too burdensome. Comment: The commenter stated that the interim rule should be amended to permit applicants to request CHSP funding for multiple projects. HUD and FmHA response: The rule does not contain application requirements. The application requirements are set forth in the Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) for the CHSP. The NOFA announces the availability of funds and sets forth the application requirements. HUD and FmHA will publish a new NOFA announcing the availability of funding and the application requirements. The commenter's suggestion will be considered in drafting the NOFA for fiscal year 1994. Comment: One commenter states that § XXX . 205(f) should spell out whether the Grants Officer will be a field, regional or headquarters employee. HUD and FmHA response: The Grants Officer responsibility and the responsible office will be explained in the CHSP notice and handbook. Cost Distribution Comment: One commenter states that the regulation should be amended to allow the 10% of the total program costs that are required to be generated by participants' fees to be generated by participants' fees, contributions, or the cost-sharing that is already required by an existing program eligible for match rather than just through participant fees. The commenter states that for fee-generating purposes §§ XXX .235(2) and XXX .240(a) preclude the use of otherwise eligible local match programs that permit contributions, but not fees, or which already charge cost-share fees. The commenter states that if fees generated by participant fees, contributions, or cost-sharing already in an existing program eligible for match are allowed, HUD can retain the CHSP's program's intent to incorporate a participant expense sharing component and will also address the significant barriers to sufficient fee-generation that applicants will experience because of the different fee-charge regulations in a variety of programs that would logically be used for the CHSP matching requirements.
