FR940613-2-00123 FR940613-2-00076 (iii) If funds remain available in either category and there are unmet needs in the other category, the excess funds will be reallocated to the category in which additional funding is needed. (iv) If applications from CGP agencies are not fully funded, those agencies will be required to revise their vacancy reduction plans and budgets to indicate which items will be funded with the amounts reserved for the CGP agency under this program and state alternative plans for unfunded vacancies. To the extent that funds are prorated for its units averaging more than $8,000 in costs, each CGP agency receiving program funds under paragraph (1)(a)(ii) of that definition of ``eligible unit'' in Section I.D, ``Definitions,'' will be required to commit a portion of the funds the agency had agreed to commit from independent resources if those units had been funded in the full amount requested. This portion will be determined by applying (to the total commitment made in the application) the ratio of funding received for those units to funding requested for those units. (c) Remaining funds. If funds remain available after funding all eligible activities under paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section I.J(3), ``Funding Decisions,'' of this NOFA, a PHA may be reimbursed for costs, or a portion of costs, associated with rehabilitating certain occupied units. The PHA must have fewer vacancies on the date of its application than it had on September 1, 1993, and must have expended funds on those units in reasonable anticipation of reimbursement from Vacancy Reduction Program funds. K. Implementation of Plan and Other Programs (a) An applicant's vacancy reduction plan must be approved before an application is funded under this NOFA even though, in most cases, the plan will cover the physical treatment of many units that are not eligible under this NOFA. The PHA is expected to implement the plan using available funds, including the operating budget and CGP funds, and by requesting funds under discretionary programs, including CIAP and the Severely Distressed Public Housing Program. HUD will monitor implementation of the vacancy reduction plan. (b) Eligible units that a PHA originally planned to fund with CGP funds may also be funded under this NOFA, as long as they are not currently under contract. The PHA may then reprogram its CGP funds to other work set forth in the Five-Year Action Plan. II. Application Process A. Submission of Application An application must be submitted before 4 p.m. (Eastern Standard Time), July 28, 1994. An original completed application must be submitted, as follows: (1) One to: Attention: Director, Office of Assisted Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh St., SW., room 4204, Washington, DC 20410,; (2) one copy to the appropriate HUD Field Office; and (3) one copy to each member of the assessment team. The above-stated deadline is firm as to date and hour. Applications may be hand-delivered or mailed, but applications sent by facsimile will not be accepted. B. Scheduling of Assessments Any PHA that considers itself eligible and wishes to apply for funding under this NOFA, but that is not yet scheduled for a vacancy assessment under ยง968.410, must notify the Department by June 28, 1994, so that an assessment can be performed. C. Availability of Funding CIAP agencies that apply early may receive funding prior to the application deadline. Funding will be provided as soon as the application is approved. III. Checklist of Application Submission Requirements The following documents comprise the application: A. Vacancy Reduction Plan As defined in Section I.D of this NOFA. B. Request for Funding Under this NOFA, including: (1) Form HUD&hyph;52825, CIAP Budget/Progress Report, Part I_Summary, including work to be performed with funds other than VRP funds for units eligible under paragraph (1)(a)(ii) of the definition of ``eligible unit'' in Section I.E of this NOFA, indicating the source of funds. Do not include non-VRP funds in the totals. (2) Form HUD&hyph;52825, CIAP Budget/Progress Report, Part II_Supporting Pages, include work to be performed with funds other than VRP funds for units eligible under paragraph (1)(a)(ii) of the definition of ``eligible unit'' in Section I.D of this NOFA, indicating the source of funds. Do not include non-VRP funds in the totals. Note that Form HUD&hyph;52825, CIAP Budget/Progress Report, Part III_Implementation Schedule is not required; (3) For both categories of funding (i.e., units averaging costs of $8,000 or less by development, and units averaging costs of more than $8,000 by development), a statement of the number of eligible units in each development and the average per-unit cost in the development, including the costs for rehabilitation of the units and for any development-wide improvements, but excluding costs for lead-based paint, Section 504 compliance, and management improvements. (4) Troubled and mod-troubled PHAs must demonstrate eligibility for the program by submission of documentation required under Section I.E(2)(b) of this NOFA. (5) An administrative plan for carrying out the work. (6) When funding is requested under Section I.J(3)(c), ``Remaining Funds,'' of this NOFA, statements of the number of vacancies on September 1, 1993, and the total number of vacancies in the PHA at the time of the application under this NOFA. C. Other Submissions (1) OMB Standard Form SF&hyph;424, Application for Federal Assistance, including SF&hyph;424B, Assurances_Non-Construction Programs. On the SF&hyph;424, PHAs need to complete only items 2, 5, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, and 18. (2) A resolution of the governing board of the PHA, including the following:
