FR940110-2-00095 FR940110-2-00075 (4) Provide training through the partner classified under 34 CFR 472.2(a)(2), unless transferring this activity to the partner classified under 472.2(a)(1) is necessary and reasonable within the framework of the project; and (5) Provide, and document for others, a program of training for staff including, but not limited to, techniques of curriculum development and special methods of teaching that are appropriate for workplace environments. (d) Plan of operation. (20 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the plan of operation for the project, including_ (1) The quality of the project design, especially the establishment of measurable objectives for the project that are based on the project's overall goals; (2) The extent to which the plan of management is effective and ensures proper and efficient administration of the project, and includes_ (i) A description of the respective roles of each member of the partnership in carrying out the plan; (ii) A description of the activities to be carried out by any contractors under the plan; (iii) A description of the respective roles, including any cash or in-kind contributions, of helping organizations; (iv) A description of the respective roles of any sites; and (v) A realistic time table for accomplishing project objectives; (3) How well the objectives of the project relate to the purposes of the program; (4) The quality of the applicant's plan to use its resources and personnel to achieve each objective; and (5) How the applicant will ensure that project participants, who are otherwise eligible to participate, are selected without regard to race, color, national origin, gender, age, or disability. (e) Applicant's experience and quality of key personnel. (8 points) (1) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent of the applicant's experience in providing literacy services to working adults. (2) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of key personnel the applicant plans to use on the project, including_ (i) The qualifications, in relation to project requirements, of the project director; (ii) The qualifications, in relation to project requirements, of each of the other key personnel to be used in the project; (iii) The time that each person referred to in paragraph (e)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section will commit to the project; and (iv) How the applicant, as part of its nondiscriminatory employment practices, will ensure that its personnel are selected for employment without regard to race, color, national origin, gender, age, or disability. (3) To determine personnel qualifications under paragraphs (e)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section, the Secretary considers_ (i) Experience and training in fields related to the objectives of the project; (ii) Experience and training in project management; and (iii) Any other qualifications that pertain to the quality of the project. (f) Evaluation plan. (10 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the plan for an independent evaluation of the project, including the extent to which the applicant's methods of evaluation_ (1) Are clearly explained and appropriate to the project; (2) To the extent possible, are objective and produce data that are quantifiable; (3) Identify expected outcomes of the participants and how those outcomes will be measured; (4) Include evaluation of effects on job advancement, job performance (including, for example, such elements as productivity, safety, and attendance), and job retention; (5) Are systematic throughout the project period and provide data that can be used by the project on an ongoing basis for program improvement; and (6) Will yield results that can be summarized and submitted to the Secretary for review by the Department's Program Effectiveness Panel. Note: The Program Effectiveness Panel (PEP) is a mechanism the Department has developed for validating the effectiveness of educational programs developed by schools, universities, and other agencies. The PEP is composed of experts in the evaluation of educational programs and in other areas of education, at least two-thirds of whom are non-Federal employees who are appointed by the Secretary. Regulations governing the PEP are codified in 34 CFR parts 785&hyph;789. Specific criteria for PEP review are found in 34 CFR 786.12 or 787.12. (g) Budget and cost-effectiveness. (7 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which_ (1) The budget is adequate to support the project; (2) Costs are reasonable and necessary in relation to the objectives of the project; and (3) The applicant has minimized the purchase of equipment and supplies in order to devote a maximum amount of resources to instructional services. (h) Demonstration. (5 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the applicant's plan, during the grant period, to disseminate the results of the project, including_ (i) Demonstrating promising practices used by the project to others interested in implementing these techniques; (ii) Conducting workshops or delivering papers at national conferences or professional meetings; and (iii) Making available material that will help others implement promising practices developed in the project. (i) Commitment. (5 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the partnership's plan to increase, during the project, the capacity of partners to provide a coherent program of learning in the workplace that is based on promising practices demonstrated in the project. For example, the partners could_ (1) Integrate workplace literacy services into long-term planning of partner organizations; (2) Create and implement policies and practices that encourage worker participation in the project; (3) Provide training that will enable each partner to build a capacity to furnish necessary workplace literacy services in the future; or (4) Include in the project design an opportunity to assess what workplace literacy services partners may provide in the future.
