FR940622-1-00063 FR940622-1-00028 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 Availability of a Draft Recovery Plan for the Railroad Valley Springfish ( Crenichthys nevadae ) for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability for public review of a draft recovery plan for the threatened Railroad Valley springfish, Crenichthys nevadae . This species is endemic to six thermal springs in Railroad Valley, Nye County, Nevada, and has been introduced into four other springs in Nevada. The Service solicits review and comment from the public on this draft plan. DATES: Comments on the draft recovery plan must be received on or before August 22, 1994 to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contacting the State Supervisor, Nevada Ecological Services State Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 4600 Kietzke Lane, Building C&hyph;125, Reno, Nevada, 89502 (telephone: 702&hyph;784&hyph;5227), or the Assistant Regional Director, Ecological Services, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Eastside Federal Complex, 911 NE 11th Avenue, Portland, Oregon, 97232&hyph;4181 (telephone: 503&hyph;231&hyph;6131). Written comments and materials regarding the plan should be addressed to Mr. David L. Harlow, State Supervisor, at the above Reno, Nevada address. Comments and materials received are available on request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above Reno, Nevada address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Donna Withers at the above Reno, Nevada address (telephone: 702&hyph;784&hyph;5227). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring endangered or threatened animals and plants to the point where they are again secure, self-sustaining members of their ecosystems is a primary goal of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's (Service) endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe actions considered necessary for the conservation of the species, establish criteria for reclassification or delisting, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq .) requires the development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan development. The Service will consider all information presented during a public comment period prior to approval of each new or revised recovery plan. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comments into account in the course of implementing approved recovery plans. Railroad Valley springfish are endemic to two springs at Duckwater and four springs at Lockes, Railroad Valley, Nye County, Nevada. The species has been introduced into four additional springs in Nevada outside the species' historical range. Railroad Valley springfish are extant in all historical habitats and three introduction habitats. Populations vary from fewer than one hundred to several thousand individuals. The principle causes of decline for this species are habitat modification and nonnative fish introductions. All historical habitats are designated critical habitat for this species. Railroad Valley springfish occupy habitats on private, Federal, and Indian Reservation lands. Recovery of this species will require removal and/or control of nonnative fishes, restoration and protection of occupied habitats, and protection of ground water sources. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the recovery plan described. All comments received by the date specified will be considered prior to approval of the plan. Author The author of this notice is Donna Withers (see the Reno, Nevada address above). Authority The authority for this action is section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1533(f). Dated: June 15, 1994. Don Weathers, Acting Regional Director, Region 1, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15123 Filed 6&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
