FR940620-2-00107 FR940620-2-00062 1. Propose innovative and effective ways to deliver the common features and basic program components defined above in Part II. a., ``Objectives;'' 2. Have the potential to serve large numbers of students who reside or attend school in the targeted area; 3. Contain coordinated strategies for serving both in-school youth and school dropouts; 4. Demonstrate strong potential for achieving the local partnership's planned goals and outcomes, acquiring significant employer involvement, and maintaining School-to-Work Opportunities programs after Federal funding ceases; 5. Exhibit a strong awareness of the multiple needs of the students within the targeted area and present an effective strategy for assessing and addressing those needs; 6. Are linked to efforts to produce schoolwide reform; 7. Have consulted effectively with the State on the consistency of the applicant's planned activities with the State's plans for a comprehensive statewide School-to-Work Opportunities system and have a feasible plan for working with the State to assure consistency with the State's approved plan; and 8. Promote coordination and integration with other human services in an effort to provide a comprehensive array of services to high poverty area youth. c. Examples of Allowable Activities Funds awarded under this competition to an Urban/Rural Opportunities local partnership may be used only for activities undertaken to implement the local partnership's plan that will provide opportunities for students to participate successfully in a School-to-Work Opportunities initiative. Among the activities that may be conducted with funds awarded under an Urban/Rural Opportunities Grant are_ 1. Recruiting and providing assistance to employers, including small- and medium-sized businesses, to provide the work-based learning components in the School-to-Work Opportunities program; 2. Establishing consortia of employers to support the School-to-Work Opportunities program and provide access to jobs related to the career majors of students; 3. Supporting or establishing intermediaries (selected from among the members of the local partnership) to perform the connecting activities described above in Part II. a., ``Objectives,'' and to provide assistance to students and school dropouts in obtaining jobs and further education and training; 4. Designing or adapting school curricula that can be used to integrate academic, vocational, and occupational learning, school-based and work-based learning, and secondary and postsecondary education for all students in the area served; 5. Providing training to work-based and school-based staff on new curricula, student assessments, student guidance, and feedback to the school regarding student performance; 6. Establishing, in schools participating in a School-to-Work Opportunities program, a graduation assistance program to assist at-risk students, low-achieving students, and students with disabilities, in graduating from high school, enrolling in postsecondary education or training, and finding or advancing in jobs; 7. Providing career exploration and awareness services, counseling and mentoring services, college awareness and preparation services, and other services (beginning at the earliest possible age, but not later than the 7th grade) to prepare students for the transition from school to work; 8. Providing supplementary and support services, including child care and transportation, when such services are necessary for participation in a local School-to-Work Opportunities program; 9. Conducting or obtaining an in-depth analysis of the local labor market and the generic and specific skill needs of employers to identify high-demand, high-wage careers to target; 10. Integrating school-based and work-based learning into existing job training programs that are for school dropouts; 11. Establishing or expanding school-to-apprenticeship programs in cooperation with registered apprenticeship agencies and apprenticeship sponsors;
