FR940413-2-00052 FR940413-2-00030 (c) Signature authority. Authority to sign official Board documents, including, but not limited to, proposed and final regulations, Federal Register notices, Board actions, no-action letters, and minutes is delegated to the Secretary to the Board (Secretary). Documents executed by the Secretary or an alternate will be signed under the caption ``By Order of the Board'' and reflect the title of ``Secretary of the Board,'' or ``Acting Secretary of the Board'' as appropriate. The Chairman has the authority to sign bookletters, memoranda, bulletins, and other mass mailings to Farm Credit Institutions, and such authority will not be delegated to others (except for documents listed in Attachment A). (d) Correspondence. The Chairman shall, as required by section 5.10(a)(3) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (Act), approve and sign correspondence to Members of Congress, correspondence responding to White House referrals, or other correspondence on behalf of the Board or the agency. The Chairman may delegate approval and signature authority for such correspondence to FCA Office Directors when the subject matter involves congressional or White House case work. When the subject matter involves the presentation of an agency position or policy relative to regulations, legislation, etc., the Chairman may not delegate authority, and the correspondence must be approved by the Board, except that the Board need not approve a previously approved response or a restatement of previously adopted Board policy. Board approval does not apply when the Chairman is speaking only for him or herself and includes the appropriate disclaimer. Likewise, on similar matters, Board Members should include appropriate disclaimers. The Chairman or the Chairman's designee has authority to sign acknowledgements or interim responses without Board approval, provided such responses contain no policy statements or only previously approved statements. (e) Authentication and certification of records and documents. The Chairman shall designate who is authorized and empowered to execute and issue under the seal of the FCA, statements authenticating copies of, or excerpts from, official records and files of the FCA; and to certify, on the basis of the records of the FCA, the effective periods of regulations, orders, instructions, and regulatory announcements; and to certify, on the basis of the records of the FCA, the appointment, qualification, and continuance in office of any officer or employee of the FCA, or any conservator or receiver acting under the direction of the FCA. The designated official(s) may be further empowered to sign official documents and to affix the seal of the FCA thereon for the purpose of attesting the signature of officials of the FCA. Section 3. Financial and Strategic Management (a) Budget approval. The CEO shall, consistent with the provisions of the Act, other law and regulations, and applicable policy, oversee the development of budget proposals and cause the expenditure of funds within approved budgets to meet the agency's mission and objectives. The Board will approve an object class budget for the agency as a whole and a budget for each office. Any change to the object class budget for the agency as a whole will be approved by the Board. However, reallocation of funds between object classes within an office that has a de minimis effect (less than 2%) on the agency total for the object class need not be approved by the Board. (b) Procurement. The CEO has the authority, consistent with FCA and federal policies and practices, to purchase or negotiate to purchase necessary services and/or materials for the operations of the agency. The Board shall exercise its authority to approve procurements through its approval of the budget. The objectives of single procurements in excess of $100,000 shall be made clear in conjunction with the budget approval process. For procurements outside of the Budget approval process, the Board shall approve expenditures and statements of work for amounts in excess of $100,000. (c) Strategic planning. The Board has authority for the oversight and approval of strategic planning, including budgetary and regulatory planning, and will exercise its involvement in these areas via the Strategic Planning Committee (Committee). The Committee will consist of the Board Members' Executive Assistants, the Chairman's Executive Assistant, and the Chief Operating Officer. The Committee shall be coordinated by the Chief Operating Officer. The Committee shall make periodic reports to the Board regarding its activities. (d) Information resources. To ensure a reasonable return of efficiency and effectiveness given the costs of the investment, information and information resources will be managed to assure that the agency collects and disseminates the information necessary to the effective discharge of the agency's mission; that information activities reflect the goals and priorities in the agency's strategic and operational plans; and that investment decision in information resources be made on a life-cycle basis so that overall costs and benefits are weighed rather than simply the initial costs and benefits.
