FR940906-0-00067 FR940906-0-00019 (a) Observer requirements applicable through December 31, 1995 _(1) Requirements for operators of Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands management area and Gulf of Alaska groundfish vessels _(i) Coverage requirements. Observer coverage is required as follows: (A) A mothership processor vessel of any length that processes 1,000 mt or more in round weight or round-weight equivalents of groundfish during a calendar month is required to have a NMFS-certified observer onboard the vessel each day it receives or processes groundfish during that month. (B) A mothership processor vessel of any length that processes from 500 mt to 1,000 mt in round weight or round-weight equivalents of groundfish during a calendar month is required to have a NMFS-certified observer on board the vessel at least 30 percent of the days it receives or processes groundfish during that month. (C) A catcher/processor or catcher vessel 125 ft (38.1 m) LOA or longer must carry a NMFS-certified observer at all times while fishing for groundfish, except for a vessel fishing for groundfish with pot gear as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(F) of this section. (D) A catcher/processor or catcher vessel equal to or greater than 60 ft (18.3 m) LOA, but less than 125 ft (38.1 m) LOA, must carry a NMFS-certified observer during at least 30 percent of its fishing days in each calendar quarter in which the vessel participates for more than 3 fishing days in a directed fishery for groundfish. Each vessel that participates for more than 3 fishing days in a directed fishery for groundfish in a calendar quarter must carry a NMFS-certified observer during at least one fishing trip during that calendar quarter for each of the groundfish fishery categories defined under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section in which the vessel participates. (E) A catcher/processor or catcher vessel fishing with hook-and-line gear that is required to carry an observer under paragraph (a)(1)(i)(D) of this section must carry a NMFS-certified observer during at least one fishing trip in the Eastern Regulatory Area of the Gulf of Alaska during each calendar quarter in which the vessel participates in a directed fishery for groundfish in the Eastern Regulatory Area. (F) A catcher/processor or catcher vessel equal to or greater than 60 ft (18.3 m) LOA fishing with pot gear must carry a NMFS-certified observer during at least 30 percent of its fishing days in each calendar quarter in which the vessel participates for more than 3 fishing days in a directed fishery for groundfish. Each vessel that participates for more than 3 fishing days in a directed fishery for groundfish using pot gear must carry a NMFS-certified observer during at least one fishing trip during a calendar quarter for each of the groundfish fishery categories defined under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section in which the vessel participates. (ii) Groundfish fishery categories requiring separate coverage _(A) Pollock fishery. Fishing that results in a retained catch of pollock, during any fishing trip, that is greater than the retained catch of any other groundfish species or species group that is specified as a separate groundfish fishery under this paragraph (a)(1)(ii). (B) Pacific cod fishery. Fishing that results in a retained catch of Pacific cod, during any fishing trip, that is greater than the retained catch of any other groundfish species or species group that is specified as a separate groundfish fishery under this paragraph (a)(1)(ii). (C) Sablefish fishery. Fishing that results in a retained catch of sablefish, during any fishing trip, that is greater than the retained catch of any other groundfish species or species group that is specified as a separate groundfish fishery under this paragraph (a)(1)(ii). (D) Rockfish fishery. Fishing that results in a retained aggregate catch of rockfish of the genera Sebastes and Sebastolobus, during any fishing trip, that is greater than the retained catch of any other groundfish species or species group that is specified as a separate groundfish fishery under this paragraph (a)(1)(ii). (E) Flatfish fishery. Fishing that results in a retained aggregate catch of all flatfish species, except Pacific halibut, during any fishing trip, that is greater than the retained catch of any other groundfish species or species group that is specified as a separate groundfish fishery under this paragraph (a)(1)(ii).
