FR940627-0-00255 FR940627-0-00019 (c) Principle of the test method. (1) Laboratory rodents are exposed to one of several concentration levels of a test atmosphere for at least six hours daily over a period of 90 days. At the end of the exposure period, the animals are anaesthetized, perfused in situ with fixative, and tissues in the nervous system are examined grossly and prepared for microscopic examination. Starting with the highest dosage level, tissues are examined under the light microscope for morphologic changes, until a no-observed-adverse- effect level is determined. In cases where light microscopy has revealed neuropathology, the NOAEL may be confirmed by electron microscopy. (2) The tests described herein may be combined with any other toxicity study, as long as none of the requirements of either are violated by the combination. Specifically, this assay may be combined with a subchronic toxicity study, pursuant to provisions in §79.62. (d) Limit test. If a test at one dose level of the highest concentration that can be achieved while maintaining a particle size distribution with a mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of 4 micrometers (μm) or less, using the procedures described in paragraph (a) of this section, produces no observable toxic effects and if toxicity would not be expected based upon data of structurally related compounds, then a full study using three dose levels might not be necessary. Expected human exposure though may indicate the need for a higher dose level. (e) Test procedures _(1) Animal selection_ (i) Species and strain. Testing shall be performed in the species being used in other NTX tests. A standard strain of laboratory rat is recommended. The choice of species shall take into consideration such factors as the comparative metabolism of the chemical and species sensitivity to the toxic effects of the test substance, as evidenced by the results of other studies, the potential for combined studies, and the availability of other toxicity data for the species. (ii) Age. Animals shall be at least ten weeks of age at the start of exposure. (iii) Sex. Both sexes shall be used unless it is demonstrated that one sex is refractory to the effects of exposure. (2) Number of Animals. A minimum of ten animals per group shall be used. The tissues from each animal shall be examined separately. (3) Control Groups. (i) A concurrent control group, exposed to clean, filtered air only, is required. (ii) The laboratory performing the testing shall provide positive control data, e.g., results from repeated acrylamide exposure, as evidence of the ability of their histology procedures to detect neurotoxic endpoints. Positive control data shall be collected at the time of the test study unless the laboratory can demonstrate the adequacy of historical data for the planned study. (iii) A satellite group of 10 female and 10 male test subjects shall be treated with the highest concentration level for the duration of the exposure and observed thereafter for reversibility, persistence, or delayed occurrence of toxic effects during a post-treatment period of not less than 28 days. (4) Inhalation exposure. (i) All data developed within this study shall be in accordance with good laboratory practice provisions under § 79.60. (ii) The general conduct of this study shall be in accordance with the vehicle emissions inhalation exposure guideline in §79.61. (5) Study conduct _(i) Observation of animals. All toxicological (e.g., weight loss) and neurological signs (e.g., motor disturbance) shall be recorded frequently enough to observe any abnormality, and not less than weekly. (ii) The following is a minimal list of measures that shall be noted: (A) Body weight; (B) Subject's reactivity to general stimuli such as removal from the cage or handling; (C) Description, incidence, and severity of any convulsions, tremors, or abnormal motor movements in the home cage; (D) Descriptions and incidence of posture and gait abnormalities observed in the home cage; and (E) Description and incidence of any unusual or abnormal behaviors, excessive or repetitive actions (stereotypies), emaciation, dehydration, hypotonia or hypertonia, altered fur appearance, red or crusty deposits around the eyes, nose, or mouth, and any other observations that may facilitate interpretation of the data. (iii) Sacrifice of animals _(A) General. The goal of the techniques outlined for sacrifice of animals and preparation of tissues is preservation of tissue morphology to simulate the living state of the cell. (B) Perfusion technique. Animals shall be perfused in situ by a generally recognized technique. For fixation suitable for light or electronic microscopy, saline solution followed by buffered 2.5 percent glutaraldehyde or buffered 4.0 percent paraformaldehyde, is recommended. While some minor modifications or variations in procedures are used in different laboratories, a detailed and standard procedure for vascular perfusion may be found in the text by Zeman and Innes (1963), Hayat (1970), and Spencer and Schaumburg (1980) under paragraph (g) of this section. A more sophisticated technique is described by Palay and Chan-Palay (1974) under paragraph (g) of this section. (C) Removal of brain and cord. After perfusion, the bony structure (cranium and vertebral column) shall be exposed. Animals shall then be stored in fixative-filled bags at 4 ○C for 8&hyph;12 hours. The cranium and vertebral column shall be removed carefully by trained technicians without physical damage of the brain and cord. Detailed dissection procedures may be found in the text by Palay and Chan-Palay (1974) under paragraph (g) of this section. After removal, simple measurement of the size (length and width) and weight of the whole brain (cerebrum, cerebellum, pons-medulla) shall be made. Any abnormal coloration or discoloration of the brain and cord shall also be noted and recorded.
