FR940826-2-00019 FR940826-2-00015 DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Arbitration Panel Decision Under the Randolph-Sheppard Act AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of arbitration panel decision under the Randolph-Sheppard Act. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given that on November 26, 1990, an arbitration panel rendered a decision in the matter of David Gardner, Charles Sadikoff, and Curtis M. Sheppard v. Tennessee Department of Human Services (Docket No. R&hyph;S/88&hyph;91). This panel was convened by the U.S. Department of Education pursuant to the Randolph-Sheppard Act (the Act), 20 U.S.C. 107d&hyph;1(a), upon receipt of a complaint filed by petitioners, Messrs. Gardner, Sadikoff, and Shepherd, on July 22, 1988. The Randolph-Sheppard Act governs the operation of vending facilities by blind vendors on local, State, and Federal property and provides a priority for blind individuals to operate those facilities on Federal property. Under this section of the Randolph-Sheppard Act, a blind licensee dissatisfied with the State's operation or administration of the vending facility program authorized under the Act may request a full evidentiary hearing from the State licensing agency (SLA). If the licensee is dissatisfied with the State agency's decision, the licensee may file a complaint with the Secretary, who is then required to convene an arbitration panel to resolve the dispute. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: A copy of the full text of the arbitration panel decision may be obtained from George F. Arsnow, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Room 3230, Switzer Building, Washington, D.C. 20202&hyph;2738. Telephone: (202) 205&hyph;9317. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the TDD number at (202) 205&hyph;8298. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to the Randolph-Sheppard Act (20 U.S.C. 107d&hyph;2(c)), the Secretary publishes a synopsis of arbitration panel decisions affecting the administration of vending facilities on Federal property. Background David Gardner, Charles Sadikoff, and Curtis M. Shepherd, complainants, are blind vendors licensed by the respondent, the Tennessee Department of Human Services, the SLA, pursuant to the Randolph-Sheppard Act, 20 U.S.C. 107 et seq. The SLA, through its Department of Rehabilitation, operates the Tennessee Vending Facility Program for blind vendors. The purpose of the program is to establish and support blind vendors operating vending facilities on Federal property. As the agency designated in Tennessee to carry out and manage the vending facility program established by the Act, the SLA duly promulgated rules and regulations to govern the State's program. In December 1985, the SLA's rules and regulations were revised regarding classifications of facility types and the licensing of vendors. Five categories were established for vending facilities (all vending, counter and vending, counter service, on-site food preparation, and cafeteria). All of the existing vending facilities were placed into one of these categories by the SLA and the Committee of Blind Vendors. In addition, all current licensed managers who had received training at the SLA's training center after April 1977 were certified in the type of facility they operated at the time the new rules were implemented. The new rules provided that, after certification to operate a category of vending facility, the manager was required to attend one training session at the SLA's training center in Smyrna, Tennessee, within a two-year period following certification and every two years thereafter in order for the manager to maintain certification. Failure by a vendor to comply with this rule precluded the manager from assuming a location as the result of a bid on a facility opening. Also, the rule change required that a manager be certified to operate a particular type of facility in order to obtain a promotion into that facility by bid or to obtain a transfer. The complainants were notified in January 1986 that each vendor's certification was to be terminated because each had failed to attend an Upward Mobility Training Session at the SLA's center during the two-year period following their initial certification. Each complainant alleged individual circumstances that prohibited them from attendance at a training session. Also, each complainant asked the SLA to adopt a uniform standard for blind vendors who wanted to use an alternative method to obtain continuing certification if the manager was unable to attend the SLA's training sessions, which usually required overnight travel. On February 12, 1988, the complainants jointly filed for an evidentiary hearing, which was held on April 5, 1988, challenging the SLA's decision not to extend their certifications and requesting that the SLA allow them to show cause why they were unable to participate in the required training for recertification, as well as allow them to seek an alternative method of training. Mr. Shepherd operates a vending facility at the Moccasin Bend Psychiatric Hospital and has done so for approximately 12 years. He alleged at the evidentiary hearing that he was unable to attend training due to constant care of two elderly aunts who reside with him. However, the SLA had informed Mr. Shepherd in March 1988 that his certification would be extended due to his personal situation. Mr. Shepherd declined the SLA's offer of certification extension in favor of an evidentiary hearing, thereby attempting to establish a uniform procedure for exempting any manager from attending training at the SLA's center if a manager has problems that prohibit attendance. Mr. Sadikoff operates a vending facility at the Tennessee Valley Authority, and Mr. Gardner operates a vending facility at the Memphis Mental Health Institute. Both indicated they did not have confidence in anyone operating their respective vending locations during the three or four days they would be absent to attend mandatory SLA training for recertification.
