FR940712-2-00097 FR940712-2-00066 The Exchange believes that permitting specialists in PDRs and investment trust securities to participate in the AHT facility in order to ``clean-up'' order imbalances and effect closing price coupled orders would benefit investors by providing additional liquidity to the listed cash market for derivative securities based upon well known market indexes, such as those described above. The market price of these securities is based upon transactions largely effected in markets other than the Amex. The specialist in such securities has no unique access to market sensitive information regarding the market for the underlying securities or closing index values. The Exchange, therefore, believes that specialist participation in the AHT facility in PDRs and investment trust securities in the manner described above does not raise any market integrity issues. In addition, should a customer not care for an execution at the closing price, the rules of the Exchange's AHT facility permit cancellation of an order up to the close of the AHT session at 5:00 p.m. (orders in the AHT facility are not executed until the 5:00 p.m. close of the after-hours session.) A customer, therefore, will have approximately 40 minutes to determine if an execution at the closing price suits its needs, and may cancel its order if it believes that the closing price does not suit its objectives. The Exchange also proposes to eliminate the migration of limit orders for PDRs and investment trust securities from the specialist's limit order book to the AHT facility to eliminate any concern with the handling of such orders. The Exchange proposes that the Commission approve the Exchange's application to permit specialist participation in the AHT facility for PDRs and investment trust securities on a pilot basis, during which time the Exchange will study the operation of the facility to determine if there are any additional issues that need to be addressed. 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act in general and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) in particular in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, promote just and equitable principles of trade, remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and, in general, protect investors and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The proposed rule change will impose no burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect of the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) As the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) by order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Room, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the Amex. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;93&hyph;15 and should be submitted by August 2, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 7 7 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1991). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16746 Filed 7&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
