FR940429-0-00236 FR940429-0-00015 Changes: The Secretary has amended this section to clarify that the lender must repay or make satisfactory arrangements to repay a liability within 30 days from the date the Secretary originally requests such repayment from the lender before the Secretary will attempt to collect from the third-party servicer. Comments: Many commenters suggested that the liability of a third-party servicer acting as an agent for a guaranty agency be removed because the commenters believed that the servicer does not play a role under this provision that would subject it a liability. Discussion: The Secretary does not agree with the commenters. A third-party servicer that is administering any aspect of a guaranty agency's FFEL programs may be responsible for the guaranty agency paying a claim that is not eligible for reinsurance. This situation may occur when the servicer is negligent in reviewing the history of the loans consolidated in a Federal Consolidation loan under 34 CFR 682.206(f) when a default claim is submitted that results in the agency subsequently receiving reinsurance on such a claim. This would result in a liability being created by the servicer's actions. Changes: None. Section 682.416␣Requirements for Third-Party Servicers and Lenders Contracting With Third-Party Servicers Standards for administrative capability. Comments: Many commenters suggested that the Secretary qualify the term business systems so that it was clear that such systems included combined automatic and manual systems. The commenters believed that this term, without qualification, implied only computer-supported systems. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters that it is appropriate to qualify the term ``business systems.'' Changes: The Secretary has amended this provision to clarify that business systems include combined automated and manual systems. Standards of financial responsibility. Comments: Many commenters believed that the financial standards the Secretary was proposing for an institution should not be used for third-party servicers because a third-party servicer in the FFEL programs has different financial obligations and responsibilities than an institution. Many commenters believed that any requirements related exclusively to functions that are not required by FFEL programs servicers should be deleted, such as deferred tuition accounts. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters in that a third-party servicer should not be held responsible for meeting financial standards that are unrelated to the functions which it is not responsible to perform. The Secretary does not intend to require a third-party servicer that is administering aspects of the FFEL programs on behalf of a lender or guaranty agency to be required to meet financial standards with respect to items that are unrelated its contractual obligations with the lender or guaranty agency. The Secretary does not agree with the commenters that a third-party servicer should not otherwise meet financial standards that are similar to those an institution is required to meet. The Secretary believes that it was the intent of Congress to ensure that the FFEL programs are protected from any risk that may involve the servicer's financial status, persons responsible for administering or controlling the servicer, or the servicer's performance. Therefore, the Secretary has decided to require a third-party servicer to meet the standards for financial responsibility similar to those required of institutions of higher education. Changes: The Secretary has clarified the regulations so that only the provisions of 34 CFR 668.15(b) (1) through (4) and (6) through (9) will apply to a third-party servicer under this part. Past performance of third-party servicer or persons affiliated with servicer. Comments: Many commenters believed that these provisions are too inclusive and should only include corporate officers of only those third-party servicers handling Federal funds. Other commenters believed that the Secretary should qualify this restriction with respect to entities with which a third-party servicer contracts. The commenters suggested that only persons, entities, or officers or employees of an entity with which a third-party servicer contracts that act in a capacity that involves the administration of Title IV, HEA program funds should cause the servicer to not be considered financially responsible. Discussion: The Secretary believes that a third-party servicer that has persons affiliated with it that have been convicted of or pled nolo contendere to the crimes described in these sections presents an unreasonable risk to the integrity of the FFEL programs and places Federal monies at risk. However, the Secretary believes that such risk is evident only when a person or entity acts in a capacity that involves the administration of Title IV, HEA program funds. Changes: The Secretary has amended this provision to clarify that a third-party servicer that contracts with an outside entity will not be considered financially responsible if any person, entity, or officer or employee of such entity acts in a capacity that involves the administration of Title IV, HEA program funds. Subpart G_Limitation, Suspension, or Termination of Lender Eligibility Under the FFEL Program and the PLUS Program Section 682.701␣Definitions and Terms Used in This Subpart Comments: Many commenters suggested that a suspension of a third-party servicer should only apply to that servicer's ability to enter into new contracts with Title IV, HEA program participants. Discussion: The Secretary does not agree with the commenters. The Secretary believes that when the servicer's actions are serious enough to warrant suspending that servicer, it presents an unreasonable risk to Federal monies to allow that servicer to continue to perform FFEL programs functions for any Title IV, HEA program participant for the duration of the suspension. Changes: None. Section 682.704␣Emergency Action Comments: Many commenters suggested that an emergency action should become effective after a period of time has elapsed after the third-party servicer receives notification from the Department that it intends to take such action. Discussion: The Secretary does not agree with the commenters. The Secretary believes that an emergency action should be taken when continued participation of an entity in the FFEL programs seriously jeopardizes the integrity of the FFEL programs and puts Federal funds at risk. The Secretary believes that such action should be taken immediately when the behavior of the entity justifies taking such action. Changes: None. PART 690_FEDERAL PELL GRANT PROGRAM Section 690.83␣Submission of Reports
