FR940228-1-00158 FR940228-1-00010 IV. Annual Audits A. The Secretary is authorized to prescribe regulations for institutional and third-party servicer audits. Section 487(c)(1)(A)(i) requires an annual audit of the financial condition of the institution in its entirety and an annual audit of the institution's compliance with the requirements governing the Title IV programs. The institution must make these audits available to cognizant guaranty agencies, eligible lenders, State agencies, and the State review entities designated under subpart 1 of part H of Title IV of the HEA. Issues that the community was asked to address and the community's views: 1. To what extent, if any, should the annual audit requirement be waived or limited? Should this requirement for annual audits be waived for institutions participating in the Quality Assurance Program? •Annual financial audit should be waived in all instances except in the case of new institutions, institutions undergoing a change in ownership, institutions with a cohort default rate in excess of 25 percent for one year, and institutions that did not satisfy all factors of financial responsibility in their most recent financial statement issued to the Department. Furthermore, institutions would be required to submit no more than two consecutive annual audits before being considered released from the annual audit requirement. Annual compliance audit should be waived for all institutions except in the case of new institutions, institutions undergoing a change of ownership, and institutions which have undergone a compliance audit within the past three years which resulted in Title IV liabilities in excess of one percent of Title IV funds disbursed. A further suggestion was made to truncate the audit requirements if the Secretary continues to require an annual audit. A minority of the group felt that annual audits, both financial and compliance, should be required and not waived. Those institutions that meet quality assurance criteria would be required to submit a short form audit on a biannual basis. [Atlanta] •No further burden should be placed on institutions than their State already requires or than the IRS requires of them. If someone else wants the audit, the Department should be responsible for distributing them. There should be diminishing filing requirements based upon performance evaluation factors and general longevity of institutions to exempt an institution from an annual audit. A minority suggested that pledged assets be accepted at some level in lieu of a certified annual audit. [New York] •The annual audit requirement could be waived in certain areas, e.g., the institution could be exempt from the student compliance components but not from a financial audit if the institution is in the quality assurance program. [San Francisco] •The Department should develop a set of guidelines that would permit exemptions. [Atlanta] 2. How should guaranty agencies, lenders, and other parties request audit information from institutions? •An audit correction action plan should be sent to guaranty agencies and lenders. Requests should be in writing with explanations of why the request is made. Freedom of Information Act procedures could be used. Requests should be made to the appropriate official on campus. Information may not be given to any third-party without the approval of the institution. [San Francisco] •Requests should be in writing to the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer. A minority of the group believed that all requests should be made in writing to the Chief Financial Officer only. [Kansas City] •Institutions should be notified of any requests for information and when information is released to appropriate agencies. The information should be released only to the parties already listed in the statute. [Kansas City] •Information should be provided to guaranty agencies, lenders, and other parties upon request. [Atlanta] B. In matters not governed by specific provisions, section 487(c)(1)(B) provides for the establishment of standards of financial responsibility and administrative capability that include any matter the Secretary deems necessary for the sound administration of the financial aid programs (such as the pertinent actions of any owner, shareholder, or person exercising control over an eligible institution.)
