FR940104-2-00003 FR940104-2-00002 Forest Service White Sand Ecosystem Management Project; Clearwater National Forest, Idaho County, ID AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice; intent to prepare environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The USDA, Forest Service, will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) to disclose the environmental effects of vegetation retention, vegetation treatments, access management, and fish habitat enhancement in the vicinity of White Sand Creek, Beaver Creek, Savage Creek, Rabbit Creek, and Colt Creek drainages. The area is located south and east of the Powell Ranger Station, Powell Ranger District, Clearwater National Forest, Idaho County, Idaho. Most of the proposed project's activities are within the North Fork Spruce - White Sand ( # 1309) and Sneakfoot Meadows ( # 1314) Roadless Areas. The proposal's actions are being considered together because they represent either connected or cumulative actions as defined by the Council on Environmental Quality (40 CFR 1508.25). The purposes of the project are to implement the Clearwater Forest Plan within the context of Ecosystem Management principles; conserve biological diversity; retain the undeveloped character of White Sand scenery; restore ecosystem function in fire-dependant forest communities; reduce the risk of large fires and improve opportunities for use of prescribed natural fire; create vistas and visually rehabilitate several existing harvest unit boundaries; produce wood products and increase timber growth and yield in a way that provides long-term sustainability of both wood products and other ecosystem elements; protect water quality, fish populations, wildlife, and roadless characteristics influenced by access; improve safety of roads for current public use and expected increases and changes in use; enhance trail-based recreation; and manage limiting factors that affect fish populations in White Sand streams. This project-level EIS will tier to the Clearwater National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan (Forest Plan) and Final EIS (September, 1987), which provides overall guidance of all land management activities on the Clearwater National Forest. DATES: Written comments and suggestions should be received on or before February 18, 1994, to receive timely consideration in the preparation of the Draft EIS. The Draft EIS will be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency in September, 1994. The Final EIS and Record of Decision are expected to be issued in February, 1995. ADDRESSES: Submit written comments and suggestions on the proposed action or requests for a map of the proposed action or to be placed on the project mailing list to Margaret Gorski, District Ranger, Powell Ranger District, Clearwater National Forest, Lolo, MT 59847. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jeff Pope, EIS Team Leader, Powell Ranger District, CLearwater National Forest, Phone (208) 942&hyph;3113. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The proposed action is based on the findings of the White Sand Integrated Resource and Ecosystem Analysis (IRA). The White Sand IRA is the first analysis on the Powell Ranger District using policy direction and emerging concepts of Ecosystem Management (EM). The overriding purpose of EM policy is to better blend the needs of people and environmental values so that National Forests represent diverse, healthy, productive, and sustainable ecosystems. The planning area consists of approximately 40,000 acres of National Forest land located in sections 33&hyph;36 of T.37N., R.14E.; sections 13&hyph;15, 20&hyph;24 and 26&hyph;35 of T.37N., R.15E.; sections 1&hyph;3, 10&hyph;16 and 22&hyph;27 of T.36N., R.14E.; sections 1&hyph;11, 13&hyph;14 and 25&hyph;36 of T.36N., R.15E.; sections 1, 2, 11 and 12 of T.35N., R.14E.; sections 2&hyph;9, 17 and 18 of T.35N. and R.15E.; Boise Meridian. The proposed action was designed to meet various ecological and social needs expressed in the White Sand IRA. Proposed action activities fall into four broad categories: vegetation retention, vegetation treatments, access management, and fish habitat enhancement. The purpose of the proposed action is to: Vegetation Retention _Conserve biological diversity _Retain the undeveloped character of White Sand scenery Vegetation Treatments _Restore ecosystem function in fire-dependant forest types _Reduce the risk of large fires in White Sand landscape and improve opportunities for use of prescribed natural fire _Create vistas and visually rehabilitate several existing harvest unit boundaries _Implement the Clearwater Forest Plan within the context of Ecosystem Management _Produce wood products and increase timber growth and yield in a way that provides long-term sustainability of both wood products and other ecosystem elements Access Management _Protect water quality, fish populations, and roadless characteristics influenced by access _Improve safety of roads for current public use and expected increases or changes in use _Enhance trail-based recreation Fish habitat Enhancement _manage limiting factors that affect fish populations in White Sand streams The proposed action would accomplish the following activities over the next ten years: Vegetation Retention and Treatments _1,314 acres of underburning in fire-dependant vegetation communities, 59 acres of planting understocked seedling stands, 14 acres of precommercial thinning overstocked sapling stands, create one vista area for picnicking and viewing scenery, implement the following prescriptions for managing the forest: 704 acres of uneven-aged regeneration harvest, 1313 acres of even-aged regeneration harvest, 55 acres of commercial thinning, and 50 acres of uneven-aged regeneration harvest with underburning. These prescriptions would result in harvest of about 14,418 thousand board feet (MBF) of timber
