FR941020-2-00104 FR941020-2-00061 Article 16(3) of the NAALC provides for the review of labor law matters in Canada and Mexico by the NAO. ``Labor law'' is defined in Article 49 of the NAALC to include freedom of association, the right to organize, and minimum employment standards. The procedural guidelines for the NAO, published in the Federal Register on April 7, 1994, specify that, in general, the Secretary of the NAO shall accept a submission for review if it raises issues relevant to labor law matters in Canada or Mexico and if a review would further the objectives of the NAALC. However, the guidelines permit the NAO to decline to review a submission if, inter alia, the submission or available information demonstrates that appropriate relief has not been sought under the domestic laws of Canada or Mexico. Submission # 940003 relates to labor law matters in Mexico. A review would also appear to further the objectives of the NAALC, as set out in Article 1, which include improving working conditions and living standards in each Party's territory; promoting, to the maximum extent possible, the labor principles set out in Annex 1 of the NAALC, among them freedom of association, the right to organize, and minimum employment standards; promoting compliance with, and effective enforcement by each Party of, its labor law; and fostering transparency in the administration of labor law. Regarding minimum employment standards, however, it appears to the NAO that appropriate relief has not been sought under the domestic laws of Mexico and that, under the circumstances, review of that issue would not be advisable. Accordingly, the submission has been accepted for review with respect to the issues of freedom of association and the right to organize but not the issue of minimum employment standards. The NAO's decision is not intended to indicate any determination as to the validity or accuracy of the allegations contained in the submission. Further, the decision not to accept for review the allegations relating to minimum employment standards does not foreclose NAO review at a future date based on submission of additional information about efforts to obtain appropriate relief under the domestic laws of Mexico. The objective of the review will be to gather information to assist the NAO to better understand and publicly report on the Government of Mexico's promotion of compliance with, and effective enforcement of, its labor law through appropriate government action, as set out in Article 3 of the NAALC. The review will focus on compliance with, and effective enforcement of, labor laws that guarantee the right of association and the right to organize freely and prohibit the dismissal of workers because of efforts to exercise those rights. The review will be completed, and a public report issued, within 120 days, or 180 days if circumstances require an extension of time, as set out in the procedural guidelines of the NAO. Signed at Washington, DC, on October 17, 1994. Irasema T. Garza, Secretary, U.S. National Administrative Office. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26101 Filed 10&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;28&hyph;M
