FR940223-1-00066 FR940223-1-00013 41 CFR Part 201&hyph;39 RIN 3090&hyph;AF17 Amendment of FIRMR To Remove Provisions for Using GSA Nonmandatory Schedule Contracts for FIP Resources AGENCY: Information Resources Management Service, GSA. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This notice invites written comments on a proposed rule to remove provisions for using GSA nonmandatory multiple award schedule (MAS) contracts from the Federal Information Resources Management Regulation (FIRMR). These instructions will be issued in the form of non-regulatory principles. Other notices will similarly affect MAS ordering instructions contained in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and Federal Property Management Regulations (FPMR). The non-regulatory principles will be issued and maintained by GSA's Federal Supply Service (FSS) and Information Resources Management Service (IRMS) in the Federal Supply Service Program Guide, and the FIRMR Bulletin series respectively, or by other similar Service issuance. When combined, the proposed regulatory changes will result in a uniform set of principles that empower Federal agencies to make ``best value'' buying decisions in a demonopolized environment. The regulatory changes described are consistent with the Report of the National Performance Review and are one part of GSA's larger plan to create a Government that works better and costs less. DATES: Comments will be considered in the final rule, but must be received on or before April 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to GSA, Regulations Analysis Division (KMR), 18th & F Streets, NW., room 3224, Washington, DC 20405, Attn: Judy Steele, or delivered to that address between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Judy Steele, FTS/Commercial (202) 501&hyph;3194 (v) or (202) 501&hyph;0657 (tdd). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: (1) GSA initiated a MAS Improvement Project in October 1990. In addition to addressing recurring issues of concern to GSA customer agencies and MAS contractors, one major objective consistent with those concerns was to streamline and unify the procedures for ordering products and services provided under the MAS program. GSA's internal perspectives, the rapid emergence of electronic commerce, the recommendations of the General Accounting Office, and the recommendations of the National Performance Review were all considered. The choices for restructuring GSA procedures offer stark contrast: the imposition of a rigid, decision making regimen or the adoption of a more flexible set of principles which empower purchasing agents and line managers to make `'best value'' decision in a de-monopolized environment. GSA's own views, since the inception of the project, have been aligned with the adoption of a more customer-oriented, unregulated, less paperbound approach, that also enables ordering officials to take advantage of effective competition within the scope of the MAS contracting system as well as developing electronic ordering capabilities. Unlike open market purchases, GSA schedule prices are the product of a competitive environment where GSA negotiates or otherwise obtains prices determined to be fair and reasonable. Further, the nature of the MAS system is to recognize the variation of functions, quality, and performance inherent in a wide variety of commercial products. In recognition of the foregoing, and in an attempt to recognize the good judgment of our customers, GSA should provide its customers with flexible ordering mechanisms which emulate commercial purchasing practices. Existing ordering rules should be streamlined and stated in the form of principles. (2) Explanation of the changes being made by this issuance are shown below: (a) Subpart 201&hyph;39.5 is removed to delete the synopsizing requirements related to the FIP MAS contracts. (b) Subsection 201&hyph;39.601&hyph;2 is removed to delete the exception to justifying specific make and model specifications for FIP MAS contracts. (c) Section 201&hyph;39.801 is removed to delete procedures for ordering FIP resources from the Federal Supply Service MAS contracts. (d) Section 201&hyph;39.803 is removed to delete the procedures for use of the nonmandatory FIP MAS contracts.
