FR940104-2-00098 FR940104-2-00057 2. Outreach, technical assistance and information exchange activities which are designed to address specific problems in designated communities and neighborhoods. Such activities must total no less than three-quarters of the total project costs contained in any grant made under this NOFA (including the required 25 percent match). Examples of outreach activities include, but are not limited to: (a) Assistance to communities to improve consolidated housing and community development plans and remove impediments to design and implementation of such plans. (b) Job training and other training projects, such as workshops, seminars and one-on-one and on-the-job training; (c) Design of community strategies to resolve urban problems of communities and neighborhoods; (d) Innovative use of funds to provide direct technical expertise and assistance to local community groups and residents to help them resolve local problems such as homelessness and housing discrimination; and (e) Assistance in business start-up activities for low- and moderate-income individuals and organizations, including business start-up training and technical expertise and assistance, mentor programs, assistance in developing small loan funds, business incubators, etc. 3. Activities to carry out the ``Responsibilities'' listed under Section I.E.1. G. Ineligible Activities Ineligible activities are: 1. Research activities which have no clear and immediate practical application for solving urban problems or do not address specific problems in designated communities and neighborhoods. 2. Any type of construction, rehabilitation, or other physical development costs. 3. Costs used for day-to-day administration of regular programs of institutions of higher education, local governments or neighborhood groups. II. Selection Criteria/Rating Factors A. Rating Factors HUD will use the following criteria to rate and rank applications received in response to this NOFA. The factors and maximum points for each factor are provided below. The maximum number of points is 100. Rating of the ``applicant'' or the ``applicant's organization and staff'', unless otherwise specified, will include any sub-contractors, consultants and sub-recipients which are firmly committed to the project. (1) (10 points) The demonstrated research resources available to the applicant for carrying out the purposes of the COPC Act. In rating this factor, HUD will consider the extent to which the applicant's organization and staff have recent, relevant and successful experience in undertaking research activities in specific communities which have clear near-term potential for practical application to significant urban problems associated with housing, economic development, neighborhood revitalization, infrastructure, health care, job training, education, crime prevention, planning and community organizing. (2) (10 points) The demonstrated outreach resources available to the applicant for carrying out the purposes of the COPC Act. In rating this factor, HUD will consider the extent to which the applicant's organization and staff have recent, relevant and successful experience in applying research results through outreach activities, including the provision of technical expertise and assistance, to solve or ameliorate the impact of significant urban problems associated with the areas listed in factor # 1 above. (3) (5 points) The demonstrated commitment of the applicant to supporting research and outreach programs by providing matching contributions for the Federal assistance received. In rating this factor, HUD will provide an increasing number of points for increasing amounts of contributions beyond the statutory 50 percent for research and 25 percent for outreach.
