FR940928-1-00021 FR940928-1-00003 Proposed Action In today's document, EPA proposes to approve the San Francisco Bay Area's ozone maintenance plan because it meets the requirements of section 175A. In addition, the Agency is proposing approval of the redesignation request for the ozone nonattainment area, subject to final approval of the maintenance plan and provided the hearing notice and adoption documentation are submitted for the amendments to the contingency plan, because the State has demonstrated compliance with the requirements of section 107(d)(3)(E) for redesignation. Finally, EPA proposes to approve the emissions inventory as meeting the requirements of section 182(a)(1), provided the hearing notice and adoption documentation are submitted, and the NO X exemption petition which fulfills the requirements of section 182(f). Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting or allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any SIP. Each request for revision to the SIP shall be considered separately in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. Ozone State implementation plans (SIP's) are designed to satisfy the requirements of part D of the Clean Air Act and to provide for attainment and maintenance of the ozone NAAQS. This proposed redesignation should not be interpreted as authorizing the State to delete, alter, or rescind any of the VOC or NO X emission limitations and restrictions contained in the approved ozone SIP. Changes to ozone SIP VOC regulations rendering them less stringent than those contained in the EPA approved plan cannot be made unless a revised plan for attainment and maintenance is submitted to and approved by EPA. Unauthorized relaxations, deletions, and changes could result in both a finding of nonimplementation (section 173(b) of the Clean Air Act) and in a SIP deficiency call made pursuant to section 110(a)(2)(H) of the Clean Air Act. Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq., EPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. 5 U.S.C. 603 and 604. Alternatively, EPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. SIP approvals under section 110 and subchapter I, part D of the CAA do not create any new requirements, but simply approve requirements that the State is already imposing. Therefore, because the Federal SIP-approval does not impose any new requirements, it does not have any economic impact on any small entities. Redesignation of an area to attainment under section 107(d)(3)(E) of the CAA does not impose any new requirements on small entities. Redesignation is an action that affects the status of a geographical area and does not impose any regulatory requirements on sources. Accordingly, I certify that the approval of the redesignation request will not have an impact on any small entities. The Office of Management and Budget has exempted this rule from the requirements of section 6 of Executive Order 12866. List of Subjects 40 CFR Part 52 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Hydrocarbons, Intergovernmental relations, Ozone. 40 CFR Part 81 Air pollution control, National parks, Wilderness areas. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401&hyph;7671q. Dated: August 31, 1994. Felicia Marcus, Regional Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23983 Filed 9&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
