FR940516-1-00055 FR940516-1-00003 (8) For facilities and pipelines installed prior to the effective date of these regulations, an SDV shall be installed when riser maintenance or repair is performed. (9) The Regional Supervisor may require that oil pipelines be equipped with a metering system to provide a continuous volumetric comparison between the input to the line at the structure(s) and the deliveries onshore. The system shall include an alarm system and shall be of adequate sensitivity to detect variations between input and discharge volumes. In lieu of the foregoing, a system capable of detecting leaks in the pipeline may be substituted with the approval of the Regional Supervisor. (10) Pipelines incoming to a subsea tie-in shall be equipped with a block valve and a FSV. Bidirectional pipelines connected to a subsea tie-in shall be equipped with only a block valve. (11) Gas-lift or water-injection pipelines on unmanned platforms need only be equipped with an FSV installed immediately upstream of each casing annulus or the first inlet valve on the wellhead. (12) Pipeline pumps shall comply with Section A7 of API RP 14C. The setting levels for the PSHL devices are specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section. (c)(1) If the SDV or other required safety equipment is rendered ineffective or removed from service on pipelines that are continued in operation, an equivalent degree of safety shall be provided. The affected safety equipment shall be identified by the placement of a sign on the equipment stating that the equipment is rendered ineffective or removed from service. (2) When conducting repairs or maintenance to the pipeline system components that expose the pipeline to the atmosphere or to conditions that constitute a potential danger to safety of personnel or protection to the environment, the system shall be purged of hydrocarbons and flow shall be blocked from the area under repair or maintenance. Valves, pumps, or other equipment that could allow or initiate flow through the designated area shall also be flagged and removed from service. Activation of this equipment from the control panel shall be temporarily precluded. Only the person in charge of the repair or maintenance may authorize the resumption of service. This authorization may not be given until the repair or maintenance action is completed. 10. In §250.158, paragraph (e) is revised to read as follows: §250.158 Reports. * * * * * (e)(1) Except for emergency repairs necessary to prevent or minimize pollution or the loss of human life, the lessee or right-of-way holder shall notify the Regional Supervisor prior to the repair of any pipeline or pipeline component. Based on the nature of the repair, the Regional Supervisor may require the lessee or right-of-way holder to submit detailed pipeline repair procedures for approval before conducting repairs. The repair procedures shall include the types of equipment and specifications of components used in the repair. (2) A detailed report of the pipeline repair shall be submitted to the Regional Supervisor within 30 days after completion of the repair. The report shall include the following: (i) Type of damage sustained and cause: (ii) Type and volume of hydrocarbons lost due to damage; (iii) Specifications of components utilized in the repair and a detailed repair procedure; (iv) Results of pressure and other verification tests; and (v) Date pipeline or component returned to service. * * * * * 11. In §250.291, paragraphs (b)(3) and (d)(4)(i) are revised to read as follows: §250.291 Design, installation, and operation of production systems. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (3) Electrical system information, including a plan of each platform deck that shows: (i) All hazardous areas classified in accordance with API RP 500, Recommended Practice for Classification of Locations for Electrical Installations at Petroleum Facilities; and (ii) All areas in which potential ignition sources are to be installed; * * * * *
