FR940811-2-00093 FR940811-2-00059 Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park Commission Meeting Notice is hereby given in accordance with Federal Advisory Committee Act that a meeting will be held at 1:00 p.m., Saturday, September 17, 1994, at McMahon's Mill, Williamsport, Maryland. The Commission was established by Public Law 91&hyph;664 to meet and consult with the Secretary of the Interior on general policies and specific matters related to the administration and development of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park. The members of the Commission are as follows: Mrs. Sheila Rabb Weidenfeld, Chairman, Washington, DC Ms. Diane C. Ellis, Brunswick, Maryland Brother James T. Kirkpatrick, F.S.C., Cumberland, Maryland Ms. Anne L. Gormer, Cumberland, Maryland Ms. Elise B. Heinz, Arlington, Virginia Mr. George M. Wykoff, Jr., Cumberland, Maryland Mr. Rockwood H. Foster, Washington, DC Mr. Barry A. Passett, Washington, DC Mrs. Jo Reynolds, Potomac, Maryland Ms. Nancy C. Long, Glen Echo, Maryland Ms. Mary E. Woodward, Shepherdstown, West Virginia Dr. James H. Gilford, Frederick, Maryland Mr. Edward K. Miller, Hagerstown, Maryland Mrs. Sue Ann Sullivan, Williamsport, Maryland Mr. Terry W. Hepburn, Hancock, Maryland Mr. Laidley E. McCoy, Charleston, West Virginia Ms. Jo Ann M. Spevacek, Burke, Virginia Mr. Charles J. Weir, Falls Church, Virginia The agenda for this meeting includes Superintendent's report and old and new business. The meeting will be open to the public. Any member of the public may file with the Commission a written statement concerning the matters to be discussed. Persons wishing further information concerning this meeting or who wish to submit written statements, may contact the Superintendent, C&O Canal National Historical Park, P.O. Box 4, Sharpsburg, Maryland 21782. Minutes of the meeting will be available for public inspection six (6) weeks after the meeting at Park Headquarters, Sharpsburg, Maryland. Dated: August 4, 1994. Terry R. Carlstrom, Deputy Regional Director, National Capital Region. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19626 Filed 8&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;70&hyph;M
