FR940602-1-00002 FR940602-1-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Foreign Agricultural Service 7 CFR Part 6 Section 22 Dairy Import Quotas AGENCY: Foreign Agricultural Service, USDA. ACTION: Advance notice of proposed rule making. SUMMARY: The Foreign Agricultural Service of the Department of Agriculture is considering making certain technical changes to the Import Regulation for dairy products. The Department is also making certain changes which will enable the Department to implement the commitments undertaken by the United States under the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations, and forthcoming implementing legislation. DATES: In order to assure consideration of your views and comments, interested persons are invited to submit written comments regarding proposed changes on or before August 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Mail comments to Dairy Import Quota Manager, Import Licensing Group, Import Policies and Trade Analysis Division, room 5531&hyph;S, Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. All written comments received in response to this advance notice will be available for public inspection in room 5531, South Building, 14th and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC between the hours of 8 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Richard P. Warsack, Dairy Import Quota Manager, room 5541 South Building, Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, phone (202&hyph;720&hyph;1342). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Regulations, known as the Import Regulations, promulgated by the Department of Agriculture and codified at 7 CFR 6.20&hyph;6.34 provide for the issuance of licenses to importers of certain dairy products which are subject to quotas proclaimed by the President pursuant to section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933, as amended (7 U.S.C. 624). Those dairy products covered by the Import Regulation may only be entered into the United States by or for the account of a person or firm to whom such license has been issued and only in accordance with the terms and conditions of such license, the Import Regulation, and the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States. Import licenses are issued on a calendar year basis and each license authorizes the license holder to import a specified quantity and type of dairy product from a specified country. The utilization of licenses by the license holders, and entries made under such licenses are carefully monitored by the Department of Agriculture and the U.S. Customs Service. Rule changes of a technical nature being considered by the Department include modifications, revisions, and updating with respect to: Definitions; eligibility requirements; transfer of eligibility; allocation of annual quotas and issuance of licenses; issuance of ex-quota permits; sales-in-transit; records and inspection; and suspension and revocation procedures. On April 15, 1994, the United States concluded the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations and entered into agreements which provide for increased market access opportunities for most products, including dairy products. The Uruguay Round Agreement on Agriculture necessitates the development of new rules to implement commitments undertaken including those pertaining to: Tariffication and modification of existing import quotas to permit additional entry of dairy products; consolidation of certain existing dairy quota products as provided for in the Agreement; and methods of administering and allocating the new tariff-rate quota system. Interested persons are encouraged to submit their comments, views, and suggestions on forthcoming proposed changes as well as any other comments that they may feel appropriate. Signed at Washington, DC, on April 28, 1994. Richard B. Schroeter, Acting Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13362 Filed 6&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;10&hyph;M
