FR940711-1-00015 FR940711-1-00003 The proposed regulations discussed below would allow utilities the opportunity to seek to directly assign stranded costs to the departing wholesale and perhaps retail customers. However, an alternative policy might assign wholesale or retail stranded costs more broadly. For example, some stranded cost proposals would require all transmission customers (including native load which takes bundled service) to pay an access charge related to use of the transmission system. The Commission invites comments on the direct assignment and alternative methods of stranded cost recovery. The Commission also invites comments on whether alternative methods, e.g., an access charge, might give customers reasonable certainty on the scope of their stranded cost obligation more quickly than a direct assignment approach would, and thus might expedite the transition to a more competitive wholesale market. The proposed regulations are discussed in detail below. 1. Recovery of Stranded Costs Associated With New Wholesale Power Sales Contracts The Commission believes that future wholesale contracts should explicitly address the mutual obligations of the seller and buyer, including the seller's obligation to continue to serve the buyer, if any, and the buyer's obligation, if any, if it changes suppliers. Therefore, the proposed regulations regarding wholesale stranded costs encourage the resolution of future stranded cost issues through negotiated agreement. At the same time, we are aware that many existing contracts, entered into prior to the time that unbundled transmission access became more widely available, may not have adequately addressed the potential for stranded costs. The proposed regulations regarding wholesale stranded costs distinguish between new and existing wholesale requirements contracts. New contracts are defined as contracts executed after the date that the proposed rule is published in the Federal Register . Existing contracts are defined as contracts executed on or before the date that the proposed rule is published in the Federal Register . The proposed regulations would disallow extra-contractual recovery of wholesale stranded costs associated with any new requirements contract. That is, we will not allow any request for recovery unless the contract contains specific provisions allowing stranded cost recovery when it is accepted by the Commission. 35 In addition, the Commission will not allow any stranded costs associated with new requirements contracts to be recovered through transmission rates. 35 Proposed provisions to allow stranded cost recovery will, of course, be subject to the approval of the Commission and must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential. Therefore, in the future, wholesale power suppliers and their customers must address stranded cost issues by including appropriate notice and exit fee provisions, or any other explicit statement related to stranded cost recovery, in their new requirements contracts. For example, sellers may wish to require adequate notice in contracts to reflect the realities of supply planning, and may wish to include exit fees that buyers would be required to pay if the buyer prematurely exits the system. Similarly, buyers may wish to preserve the rights to exit contracts when market conditions warrant it. In addition to encouraging parties to explicitly address their mutual obligations in new wholesale requirements contracts, the Commission believes it is important to address any future regulatory obligation to serve at the wholesale level. Competitive generation markets not only require that customers be able to freely shop for competitively priced generation, but that sellers be free to enter new markets and to exit markets. Asymmetrical rights and obligations that allow existing customers to leave their current suppliers consistent with their existing contractual obligations, but that require sellers to continue to serve those customers beyond the terms of their existing contracts, would not be efficient or fair. Therefore, the Commission does not believe that it is appropriate to impose on wholesale requirements suppliers a regulatory obligation to continue to serve their existing requirements customers beyond the end of the contract term. This means that a requirements customer is responsible for planning to meet its power needs beyond the end of the contract term. It may re-contract with its existing supplier, or it may contract with new suppliers, using its existing supplier's transmission system. The Commission invites public comment on the extent to which there is or should be a regulatory obligation to continue to serve wholesale requirements customers beyond the end of the contract term and the source of any such obligation. The Commission also seeks comment concerning whether section 35.15 of the Commission's regulations, which concerns notice of termination, should be deleted in its entirety, or only in certain circumstances (e.g., when the seller provides transmission access on a comparable basis to the seller's own uses of its system). 2. Recovery of Stranded Costs Associated With Existing Wholesale Power Sales Contracts Because stranded costs are a transitional problem, and neglecting their recovery could delay the realization of a fully competitive bulk power market, it is important to set a date beyond which the Commission will no longer permit extra-contractual recovery of stranded costs that result from existing requirements contracts. The proposed regulations would establish a three-year transition period during which utilities must make a good faith effort to negotiate with their customers to add appropriate stranded cost provisions to their existing contracts that do not already contain exit fee or other explicit stranded cost provisions. For purposes of this rule, if an existing contract contains an exit fee provision, that provision will be deemed to be an explicit stranded cost provision which cannot be renegotiated unless explicitly provided for in the contract. One purpose of setting a time limit for renegotiation is to provide an incentive for utilities and their customers to attempt to promptly renegotiate existing requirements contracts that do not address stranded costs, so that the contracts reflect the new realities of emerging competitive generating markets. In these situations, the Commission expects utilities and their customers to make a good-faith effort to reach a mutually agreeable resolution. If the parties negotiate such a provision and the seller is a public utility, the utility must file the provision as an amendment to the existing power sales contract prior to the end of the three-year period. If the parties to an existing wholesale requirements contract cannot negotiate a stranded cost provision, the selling utility, if it is a public utility, may, before the end of the three-year transition period, unilaterally file under FPA section 205 or 206 a proposed stranded cost provision as an amendment to the existing contract. 36 This is discussed in further detail below. 36 See, supra , n.5, regarding transmitting utilities that are not also public utilities.
