FR940303-0-00039 FR940303-0-00011 (ii) Agency. The Agency must retain a copy of the allocation document and file the original with the Agency's Form 8610 that accounts for the year the allocation is made. The Agency must also retain a copy of the Form 8609 that is issued to the taxpayer and file the original with the Agency's Form 8610 that reflects the year the form is issued. (5) Separate procedure for election of appropriate percentage month. If a taxpayer receives an allocation under section 42(h)(1) (E) or (F) and wishes to elect under section 42(b)(2)(A)(ii) to use the appropriate percentage for a month other than the month in which a building is placed in service, the requirements specified in §1.42&hyph;8 must be met for the election to be effective. (e) Special rules. The following rules apply for purposes of this section. (1) Treatment of partnerships and other flow-through entities. With respect to taxpayers that own projects through partnerships or other flow-through entities (e.g., S corporations, estates, or trusts), carryover-allocation basis is determined at the entity level using the rules provided by this section. In addition, the entity is responsible for providing to the Agency the certification and documentation required under the basis verification requirement in paragraph (c) of this section. (2) Transferees. If land or depreciable property that is expected to be part of a project is transferred after a carryover allocation has been made for a building that is reasonably expected to be part of the project, but before the close of the calendar year of the allocation, the transferee's carryover-allocation basis is determined under the principles of this section and section 42(d)(7). See also Rev. Rul. 91&hyph;38, 1991&hyph;2 C.B. 3 (see §601.601(d)(2)(ii)( b ) of this chapter). In addition, the transferee is treated as the taxpayer for purposes of the basis verification requirement of this section, and therefore, is responsible for providing to the Agency the required certifications and documentation. §1.42&hyph;7 Substantially bond-financed buildings. [Reserved] §1.42&hyph;8 Election of appropriate percentage month. (a) Election under section 42(b)(2)(A)(ii)(I) to use the appropriate percentage for the month of a binding agreement _(1) In general. For purposes of section 42(b)(2)(A)(ii)(I), an agreement between a taxpayer and an Agency as to the housing credit dollar amount to be allocated to a building is considered binding if it_ (i) Is in writing; (ii) Is binding under state law on the Agency, the taxpayer, and all successors in interest; (iii) Specifies the type(s) of building(s) to which the housing credit dollar amount applies (i.e., a newly constructed or existing building, or substantial rehabilitation treated as a separate new building under section 42(e)); (iv) Specifies the housing credit dollar amount to be allocated to the building(s); and (v) Is dated and signed by the taxpayer and the Agency during the month in which the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) (i) through (iv) of this section are met. (2) Effect on state housing credit ceiling. Generally, a binding agreement described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is an agreement by the Agency to allocate credit to the taxpayer at a future date. The binding agreement may include a reservation of credit or a binding commitment (under section 42(h)(1)(C)) to allocate credit in a future taxable year. A reservation or a binding commitment to allocate credit in a future year has no effect on the state housing credit ceiling until the year the Agency actually makes an allocation. However, if the binding agreement is also a carryover allocation under section 42(h)(1) (E) or (F), the state housing credit ceiling is reduced by the amount allocated by the Agency to the taxpayer in the year the carryover allocation is made. For a binding agreement to be a valid carryover allocation, the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section and §1.42&hyph;6 must be met. (3) Time and manner of making election. An election under section 42(b)(2)(A)(ii)(I) may be made either as part of the binding agreement under paragraph (a)(1) of this section to allocate a specific housing credit dollar amount or in a separate document that references the binding agreement. In either case, the election must_
