FR940930-2-00242 FR940930-2-00085 ADDRESSES: Interested persons are invited to submit comments regarding this Notice to the Office of General Counsel, Rules Docket Clerk, Room 10276, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Washington, D.C. 20410&hyph;0500. Communications should refer to the above docket number and title. A copy of each communication submitted will be available for public inspection and copying on weekdays between 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. at the above address. Facsimile (FAX) comments are not acceptable. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Guy S. Wilson, Vice President, Government National Mortgage Association, Room 6151, 451 Seventh Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20410&hyph;9000, telephone (202) 401&hyph;8970. Hearing or speech-impaired individuals may call HUD's TDD number (202) 708&hyph;3649. (These telephone numbers are not toll-free.) SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background GNMA published a Notice in the Federal Register on May 26, 1994 (59 FR 27290) (``May 26 Notice'') which implemented a new program under which GNMA guarantees real estate mortgage investment conduits (``REMICs''). GNMA began its program with an ``initial stage''. During the initial stage, participation was limited to firms selected through a Competitive Application Procedure (``CAP''), standard documents were drafted, internal control procedures and information gathering and retention processes were developed, and a Multiclass Securities Guide was produced. This Guide will be updated from time to time to reflect changes in the policies governing the program, in accordance with usual GNMA procedures, and consistent with any regulations established for the program. GNMA received two comments regarding participation by minority and women-owned firms, both of which recommended that GNMA mandate participation by minority and women-owned businesses. GNMA considered these comments in the development of its policy as discussed below in section IV. One of these comments also recommended that GNMA pay the transaction costs from its guaranty fee. GNMA has decided not to take this approach, for the reasons discussed in section II. GNMA is now commencing the full participation stage, which GNMA is implementing with the publication of this Notice. Changes in GNMA's multiclass securities program are noted in this Notice. Any provisions in the May 26 Notice that are not revised in this Notice remain in full force and effect. II. Program Revisions for Full Participation Stage A. Types of Eligible Securities For the full participation stage, GNMA is expanding its multiclass securities program to include multiclass securities in addition to those issued by trusts electing REMIC status. Section 306(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1721(g)), authorizes GNMA to guarantee ``securities .␣.␣. based on or backed by a trust or pool composed of mortgages. *␣*␣*'' This language does not limit GNMA to any specific type of security so long as it is based on or backed by a trust or pool composed of eligible mortgages. In addition, section 3004 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, which revised GNMA's statutory provisions relating to guaranty fees, referred to fees charged for GNMA's guaranty of ``multiclass securities backed by a trust or pool of securities or notes guaranteed by the Association under this subsection. *␣*␣*'' B. Sponsors GNMA is willing to undertake a variety of transactions, provided that GNMA determines in its sole discretion that they enhance the goals of the program and provide protection against any loss to GNMA for which it would not otherwise be responsible. The obligations of Sponsors with respect to any particular type of GNMA multiclass securities transaction will be established from time to time by GNMA and will be set forth in the Multiclass Securities Guide. In general: 1. Sponsors are required to demonstrate their capacity to accumulate those MBS needed for a securities issuance as to which GNMA has committed to issue its guaranty. 2. Sponsors are required to represent the structural integrity of the issuance under all cash flow scenarios and demonstrate to GNMA's satisfaction their ability to indemnify GNMA for a breach of this representation. Sponsors are required to have sufficient assets to back their representations and commitments to GNMA, as specifically set forth in the GNMA Multiclass Securities Guide.
