FR940214-2-00086 FR940214-2-00052 Supplementary Material .02 defines the term ``associated person'' or ``person associated with a member'' as any partner, officer, director, or branch manager of a member (or any person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions), any person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with a member, or any employee of a member. Supplementary Material .03 requires members to establish, maintain and enforce certain policies and procedures pursuant to this rule. Specifically, members would be required to (1) advise all associated persons in writing of the prohibition against the misuse of material, non-public information; (2) maintain for at least three years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, signed statements from the member and all associated persons of the member, affirming their awareness of and agreement to abide by the above mentioned prohibitions; (3) maintain for at least three years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, account statements of all brokerage accounts (excluding mutual fund and money market accounts) in which an associated person either has a direct or indirect interest or makes investment decisions; (4) periodically review all such brokerage accounts for the purpose of detecting those securities transactions that the firm reasonably believes may have involved the misuse of material, non-public information; and (5) identify and document business dealings the member may have with publicly traded corporations that may result in the member receiving material, non-public information.The standards contained in .03 are intended to be minimum standards for compliance with the record-keeping requirements of the Act and this rule. Adherence to these standards will not necessarily constitute compliance with the Act and the rule for all members. The adequacy of any one member's policies and procedures will depend on the nature of that member's business. Supplementary Material .04 and the member bulletin (see Exhibit 3) describe a set of forms, denominated as the ``Sample ITSFEA Compliance Procedures,'' which may be used by ``eligible members'' to satisfy the record-keeping and filing requirements of the Act and this rule. ``Eligible members,'' are member organizations and sole Exchange members that do not carry or introduce customer accounts and for whom the Exchange is the designated examining authority (``DEA''). Specifically, the Sample ITSFEA Compliance Procedures require: (1) All associated persons to disclose each securities account in which they have a direct or indirect financial interest, or make investment decisions; (2) all associated persons to disclose whether they are an officer, director or 10% shareholder in a company whose shares are publicly traded: (3) acknowledgement by all associated persons that they understand and will abide by the prohibition against the misuse of material, non-public information; (4) written statement by a senior officer, partner or sole proprietor that such person ensures that all of the ITSFEA compliance procedures are being followed, including the periodic review of all accounts and trading activities of associated persons. The Sample ITSFEA Compliance Procedures are intended to constitute the minimum policies and procedures required by the Act and this rule; their use does not ensure compliance with the record-keeping and filing requirements. The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b)(5) of the Act in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade through the prevention of fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants or Others The Exchange has neither solicited nor received comments on the proposed rule. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will:
