FR940505-1-00139 FR940505-1-00012 The methodology for determining the environmental performance targets reflects projected growth in air travel within the respective FIP control area. As a result, new entrants simply would be required to achieve the appropriate environmental performance targets upon initiation of service. Both new entrants and expanding airlines are automatically accommodated by the control strategy as long as growth beyond predicted levels does not occur. In event that activity grows faster than originally forecast, EPA will revise the performance targets, as discussed in greater detail later in this section. Therefore, the Agency believes that the proposed program incorporates features which provide flexibility for new entrants or existing airlines to begin and expand environmentally responsible aircraft operations in the basin. Nonetheless, all airlines will face significant economic and technical challenges as a result of this program. ( b ) Pounds per PEU Scheme. The FIP strategy for commercial aircraft operations will center on a schedule of declining emission performance targets (i.e., pounds per PEU) for the combined emissions from all commercial airports in each control area. Separate targets will be established for HC and NO X emissions. These emission targets will yield benefits consistent with the percentage reduction from 1990 inventory for stationary sources. Ultimately, the emissions from commercial aviation in the South Coast and Ventura areas will be reducted by 20&hyph;45 percent and 30&hyph;45 percent from 1990 VOC and NO X emission levels, respectively, by 2005. The goal for VOC emissions in the Sacramento area is 20&hyph;45 percent by 2005. As already discussed, there is currently no stationary source emissions cap for NO X in Sacramento. This control strategy fundamentally relies on the calculation of an emissions baseline as a reference point for determining future year emission limits during the control period. The Agency proposes to use currently available emissions inventory data for aircraft and aircraft-related activities to establish the requisite emissions inventory for the baseline year of 1990. Once established, the seasonal emission limits for each year can be calculated from the baseline inventory established according to the annual uniform schedule of percentage reductions described above. The choice of 1990 as the baseline year is consistent with the Act's requirement for modeling reasonable further progress (RFP) and attainment of the ambient standards. However, aviation activity in 1990 may not be representative of typical operations, because the aviation industry experienced significant change during this period. Several air carriers, notably Eastern Airlines, ceased operations or stopped serving airports in the South Coast and Sacramento areas. Others such as Southwest Airlines had only a minimal presence in these areas during that period, but greatly expanded operations in subsequent years. In addition, the Desert Shield/Desert Storm military action caused an increase in jet fuel prices and a rapid decline in commercial passenger traffic. For these reasons it may be desirable to use a two-year average, perhaps 1989&hyph;1990, for establishing a baseline inventory in preference to using 1990 data alone; this could lessen the effect of unusual circumstances on a single year's inventory. EPA requests comment on the desirability of using a two-year average for establishing a baseline inventory. Any such multi-year average, however, may require an adjustment to the emission performance targets in order to assure consistency with the stationary source cap requirements and EPA's demonstration of attainment. Alternatively, EPA could utilize baseline reports from commercial airlines to establish this inventory. Given the importance of this baseline inventory in setting realistic emission limits and environmental performance targets, such industry baseline reports could provide information more representative of airline operations in the control area than generic default data currently being used EPA for some portions of the inventory.
