FR940505-2-00124 FR940505-2-00086 B. Customer Protection The Commission believes that a regulatory system designed to protect public customers must be in place before the trading of sophisticated financial instruments, such as options on the Big Cap Index, can commence on a national securities exchange. The Commission notes that the trading of standardized, exchange-traded options occurs in an environment that is designed to ensure, among other things, that: (1) The special risks of options are disclosed to public customers; (2) Only investors capable of evaluating and bearing the risks of options trading are engaged in such trading; and (3) Special compliance procedures are applicable to options accounts. Accordingly, because the Index options will be subject to the same regulatory regime as the other standardized options currently traded on the Phlx, the Commission believes that adequate safeguards are in place to ensure the protection of investors in options in the Big Cap Index. C. Surveillance The Commission generally believes that a surveillance-sharing agreement between an exchange proposing to list a stock index derivative and the exchanges trading the stocks underlying the derivative product is an important measure for the surveillance of the derivatives and underlying securities markets. Such agreements ensure the availability of information necessary to detect and deter potential manipulations and other trading abuses, thereby making the stock index product less readily susceptible to manipulation. 19 In this regard, the NYSE and National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., which together serve as the primary markets for all of the Index component stocks, are members of the ISG, which provides for the exchange of all necessary surveillance information. 20 19 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 31243 (September 28, 1992), 57 FR 45849 (October 5, 1992) 20 See n.16, supra . D. Market Impact The Commission believes that the listing and trading on the Phlx of options on the Big Cap Index will not have an adverse impact on the underlying securities markets. 21 First, as described above, the Index is broad-based and comprised of 50 stocks with no one stock dominating the Index. Second, as noted above, the stocks contained in the Index have relatively large capitalizations and are relatively actively-traded. Third, the 25,000 contract position and exercise limits, along with the 15,000 contract telescoping requirement, will serve to minimize potential manipulation and market impact concerns. Fourth, the risk to investors of contra-party performance will be minimized because the Index options will be issued and guaranteed by The Options Clearing Corporation just like any other standardized option traded in the United States. Fifth, existing Phlx stock index options rules and surveillance procedures will apply to options on the Big Cap Index. 21 The Commission notes that, prior to listing Big Cap Index options, the Exchange will be required to provide written representations that both the Exchange and the Options Price Reporting Authority have the necessary systems capacity to support those new series of Big Cap options. Lastly, the Commission believes that settling expiring Index options based on the opening prices of component securities is reasonable and consistent with the Act. As noted in other contexts, valuing expiring index options for exercise settlement purposes based on the opening prices rather than closing prices may help reduce any adverse effects on the securities underlying options on the Index. 22 22 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 30944 (July 21, 1992), 57 FR 33376 (July 28, 1992). E. Accelerated Approval of Amendment No. 4 The Commission finds good cause for approving Amendment No. 4 to the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication on notice of filing thereof in the Federal Register . Amendment No. 4 helps to conform the proposal to the Phlx's existing rules governing index options, clarifies certain characteristics of the proposal that were omitted in prior filings, and amends the formula for calculating the current Index value. All of these changes strengthen the proposal and, accordingly, the Commission believes it is consistent with section 6(b)(5) of the Act to approve Amendment No. 4 on an accelerated basis. Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning Amendment No. 4 to the proposed rule change. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC. Copies of such filing also will be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-mentioned self-regulatory organization. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by May 26, 1994. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 23 that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;93&hyph;64), as, amended, is approved contingent upon the Exchange's submission to the Commission of adequate systems capacity representations. 24 23 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). 24 See n.21, supra . For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 25 25 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10752 Filed 5&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
