FR941110-0-00305 FR941110-0-00018 The small number of populations and of individual plants of six of these species ( Diellia erecta, Hibiscus brackenridgei, Mariscus pennatiformis, Neraudia sericea, Solanum incompletum, and Vigna o-wahuensis ) increases the potential for extinction from stochastic events. The limited gene pool may depress reproductive vigor, or a single human-caused or natural environmental disturbance could destroy a significant percentage of the individuals or the only known extant population. For example, Solanum incompletum is known from a single population on the island of Hawaii and numbers only two individuals. Two of the species have fewer than 5 populations and 6 of the species are estimated to number no more than 100 individuals (See Table 2). All of the species in this ruling except Sesbania tomentosa either number fewer than 20 populations or total fewer than 200 individuals. The reproductive system of Flueggia neowawraea further exacerbates the problem of limited numbers. Since each tree bears only male or female flowers, they must be cross-pollinated from a different tree (Hayden 1990). If only a few trees flower at the same time, or if flowering trees are too widely separated for pollination by insects, no seed will be set. The survival of small, isolated populations, which probably are already experiencing depressed reproductive vigor, is therefore further threatened. The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by these species in determining to make this rule final. Based on this evaluation, this rulemaking will list these 12 species as endangered: Adenophorus periens, Bonamia menziesii, Diellia erecta, Flueggea neowawraea, Hibiscus brackenridgei, Mariscus pennatiformis, Neraudia sericea, Plantago princeps, Sesbania tomentosa, Solanum incompletum, Spermolepis hawaiiensis, and Vigna o-wahuensis. These 12 species are threatened by one or more of the following: habitat degradation and/or predation by pigs, goats, deer, and cattle; competition for space, light, water, and nutrients by alien plants; habitat loss from fires; human impacts from recreational activities; and insect infestations. Six of the 12 species either number no more than about 100 individuals or are known from fewer than 5 populations. Small population size and limited distribution make all of these species particularly vulnerable to extinction from reduced reproductive vigor or from stochastic events. Because these 12 species are in danger of extinction throughout all or a significant portion of their ranges, they fit the definition of endangered as defined in the Act. Therefore, the determination of endangered status for these 12 species is warranted. Critical habitat is not being proposed for the 12 species included in this rule, for reasons discussed in the ``Critical Habitat'' section of this rule.
