FR940512-2-00027 FR940512-2-00017 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Bonneville Power Administration Floodplain and Wetlands Involvement for BPA's Operational Fiber Optics Project AGENCY: Bonneville Power Administration (BPA), DOE. ACTION: Notice of floodplain and wetlands involvement. SUMMARY: BPA proposes to upgrade the existing operational telecommunications equipment throughout their service area (within the states of Oregon, Washington, Idaho, and Montana). This upgrade will involve replacing existing analog radios with digital radios and fiber optic equipment. Fiber optic cable will be strung on existing structures or a new parallel line within BPA's existing transmission line rights-of-way. A site specific project has been identified for the first segment of this proposed telecommunication upgrade. It includes installing fiber optic cable and related equipment from BPA's Ross Substation near Vancouver, Washington, to Franklin Substation near Pasco, Washington. This distance is approximately 340 kilometers (217 miles). Most of the cable will be installed on existing structures, however, in certain areas additional poles will be needed to carry the cable when existing towers cannot carry the additional load. The line will span both floodplains and wetlands located in the counties of Clark, Skamania, Klickitat, Benton, and Franklin in Washington; and Sherman, Gilliam, Morrow, Wasco, and Umatilla counties in Oregon. In accordance with DOE regulations for compliance with floodplain and wetlands environmental review requirements (10 CFR part 1022), BPA will prepare a floodplain and wetlands assessment and will perform this proposed action in a manner so as to avoid or minimize potential harm to or within the affected floodplain and wetlands. The floodplains and wetlands assessment will be included in the environmental assessment (EA) being prepared for the proposed project in accordance with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). A floodplain statement of findings will be included in any finding of no significant impact that may be issued following the completion of the environmental assessment. DATES: Comments are due to the address below no later than May 31, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CONTACT: John M. Taves_EFBG, Bonneville Power Administration, P.O. Box 3621, Portland, Oregon, 97208&hyph;3621, phone number 503&hyph;230&hyph;4995, fax number 503&hyph;230&hyph;3984. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This EA covers two different levels of environmental analysis: One is the programmatic approach that would describe future telecommunication upgrades throughout BPA's service area and the other is a site specific analysis covering the first segment of a proposed upgrade from BPA's Ross Substation near Vancouver, Washington, to Franklin Substation located near Pasco, Washington. The programmatic EA would cover a discussion of the affected environment and a general overview of potential impacts and possible mitigation. For each segment of BPA's system proposed for telecommunication upgrading, a site-specific analysis would be completed within a separate NEPA process. The site specific portion of the EA will involve crossing the 100-year floodplain of several major rivers and tributaries. At major river crossings, the fiber optic cable would be placed on existing structures so no new towers would be located in floodplains. The smaller rivers and tributaries would be spanned using either existing towers or new poles. The poles would not be located within a floodplain. Potential impacts to floodplains could occur due to clearing of riparian vegetation and improvement of access roads. However, with mitigation, impacts would be eliminated or minimized to the fullest extent possible. The first segment of this proposed upgrade, from Ross Substation to Franklin Substation, will cross 100-year floodplains associated with the following rivers/creeks (moving west to east): Burnt Bridge Creek, Lacamas Creek, Matney Creek, Little Washougal River, Washougal River, Rock Creek, Wind River, Little White Salmon River, White Salmon River, Klickitat River, Fivemile Creek, Columbia River (crossed three times), Fifteenmile Creek, Deschutes River, Fulton Canyon Creek, Spanish Hollow Creek, John Day River, Quinton Canyon Creek, Jones Canyon Creek, China Creek, Willow Creek, Sixmile Creek, Umatilla River. Permanently-flooded wetlands and small seasonal and riparian wetlands occur in the 100-year floodplains of some of the rivers and creeks mentioned above. Several of the larger wetlands occur in sections 3, 9, 10, 16, & 17 in Township 2 North, Range 7 East, in section 31 in Township 5 North, Range 27 East, and in section 15, Township 4 North and Range 25 East. The greatest potential to affect wetlands comes from the installation of new parallel structures or access road improvements. Affects to wetlands could include filling wetlands, alteration of plant communities, alteration of the hydrology, or water quality degradation. These effects can be minimized or eliminated by avoiding disturbance to wetlands through careful planning and construction methods. For more specific information on floodplains and wetlands in the project area contact Ms. Kevin Ward, Environmental Coordinator_EFBG, Bonneville Power Administration, P.O. Box 3621, Portland, Oregon 97208&hyph;3621, (503) 230&hyph;5511. Maps and further information are available from BPA at the address above. Issued in Portland, Oregon, on May 4, 1994. John M. Taves, NEPA Compliance Officer, Engineering Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11557 Filed 5&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
