FR940110-0-00049 FR940110-0-00014 On May 27, 1993, the Secretary published a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) for these programs in the Federal Register (58 FR 30916). Analysis of Comments and Changes In response to the Secretary's invitation in the NPRM, 33 parties submitted comments on the proposed regulations. An analysis of the comments and of the changes in the regulations since publication of the NPRM follows. Issues are grouped according to subject, with appropriate sections of the regulations referenced in parentheses. Technical and other minor changes_and suggested changes the Secretary is not legally authorized to make under the applicable statutory authority and comments on subjects outside the scope of these regulations_are not addressed. PART 462_STATE-ADMINISTERED WORKPLACE LITERACY PROGRAM Partnership Agreement (§§462.30(c) and 462.32(b)) Comments: Some commenters were concerned that requiring partners to enter into a binding agreement would have a dampening effect on businesses joining partnerships, and recommended a less restrictive approach. Another commenter supported requiring a binding agreement. Discussion: For five years the Secretary has required, under the National Workplace Literacy Program, the types of binding agreements that would become part of the State-Administered program. The Secretary's experience is that these agreements are essential to eliciting quality applications, promoting project success, and ensuring accountable grant performance. Changes : None. PART 472_NATIONAL WORKPLACE LITERACY PROGRAM Definitions_Employment and Training Agency (§472.5) Comments: One commenter mistakenly thought the proposed change, which would clarify that employment and training agencies are nonprofit agencies, would exclude from participation as partners profit-making organizations that provide employment and training services. Other commenters agreed with the proposed change to the definition of ``employment and training agency.'' Discussion: The proposed change would codify an existing program practice that requires an education partner classified as an employment and training agency to be a nonprofit entity. However, profit-makers can continue to participate as partners under the classification ``business'' or ``industry'' organization. See §472.2(a)(1). Profit-making organizations should note that a selection criterion in §472.22(c)(4) requests applications to indicate the extent to which training will be provided through the education partner classified under §472.2(a)(2), rather than through the business or labor partner classified under §472.2(a)(1), unless transferring this activity to the business or labor partner is necessary and reasonable within the framework of the applicant's proposed project. Changes : None. Project Director (§§472.5 and 472.32(e)) Comments: Several commenters supported the regulations defining the term ``project director'' and requiring that each project provide for a director. Some of these commenters recommended additional regulations, including requiring a full-time project director, specifying the qualifications of a project director, and requiring that proposed personnel demonstrate substantive experience, education, and training in the workplace. Discussion: Because the project director will be responsible for the day-to-day operation of the project, the qualifications of that person should be directly related to the specific requirements of the project, and will naturally differ somewhat from project to project. The Secretary strongly encourages applicants to hire project directors with experience and training in project management and in fields related to objectives of the project, but believes that a list of standardized qualifications would limit the discretion of applicant partnerships to hire directors who respond to the needs of the project. The regulations do not specifically require a full-time project director, and this may not be needed_especially in small projects. However, each project must provide for a director who will devote sufficient time to exercising day-to-day operational responsibility and ensure that the project is well managed. Changes : None. Preapplications (§§472.10 and 472.11) Comment: One commenter suggested retaining §§472.10 and 472.11, which describe a preapplication process, because the process would save time for projects that might not be appropriate for a national competition. Another commenter supported the Department's proposal to delete these sections because a preapplication would be a burdensome paperwork requirement. Discussion: Historically, these sections were included in the regulations to authorize use of a preapplication process where it would be helpful to applicants. However, the provision has never been needed, and the Department does not foresee its use in the future. Changes: None. Preference for Small Business Partners (§472.21(e)) Comments: One commenter agreed that preference points should be given for applications involving a small business, but thought that the points should be given even if the business is not involved as a project partner. The commenter stated that it is unrealistic to expect small businesses to become partners because this would burden them with paperwork, meetings, and unnecessary reports. Another commenter suggested giving an additional preference to partnerships involving small businesses with less than 100 or 250 employees. Discussion: A small business can potentially be involved in a workplace literacy project as a ``partner,'' a ``contractor,'' a ``helping organization,'' or a ``site.'' Each of these terms is defined in 34 CFR 472.5, which clarifies that only a partner can receive program funds and be fully involved in project policy and operations. The Secretary believes that preference should be given only to those partnerships that include small businesses as partners. To interpret the preference more broadly would benefit applications that involve large businesses as partners_and merely involve small businesses in a less significant role. Each partnership agreement designates one of the partners to serve as the project grantee. This partner is principally responsible for project administration, including paperwork and reports. Any small business partner that does not wish to serve as a grantee can enter into an agreement designating another partner as the grantee, and can thus avoid the paperwork burden. The Secretary has adopted a definition of the term ``small business'' modeled on regulations of the Small Business Administration and does not believe it would be beneficial to modify that definition by giving an additional preference to small businesses having particularly small numbers of employees.
