FR940719-2-00019 FR940719-2-00003 Article XIV_Definitions is amended by adding, after paragraph H, the following new paragraph I: I. ``Fall Wheat'' is defined as a wheat crop seeded during the fall months of the year, overwintered in the field and harvested the following season. Pursuant to the ``Insurance Period'' Section of Article III of the Policy: The coverage provided by the Policy and this endorsement for your fall wheat crop is not continuous. You must renew the coverage provided by the Policy and this endorsement on your fall what crop no later than September 30 of each year for coverage to be effective for the succeeding year. Grain Sorghum (MILO) Endorsement Name Insured: Policy Period: Insured By (Insurance Company): Endorsement Number: Policy Number: Effective Date of Endorsement: The above needs to be completed only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to preparation and issuance of the Market Value Protection Policy. How this endorsement effects your coverage: The Losses Insured Against under the ``Cause of Loss'' Section of Article III of the Policy shall include: Unavoidable financial loss resulting directly from an increase in the Chicago Board of Trade futures settlement prices for Corn, as specifically set forth in this endorsement and the Policy, and provided that You sustain a Grain Sorghum (Milo) production loss, during the Insurance Period, caused by an insured peril(s) under the MPCI Policy and an MPCI Policy Indemnity Payment is made to You. Under Paragraph ``A'' of the ``Indemnity Payment'' Section of Article V of the Policy, the indemnity payable to You for loss to Your Grain Sorghum (Milo) Crop shall be calculated as follows: A. As to any loss under the MPCI Policy, during the Insurance Period, to any Grain Sorghum (Milo) Crop: 1. Ninety-five percent (95%) of the November Average Daily Settlement Price for Corn to be delivered during the month of December, of the then current crop year, shall be established (hereinafter the ``Corn Price''); 2. The Corn Price shall be multiplied by 95% (.95) to determine the ``Grain Sorghum Futures Price''. 3. The ``Grain Sorghum Base Price'' shall be established as the highest MPCI Policy Crop Price Election for Grain Sorghum (milo) available under the MPCI Policy for the then current crop year. 4. The Grain Sorghum Base Price shall be subtracted from the Grain Sorghum Futures Price to determine the ``Grain Sorghum Price Change''. 5. The ``Maximum Price Change'' per bushel shall be that amount selected by You ($0.75, $1.00, or $1.50 per bushel) on Your application for coverage and shown on the Summary of Coverage provided by Us to You. 6. The ``Indemnity Per Bushel'' shall be the lesser of: a. The Grain Sorghum Price Change; and b. The Maximum Price Change. 7. The MPCI Policy Indemnity Payment shall be divided by Your MPCI Policy Crop Price Election for Grain Sorghum (milo) to determine the ``Grain Sorghum Production Loss'' in bushels. 8. The Indemnity Per Bushel shall be multiplied by the Grain Sorghum Production Loss to determine the total indemnity to be paid to You. B. ``Average Daily Settlement Price'' means the average derived by totaling the Chicago Board of Trade Commodity futures daily final closing settlement price for corn for each full active trading day during the month and dividing this sum by the number of full active trading days during the month. For purposes of determining the average Daily Settlement Price, there must be fifteen (15) or more full active trade days during the applicable month. If there are fourteen (14) or less full active trading days during the applicable month as to corn, no indemnity shall be payable as to Your Grain Sorghum (Milo) Crop. A full active trading day is any trading day on the Chicago Board of Trade commodity futures market during which more than 50 corn futures contracts are traded. C. In the event that trading on the Chicago Board of Trade commodity futures market for corn is suspended or terminated so that for purposes of determining the Average Daily Settlement Price for corn there are fourteen (14) or less active trading days during the applicable month, no indemnity shall be payable under this Policy as to Your Grain Sorghum (Milo) Crop, and that portion of the Premium paid by You which is applicable to Your Grain Sorghum (Milo) Crop shall be refunded by Us. Pursuant to the ``Insurance Period'' Section of Article III of the Policy: The Coverage Provided by the Policy and this endorsement for your grain Sorghum (MILO) crop is not continuous. You must renew the coverage provided by the policy and this endorsement on your grain sorghum (MILO) crop no later than April 15 of each year for coverage to be effective for the succeeding year. Soybean Endorsement Name Insured: Policy Period: Insured by (Insurance Company): Endorsement Number: Policy Number: Effective Date of Endorsement: The above needs to be completed only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to preparation and issuance of the Market Value Protection Policy. How this endorsement effects your coverage: The Losses Insured Against under the ``Cause of Loss'' Section of Article III of the Policy shall include: Unavoidable financial loss resulting directly from an increase in the Chicago Board of Trade futures settlement prices for Soybeans, as specifically set forth in this endorsement and the Policy, and provided that You sustain a Soybean production loss, during the Insurance Period, caused by an insured peril(s) under the MPCI Policy and an MPCI Policy Indemnity Payment is made to You. Under paragraph ``A'' of the ``Indemnity Payment'' Section of Article V of the Policy, the indemnity payable to You for loss to Your Soybean Crop shall be calculated as follows: A. As to any loss under the MPCI Policy, during the Insurance Period, to any Soybean Crop: 1. Ninety-five percent (95%) of the October Average Daily Settlement Price for soybeans to be delivered during the month of November, of the then current crop year, shall be established (hereinafter the ``Soybean Futures Price''); 2. The ``Soybean Base Price'' shall be established as the highest MPCI Policy Crop Price Election for soybeans available under the MPCI Policy for the then current crop year.
