FR940930-1-00035 FR940930-1-00014 45 CFR Part 1621 Client Grievance Procedures AGENCY: Legal Services Corporation. ACTION: Proposed Rule. SUMMARY: This proposed regulation would revise the Legal Services Corporation's (``Corporation'' or ``LSC'') regulation relating to client grievance procedures. The proposed rule revises the procedural requirements for client grievances and conforms the rule to applicable rules of professional responsibility and the attorney-client privilege. The proposal also includes a number of technical and structural revisions to make the rule easier to apply. DATES: Comments should be received on or before November 29, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be submitted to the Office of the General Counsel, Legal Services Corporation, 750 First Street NE., 11th Floor, Washington, DC 20002&hyph;4250. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Victor M. Fortuno, General Counsel, Office of the General Counsel, (202) 336&hyph;8810. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On June 19 and July 15, 1994, in Washington, DC., the Operations and Regulations Committee (``Committee'') of the LSC Board of Directors held hearings on proposed revisions to 45 CFR part 1621, LSC's regulation on client grievance procedures. At the July 15 meeting, the Committee approved a draft to be published in the Federal Register as a proposed rule for public comment and agreed to extend the customary 30-day comment period to 60 days. The Committee recognizes that Congress is currently considering reauthorization legislation for the Corporation. Whenever Congress does pass a new LSC Act, the Corporation's regulations will be revisited and revised accordingly. Section 1621.1␣Purpose The revisions to this section are intended to clarify that there is no statutory entitlement to legal services or to a particular type of legal assistance. The intent of this rule is to provide for a mechanism whereby applicants for service or clients may complain about the denial of service or the quality of services provided. The proposed revisions to this section also make it clear that the rules regarding complaints about the quality and manner of service apply only to recipients that actually provide services to clients and not to those support centers and other recipients that do not offer direct intake. They also clarify that the ``applicants for service'' and the ``clients'' are not, for the purposes of these rules, local legal services programs, but rather, that they are the financially eligible clients represented by LSC-funded programs. Finally, the revisions are intended to clarify that a recipient is not accountable to the entire client community with regard to client grievances, but only to its actual clients and, to a limited extent, to those members of the community who actually apply for services.
