FR941107-2-00026 FR941107-2-00007 To value factory overhead, we calculated percentages based on elements of constructed value data reported in the Antidumping Investigation of Silicomanganese from Brazil (see public version of respondents' June 17, 1994, submission in that proceeding). We adjusted the figure to reflect an energy-exclusive overhead percentage. For selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense and profit percentages, we used statutory minimum of 10 percent, of materials, labor, and factory overhead. For profit we used the statutory minimum of eight percent of materials, labor, factory overhead, and SG&A expenses. No surrogate country information reflected percentages for SG&A and profit that were above the statutory minima. To value packing materials, we also used information provided in the UN Trade Statistics for Brazil for January through December 1992. We added surrogate freight costs for the delivery of inputs and packing materials to the factories producing pure and alloy magnesium. For SMW, we used the actual cost for one factor, plastic, because it had been imported from a market economy country and paid for in convertible currency. Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we will verify information determined to be acceptable for use in making our final determinations. Critical Circumstances Petitioners allege that critical circumstances exist with respect to imports of alloy magnesium from the Russian Federation. Under 19 CFR 353.16(a), critical circumstances exist if (1) there is a history of dumping in the United States or elsewhere of the same class or kind of merchandise as the merchandise subject to the investigation; or the importer knew or should have known that the producer or reseller was selling the merchandise at less than its fair value; and (2) there have been massive imports of the merchandise over a relatively short period of time. In determining whether imports were massive, 19 CFR 353.16(f)(1) instructs consideration of: (i) The volume and value of the imports; (ii) Seasonal trends; and (iii) The share of domestic consumption accounted for by the imports. Further, 19 CFR 353.16(f)(2) states that imports will not generally be considered massive unless they have increased by at least 15 percent over the imports during an immediately preceding period of comparable duration. With respect to the question of whether there is a history of dumping, we consider whether there has been an antidumping order covering the imports of the investigated product into the United States or another country. To determine whether the importers of alloy magnesium from Russia knew, or should have known, that the products were being sold at less than fair value, we considered the company-specific preliminary margins in these investigations. We consider margins of 25 percent or more (when USP is purchase price) and 15 percent (when USP is ESP) sufficient to impute knowledge. See, e.g. , Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Certain Cold-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products from Argentina (58 FR 37062, 37078, July 9, 1993). For all exporters except Gerald Metals and SMW, the margin calculated with respect to alloy magnesium exceeds 25 percent. However, for Gerald Metals and SMW, the company-specific margins do not exceed 25 percent. Accordingly, we must also consider whether there is a history of dumping in the United States or elsewhere with respect to alloy magnesium from Russia in order to determine whether critical circumstances exist with respect to those companies. We are aware of no outstanding antidumping duty orders with respect to alloy magnesium from the Russian Federation. For those companies with estimated margins that exceed 25 percent, we determine that importers knew or should have known that sales were at LTFV prices.
