FR940610-2-00204 FR940610-2-00106 Friday June 10, 1994 Part III Department of Education Direct Grant Programs and Fellowship Programs; Notice Inviting Applications for New Awards for Fiscal Year 1994 Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 111␣/␣Friday, June 10, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Direct Grant Programs and Fellowship Programs AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice inviting applications for new awards for fiscal year 1995. SUMMARY: The Secretary invites applications for new awards for fiscal year (FY) 1995 under some of the Department's direct grant and fellowship programs and announces deadline dates for the transmittal of applications under these programs. This combined application notice contains fiscal and programmatic information for potential applicants under the Department's programs announced in this issue of the Federal Register . This notice also lists FY 1995 programs previously announced in the Federal Register . DATES: The chart for each principal office (Charts 1 through 6) includes the following dates for each program or competition: the date on which applications will be available, the deadline for submission of applications, and_for programs subject to Executive Order (EO) 12372 (Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs)_the deadline date for transmittal of State Process Recommendations by State Single Points of Contact (SPOCs) and comments by other interested parties. ADDRESSES: For Applications or Further Information: The address and telephone number for obtaining applications for, or further information about, a program are in the application notice for that program. For Users of TDD or FIRS: Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the TDD number, if any, listed in the individual application notices. If a TDD number is not listed for a given program, individuals who use a TDD may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. For Intergovernmental Review: The address for transmitting recommendations and comments under intergovernmental review is in the appendix to this notice. The appendix also contains the addresses of individual SPOCs. For Electronic Access to Information: Information about the Department's funding opportunities, including copies of application notices for discretionary grant competitions, can be viewed on the Department's electronic bulletin board (ED Board), telephone (202) 260&hyph;9950; or on the Internet Gopher Server at GOPHER.ED.GOV (under Announcements, Bulletins and Press Releases). However, the official application notice for a discretionary grant competition is the notice published in the Federal Register . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Department's first combined application notice was published in September 1989. It was based on the idea_subsequently affirmed by numerous parties in the educational community_that placing as many application notices as possible in a single notice would assist potential applicants in planning projects and activities. In the intervening years, other issues affecting the application and grant award processes were identified, including the view of a number of potential applicants that the Department's schedule for grant awards did not allow grantees sufficient time to implement departmentally assisted projects before the start of the academic year. As part of the Administration's goal to ``reinvent'' the Federal Government, a departmentwide Quality Improvement Team examined the Department's grant procedures and how these procedures affect the timely award of grants. The team's recommendations, which have been adopted by the Secretary, will result in a number of changes in the way the Department announces and awards grants under the Department's programs. In order to announce and award grants to accommodate the academic year, the Secretary determined that grants should be awarded during the preceding spring, to the maximum extent possible. To allow applicants more time to prepare applications and the Department the necessary time to process those applications, the Secretary further determined that application announcements should be published in the spring preceding the year in which the grants will be awarded. Thus, it is the Secretary's intent to publish the Department's annual combined application notice in the spring rather than in September, as has been the case until now. This policy will take full effect with the announcement of grants for FY 1996. For this transition year the combined notice for FY 1995 is being published in two sections_one now, announcing as many programs and competitions as possible at this time, and the other in September, announcing the remainder of the Department's programs and competitions. Thus, this notice contains those application announcements that the Department is able to publish at this time, and references application notices for FY 1995 that were published before this combined notice. Readers should note that, unlike previous combined notices, this notice does not list_or give estimated dates for_programs and competitions for which application notices are to be published at a later date. Those programs and competitions will be listed in the September combined notice. Among the programs and competitions omitted from this notice are those governed by statutes that are undergoing congressional reauthorization. These include programs administered by the Office of Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs and the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, and some programs of the Office of Educational Research and Improvement. Also omitted from this notice are programs and competitions to be governed by new regulations or funding priorities that have not yet been issued in final form. In addition, this notice does not contain programs and competitions that will use application forms not yet approved by the Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980.
