FR941019-2-00095 FR941019-2-00064 Bureau of Reclamation Quarterly Status Report of Water Service and Repayment Contract Negotiations AGENCY: Bureau of Reclamation, Interior. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given of contractual actions that are new, modified, discontinued or completed since the last publication of this notice on July 28, 1994. The May 6, 1994, notice should be used as a reference point to identify changes. The number in parenthesis corresponds to the number in the May 6, 1994, notice. This notice is one means in which the public is informed about contractual actions for capital recovery and management of project resources and facilities. Additional Bureau of Reclamation (Reclamation) announcements of individual contract actions may be published in the Federal Register and in newspapers of general circulation in the areas determined by Reclamation to be affected by the proposed action. Announcements may be in the form of news releases, legal notices, official letters, memorandums, or other forms of written material. Meetings, workshops, and/or hearings may also be used, as appropriate, to provide local publicity. The public participation procedures do not apply to proposed contracts for sale of surplus or interim irrigation water for a term of 1 year or less. Either of the contracting parties may invite the public to observe any contract proceedings. All public participation procedures will be coordinated with those involved in complying with the National Environmental Policy Act. ADDRESSES: The identity of the approving officer and other information pertaining to a specific contract proposal may be obtained by calling or writing the appropriate regional office at the address and telephone number given for each region in the supplementary information. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Alonzo Knapp, Manager, Reclamation Law, Contracts, and Repayment Office, Bureau of Reclamation, P.O. Box 25007, Denver, Colorado 80225&hyph;0007; telephone 303&hyph;236&hyph;1061 extension 224. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to section 226 of the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982 (96 Stat. 1273) and 43 CFR 426.20 of the rules and regulations published in 52 FR 11954, Apr. 13, 1987, Reclamation will publish notice of proposed or amendatory contract actions for any contract for the delivery of project water for authorized uses in newspapers of general circulation in the affected area at least 60 days prior to contract execution. Pursuant to the ``Final Revised Public Participation Procedures'' for water resource-related contract negotiations, published in 47 FR 7763, Feb. 22, 1982, a tabulation is provided of all proposed contractual actions in each of the five Reclamation regions. Each proposed action is, or is expected to be, in some stage of the contract negotiation process in 1994. When contract negotiations are completed, and prior to execution, each proposed contract form must be approved by the Secretary of the Interior, or pursuant to delegated or redelegated authority, the Commissioner of Reclamation or one of the regional directors. In some instances, congressional review and approval of a report, water rate, or other terms and conditions of the contract may be involved. Public participation in and receipt of comments on contract proposals will be facilitated by adherence to the following procedures: 1. Only persons authorized to act on behalf of the contracting entities may negotiate the terms and conditions of a specific contract proposal. 2. Advance notice of meetings or hearings will be furnished to those parties that have made a timely written request for such notice to the appropriate regional or project office of Reclamation. 3. Written correspondence regarding proposed contracts may be made available to the general public pursuant to the terms and procedures of the Freedom of Information Act (80 Stat. 383), as amended. 4. Written comments on a proposed contract or contract action must be submitted to the appropriate regional officials at the locations and within the time limits set forth in the advance public notices. 5. All written comments received and testimony presented at any public hearings will be reviewed and summarized by the appropriate regional office for use by the contract approving authority. 6. Copies of specific proposed contracts may be obtained from the appropriate regional director or his designated public contact as they become available for review and comment. 7. In the event modifications are made in the form of a proposed contract, the appropriate regional director shall determine whether republication of the notice and/or extension of the comment period is necessary. Factors considered in making such a determination shall include, but are not limited to: (i) the significance of the modification, and (ii) the degree of public interest which has been expressed over the course of the negotiations. As a minimum, the regional director shall furnish revised contracts to all parties who requested the contract in response to the initial public notice. Acronym Definitions Used Herein (BCP)␣Boulder Canyon Project (CAP)␣Central Arizona Project (CUP)␣Central Utah Project (CVP)␣Central Valley Project
