FR940720-0-00095 FR940720-0-00006 (B) The following values: ( 1 ) Sulfur, 355 ppm; ( 2 ) Olefins, 11.3 volume percent; ( 3 ) T90, 349 ○F; or (C) An adjusted annual average baseline fuel parameter value for sulfur, olefins and T90 such that exhaust emissions of VOC, toxics, and NO X do not exceed the complex model emission levels specified in paragraph (e)(5)(vii)(B) of this section. In the petition for a work-in-progress adjustment, the refiner shall specify sulfur, olefins and T90 values that meet these emission levels. * * * * * (7) *␣*␣* (i) *␣*␣* (A) ( 1 ) The refinery is the only refinery of a refiner such that it cannot form an aggregate baseline with another refinery (per paragraph (f) of this section) and meets the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(7)(i) (B) and (C); or ( 2 ) The refiner is a multi-refinery refiner where each of the refineries also meets the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(7)(i) (B) and (D). * * * * * (C) For single refinery refiners, the ratio of a refiner's 1990 JP&hyph;4 production to its 1990 gasoline production must equal or exceed 0.2. (D) For multi-refinery refiners, the 1990 JP&hyph;4 production to 1990 gasoline production ratio must equal or exceed 0.2. The ratio of a multi-refinery refiner must be calculated over all of its refineries (aggregated). * * * * * (f) *␣*␣* (2) *␣*␣* (ii) If the baseline fuel value for aromatics, olefins, and/or benzene (determined per paragraph (e) of this section) is higher than the high end of the valid range limits specified in §80.42(c)(1) if compliance is being determined under the Simple Model, or in §80.45(f)(1)(ii) if compliance is being determined under the Complex Model, then the valid range limits may be extended for conventional gasoline in the following manner: (A) The new high end of the valid range for aromatics is determined from the following equation: NAROLIM=AROBASE+5.0 volume percent where NAROLIM=The new high end of the valid range limit for aromatics, in volume percent AROBASE=The seasonal baseline fuel value for aromatics, in volume percent (B) The new high end of the valid range for olefins is determined from the following equation: NOLELIM=OLEBASE+3.0 volume percent where NOLELIM=The new high end of the valid range limit for olefins, in volume percent OLEBASE=The seasonal baseline fuel value for olefins, in volume percent (C) The new high end of the valid range for benzene is determined from the following equation: NBENLIM=BENBASE+0.5 volume percent where NBENLIM=The new high end of the valid range limit for benzene, in volume percent BENBASE=The seasonal baseline fuel value for benzene, in volume percent (D) The extension of the valid range is limited to the applicable summer or winter season in which the baseline fuel values for aromatics, olefins, and/or benzene exceed the high end of the valid range as described in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section. Also, the extension of the valid range is limited to use by the refiner whose baseline value for aromatics, olefins, and/or benzene was higher than the valid range limits as described in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section. (E) Any extension of the Simple Model valid range limits is applicable only to the Simple Model. Likewise any extension of the Complex Model valid range limits is applicable only to the Complex Model. (F) The valid range extensions calculated in paragraphs (f)(2)(ii)(A), (B), and (C) of this section are applicable to both the baseline fuel and target fuel for the purposes of determining the compliance status of conventional gasolines. The extended valid range limit represents the maximum value for that parameter above which fuels cannot be evaluated with the applicable compliance model. (G) Under the Simple Model, baseline and compliance calculations shall subscribe to the following limitations: ( 1 ) If the aromatics valid range has been extended per paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, an aromatics value equal to the high end of the valid range specified in §80.42(c)(1) shall be used for the purposes of calculating the exhaust benzene fraction. ( 2 ) If the fuel benzene valid range has been extended per paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, a benzene value equal to the high end of the valid range specified in §80.42(c)(1) shall be used for the purposes of calculating the exhaust benzene fraction. (H) Under the Complex Model, baseline and compliance calculations shall subscribe to the following limitations: ( 1 ) If the aromatics valid range has been extended per paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, an aromatics value equal to the high end of the valid range specified in §80.45(f)(1)(ii) shall be used for the purposes of calculating emissions performances. ( 2 ) If the olefins valid range has been extended per paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, an olefins value equal to the high end of the valid range specified in §80.45(f)(1)(ii) shall be used for the target fuel for the purposes of calculating emissions performances. ( 3 ) If the benzene valid range has been extended per paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, a benzene value equal to the high end of the valid range specified in §80.45(f)(1)(ii) shall be used for the target fuel for the purposes of calculating emissions performances.
