FR940930-0-00171 FR940930-0-00028 1. Explanatory Language in the Preamble of the Final Rulemaking for Clean Fuel Fleet Definitions and General Provisions Is Clarified in Four Areas, as Described Below a. The role of fleet payment methods in establishing whether fleet vehicles are centrally fueled. In the description of ``contract fueling'' as it pertains to the definition of ``centrally fueled'' (section III(3)(a) of the Definitions final rule preamble, 58 FR 64679, December 9, 1993), EPA indicated that the nature of the method of payment used by a fleet operator for fuel purchases might be useful for determining whether the fueling arrangement constituted ``central fueling.'' In its description, EPA stated that ``retail credit cards'' would not represent central fueling arrangements while ``commercial fleet credit cards'' would represent such arrangements. Since the time of the final rule, parties representing fleet leasing companies and independent fuel marketers informed the Agency that the emerging business in broad national fleet fueling cards requires further clarification of this issue. These parties have indicated that the use of such cards, which generally include a wide network of fuel providers nationwide and an administrative system for monitoring fuel purchases, do not necessarily indicate that fueling is occurring at a central facility or set of facilities. Similarly, the use of retail credit cards does not prove that fueling is not occurring in a centralized way. EPA believes there is value in these observations, and the Agency will no longer recommend that states look to the payment method as a key indicator of the presence or absence of central fueling. Instead, EPA recommends that states look at the actual refueling patterns used by fleet operators. When an individual fleet's fueling is limited to a single location or a prescribed and identified set of locations within the operational range of the vehicles, EPA believes this situation represents central fueling, regardless of the method of payment for the fuel. As the implementation of state fleet programs evolves, EPA may consider further clarification of this issue, by rule or by guidance. b. Clarification of the determination of whether a fleet is ``capable of being centrally fueled''. In the preamble of the Definitions final rulemaking, EPA described a preferred technique for determining fleets capability of being centrally fueled, based on the number of miles from trips that could be centrally fueled. Because of an editorial oversight, portions of section III(4)(a)(i) and (4)(c) of the Definitions final rule preamble may be misleading (58 FR 64679, December 9, 1993). EPA wishes to clarify that the number of miles from trips that could be centrally fueled should be tabulated only from those trips that do not require the fleet vehicle to travel outside of its operational range (i.e., the distance a vehicle is able to travel on a round trip with a single refueling). This clarification makes the method of calculation consistent with the stated intent of the overall determination procedure. c. Correction to reference in the definition of ``owned or operated, leased, or otherwise controlled by such person''. The definition of ``owned or operated, leased, or otherwise controlled by such person'' in §88.302&hyph;94 of the Definitions final rule regulations may be misleading (58 FR 64679, December 9, 1993). Paragraph (2) within this definition refers to the definition of ``control'' as being in paragraph (c) of §88.302&hyph;94; however, the definition of ``control'' is not designated as paragraph (c). Thus, EPA wishes to clarify that in the definition of ``owned or operated, leased, or otherwise controlled by such person'' it intended to refer to the definition of ``control'' in §88.302&hyph;94. d. Correction to the instructions for the promulgation of §88.308&hyph;94 of the regulations, entitled ``Programmatic requirements for clean-fuel fleet vehicles''. Because of an editorial error, the definition of ``multi-state nonattainment areas'' (§88.308&hyph;94) in the Definitions final rule regulation (58 FR 64679, December 9, 1993) was described as an amendment to a previously promulgated section instead of a new definition to be promulgated in a new section of part 88. Thus, EPA wishes to clarify that it intended to add a new §88.308&hyph;94 to 40 CFR part 88.
