FR940831-1-00016 FR940831-1-00005 The EPA's database which serves as the basis for the May 13 proposed rule for marine vessels does not identify which loading and unloading operations occur at refineries as opposed to other types of plants. However, the EPA has no data to indicate that marine vessel loading operations at refineries are dissimilar to marine vessel loading operations located at other facilities or that their control levels differ. Therefore, the EPA anticipates that the floors for neither the petroleum refinery nor the marine vessel rules would be affected by redefining the source categories as described. If the EPA expands the refinery source category to include marine vessel loading and unloading operations, loading operations at refineries would have an opportunity to average emissions and reduce costs. In addition, they would be required to achieve additional emission reductions in accordance with the 10 percent discount requirement contained in the emissions averaging provisions. Loading operations that stand alone would not have this same opportunity to reduce costs. Public comment is solicited on the magnitude of these impacts and the appropriateness of this distinction. Some marine terminals handle products with low concentrations of HAP's but high concentrations of non-HAP VOC. In such circumstances, it may be cost-effective to forego control of HAP's from marine terminals by over controlling HAP's from another emission point. If, however, the emission point being controlled does not offset the non-HAP VOC foregone by not controlling the marine terminals, a net increase in non-HAP VOC could result. The EPA solicits comments on what considerations should be given to this type of situation in deciding to combine marine terminals and refineries for the purpose of emission averaging. The EPA requests comment on the extent to which emissions averaging between marine vessel loading and unloading operations and other refinery operations could result in exposure spikes. This could occur if batch emission streams were left uncontrolled in exchange for control of continuous emission streams, or vice versa. The EPA also requests that commenters submit data on possible emission factors and/or alternative emission calculation procedures for marine vessel operations for consideration in the final rule. Dated: August 24, 1994. Mary Nichols, Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21490 Filed 8&hyph;30&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
