FR941221-0-00059 FR941221-0-00018 Comment. Two commenters objected to any reliance on secondary sources to support an owner's claim that the owner's project is a covered section 8 housing project. The commenters stated that secondary sources, which reflect actions taken by owners after they obtained HUD financial assistance, will do nothing to illuminate the project's original intent and should not be utilized. The commenters suggested that acceptable documents should include only legally binding documents submitted to HUD at the time of negotiations for Federal financial assistance. The commenters also strongly objected to the inclusion of ``any other historical data'' on the basis that this broad category of documentation would allow owners to circumvent the intended project eligibility requirements of subtitle D. Response. HUD declines to drop secondary sources as acceptable sources of documentation. HUD carefully considered which documents may evidence project eligibility for the subtitle D system of preferences, and determined that it was important to include secondary sources as acceptable documentation. As discussed in the May 3, 1994 interim rule, because of the various types of housing projects covered by subtitle D and because these housing projects were developed under several different programs and over a period of time which spans almost two decades, there is no uniform documentation at HUD which identifies the population group to be served by the project. Further, difficulty in identifying the population group to be served is added by the fact that the previous definition of ``elderly families'' in the 1937 Act included disabled families, and HUD's policy required all housing for the elderly (defined by age) to incorporate certain accessible features and to design a certain percentage of units to be accessible for persons with physical disabilities. The difficulty in identifying the population group to be served is compounded by the fact that there often was no specific identification of projects as elderly (i.e., seniors) and standard program documents generally did not identify projects as elderly or, if they did so, did not distinguish between projects designed primarily for seniors, or for persons with disabilities, or for both. Given these difficulties, HUD determined that it was important not to limit the type of evidence that would lend support to an owner's claim that the owner's project was originally designed primarily for elderly families (seniors). Accordingly, the final rule provides, as did the interim rule, that if the primary sources do not provide clear evidence of the original design of the project, then original design may be established through secondary sources, of which there must be at least two secondary sources, establishing the identity of the project as elderly (seniors) housing. Additionally, secondary sources become important where primary sources conflict. Where primary sources conflict, then original design may be established through secondary sources. Comment. One commenter stated that the use of project unit mix with a higher percentage of efficiency and one bedroom units as a secondary source makes no sense. The commenter stated that the size of the units is therefore wholly irrelevant to the original character of the property. Another commenter stated that if considered as a secondary source, project unit mix data must be applied uniformly, and HUD must develop and publish project configuration standards. Response. HUD disagrees that project unit mix is totally irrelevant. As stated in the preamble to the May 3, 1994 interim rule ((59 FR 22918) and in the text of the regulation itself, a project unit mix with a higher percentage of efficiency and one-bedroom units may be particularly relevant in distinguishing elderly projects under the previous definition of elderly persons (in which disabled families were included in the definition of ``elderly families'') from non-elderly projects. Project unit mix, in combination with other factors such as the number of accessible units, may be useful in distinguishing projects for seniors from those serving the former broader definition of ``elderly families'' which included disabled families. (See 59 FR 22918 and ยง880.612a(b)(1)(ii) and comparable sections in other parts covered by this rule.) HUD points out that, as a secondary source, project unit mix alone is not sufficient to establish the original character of the project. The project owner must be able to produce another secondary source to support that the project was originally designed primarily for occupancy by seniors. With respect to establishing uniform project unit mix standards, HUD relies on the language of the statute itself. In describing projects covered by subtitle D, the statute uses the term ``primarily designed for occupancy by elderly families'' which HUD has defined as having at least a majority of the units designed for elderly families. In the preamble to the May 3, 1994 interim rule, HUD stated: The Department believes that in using the term `primarily,' the Congress intended to limit the applicability of subtitle D to either the section 8 units in those covered projects in which a majority of the section 8 units were designed for elderly families (i.e., seniors), or to the section 8 units in covered projects where a distinct portion of the project (e.g., a tower or a wing of a project, but not just a floor) exists in which the majority of section 8 units were restricted to seniors only. Thus, section 651 may apply to the section 8 units in an entire project originally designed primarily for occupancy by elderly families (``covered section 8 housing project''), or section 651 may apply to the section 8 units in a portion of such project, but only where the section 8 units in this project or portion of the project were designed primarily for seniors. (Emphasis added.) (59 FR 22916) To be consistent with this interpretation that ``primarily'' means at least a majority of the units, the rule has been revised to state ``project unit mix with more than fifty percent of the units which are efficiency or one-bedroom units.'' Comment. One commenter stated that because there will be cases where neither the primary nor secondary sources establish original design and intent or where the project owner cannot produce original documentation, other evidence should be considered than that listed in the interim rule. The commenter suggested that the final rule provide that if a covered project is eligible for exemption from the familial status provisions of the Fair Housing Act because it constitutes housing for older persons it is also exempt under subtitle D. The commenter also suggested that if the project owner has had a fair housing complaint filed against the owner by a non-elderly disabled person on the basis of the person's eligibility to reside in the project that this indicate's management's belief that the project was built to serve seniors.
