FR940728-2-00015 FR940728-2-00010 [A&hyph;570&hyph;836] Initiation of Antidumping Duty Investigation: Glycine From the People's Republic of China AGENCY: Import Administration, International Trade Administration, Commerce. EFFECTIVE DATE: July 28, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Julie Anne Osgood or David Boyland, Office of Countervailing Investigations, Import Administration, International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C., 20230 at (202) 482&hyph;0167 and (202) 482&hyph;0588, respectively. INITIATION OF INVESTIGATION: The Petition On July 1, 1994, we received a petition in proper form filed by Hampshire Chemical Corporation (``Hampshire'') and Chattem Inc., Chemicals Division (``Chattem'') (hereinafter ``petitioners''). Petitioners filed a supplement to the petition on July 21, 1994. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.12, petitioners allege that imports of glycine, or aminoacetic acid, from the People's Republic of China (``PRC'') are being, or are likely to be, sold in the United States at less than fair value within the meaning of section 731 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (``the Act''), and that such imports are materially injuring, or threatening material injury to, a U.S. industry. Petitioners state that they have standing to file the petition because Hampshire and Chattem are interested parties, as defined under section 771(9)(C) of the Act, and are the only two U.S. producers of glycine known to petitioners. If any interested party, as described under paragraphs (C), (D), (E), or (F) of section 771(9) of the Act, wishes to register support for, or opposition to, this petition, it should file a written notification with the Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. Scope of Investigation The product covered by this investigation is glycine which is a free-flowing crystalline material, like salt or sugar. Glycine is produced at varying levels of purity and is used as a sweetener/taste enhancer, a buffering agent, reabsorbable amino acid, chemical intermediate, and a metal complexing agent. Glycine is currently classified under subheading 2922.49.4020 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (``HTSUS''). The scope of this investigation includes glycine of all purity levels. Although the HTSUS subheading is provided for convenience and Customs purposes, our written description of the scope of this proceeding is dispositive. United States Price and Foreign Market Value Petitioners based United States Price (``USP'') on four price quotes with various terms of sale and Bureau of Census import statistics for glycine from the PRC. For purposes of this initiation, we have relied on the 1994 price quotes (two of the four price quotes provided) and on the Bureau of Census import statistics since they are contemporaneous with the calculated foreign market value and more proximate with the period of investigation. Petitioners deducted foreign inland freight, ocean freight and marine insurance, and U.S. inland freight from the price quotes to arrive at an ex-factory unit value for imports. In using the import statistics, petitioners deducted foreign inland freight from the value to arrive at an ex-factory unit value. Petitioners contend that the foreign market value (``FMV'') of glycine subject to this investigation must be determined in accordance with section 773(c) of the Act, which concerns nonmarket economy (``NME'') countries. The Department has determined the PRC to be an NME, within the meaning of section 771(18)(A) of the Act, in previous cases ( see e.g., Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Sebacic Acid from the PRC , May 31, 1994 (59 FR 28053)). In accordance with 771(18)(C) of the Act, that determination continues to apply for purposes of this initiation. In the course of this investigation, parties will have the opportunity to address this NME determination and provide relevant information and argument on this issue. Consistent with section 773(c)(1)(B) of the Act ( see Amendment to Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value and Amendment to Antidumping Duty Order: Chrome-Plated Lug Nuts from the People's Republic of China , 57 FR 15052 (April 24, 1992)), parties will have the opportunity in this investigation to submit comments on whether FMV should be based on prices or costs. In accordance with section 773(c) of the Act, FMV in NME cases is based on NME producers' factors of production valued in a market economy country. In this case, to determine FMV, petitioners relied on the factors of production used by Chattem since Chattem's production process is believed to be similar to the PRC producers' manufacturing process. In valuing the factors of production, petitioners used India and Pakistan as surrogate countries. For purposes of this initiation, we have accepted India and Pakistan as surrogates because their economies are at a level of development comparable to the PRC's. ( See Memorandum to David L. Binder, Director-Division II, Office of Antidumping Investigations from David P. Mueller, Director, Office of Policy, dated August 1993, regarding non-market economy status and surrogate country selection, on file in Room B&hyph;099 of the Department of Commerce.) Also, there is evidence on the record that India is a producer of comparable merchandise, as required by section 773(c)(4) of the Act. When cost information was not available in either of these countries, petitioners valued the factor using Chattem's own costs. In accordance with section 773(c)(1)(B) of the Act, petitioners' FMV consisted of the sum of values assigned to materials, labor, energy, overhead, and packing. Petitioners adjusted certain factor values for inflation and currency exchange rates. Pursuant to section 773(e)(1) of the Act, petitioners added to the labor and material costs, and general expenses, the statutory minimum of eight percent for profit. Fair Value Comparisons Based on the data provided by petitioners, there is reason to believe that glycine from the PRC is being, or is likely to be, sold at less than fair value. The comparison of USP and FMV in the petition indicates margins ranging from 86.43 percent to 155.89 percent. If it becomes necessary at a later date to consider the petition as a source of best information available (``BIA''), we may review these calculation bases. Initiation of Investigation We have examined the petition on glycine and have found that it meets the requirements of section 732(b) of the Act. Therefore, we are initiating an antidumping duty investigation to determine whether imports of glycine from the PRC are being, or are likely to be, sold in the United States at less than fair value. International Trade Commission (``ITC'') Notification Section 732(d) of the Act requires us to notify the ITC of these actions, and we have done so. Preliminary Determination by the ITC The ITC will determine by August 15, 1994, whether there is a reasonable indication that imports of glycine from the PRC are causing material injury, or threaten to cause material injury, to a U.S. industry. A negative ITC determination will result in the investigation being terminated; otherwise, this investigation will proceed according to statutory and regulatory time limits. This notice is published pursuant to section 732(c)(2) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.13(b). Dated: July 21, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18314 Filed 7&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
