FR940930-2-00154 FR940930-2-00051 Exhibit 1 Galland, Kharasch Morse & Garfinkle, P.C. Canal Square 1054 Thirty-First Street, NW. Washington, DC. 20007&hyph;4496 (202) 342&hyph;5200 Telecopy: (202)342&hyph;5219, (202) 337&hyph;8787 August 9, 1994 VIA HAND DELIVERY Ms. Gail Kursh Chief, Professions and Intellectual Property Section U.S. Department of Justice Antitrust Division 555 4th Street, NW., Rm 9903 Washington, DC. 20001 Re: Public Comment on Proposed Final Consent Judgment, Stipulation and Competitive Impact Statement in the matter of United States and State of Florida v. Morton Plant Health System, Inc. and Trustees of Mease Hospital, Inc., No. 94&hyph;748&hyph;CIV&hyph;T&hyph;23E (M.D. Fla., Filed May 5, 1994). Dear Ms. Kursh: This letter is filed on behalf of this firm's client, the Textile Rental Services Association (``TRSA'') with respect to the above-captioned action (the ``Stipulation''), in partial objection to the terms of the Stipulation. TRSA is a nonprofit trade association. Its mission is to protect, promote, and professionalize the industry of its members, which are companies engaged in textile maintenance and provision of rental services to commercial, industrial and institutional accounts. Members of TRSA account for about 90 percent of the annual sales of the linen supply industry and about 75 percent of the sales of the industrial laundering industry. The combined textile rental industry had estimated 1993 sales of about $6 billion. Linen supply and industrial laundering companies employ 110,000 people. Article II, paragraph (G), and Article V, paragraph (B) of the Stipulation, as published in the Wednesday, July 13, 1994 Federal Register (59 Fed. Reg. 35,752, 35754) provide that Morton Plant Health System (``Morton Plant'') and Trustees of Mease Hospital (``Mease'') may form a ``nonprofit, tax-exempt organization'' which ``may own and operate any .␣.␣. Eligible Partnership Administrative Service and may provide such service to Morton Plan and Mease.'' The Stipulation defines ``Eligible Partnership Administrative Service'' to include, among other things, ``housekeeping and laundry'' services and ``all miscellaneous services not related to patient care and not exceeding an expenditure of $250,000.00 annually.'' As is discussed in greater detail below, the implication in the Stipulation that a tax-exempt organization may perform laundry services is directly contrary to law, and the open-ended grant of authority to perform ``miscellaneous services'' may be interpreted in a manner which is inconsistent with law. TRSA objects to the content and potential effect of these provisions. The Supreme Court specifically ruled in HCSC&hyph;Laundry v. United States, 450 U.S. 1,101 S.Ct. 836, 67 L.ED.2d 1 (1981) that a ``cooperative hospital service organization'' formed for the express purpose of providing laundry services for two or more hospitals (which were themselves tax-exempt organizations under §501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code) was not eligible for tax exempt status. Section 501(e) of the Internal Revenue Code directly addresses the capacity of a hospital service organization to qualify for tax exempt status, and provides a list of services which such qualified organizations can perform. Laundry services are not expressly nor implicitly included in that list. 1 1 Section 501(e) provides, in pertinent part, as follows (emphasis added): For purposes of this title, an organization shall be treated as an organization organized and operated exclusively for charitable purposes if_(1) such organization is organized and operated solely_(A) to perform, on a centralized basis, one or more of the following services which, if performed on its own behalf by a hospital which is an organization described in [§501(c)(3)] and exempt from taxation under subsection (a), would constitute activities in exercising or performing the purpose or function constituting the basis for its exemption: data processing, purchasing, warehousing, billing and collection, food, clinical, industrial, engineering, laboratory, printing, communications, record center and personnel (including selection, testing, training, and education of personnel ) The petitioner in HCSC Laundry asserted that the list of services in §501(e) was not intended as an exclusive list, and that the service entity providing laundry services could qualify for tax-exempt status under the general qualification standards of §501(c)(3) applied to other companies. The Supreme Court rejected the petitioner's argument, and upheld the Third Circuit's ruling that compliance with §501(e) was, in fact, the only way for a hospital service organization to attain tax-exempt status. The Court noted that the omission of laundry services from §501(e) by lawmakers in 1968 was not inadvertent, and that the inclusion of laundry services was expressly considered and rejected in 1968 (during original legislative action), and 1976 (when an effort was made to amend the law to include laundry services). 101 S. Ct. at 839. We acknowledge that the issues before the District Court and the Department of Justice, and the compromises contained in the Stipulation, focus on antitrust and anticompetitive concerns and that the Stipulation is not necessarily cognizant of federal income tax implications. Nevertheless, the Stipulation implies a range of authority which is inconsistent with current law, and we urge you to revise the Stipulation to reflect current law on permissible tax-exempt activities for hospital service organizations. TRSA requests the opportunity to submit further comments or to otherwise participate in any other proceeding concerning this subject. Please contact the undersigned if you have any questions regarding the foregoing, or if you need any further information. Sincerely, Steven John Fellman, Counsel to the Textile Rental Services Association. cc: Mr. John Burke, Employee Plans and Exempt Organizations Mr. J.C. Contney Executive Director, Textile Rental Services Assn.
