FR940317-1-00034 FR940317-1-00011 Waivers, Reductions and Deferments of Regulatory Fees 16. Section 9(d) states that ``[t]he Commission may waive, reduce, or defer payment of a fee in any specific instance for good cause shown, where such action would promote the public interest.'' 47 U.S.C. 15(d). This provision is similar to section 8(d)(2), which we have interpreted narrowly. Specifically, we stated that, under section 8(d)(2), we would permit waivers or deferments on a case-by-case basis in extraordinary and compelling circumstances upon a showing that a waiver or deferment would override the public interest in reimbursing the Commission for its regulatory costs. We propose to apply this same narrow interpretation to our implementation of section 9(d) and thus propose to grant waivers, reductions or deferments of regulatory fees only in such unusual circumstances. 17. As discussed below, small regulatory fees generally must be paid at the time applications are filed. When regulatory fees are due at the same time an application is filed, we propose, when processing requests for regulatory fee waivers, reductions or deferments, to use procedures similar to those now used for application fee waiver requests. See 47 CFR 1.1115(e). Applicants seeking application fee waivers must submit both the request for waiver and the required fee, accompanied by the required form(s). Applications that do not include these materials are dismissed in accordance with section 1.1107 of the rules. For regulatory fees that are supposed to accompany applications, we would also require regulatees seeking a waiver or reduction to submit their regulatory fee payment with their waiver request. Similarly, for standard regulatory fees that are due on a certain date, we propose to require that the appropriate regulatory fee accompany any waiver or reduction request. The regulatory fees submitted would be refunded later if a waiver or reduction were granted. Requests for deferment would have to be filed and approved before the payment due date in order to avoid late payment penalties. Procedures for Payment of Regulatory Fees 1. Timing of Payments 18. Section 9(f) of the Communications Act provides that the Commission's regulations implementing regulatory fees must ``permit payment by installments in the case of fees in large amounts, and in the case of fees in small amounts, shall require the payment of the fee in advance for a number of years not to exceed the term of the license held by the payor.'' 47 U.S.C. 159(f)(1). We propose to establish three classes of regulatory fees, each of which would be based on the size of the annual fee amount. The three classes of regulatory fees are standard fees, small fees and large fees. The class of the fee would determine the timing of the regulatory fee payment. Pursuant to section 9(f), our regulations will permit regulatees subject to ``large'' fees to make two installment payments in FY 1994 (rather than single payment). Regulatees subject to ``small'' fees will have to pay their fees for each year of their license term in advance at the beginning of the license term. Regulatees subject to standard fees would pay their regulatory fee, in full, on an annual basis. a. Annual Payments for Standard Fees 19. We propose to classify most of the fee amounts which will be paid under section 9 as standard fees. Standard regulatory fees would be those that are neither ``large'' nor ``small.'' (The proposed definitions of these terms are discussed below.) As noted above, standard fees are to be paid in full on an annual basis. We propose further that each licensee or regulatee required to pay a standard fee must pay the full amount specified for each relevant fee category by a date certain each year. The specific payment due dates for each regulatory fee category for the 1994 fiscal year will be announced in the Report and Order in this proceeding or in a Public Notice published in the Federal Register to be released well before the first payment due date. We anticipate that all regulatory fees will be collected as early as possible before the end of the fiscal year. In subsequent fiscal years, we intend to establish regular, fixed payment due dates for regulatory fees.
