FR940804-0-00077 FR940804-0-00022 In EPA interim final determinations that the State has corrected the deficiency, issued simultaneously with EPA proposed approvals and proposed findings that States are implementing their SIP's (after EPA SIP disapprovals or findings of nonimplementation), EPA intends to notify interested parties, including States, of any deferral or staying of sanctions that will result from Federal Register actions proposing to approve SIP's or to find that the State is implementing its SIP, as provided for in ยง52.31(d)(2), (3) and (4) of this rule. In these cases, EPA will also indicate to all interested parties whether sanctions are removed, apply or reapply when it takes subsequent final action on the plan in the Federal Register . If subsequently EPA's proposed positive finding is reversed, then in that action EPA will indicate that sanctions apply or reapply, as appropriate, and what sanctions, if any, apply subsequently. If EPA subsequently fully approves the revised plan, then in that action EPA will indicate that the sanctions clock permanently stops and that any sanctions previously applied due to the original disapproval or finding of failure to implement are removed. In addition to these letters and Federal Register actions, the EPA will also periodically publish notices in the Federal Register in which EPA will provide the public with information on areas for which EPA has made findings and which, therefore, are likely to be subject to the offset and highway sanctions. 37 If removal, staying, or deferral of sanctions is warranted, EPA will similarly provide the public with information that sanctions have either been removed, stayed or deferred in the area. Finally, to supplement the various letters and actions discussed above, EPA will provide information on the status of sanction 12 findings on EPA's Technology Transfer Network (TTN). 38 37 In some cases, the letter and/or the action may be combined with another action relating to the submittal. For example, if following a disapproval EPA proposes to approve a SIP at month 20 after the offset sanction is in place, the interim final determination issued simultaneously with the proposed approval action would also serve to notify the public that application of the offset sanction has been stayed. 38 The TTN is EPA's bulletin board system for making air quality information available to interested parties. For questions on what information is available on the TTN and how to access it, contact the systems operator (919) 541&hyph;5384). B. Areas Potentially Subject to Sanctions The EPA has made section 179(a) findings of failure to submit and incompleteness for numerous submittals due under the amended Act. As explained in section II.C.5 above, EPA has elected to provide the public with information on areas potentially subject to sanctions in a separate notice that appears in the notice section of today's Federal Register rather than in tables in today's rule. Therefore, for further information on areas likely to face sanctions on September 6, 1994 see that other notice. IV. Miscellaneous A. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866 (Order), (58 FR 51735 (October 4, 1993)) the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) review and the requirements of the Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory actions'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interface with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) raise novel or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Order. Pursuant to the terms of the Order, OMB has notified EPA that it considers this a ``significant regulatory action'' within the meaning of the Order. The EPA has submitted this action to OMB for review. Changes made in response to OMB suggestions or recommendations will be documented in the public record.
