FR941028-2-00218 FR941028-2-00109 Single-pass ventilation: Ventilation in which 100% of the air supplied to an area is exhausted to the outside. Smear (AFB smear): A laboratory technique for visualizing mycobacteria. The specimen is smeared onto a slide and stained, then examined using a microscope. Smear results should be available within 24 hours. In TB, a large number of mycobacteria seen on an AFB smear usually indicates infectiousness. However, a positive result is not diagnostic of TB because organisms other than M. tuberculosis may be seen on an AFB smear (e.g., nontuberculous mycobacteria). Source case: A case of TB in an infectious person who has transmitted M. tuberculosis to another person or persons. Source control: Controlling a contaminant at the source of its generation, which prevents the spread of the contaminant to the general work space. Specimen: Any body fluid, secretion, or tissue sent to a laboratory where smears and cultures for M. tuberculosis will be performed (e.g., sputum, urine, spinal fluid, and material obtained at biopsy). Sputum: Phlegm coughed up from deep within the lungs. If a patient has pulmonary disease, an examination of the sputum by smear and culture can be helpful in evaluating the organism responsible for the infection. Sputum should not be confused with saliva or nasal secretions. Sputum induction: A method used to obtain sputum from a patient who is unable to cough up a specimen spontaneously. The patient inhales a saline mist, which stimulates a cough from deep within the lungs. Sputum smear, positive: AFB are visible on the sputum smear when viewed under a microscope. Persons with a sputum smear positive for AFB are considered more infectious than those with smear-negative sputum. Streptomycin: A first-line, injectable anti-TB drug. Symptomatic: Having symptoms that may indicate the presence of TB or another disease (see Asymptomatic). TB case: A particular episode of clinically active TB. This term should be used only to refer to the disease itself, not the patient with the disease. By law, cases of TB must be reported to the local health department. TB infection: A condition in which living tubercle bacilli are present in the body but the disease is not clinically active. Infected persons usually have positive tuberculin reactions, but they have no symptoms related to the infection and are not infectious. However, infected persons remain at lifelong risk for developing disease unless preventive therapy is given. Transmission: The spread of an infectious agent from one person to another. The likelihood of transmission is directly related to the duration and intensity of exposure to M. tuberculosis (see Exposure). Treatment failures: TB disease in patients who do not respond to chemotherapy and in patients whose disease worsens after having improved initially. Tubercle bacilli: M. tuberculosis organisms. Tuberculin skin test: A method used to evaluate the likelihood that a person is infected with M. tuberculosis . A small dose of PPD-tuberculin is injected just beneath the surface of the skin, and the area is examined 48&hyph;72 hours after the injection. A reaction is measured according to the size of the induration. The classification of a reaction as positive or negative depends on the patient's medical history and various risk factors (see Mantoux test, PPD test). Tuberculosis (TB): A clinically active, symptomatic disease caused by an organism in the M. tuberculosis complex (usually M. tuberculosis or, rarely, M. bovis or M. africanum ). Two-step testing: A procedure used for the baseline testing of persons who will periodically receive tuberculin skin tests (e.g., HCWs) to reduce the likelihood of mistaking a boosted reaction for a new infection. If the initial tuberculin-test result is classified as negative, a second test is repeated 1&hyph;3 weeks later. If the reaction to the second test is positive, it probably represents a boosted reaction. If the second test result is also negative, the person is classified as not infected. A positive reaction to a subsequent test would indicate new infection (i.e., a skin-test conversion) in such a person. Ultraviolet germicidal irradiation (UVGI): The use of ultraviolet radiation to kill or inactivate microorganisms. Ultraviolet germicidal irradiation (UVGI) lamps: Lamps that kill or inactivate microorganisms by emitting ultraviolet germicidal radiation, predominantly at a wavelength of 254 nm (intermediate light waves between visible light and X-rays). UVGI lamps can be used in ceiling or wall fixtures or within air ducts of ventilation systems. Ventilation, dilution: An engineering control technique to dilute and remove airborne contaminants by the flow of air into and out of an area. Air that contains droplet nuclei is removed and replaced by contaminant-free air. If the flow is sufficient, droplet nuclei become dispersed, and their concentration in the air is diminished. Ventilation, local exhaust: Ventilation used to capture and remove airborne contaminants by enclosing the contaminant source (i.e., the patient) or by placing an exhaust hood close to the contaminant source. Virulence: The degree of pathogenicity of a micoorganism as indicated by the severity of the disease produced and its ability to invade the tissues of a host. M. tuberculosis is a virulent organism.
