FR941205-0-00019 FR941205-0-00002 Other comments praised elimination of the NOID requirement as a means to expedite the asylum process. Some comments proposed that a balance be struck by maintaining the NOID requirement but reducing the time period in which the applicant can respond. Response and Disposition: The Department gives high priority to all efforts to improve the fairness, quality, and accuracy of decisions made by asylum officers and immigration judges. However, the requirements in 8 CFR 208.12(a) are not necessary to meet these goals, and modification of this section is pivotal to the streamlining of the asylum process. Applicants who are not granted asylum by the asylum officer will have a full opportunity to present their claim to an immigration judge, with all the procedural protections of a full adversarial proceeding. This includes, of course, the right to examine and rebut all evidence and materials that are introduced in opposition to the asylum claim. The NOID system is, at best, an imperfect approximation of this hearing process and one that adds unnecessary time and expense to the process, thus making it more difficult to adjudicate claims in a timely manner. The Department has considered seriously the objections stated to this proposal but believes that the interests of all asylum applicants will best be served by eliminating the NOID requirement. Accordingly, this provision of the proposed rule is retained without amendment in the final rule. The Department will, however, continue to issue Notices of Intent to Deny in the cases of persons whose asylum applications can be denied by asylum officers, including stowaways, crewmen, and persons with a lawful immigration status. 13. Referrals to an Immigration Judge (Section 208.14(b)) Proposed Rule: The proposed rule would have added a new paragraph 208.14(b) to state that if an asylum officer does not grant an application, and the applicant appears to be deportable or excludable, the asylum officer shall refer the application to an immigration judge for adjudication in exclusion or deportation proceedings. The asylum officer would no longer deny the application in writing, as required under current regulations. The asylum officer would issue a written denial in cases where the applicant has a current legal immigration status not derived from his or her asylum application.
