FR940927-0-00094 FR940927-0-00012 (1) Definitions. The definitions contained in part 42 of this chapter and the following definitions are applicable in this section. (i) Another appropriate amount. In determining the appropriate amount of a lender's civil penalty in cases where the Secretary has not sustained a loss or where two times the amount of the Secretary's loss on the loan involved does not exceed $10,000, the Secretary shall consider: (A) The materiality and importance of the false certification to the determination to issue the guaranty, or to approve the assumption; (B) The frequency and past pattern of such false certifications by the lender; and, (C) Any exculpatory or mitigating circumstances. (ii) Complaint includes the assessment of liability served pursuant to this subsection. (iii) Defendant means a lender named in the complaint. (iv) Lender includes the holder approving loan assumptions pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 3714. (2) Procedures for certification. (i) As a condition to VA issuance of a loan guaranty on all loans closed on or after October 27, 1994, and as a prerequisite to an effective loan assumption on all loans assumed pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 3714 on or after October 27, 1994, the following certification shall accompany each loan closing or assumption package: ``The undersigned lender certifies that the (loan) (assumption) application, all verifications of employment, deposit, and other income and credit verification documents have been processed in compliance with 38 CFR part 36; that all credit reports obtained or generated in connection with the processing of this borrower's (loan) (assumption) application have been provided to VA; that, to the best of the undersigned lender's knowledge and belief the (loan) (assumption) meets the underwriting standards recited in chapter 37 of title 38 United States Code and 38 CFR part 36; and that all information provided in support of this (loan) (assumption) is true, complete and accurate to the best of the undersigned lender's knowledge and belief.'' (ii) The certification shall be executed by an officer of the lender authorized to execute documents and act on behalf of the lender. (3) Any lender who knowingly and willfully makes a false certification required pursuant to ยง36.4337(k)(2) shall be liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty equal to two times the amount of the Secretary's loss on the loan involved or to another appropriate amount, not to exceed $10,000, whichever is greater. (l) Assessment of liability. (1) Upon an assessment confirmed by the Under Secretary for Benefits, in consultation with the Investigating Official, that a certification, as required in this section, is false, a report of findings of the Under Secretary for Benefits shall be submitted to the Reviewing Official setting forth: (i) The evidence that supports the allegations of a false certification and of liability; (ii) A description of the claims or statements upon which the allegations of liability are based; (iii) The amount of the VA demand to be made; and, (iv) Any exculpatory or mitigating circumstances that may relate to the certification. (2) The Reviewing Official shall review all of the information provided and will either inform the Under Secretary for Benefits and the Investigating Official that there is not adequate evidence, that the lender is liable, or serve a complaint on the lender stating: (i) The allegations of a false certification and of liability; (ii) The amount being assessed by the Secretary and the basis for the amount assessed; (iii) Instructions on how to satisfy the assessment and how to file an answer to request a hearing, including a specific statement of the lender's right to request a hearing by filing an answer and to be represented by counsel; and (iv) That failure to file an answer within 30 days of the complaint will result in the imposition of the assessment without right to appeal the assessment to the Secretary. (m) Hearing procedures. A lender hearing on an assessment established pursuant to this section shall be governed by the procedures recited at 38 CFR 42.8 through 42.47. (n) Additional remedies. Any assessment under this section may be in addition to other remedies available to VA, such as debarment and suspension pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 3704 and part 44 of this title or loss of automatic processing authority pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 3702, or other actions by the Government under any other law including but not limited to title 18, U.S.C. and 31 U.S.C. 3732. (Authority: (38 U.S.C. 3710). (Information collection requirements contained in 36.4337 were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2900&hyph;0521) [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23753 Filed 9&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8320&hyph;01&hyph;P&hyph;M
