FR940616-2-00126 FR940616-2-00091 International Educational and Cultural Activities Discretionary Grant Program ACTION: Notice_Request for proposals. SUMMARY: The Office of Citizen Exchanges (E/P) of the United States Information Agency's Bureau of Education and Cultural Affairs announces an open competition for an assistance award program. Public or private non-profit organizations meeting the provisions described in IRS regulation 501 (c) (3) may apply to develop projects that link their international exchange interests with counterpart institutions/groups in ways supportive of the aims of the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. Overall grant making authority for this program is contained in the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amended, Public Law 87&hyph;256, also known as the Fulbright Hays Act. The purpose of the Act is ``to enable the Government of the United States to increase mutual understanding between the people of the United States and the people of other countries.␣.␣.; to strengthen the ties which unite us with other nations by demonstrating the educational and cultural interests, developments, and achievements of the people of the United States and other nations.*␣*␣* and thus to assist in the development of friendly, sympathetic and peaceful relations between the United States and the other countries of the world.'' Programs and projects must conform with Agency requirements and guidelines outlined in the Application Package. USIA projects and programs are subject to the availability of funds. Interested applications should read the complete Federal Register announcement before addressing inquiries to the Office of Citizen Exchanges or submitting their proposals. Once the RFP deadline has passed, the Office of Citizen Exchanges may not discuss this competition in any way with applicants until after the Bureau program and project review process has been completed. ANNOUNCEMENT NUMBER: All communications concerning this announcement should refer to the Fall Discretionary Grant Program. The announcement number is E/P&hyph;95&hyph;1. Please refer to title and number in all correspondence or telephone calls to USIA. DATES: Deadline for Proposals: All copies must be received at the U.S. Information Agency by 5 p.m. Washington, D.C. time on Friday, September 16, 1994. Faxed documents will not be accepted, nor will documents postmarked on September 16, 1994, but received at a later date. It is the responsibility of each grant applicant to ensure that proposals are received by the above deadline. This action is effective from the publication date of this notice through September 16, 1994, for projects where activities will begin between January 1, 1995 and June 30, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Interested organizations/institutions must contact the Office of Citizen Exchanges, E/PL, room 216, United States Information Agency, 301 4th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20547, (202) 619&hyph;5326, to request detailed application packets, which include award criteria, all application forms; and guidelines for preparing proposals, include specific criteria for preparation of the proposal budget. Please specify the USIA Program Officer Laverne Johnson on all inquiries and correspondences.
