FR940705-2-00181 FR940705-2-00091 Section V&hyph;K. C. M. Collins, E. G. Hartley, and R. Pilsworth, The Prevention of Laboratory Acquired Infection, Public Health Laboratory Service, Monograph Series No. 6, 1974. Section V&hyph;L. Chatigny, M. A, ``Protection Against Infection in the Microbiological Laboratory: Devices and Procedures,'' in W.W. Umbreit (ed.), Advances in Applied Microbiology, Academic Press, New York, New York, 1961, 3:131&hyph;192. Section V&hyph;M. Design Criteria for Viral Oncology Research Facilities, U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Public Health Service, NIH, DHEW Publication No. (NIH) 75&hyph;891, 1975. Section V&hyph;N. Kuehne, R. W., Biological Containment Facility for Studying Infectious Disease, Appl. Microbiol. 26:239&hyph;243, 1973. Section V&hyph;O. Runkle, R. B., and G. B. Phillips, Microbial Containment Control Facilities, Van Nostrand Reinhold, New York, 1969. Section V&hyph;P. Chatigny, M. A., and D. I. Clinger, ``Contamination Control in Aerobiology,'' in R. L. Dimmick and A. B. Akers (eds.), An Introduction to Experimental Aerobiology, John Wiley & Sons, New York, 1969, pp. 194&hyph;263. Section V&hyph;Q. As classified in the Third Report of the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses: Classification and Nomenclature of Viruses, R. E. F. Matthews (ed.), Intervirology 12 (129&hyph;296), 1979. Section V&hyph;R. A U.S. Department of Agriculture permit is required for the importation, interstate movement, and release into the environment of certain organisms that are plant or animal pathogens, whether genetically engineered or not. Permits are required for veterinary biologics and for certain plants or microorganisms derived through genetic engineering using genetic sequences from plant pests (pathogens). Specific information about regulated organisms and procedures for obtaining a permit for regulated organisms may be obtained from the Director, Biotechnology, Biologics, and Environmental Protection, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 6505 Belcrest Road, Room 850, Hyattsville, Maryland 20782, (301) 436&hyph;7601. Section V&hyph;S. i.e., the total of all genomes within a family shall not exceed two-thirds of the genome. Section V&hyph;T. All activities, including storage of variola and whitepox, are restricted to the single national facility (World Health Organization Collaborating Center for Smallpox Research, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia). Section V&hyph;U. Human studies in which the induction or enhancement of an immune response to a vector-encoded microbial immunogen is the major goal, such an immune response has been demonstrated in model systems, and the persistence of the vector-encoded immunogen is not expected, are not covered under Sections III&hyph;A&hyph;2, III&hyph;B&hyph;2, or III&hyph;B&hyph;3. Such studies may be initiated without RAC review and NIH approval if approved by another Federal agency. Section V&hyph;V. For recombinant DNA experiments in which the intent is to modify stably the genome of cells of one or more human subjects (see Sections III&hyph;A&hyph;2, III&hyph;B&hyph;2, and III&hyph;B&hyph;3). Section V&hyph;W. In accordance with accepted scientific and regulatory practices of the discipline of plant pathology, an exotic plant pathogen (e.g., virus, bacteria, or fungus) is one that is unknown to occur within the U.S. (see Section V&hyph;R). Determination of whether a pathogen has a potential for serious detrimental impact on managed (agricultural, forest, grassland) or natural ecosystems should be made by the Principal Investigator and the Institutional Biosafety Committee, in consultation with scientists knowledgeable of plant diseases, crops, and ecosystems in the geographic area of the research. Appendix A. Exemptions Under Section III&hyph;E&hyph;5_Sublists of Natural Exchangers
