FR940516-2-00121 FR940516-2-00084 Federal Aviation Administration Approval of Noise Compatibility Program Gulfport-Biloxi Regional Airport Gulfport, MS AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) announces its findings on the noise compatibility program submitted by Gulfport-Biloxi Regional Airport Authority under the provisions of Title I of the Aviation Safety and Noise Abatement Act of 1979 (Pub. L. 96&hyph;193) and 14 CFR part 150. These findings are made in recognition of the description of Federal and nonfederal responsibilities in Senate Report No. 96&hyph;52 (1980). On May 21, 1993, the FAA determined that the noise exposure maps submitted by Gulfport-Biloxi Regional Airport Authority under part 150 were in compliance with applicable requirements. On April 1, 1994, the Administrator approved the Gulfport-Biloxi Regional Airport noise compatibility program. Most of the recommendations of the program were approved. No program element relating to new or revised flight procedures for noise abatement were proposed by the airport operator. The Gulfport-Biloxi Regional Airport Authority has also requested under part 150, ยง150.35(f), that FAA determine that revised noise exposure maps, submitted with the noise compatibility program and showing noise contours as a result of the implementation of the noise compatibility program, are in compliance with applicable requirements of FAR part 150. The FAA announces its determination that the revised noise exposure maps for the Gulfport-Biloxi Regional Airport for years 1992 and 1997, submitted with the noise compatibility program, are in compliance with applicable requirements of FAR Part 150 effective April 1, 1994. EFFECTIVE DATE: The effective date of the FAA's approval of the Gulfport-Biloxi Regional Airport noise compatibility program is April 1, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Elton E. Jay, Principal Engineer, Planning and Safety, Jackson Airports District Office, 120 North Hangar Drive, Suite B, Jackson, Mississippi 39208&hyph;2306. Documents reflecting this FAA action may be reviewed at this same location. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This notice announces that the FAA has given its overall approval to the noise compatibility program for Gulfport-Biloxi Regional Airport, effective April 1, 1994, and that revised noise exposure maps for this same airport are determined to be in compliance with applicable requirements of FAR Part 150. A. Under section 104(a) of the Aviation Safety and Noise Abatement Act of 1979 (hereinafter referred to as ``the Act''), an airport operator who has previously submitted a noise exposure map may submit to the FAA a noise compatibility program which sets forth the measures taken or proposed by the airport operator for the reduction of existing noncompatible land uses and prevention of additional noncompatible land uses within the area covered by the noise exposure maps. The Act requires such programs to be developed in consultation with interested and affected parties including local communities, government agencies, airport users, and FAA personnel. Each airport noise compatibility program developed in accordance with Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) Part 150 is a local program, not a Federal program. The FAA does not substitute its judgment for that of the airport proprietor with respect to which measures should be recommended for action. The FAA's approval or disapproval of FAR Part 150 program recommendations is measured according to the standards expressed in Part 150 and the Act and is limited to the following determinations: 1. The noise compatibility program was developed in accordance with the provisions and procedures of FAR Part 150; 2. Program measures are reasonably consistent with achieving the goals of reducing existing noncompatible land uses around the airport and preventing the introduction of additional noncompatible land uses; 3. Program measures would not create an undue burden on interstate or foreign commerce, unjustly discriminate against types or classes of aeronautical uses, violate the terms of airport grant agreements, or intrude into areas preempted by the Federal Government; and 4. Program measures relating to the use of flight procedures can be implemented within the period covered by the program without derogating safety, adversely affecting the efficient use and management of the navigable airspace and air traffic control systems, or adversely affecting other powers and responsibilities of the Administrator prescribed by law. Specific limitations with respect to FAA's approval of an airport noise compatibility program are delineated in FAR part 150, ยง150.5. Approval is not a determination concerning the acceptability of land uses under Federal, state, or local law. Approval does not by itself constitute an FAA implementing action. A request for Federal action or approval to implement specific noise compatibility measures may be required, and an FAA decision on the request may require an environmental assessment of the proposed action. Approval does not constitute a commitment by the FAA to financially assist in the implementation of the program nor a determination that all measures covered by the program are eligible for grant-in-aid funding from the FAA. Where federal funding is sought, requests for project grants must be submitted to the FAA Airports District Office in Jackson, Mississippi.
