FR940919-2-00098 FR940919-2-00046 However, anyone who cannot perform the baseline work will be considered unable to engage in substantial gainful activity, and a finding of disability will be justified. The range of work represented by less than the baseline will be considered so narrow that despite any other favorable factors, such as young age or higher education or training, an individual would not be expected to have a realistic opportunity to perform substantial gainful work in the national economy. For individuals who are not nearing full retirement age, the ability or inability to perform previous work is not a significant factor. These individuals should be capable of making a vocational adjustment to other work, as long as they are functionally capable of performing the baseline work. Individuals Nearing Full Retirement Age For individuals who are nearing full retirement age, SSA will compare the individual s functional abilities against the functional demands of the individual s previous work. Individuals nearing full retirement age can not be expected to make a vocational adjustment to work other than work they have performed in the recent past. However, consistent with the statute, if an individual, even one nearing full retirement age, is capable of performing his or her previous work, SSA will find that the individual is not disabled. For those individuals who have no previous work, SSA will compare the individual s functional ability to the range of work-related functions that represent work that exists in significant numbers in the national economy, i.e., baseline work, and a finding of not disabled will be appropriate if the individual is capable of performing the baseline work. In such claims, when the fact that the individual has no previous work is not related to the existence of his or her impairment(s), a finding of disability will not be appropriate if the individual retains the functional ability to perform a range of work-related functions that represent work that exists in significant numbers in the national economy. In contrast, those individuals who have significant functional limitations caused by a medically determinable impairment and lack of education would not be able to perform a range of work-related functions that represent work existing in significant numbers in the economy. Such individuals would be found disabled, as they are today. Medical Consultant Expertise SSA will continue to rely on medical consultants to provide expert advice and opinion regarding medical questions and issues that will arise in deciding disability claims. Disability adjudicators at all levels of the administrative review process will call on the services of medical consultants to interpret medical evidence, analyze specific medical questions, and provide expert opinions on existence, severity and functional consequences of medically determinable impairments. Additionally, on a national basis, SSA may identify specific types of issues that may require a medical opinion. If a medical consultant is called on to offer expert advice and opinion, the medical consultant will provide a written analysis of the issues and rationale in support of his or her opinion. The written analysis will be included in the record and will be considered with the other medical evidence of record by disability adjudicators at all levels of administrative review. Additionally, medical consultants will assist in the training of other consultants and disability adjudicators; contact other health care professionals to resolve medical questions on specific claims; carry out public relations and training with the medical community; and participate in the quality assurance program. Childhood Disability Methodology As with adults, SSA must have a structured approach to disability decisionmaking in childhood claims that takes into consideration the relatively large number of claims and still provides a basis for consistent, equitable decisionmaking by adjudicators at all levels of administrative review. The approach for childhood claims must also derive from the statute. Under the statute, ``an individual will be considered to be disabled for purposes of this title if he is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or which has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months (or in the case of a child under the age of 18, if he suffers from any medically determinable physical or mental impairment of comparable severity). '' ยง1614(a)(3)(A) of the Social Security Act) Of course, any decision approach for childhood claims must be consistent with the Supreme Court s interpretation of this statutory language in Sullivan v. Zebley, 493 U.S. 521 (1990). Four-Step Evaluation Process for Children The disability decision methodology for childhood claims will consist of four steps that are based on the statutory definition of disability. As with adults, the approach is one that provides accurate decisions that can be achieved efficiently and cost-effectively, primarily by ensuring that documentation requirements are directed toward the ultimate finding of disability. To the extent possible, the approach for childhood claims should mirror the adult approach. The four steps are: Step 1_Is the child engaging in substantial gainful activity? If yes, deny. If no, continue to Step 2. Step 2_Does the child have a medically determinable physical or mental impairment? If no, deny. If yes, continue to Step 3.* Step 3_Does the child have an impairment that is included in the Index of Disabling Impairments? If yes, allow.* If no, continue to Step 4. Step 4_Does the child have an impairment(s) of comparable severity to an impairment(s) that would prevent an adult from engaging in substantial gainful activity? If yes, allow.* If no, deny. *An impairment must meet the duration requirement of the statute; a denial is appropriate for any impairment that will not be disabling for 12 months. Step 1_Engaging in Substantial Gainful Activity
