FR940919-0-00085 FR940919-0-00016 While no consensus was reached, the following principles were generally arrived at by most of the participants at the meeting. Microencapsulation: Participants at the meeting seem to believe that using a leach test may be more appropriate to demonstrate effective microencapsulation immobilization over an approach of developing design and operating standards. It was noted that treatment of hazardous debris is very waste and debris specific; if one could define design and operating standards that were generally applicable, they would likely be too burdensome in many cases. Macroencapsulation/Sealing: The participants seem to indicate that the grinding requirement in the TCLP leach test made it inappropriate for predicting performance of macroencapsulation/sealing immobilization technologies. These technologies rely on an impermeable coating applied to the outside of the debris. Rather, the participants suggested a structural test to determine whether the given debris/technology combination was sufficient to maintain the coating or a permeability test for the coating media. While the participants conceptually believed that such an approach was workable, no one was able to suggest a specific test or standard. In addition, it was felt by some of the participants that the development of such a test could be difficult to develop. While no data or information was provided at the meeting, it was indicated that if such information was submitted to the Agency, the Agency would consider such information in making its decision. C. EPA Investigations In addition to the above roundtable discussions, EPA has also been reviewing the literature and talking to vendors in an effort to obtain sufficient information on how to propose standards that could allow the exclusion of immobilized hazardous debris. At the time the Phase II LDR rule was proposed, no useful insights had been gained on how to specify design and operating standards that would ensure that immobilized hazardous debris was nonhazardous; the reason for this was the paucity of experience in immobilizing hazardous debris. Nevertheless, the Agency expressed interest in pursuing this area and specifically sought assistance from the regulated community on this issue. D. Specific Questions for Which Comments Were Solicited While the Agency had a better sense of the types of standards that may be appropriate for excluding immobilized hazardous debris from Subtitle C control at the time of the Phase II proposal, the Agency still did not have the data to propose specific exclusions. For microencapsulation in particular, if a leach test were the most appropriate mechanism for determining whether such treated debris is nonhazardous, the Agency expressed the belief that HWIR may be the most appropriate rulemaking to address this issue. The Agency had a series of studies underway, was evaluating comments, but was not in a position to determine what such levels were at that time. With respect to macroencapsulation/sealing, additional data or information needed to be gathered before the Agency would be in a position to exclude this type of immobilized hazardous debris. To assist the Agency in this effort, we specifically solicited comment on the following questions: Microencapsulation: •Is the use of a leach test for excluding immobilized hazardous debris more appropriate than specification of design and operating standards? •Is exclusion of immobilized hazardous debris using design and operating standards workable? Macroencapsulation/Sealing: •What type of structural or other test could be used? •What type of criteria should be applied in determining whether such debris is nonhazardous? The Agency is also considering allowing stabilization for soils containing low levels of organic constituents, and solicited comment on whether similar stabilization techniques or tests to ensure the effectiveness of such stabilization would be appropriate for excluding debris from Subtitle C control. In addition, the Agency specifically solicited comment on any available data or information to demonstrate that immobilized hazardous debris (if treated properly) would not pose a substantial hazard to human health and the environment, stating that if such information were submitted to the Agency, the Agency would exclude such debris from Subtitle C control. E. Comments Received and Conclusions Microencapsulation: One commenter stated that specifying design and operating standards is appropriate for excluding immobilized hazardous debris from subtitle C, asserting that nothing is gained in performing a leach test on hazardous debris. Other commenters suggested that EPA consider a combination of a structural test combined with a leaching test conducted on a representative intact sample of the encapsulated waste. None of these commenters submitted any supporting information to substantiate these conflicting claims. However, the commenters did agree that if a leach test is used, the TCLP as it is now defined is inappropriate for immobilized debris. Macroencapsulation/Sealing: Several commenters claimed that the TCLP test is inappropriate for immobilized material because the size reduction required by the test protocol destroys the encapsulant, thereby defeating the purpose of the technology. These commenters suggested that EPA instead consider a combination of a structural test (a 50 psi standard was suggested) combined with a leaching test conducted on a representative intact sample of the encapsulated waste. These commenters did not submit any data to verify that a 50 psi standard would insure the integrity of the immobilized waste, and although some commenters recommended that a new leach test protocol be developed, they did not suggest any specific protocols for a leach test on the intact debris waste. Exclusion of Immobilized Debris from Subtitle C Regulation: Several commenters maintained that debris treated with an immobilization technology should be excluded from Subtitle C regulation. However, these commenters did not submit any supporting data to verify this claim.
