FR940523-0-00069 FR940523-0-00014 Remedial action means decontamination, decommissioning, reclamation, and other remedial action at an active uranium or thorium processing site. Secretary means the Secretary of Energy or her designees. Site owner means a person that presently holds, or held in the past, any interest in land, including but not limited to a fee simple absolute, surface or subsurface ownership of mining claims, easements, and a right of access for the purposes of cleanup, or any other legal or equitable interest. Tailings means the remaining portion of a metal-bearing ore after some or all of the metal, such as uranium, has been extracted. The Fund means the Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund established at the United States Department of Treasury pursuant to section 1801 of the Atomic Energy Act (42 U.S.C. 2297g). Title X or ``the Act'' means Subtitle A of Title X of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, Public Law 102&hyph;486, 106 Stat. 2776 (42 U.S.C. 2296a&hyph;1 et seq .). UMTRCA means the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978, as amended (42 U.S.C. 7901 et seq .). United States means any executive department, commission, or agency, or other establishment in the executive branch of the Federal Government. Written Authorization means a written statement from either the NRC or an Agreement State that a licensee has performed in the past, or is authorized to perform in the future, a remedial action that is necessary to comply with the requirements of UMTRCA or, where appropriate, the requirements of an Agreement State. Subpart B_Reimbursement Criteria §765.10 Eligibility for reimbursement. (a) Any licensee of an active uranium or thorium processing site that has incurred costs of remedial action for the site that are attributable to byproduct material generated as an incident of sales to the United States shall be eligible for reimbursement of these costs, subject to the procedures and limitations specified in this Part. (b) Prior to reimbursement of costs of remedial action incurred by a licensee, the Department shall make a determination regarding the total quantity of dry short tons of byproduct material, and the quantity of Federal-related dry short tons of byproduct material present on October 24, 1992 at the licensee's active processing site. A claim for reimbursement from a site for which a determination is made will be evaluated individually. If a licensee does not concur with the Department's determination regarding the quantity of dry short tons of byproduct material present at the site, the licensee may appeal the Department's determination in accordance with §765.22 of this part. The Department's determination shall be used to determine that portion of an approved claim for reimbursement submitted by the licensee which shall be reimbursed, unless or until the determination is overturned on appeal. If the outcome of an appeal requires a change in the Department's initial determination, the Department will adjust any payment previously made to the licensee to reflect the change. §765.11 Reimbursable costs. (a) Costs for which a licensee may be reimbursed must be for remedial action that a licensee demonstrates is attributable to byproduct material generated as an incident of sales to the United States, as determined by the Department. These costs are equal to the total costs of remedial action at a site multiplied by the Federal reimbursement ratio established for the site. These costs must be incurred in the performance of activities, prior to or after enactment of UMTRCA, and required by a plan, portion thereof, or other written authorization, approved by NRC or by an Agreement State. Costs of remedial action shall be reimbursable only if approved by the Department in accordance with the provisions of this part. (b) In addition, costs of remedial action incurred by a licensee after December 31, 2002 must be in accordance with a plan for subsequent remedial action approved by the Department as specified in §765.30. (c) Total reimbursement of costs of remedial action incurred at an active processing site that are otherwise reimbursable pursuant to the provisions of this Part shall be limited as follows: (1) Reimbursement of costs of remedial action to active uranium processing site licensees shall not exceed $5.50, as adjusted for inflation, multiplied by the number of Federal-related dry short tons of byproduct material. (2) Aggregate reimbursement of costs of remedial action incurred at all active uranium processing sites shall not exceed $270 million. This aggregate amount shall be adjusted for inflation pursuant to §765.12; and
