FR940817-2-00260 FR940817-2-00113 Sometimes functional defects are observed at dose levels below those at which other indicators of developmental toxicity are evident (Rodier, 1986). Such effects may be transient or reversible in nature, but generally are considered adverse effects. Data from postnatal studies, when available, are considered useful for further assessment of the relative importance and severity of findings in the fetus and neonate. Often, the long-term consequences of adverse developmental outcomes noted at birth are unknown and further data on postnatal development and function are necessary to determine the full spectrum of potential developmental effects. Useful data also can be derived from well-conducted multigeneration studies, although the dose levels used in these studies may be much lower than those in studies with shorter-term exposure. Much of the early work in developmental neurotoxicology was related to behavioral evaluations. Recent advances in this area have been reviewed in several publications (Riley and Vorhees, 1986; Kimmel et al., 1990). Several expert groups have focused on the functions that should be included in a behavioral testing battery, including sensory systems, neuromotor development, locomotor activity, learning and memory, reactivity and habituation, and reproductive behavior. No testing battery has fully addressed all of these functions, but it is important to include as many as possible, and several testing batteries have been developed and evaluated for use in testing. Direct extrapolation of functional developmental effects to humans is limited in the same way as for other endpoints of developmental toxicity, i.e., by the lack of knowledge about underlying toxicological mechanisms and their significance. It can be assumed that functional effects in animal studies indicate the potential for altered development in humans, although the types of developmental effects seen in experimental animal studies will not necessarily be the same as those that may be produced in humans. Thus, when data from functional developmental toxicity studies are encountered for particular agents, they should be considered in the risk assessment process. Agents that produce developmental neurotoxicity at a dose that is not toxic to the maternal animal are of special concern because the developing organism is affected but toxicity is not apparent in the adult. More commonly, however, adverse developmental effects are produced only at doses that cause minimal maternal toxicity; in these cases, the developmental effects are still considered to represent developmental toxicity and should not be discounted as secondary to maternal toxicity. At doses causing excessive maternal toxicity (that is, significantly greater than the minimal toxic dose), information on developmental effects may be difficult to interpret and of limited value. Current information is inadequate to assume that developmental effects at maternally toxic doses result only from maternal toxicity; it may be that the mother and developing organism are sensitive to that dose level. Moreover, whether developmental effects are secondary to maternal toxicity or not, the maternal effects may be reversible while effects on the offspring may be permanent. These are important considerations for agents to which humans may be exposed at minimally toxic levels either voluntarily or involuntarily, because several agents are known to produce adverse developmental effects at minimally toxic doses in adult humans (e.g., smoking, alcohol). Although interpretation of functional developmental neurotoxicity data may be limited at present, it is clear that functional effects must be evaluated in light of other toxicity data, including other forms of developmental toxicity (e.g., structural abnormalities, perinatal death, and growth retardation). The level of confidence in an adverse effect may be as important as the type of change seen, and confidence may be increased by such factors as replicability of the effect either in another study of the same function or by convergence of data from tests that purport to measure similar functions. A dose-response relationship is considered an important measure of chemical effect; in the case of functional effects, both monotonic and biphasic dose-response curves are likely, depending on the function being tested. 4.3.7. Physiological and Neuroendocrine Endpoints One of the key roles played by the nervous system is to orchestrate the general physiological functions of the body to help maintain homeostasis. To this end, the nervous system and many of the peripheral organ systems are integrated and functionally interdependent. For example, specific neuronal processes are intimately involved in maintaining or modulating respiration, cardiovascular function, body temperature, and gastrointestinal function. Because many peripheral organ functions involve neuronal components, changes in such physiological endpoints as blood pressure, heart rate, EKG, body temperature, respiration, lacrimation, or salivation may indirectly reflect possible treatment-related effects on the functional integrity of the nervous system. However, since physiological endpoints also depend on the integrity of the related peripheral organ itself, changes in physiological function also may reflect a systemic toxicity involving that organ. Consequently, the neurotoxicological significance of a physiological change must be interpreted within the context of other signs of toxicity. A variety of general physiological procedures can be applied to neurotoxicological problems. These procedures range in scale from simple measurements, for example, of body temperature, respiration, lacrimation, salivation, urination, and defecation, which may be included in routine functional observational batteries used for chemical screening, to more involved procedures involving measurements of blood pressure, endocrine responses, cardiac function, gastrointestinal function, etc. The latter would be more appropriate for second-level tests to characterize the scope of chemically related toxicity. The central nervous system also regulates the outflow of the endocrine system, which together with the influence of the autonomic nervous system, can affect immunologic function (WHO, 1986). Hormonal balance results from the integrated action of the hypothalamus, located in the central nervous system, and the pituitary, which regulates activities of endocrine target organs. Each site is susceptible to disruption by neurotoxic agents. Neuroendocrine dysfunction may occur because of a disturbance in the regulation and modulation of the neuroendocrine feedback systems. One major indicator of neuroendocrine function is secretions of hormones from the pituitary. Hormones from the anterior pituitary are important for reproduction (follicle-stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone), growth (thyroid-stimulating hormone), and response to stress (adrenocorticotropic hormone). Hypothalamic control of anterior pituitary secretions occurs through the release of hypothalamic-hypophysiotropic hormones. Hormones from the posterior hypothalamus (prolactin, melanocyte-stimulating hormone, and growth hormone) are also involved in a number of important bodily functions.
