FR940802-0-00010 FR940802-0-00002 (3) If the producer fails to pay such amounts within 30 calendar days from the date of notification, the county committee shall call the applicable loan involved in the violation and require repayment of any market gain previously realized for the applicable loan, or for loan deficiency payment, require repayment of the loan deficiency payment and charges plus interest. (g) *␣*␣* (2) Call the applicable loan involved in the violation and require repayment of any market gain previously realized for the applicable loan, and with respect to a loan deficiency payment, require repayment of the loan deficiency payment and charges plus interest. * * * * * (j) Any or all of the liquidated damages assessed in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (e) of this section may be waived as determined by CCC. 10. Section 1427.23 is amended by: A. Removing paragraph (f) B. Redesignating paragraph (g) as paragraph (f), and revising redesignated paragraph (f), and C. Redesignating paragraph (h) as paragraph (g) and revising redesignated paragraph (g) to read as follows: §1427.23 Cotton loan deficiency payments. * * * * * (f) If the producer enters into an agreement with CCC on or before the date of ginning a quantity of eligible cotton, and the producer has the beneficial interest in such quantity as specified in accordance with §1427.5(c) on the date the cotton was ginned, the loan deficiency payment rate applicable to such cotton will be the loan deficiency payment rate based on the date the cotton was ginned. In such cases, the producer must meet all the other requirements in paragraph (b) of this section on or before the final date to apply for a loan deficiency payment in accordance with §1427.5. (g) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, CCC will not accept applications for loan deficiency payments that specify the payment rate beginning at 4 p.m. eastern time each Thursday until an announcement of the adjusted world price for the succeeding weekly period has been made in accordance with §1427.25(e). In the event that Thursday is a nonworkday, such applications for loan deficiency payments will not be accepted beginning at 7 a.m. eastern time the next workday until an announcement of the adjusted world price for the succeeding weekly period has been made in accordance with §1427.25(e). §1427.168 [Removed and Reserved] 11. Section 1427.168 is removed and reserved. 12. Section 1427.171 is amended by revising the first sentence to read as follows: §1427.171 Approved storage. Approved storage shall consist of storage located on or off the producer's farm (excluding public warehouses) which is determined by a county committee representative to afford adequate protection against loss or damage and which is located within a reasonable distance, as determined by CCC, of an approved gin. *␣*␣* 13. Section 1427.174 is revised to read as follows: §1427.174 Maturity of loans. Seed cotton loans mature on demand by CCC but no later than May 31 following the calendar year in which such crop is normally harvested. 14. Section 1427.175 is amended by: A. Revising paragraph (a)(1), B. Revising paragraph (e), C. Revising paragraph (f)(2), D. Adding paragraph (f)(3), and E. Adding paragraph (i) to read as follows: §1427.175 Liability of the producer. * * * * * (a)(1) If a producer makes any fraudulent representation in obtaining a loan, maintaining a loan, or settling a loan or if the producer disposes of or moves the loan collateral without the prior approval of CCC, such loan shall be refunded upon demand by CCC. * * * * * (e) The producer and CCC agree that it will be difficult, if not impossible, to prove the amount of damages to CCC for if a producer makes any fraudulent representation in obtaining a loan or in maintaining, or settling a loan or disposing of or moving the loan collateral without the prior approval of CCC. Accordingly, if the county committee determines that the producer has violated the terms or conditions of the note and security agreement, liquidated damages shall be assessed on the quantity of the commodity which is involved in the violation. If CCC determines the producer: (1) Acted in good faith when the violation occurred, liquidated damages will be assessed by multiplying the quantity involved in the violation by: (i) 10 percent of the loan rate applicable to the loan note for the first offense; (ii) 25 percent of the loan rate applicable to the loan note for the second offense; or (2) Did not act in good faith with regard to the violation, or for cases other than first or second offense, liquidated damages will be assessed by multiplying the quantity involved in the violation by 25 percent of the loan rate applicable to the loan note. (f) *␣*␣* (2) Assess liquidated damages in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. (3) If the producer fails to pay such amount within 30 calendar days from the date of notification, the county committee shall call the applicable loan involved in the violation. * * * * * (i) Any or all of the liquidated damages assessed in accordance with the provision of paragraph (e) of this section may be waived as determined by CCC. Signed in Washington, DC, on July 25, 1994. Alan King, Acting Executive Vice President, Commodity Credit Corporation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18694 Filed 8&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;05&hyph;P
