FR940722-0-00115 FR940722-0-00019 112. The measures we establish today to encourage the entry of designated entities also are designed to promote strong, long-term bona fide competitors. For example, we have revised the definition of a small business set forth in the Second Report and Order to include entities with up to $40 million in gross revenues, and we will allow these small businesses to pool their resources and form consortia to bid in the entrepreneurs' blocks. We also adopt rules that allow entrepreneurial businesses, small businesses, and businesses owned by women and minorities to raise capital by attracting passive equity investors. At the same time, we have designed these rules to ensure that the special provisions adopted for such businesses accrue to the intended beneficiaries. B. Summary of Special Provisions for Designated Entities 113. As discussed more fully below, many commenters in this proceeding believe that the inability of designated entities to obtain adequate funding has a profoundly adverse effect on the potential for these businesses to bid successfully in auctions against very large, established businesses. Therefore, we take a number of steps in this Order to help address this imbalance. •We establish two ``entrepreneurs' blocks'' (frequency blocks C and F) in which large companies (those with $125 million or more in annual gross revenues or $500 million or more in total assets) will be prohibited from bidding. •Bidding credits will be granted both to small businesses and to businesses owned by women and minorities in the entrepreneurs' blocks to provide them with a better opportunity to compete successfully in broadband PCS auctions. •Certain winning bidders in frequency blocks C and F will be permitted to pay the license price in installments, and the interest rate and moratorium on principal payments will be adjusted to assist small businesses and women and minority-owned businesses. •We adopt a tax certificate program for minority and women-owned businesses, which will provide additional assistance in their efforts to attract equity investors. •Rural telephone companies will be allowed to obtain broadband PCS licenses that are geographically partitioned from larger PCS service areas to provide them more flexibility to serve rural subscribers. 89 89 In a Further Notice of Proposed Rule Making in this docket, we will seek comment on whether a partitioning option for small businesses or businesses owned by women or minorities, as suggested by some of the commenters, may be appropriate. In that Further Notice, we also will seek comment or whether the Commission should impose a restriction on the assignment or transfer of control of partitioned licenses by rural telephone companies or other designated entities for some period of time. •Bidders in the entrepreneurs' blocks will be required to pay an upfront payment of only $0.015 per MHz per pop, in contrast to the $0.02 per MHz per pop required in the other blocks. 114. The following chart highlights the major provisions adopted for businesses bidding in the entrepreneurs' blocks. 90 90 This table is not comprehensive and therefore it does not present all the provisions established for designated entities, especially those available outside the entrepreneurs' blocks. ␣ 1␣ 1Bidding credits (percent) 1Installment payments 1Tax certificates for investors Entrepreneurial Businesses ($40 MM&hyph;$125 MM in revenue and less than $500 MM in total assets) 0 Interest only for 1 year; rate equal to 10-year Treasury note plus 2.5%; (for businesses with revenues greater than $75 MM, available only in top 50 markets) No. Small Businesses (less than $40 MM revenues) 10 Interest only for 2 years; rate equal to 10-year Treasury note plus 2.5% No. Businesses Owned by Minorities and/or Women ($40 MM&hyph;$125 MM in revenues) 15 Interest only for 3 years; rate equal to 10-year Treasury note Yes. Small Businesses Owned by Minorities and/or Women (less than $40 MM revenues) 25 Interest only for 5 years; rate equal to 10-year Treasury note Yes. C. Summary of Eligibility Requirements and Definitions 1. Entrepreneurs' Blocks and Small Business Eligibility 115. The following points summarize the principal rules regarding eligibility to bid in the entrepreneurs' blocks and to qualify as a small business. In addition, they summarize the attribution rules we will use to assess whether an applicant satisfies the various financial thresholds. More precise details are discussed in the subsections that follow. Financial Caps • Entrepreneurs' Blocks: To bid in the entrepreneurs' blocks, the applicant, including attributable investors and affiliates, must cumulatively have less than $125 million in gross revenues and less than $500 million in total assets. No individual attributable investor or affiliate may have $100 million or more in personal net worth. • Small Business: To qualify for special measures accorded a small business, the applicant, including attributable investors and affiliates, must cumulatively have less than $40 million in gross revenues. No individual attributable investor or affiliate may have $40 million or more in personal net worth. Attribution Rules • Control Group. The gross revenues, total assets and personal net worth of certain investors are not considered so long as the applicant has a `'control group'' consisting of one or more individuals or entities that control the applicant, hold at least 25 percent of the equity and, for corporations, at least 50.1 percent of the voting stock. •The gross revenues, total assets and personal net worth of each member of the control group are counted toward the financial caps. • Other Investors . Where the applicant has a control group, the gross revenues, total assets and personal net worth of any other investor are not considered unless the investor holds 25 percent or more of the applicant's passive equity (which, for corporations, includes as much as 5 percent of the voting stock). • Passive Equity . Passive equity is limited partnership or non-voting stock interests or voting stock interests of 5 percent or less of the issued and outstanding voting stock.
