FR941117-0-00007 FR941117-0-00001 (b) Representatives of organizational members._ (1) An organizational member of a corporate credit union is a member that is not a natural person. An organizational member may appoint one of its members or officials as a representative to the corporate credit union. The representative shall be empowered to attend membership meetings, to vote, and to stand for election on behalf of the member. No individual may serve as the representative of more than one organizational member in the same corporate credit union. (2) Any vacancy on the board of a corporate credit union caused by a representative being unable to complete his or her term shall be filled by the board of the corporate credit union according to its bylaws governing the filling of board vacancies. (c) Recusal provision._ (1) No director, committee member, officer, or employee of a corporate credit union shall in any manner, directly or indirectly, participate in the deliberation upon or the determination of any question affecting his or her pecuniary interest or the pecuniary interest of any entity (other than the corporate credit union) in which he or she is interested, except if the matter involves general policy applicable to all members, such as setting dividend or loan rates or fees for services. (2) An individual is ``interested'' in an entity if he or she: (i) Serves as a director, officer, or employee of the entity; (ii) Has a business, ownership, or deposit relationship with the entity; or (iii) Has a business, financial, or familial relationship with an individual whom he or she knows has a pecuniary interest in the entity. (3) In the event of the disqualification of any directors, by operation of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the remaining qualified directors present at the meeting, if constituting a quorum with the disqualified directors, may exercise, by majority vote, all the powers of the board with respect to the matter under consideration. Where all of the directors are disqualified, the matter must be decided by the members of the corporate credit union. (4) In the event of the disqualification of any committee member by operation of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the remaining qualified committee members, if constituting a quorum with the disqualified committee members, may exercise, by majority vote, all the powers of the committee with respect to the matter under consideration. Where all of the committee members are disqualified, the matter shall be decided by the board of directors. (d) Administration._ A corporate credit union shall be under the direction and control of its board of directors. While the board may delegate the performance of administrative duties, the board is not relieved of its responsibility for their performance. The board may employ a chief executive officer who shall have such authority and such powers as delegated by the board to conduct business from day to day. Such chief executive officer must answer solely to the board of the corporate credit union, and may not be an employee of a credit union trade association.
