FR941007-1-00088 FR941007-1-00009 (1) By a bank for the establishment of a domestic branch or other facility that would be authorized to take deposits; (2) By a bank for the relocation of the main office, a branch office or ATM; (3) For the merger or consolidation with or the acquisition of assets or assumption of liabilities of a federally insured depository institution; and (4) For the conversion of a federally insured depository institution to a national bank charter. (b) Charter application. An applicant (other than a federally insured depository institution) for a national bank charter shall submit a description of how it will meet its CRA objectives when the application is made. In considering the application, the OCC shall take the description into account and may deny or condition approval on that basis. (c) Interested parties. In considering CRA performance in an application described in paragraph (a) of this section, the OCC shall take into account any views expressed by interested parties which are submitted in accordance with the OCC's procedures set forth in part 5 of this chapter. (d) Denial or conditional approval of application. A bank's record of performance may be the basis for denying or conditioning approval of an application described in paragraph (a) of this section. Subpart C_Records, Reporting and Disclosure Requirements ยง25.41 Service area delineation. (a) In general. Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, each bank may delineate its service area(s) using any method it chooses provided that the service area(s): (1) Do(es) not reflect illegal discrimination; (2) Do(es) not arbitrarily exclude low- and moderate-income geographies, taking into account the bank's size and financial condition and the extent of its branching network, as appropriate; and (3) Consist(s) only of whole census tracts or block numbering areas. (b) Banks that are not wholesale or limited purpose banks. The service area(s) for a bank that is not a wholesale or limited purpose bank (as defined in ยง25.12 of this part): (1) Shall include those geographies in the local areas around a bank's branches and deposit-taking ATMs in which the bank has originated or had outstanding, during the previous calendar year, a significant number and amount of home mortgage, small business and small farm, and (if the bank chooses to have them considered in its CRA evaluation) consumer loans and any other geographies equidistant from its branches and deposit-taking ATMs, taking into account political boundaries or significant geographic barriers; and (2) Shall not extend substantially across MSA boundaries or state boundaries unless the service area is located in a multistate MSA. If the bank serves areas that extend substantially across state boundaries or extend substantially across boundaries of an MSA, the bank shall delineate separate service areas for the areas in each state and for the areas inside and outside the MSA.
