FR941013-2-00071 FR941013-2-00057 Statement of Organization, Functions, and Delegations of Authority Part F of the Statement of Organization, Functions, and Delegations of Authority for the Department of Health and Human Services, Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), ( Federal Register , Vol. 59, No. 60, pp. 14634&hyph;14637, dated Tuesday, March 29, 1994) is amended to reflect changes in the structure of the Office of Managed Care (OMC). The OMC-level functional statement has been republished because of a change in administrative codes. The specific amendments to Part F are as follows: •Section F.10.A.6. (Organization) is amended to read as follows: 6. Office of Managed Care a. Program Support Team b. Medicaid Managed Care Team c. Data Development and Support Team d. Beneficiary Access and Education Team e. Program Policy and Improvement Team f. Medicare Payment and Audit Team g. Operations and Oversight Team (1) Operations A Team (2) Operations B Team (3) Operations C Team •Section F.20.A.6. (Functions) is amended by deleting the statement and substructure in their entirety and replacing them with the new functional statements. The new functional statements read as follows: 6. Office of Managed Care (FAD) •Provides national direction and executive leadership for managed health care operations, including Health Maintenance Organizations (HMOs), Prepaid Health Plans (PHPs), Primary Care Case Management programs, Competitive Medical Plans (CMPs), and other Capitated Health organizations. •Serves as the departmental focal point in the areas of managed health care plan qualification, including quality assurance, ongoing regulation, State and employer compliance efforts, Medicare and Medicaid HMO, Medicare CMP contracting and Medicaid freedom of choice waivers. •Develops national managed care policies and objectives for the development, qualification, and ongoing compliance of HMOs and CMPs. •Plans, coordinates, and directs the development and preparation of related legislative proposals, regulatory proposals, and policy documents. •Formulates, evaluates, and prepares policies, specifications for regulations, instructions, preprints, and procedures related to managed health care. •Makes recommendations for legislative changes to improve managed health care program policy. a. Program Support Team (FAD&hyph;1) •Develops, coordinates, and implements the Office of Managed Care (OMC) staff utilization programs including: employee development and training, employee performance, personnel administration, recruitment, selection, placement, and position control. •Develops, coordinates, and implements OMC's internal financial management program, including formulation, justification, and execution of the OMC budget and coordination of OMC contracts and cooperative agreement expenditures. •Processes and implements all OMC program and administrative delegations of authority and serves as the focal point for all delegations of authority issues concerning OMC.
