FR941110-0-00180 FR941110-0-00016 Response: We do not accept this suggestion. Incorporating provisions to address the facility's recoupment of penalties through rate increases is beyond the scope of this rule which addresses the survey, certification and enforcement for skilled nursing facilities and nursing facilities. Comment: Several other commenters believed civil money penalties do not work, are not the answer, serve no purpose or are an insult to professionals. Response: We do not agree with these comments. We have the statutory responsibility to do what is necessary to promote the continued health and safety of residents in long term care facilities. We cannot say at this point that civil money penalties do not work. We can say the Congress perceived the effectiveness of this remedy and included it among the other remedies established to encourage prompt compliance with participation requirements. Comment: A few commenters stated that civil money penalties are not necessary, as there is an extensive list of available remedies. Response: We agree that there are many available remedies that can be used. We are including at ยง488.404 the factors to be considered when selecting the most effective enforcement remedy. OBRA '87 included revised and expanded authority for the enforcement of the Federal participation requirements for long-term care facilities which allow State and Federal governments to choose the most effective remedy to encourage rapid compliance with participation requirements. We do not agree with the statement that civil money penalties are not necessary, because using civil money penalties as a remedy provides another enforcement option for addressing the unique characteristics of each case of facility noncompliance. Comment: A few commenters said that civil money penalties are not fair and must be reasonable and realistic. Response: The ranges in the amounts of the civil money penalties are commensurate with the level of SNF or NF noncompliance and, we believe, permit penalties to be imposed in a fair, reasonable and realistic manner. In fact, the higher and wider range of fines ($3,050 to $10,000 per day) is reserved for immediate jeopardy deficiencies, even though these deficiencies account for a very small minority of the cases of noncompliance. Comment: Several commenters expressed concern that civil money penalties will drive up the cost to the taxpayer and increase the government's debt. Response: Increased cost to taxpayers as a result of civil money penalties is possible if civil money penalties are imposed on publicly funded facilities. To the extent that such a provider's operation is characterized by deficiencies, and costs are excessive, financial burdens are imposed on the taxpayers. However, the money collected from penalties does not increase the Federal debt as it is returned to the Medicare Trust Fund or is earmarked for the protection of the health or property of Medicaid residents. Therefore, money is indirectly returned to the taxpayers' benefit. Comment: Several commenters expressed the concern that civil money penalties could cause small, independent, primarily Medicaid supported, rural facilities to be closed down, possibly displacing residents from their community home. Response: We reject this argument. Sections 1819(h)(2)(B)(ii) and 1919(h)(3)(C)(ii) of the Act state that the Secretary or the State may (emphasis added) impose a civil money penalty. A civil money penalty need not be imposed in every situation. The Act provides the Secretary and the State the authority to choose a remedy which corresponds to the unique characteristics of each case. In addition, ยง488.438 states that a facility's financial condition is a factor considered in determining the amount of the civil money penalty. Comment: Several commenters are concerned that the imposition of civil money penalties could detract from resident care or redirect funds that could be used to continue to improve care.
