FR940303-0-00038 FR940303-0-00011 (i) The address of each building in the project, or if none exists, a specific description of the location of each building; (ii) The name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the taxpayer receiving the allocation; (iii) The name and address of the Agency; (iv) The taxpayer identification number of the Agency; (v) The date of the allocation; (vi) The housing credit dollar amount allocated to the building or project, as applicable; (vii) The taxpayer's reasonably expected basis in the project (land and depreciable basis) as of the close of the second calendar year following the calendar year in which the allocation is made; (viii) The taxpayer's basis in the project (land and depreciable basis) as of the close of the calendar year in which the allocation is made and the percentage that basis bears to the reasonably expected basis in the project (land and depreciable basis) as of the close of the second following calendar year; (ix) The date that each building in the project is expected to be placed in service; and (x) The Building Identification Number (B.I.N.) to be assigned to each building in the project. The B.I.N. must reflect the year an allocation is first made to the building, regardless of the year that the building is placed in service. This B.I.N. must be used for all allocations of credit for the building. For example, rehabilitation expenditures treated as a separate new building under section 42(e) should not have a separate B.I.N. if the building to which the rehabilitation expenditures are made has a B.I.N. In this case, the B.I.N. used for the rehabilitation expenditures shall be the B.I.N. previously assigned to the building, although the rehabilitation expenditures must have a separate Form 8609 for the allocation. Similarly, a newly constructed building that receives an allocation of credit in different calendar years must have a separate Form 8609 for each allocation. The B.I.N. assigned to the building for the first allocation must be used for the subsequent allocation. (3) Special rules for project-based allocations _(i) In general. An allocation pursuant to section 42(h)(1)(F) (a project-based allocation) must meet the requirements of this section as well as the requirements of section 42(h)(1)(F), including the minimum basis requirement of section 42(h)(1)(E)(ii). (ii) Requirement of section 42(h)(1)(F)(i)(III). An allocation satisfies the requirement of section 42(h)(1)(F)(i)(III) if the Form 8609 that is issued for each building that is placed in service in the project states the portion of the project-based allocation that is applied to that building. (4) Recordkeeping requirements _(i) Taxpayer. When an allocation is made pursuant to section 42(h)(1) (E) or (F), the taxpayer must retain a copy of the allocation document and file an additional copy with the Form 8609 that is issued to the taxpayer for a building after the building is placed in service. The taxpayer need only file a copy of the allocation document with the Form 8609 for the building for the first year the credit is claimed. However, the Form 8609 must be filed for the first taxable year in which the credit is claimed and for each taxable year thereafter throughout the compliance period, whether or not a credit is claimed for the taxable year.
