FR940721-2-00128 FR940721-2-00072 C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No written comments were either solicited or received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The PHLX has requested that the proposed rule change be given accelerated effectiveness pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act. The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of Section 6(b)(5). 4 Specifically, the Commission believes that the reduced-value long-term XOC options will benefit investors by providing them with a valuable hedging and investing vehicle that should reflect accurately the overall movement of the OTC market and provide investors with additional means to hedge portfolios against long-term market risk at a reduce cost. The Commission believes that the lower cost of the reduced-value XOC options should allow investors to hedge their portfolios with a smaller outlay of capital and may facilitate investor participation in the market for XOC options, which should, in turn, help to maintain the depth and liquidity of the market for XOC options, thereby protecting investors and the public interest. 4 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). The Commission believes that trading in the reduced-value XOC options will not have an adverse market impact or be susceptible to manipulation. 5 The Commission has determined previously that the full-value XOC is a broad-based index 6 and does not believe that dividing the XOC by ten changes this determination. The reduced-value XOC index will contain the same stocks with the same weightings as the XOC and will be calculated in the same manner as the XOC (with the exception of being one-tenth the value of the XOC). Accordingly, the Commission finds that the reduced-value XOC is a broad-based index. Moreover, the Commission believes that any potential manipulation concerns raised by the reduced-value XOC options are minimized by the fact that positions in the reduced-value XOC options and full-value XOC options will be aggregated for position and exercise limit purposes. 7 In addition, the Commission notes that the same Exchange surveillance procedures applied to full-value XOC options will be used for the reduced-value XOC options. 8 5 The Commission notes that, prior to listing long-term reduced-value XOC options, the PHLX will be required to provide written representations that both the Exchange and OPRA have the necessary systems capacity to support the new series of long-term reduced-value XOC options. 6 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33634 (February 17, 1994), 59 FR 9263 (February 25, 1994). 7 In this regard, it is reasonable for the PHLX to count ten reduced-value XOC option contract as equivalent to one full-value XOC contract for position and exercise limit purposes because the underlying value of one XOC contract is equal to the underlying value of ten reduced-value XOC contracts. 8 Telephone conversation between Edith Hallahan, Attorney, PHLX, and Yvonne Fraticelli, Attorney, Options Branch, Division, on July 6, 1994. Because the Exchange's existing rules applicable to stock index options, including, among others, sales practice rules, margin requirements, and position and exercise limits, will apply to the reduced-value XOC options, the Commission believes that the market for the reduced-value XOC options should be fair and orderly and does not raise any new customer protection concerns. The Commission finds good cause for approving the proposal and Amendment Nos. 1 and 2 prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of filing thereof in the Federal Register . In light of the fact that the Commission has approved proposals by other exchanges to list reduced-value options on existing indexes, and in light of PHLX rule 1101A(b)(iii), which allows the PHLX to list series of long term options on stock indexes, the Commission believes that the proposal to list long term reduced-value XOC options presents no new regulatory issues. In addition, the Commission believes that Amendment Nos. 1 and 2 clarify and strengthen the Exchange's proposal. Accordingly, the Commission believes that it is consistent with the Act to approve the proposal and Amendment Nos. 1 and 2 on an accelerated basis. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the PHLX. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;PHLX&hyph;94&hyph;03 and should be submitted by [insert date 21 days from date of publication]. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act 9 that the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;PHLX&hyph;94&hyph;03) is approved. 9 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1982). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 10 10 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17761 Filed 7&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
