FR940602-2-00028 FR940602-2-00026 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [FRL&hyph;4891&hyph;4] Air Pollution Control; Ozone Transport Commission; Recommendation That EPA Adopt Low Emission Vehicle Program for the Northeast Ozone Transport Region AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Notice of Round-Table Meetings. SUMMARY: On February 10, 1994, the Northeast Ozone Transport Commission (OTC) submitted a recommendation to EPA under Section 184 of the Clean Air Act (the Act), for additional control measures to be applied throughout the Northeast Ozone Transport Region (OTR). Specifically, the OTC recommended that EPA require all State members of the OTC to adopt an Ozone Transport Commission Low Emission Vehicle (OTC LEV or LEV) program for the entire OTR. Under Section 184(c)(3) of the Act, EPA is to review the OTC's recommendation to determine whether the additional control measures are necessary to bring any area in the OTR into attainment by the dates specified in the Act, and are otherwise consistent with the Act. Based on this review, EPA is obligated to approve, disapprove, or partially approve and partially disapprove the OTC's recommendation. EPA recently issued a proposed rule describing the framework for EPA's action on the OTC's recommendation and describing the issues EPA is considering in deciding whether to approve, disapprove, or partially approve and partially disapprove the recommendation. Thereafter, EPA held public hearings on the OTC's recommendation in Hartford, Connecticut on May 2&hyph;3, 1994. As previously announced, EPA will be holding a series of three public meetings in the OTR during June and July, 1994 to provide an opportunity for interactive discussion of the issues involved. As discussed in greater detail below, EPA is structuring these three public meetings to generally follow the framework for analysis it has described in its proposal for action on the OTC's recommendation. At the first meeting, EPA expects the discussion to focus on the standard or test the Agency should apply in analyzing the OTC's recommendation and the need for the Agency to act in a timely fashion based on the best available information. Also at the first meeting, EPA expects the discussion to focus on issues related to the OTC LEV program, itself. At the second meeting, the Agency intends to take up the policy, legal, and technical issues relating to the magnitude of reductions needed, against which the OTC LEV program should be assessed. Also, at the second meeting EPA intends to begin a discussion of alternative proposals for obtaining additional emissions reductions from new cars. EPA expects this discussion may carry over into the third meeting. EPA also is reserving time at the third meeting to discuss new issues that might arise in the course of the foregoing agenda that EPA does not foresee now, or issues that should be revisited in light of later discussions. DATES: EPA will be holding three public round-table meetings on: Wednesday, June 8, 1994 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Thursday, June 23, 1994 in Durham, New Hampshire; and Wednesday, July 13, 1994 in New York, New York. Each round-table meeting will commence at 9 a.m. and conclude by approximately 6 p.m. ADDRESSES: The first round-table meeting will be held at: Center City WHYY Television Station, Sixth & Arch Streets, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The second round-table meeting will be held at: The New England Center, University of New Hampshire, 1515 Stratford Avenue, Durham, New Hampshire 03824. The third round-table meeting will be held at: Holiday Inn Crown Plaza, Manhattan, 1605 Broadway (at 49th Street), New York, New York 10019. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mike Shields, Office of Mobile Sources, USEPA, 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC 20460, telephone: (202) 260&hyph;3450.
