FR940922-1-00041 FR940922-1-00008 EPA also considered additional emission reduction measures that the Agency has included in a proposed Federal Implementation Plan (FIP) for the Ventura, Sacramento, and South Coast areas of California. See 59 FR 23263 (May 5, 1994). As the following discussion indicates, the measures proposed for consideration in these FIPs which are not unreasonable or impracticable and which could be implemented by the states in the OTR, have largely been considered as part of other strategies discussed above. Those that remain would not generate a substantial reduction in emissions from the overall inventory. 45 45 As the FIP proposal contains too many provisions to list exhaustively, the following discussion focuses on examples to illustrate EPA's approach. Context Surrounding FIP Measures The court-ordered obligation that EPA produce FIPs for three regions of California has placed EPA in an unusual position. The Clean Air Act places primary responsibility for clean air planning at the regional, state and local levels. This is appropriate because state and local officials have the specific knowledge, flexibility, and sensitivity to tailor clean air plans to the particular needs of their communities. Throughout the FIP development process, EPA has acknowledged that the measures at its disposal include blunt instruments that have the potential for significant social and economic impact. Also, the time constraints imposed by the court order and the functional limits on EPA's ability to fashion measures which meet the specific needs of localities have forced the Agency to propose a number of measures that would not be appropriate for implementation in the OTR. The pollution problems experienced in California are of a magnitude far greater than those experienced anywhere else in the nation. Moreover, the OTC, with its recommendation here, seeks to benefit from the leadership California has demonstrated in setting strict pollution standards for new vehicles. The measures proposed in the FIP generally supplement measures California has already adopted. The LEV program is a critical aspect of California's attainment strategy and the FIP. When considering whether FIP measures may constitute part of a set of measures sufficient to achieve the necessary reductions in the OTR without the LEV (or LEV-equivalent) program, it is essential to stress that EPA proposed these measures for California in addition to the LEV program that California had already adopted in 1990. If the LEV program had not already been adopted, EPA would have had to propose a measure very much like it for the FIP, due to the substantial and relatively cost-effective benefits that the program will provide in California. Description of FIP Measures For the purposes of this discussion, EPA has grouped proposed FIP measures into four broad categories: (1) FIP measures that are not practicable in the OTR because they depend on federal authority to be implemented or are predicated on special regulatory authority Congress has conferred only upon California; (2) FIP measures that are clearly unreasonable and impracticable in the OTR because they are predicated upon industrial or geographic circumstances that are particular to California; (3) FIP measures that are unreasonable and impracticable in the OTR relative to LEV implementation because they are too costly or speculative; and (4) FIP measures which are not clearly unreasonable or impracticable for implementation in the OTR. (1) Measures excluded because they depend on unique authority. a. Federal Authority_EPA proposed two different types of FIP measures relying on EPA's unique federal authority. Most were measures that would apply nationally, such as recreational marine vessel controls, and thus would apply in the OTR, as well. Additionally, EPA proposed some parts of the FIP solely under authority accorded to the Agency under the FIP provisions in section 110(c). These parts of the FIP regulated source categories including new locomotives and farm and construction equipment under 175 hp. See section 209(e)(1). These proposed FIPs would rely on section 110(c) to impose requirements for these sources that are more stringent than EPA has proposed for the nation as a whole. All states, including California, are preempted from regulating this category of sources. Therefore, no state in the OTR has the option of adopting these controls. b. State Authority_California has authority under section 209 of the Act to address pollution from on-highway and nonroad engines (except certain categories of nonroad engines noted above), which other states do not have. In the FIP proposal, EPA stepped into the shoes of California and proposed several measures under California's section 209 authority for California only. Generally, these measures are tight new emission standards for new on-highway and nonroad equipment. EPA also proposed certain measures to improve durability of on-highway and nonroad equipment to better control emissions in-use. EPA again proposed these programs under California's special authority that other states do not have. Because states are preempted from adopting such regulations in the absence of California regulations actually adopted under California's Clean Air Act authority, states in the OTR do not now have the option of adopting any of these controls. (2) FIP measures that are impracticable in the OTR because they are predicated upon industrial or geographic circumstances that are particular to California.
