FR941011-0-00003 FR941011-0-00002 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Food and Nutrition Service 7 CFR Part 271 Food Stamp Program: Forfeiture and Denial of Property Rights AGENCIES: Office of Inspector General and Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This rule implements section 15(g) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977, as amended by Section 124 of the Food Stamp Act Amendments of 1980, Pub. L. 96&hyph;249, which authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to subject to forfeiture and denial of property rights any nonfood items, moneys, negotiable instruments, securities, or other things of value that are furnished or intended to be furnished by any person in exchange for food coupons, authorization cards, or other program benefit instruments or access devices in any manner not authorized by the Food Stamp Act or regulations issued pursuant to the Food Stamp Act, 7 U.S.C. 2024(g). The rule establishes procedures to be followed by the Inspector General and other Federal law enforcement officials who conduct investigations of alleged violations of the Food Stamp Act and who may, during the course of those investigations, acquire property subject to forfeiture and denial of property rights. EFFECTIVE DATE: November 10, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Brian L. Haaser, Director, Program Investigations Division, Office of Inspector General, United States Department of Agriculture, 14th Street and Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2318. Phone: (202) 720&hyph;6701. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Classification Executive Order 12866 This rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866 and, therefore, has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. Executive Order 12372 The Food Stamp Program is listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under No. 10.551. For the reasons set forth in the final rule and related Notice(s) to 7 CFR Part 3015, subpart V (48 FR 29115, June 24, 1983), this program is excluded from the scope of Executive Order 12372, which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials. Paperwork Reduction Act This final rule does not contain reporting or recordkeeping requirements subject to approval by the Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3507). Regulatory Flexibility Act This action has been reviewed with regard to the requirements of the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (Pub. L. No. 96&hyph;354, 94 Stat. 1164, September 19, 1980). Charles R. Gillum, Acting Inspector General, USDA, has certified that this rule does not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12778 This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This rule is intended to have preemptive effect with respect to any state or local laws, regulations or policies which conflict with its provisions or which would otherwise impede its full implementation. This rule is not intended to have retroactive effect unless so specified in the Effective Date paragraph of this preamble. Prior to any judicial challenge to the provisions of this rule or the application of this rule, all applicable administrative procedures must be exhausted. The administrative review requirements relating to forfeiture of property pursuant to the Food Stamp Act of 1977, as amended, are set out in this rule. Background This rule recognizes that the Office of Inspector General (OIG), USDA, conducts the majority of criminal investigations that result in Federal criminal prosecution under the Food Stamp Act; that such investigations involve the acquisition of valuable property by investigators in exchange for food coupons, authorization cards, or other program benefit instruments or access devices; and that Congress granted to USDA the power to subject such property to forfeiture. It should be noted that the Act defines ``coupon'' to include any ``*␣*␣* type of certificate issued pursuant to the provisions of this Act'' (7 U.S.C. 2012(d)). Thus, this rulemaking subjects to forfeiture property offered in exchange for any program benefit instrument or access device. In addition to OIG, other Federal law enforcement agencies, including the United States Secret Service and the United States Postal Inspection Service, also conduct criminal investigations involving the acquisition of property in exchange for food coupons, authorization cards, or other program benefit instruments or access devices. Finally, in some instances food coupons and other benefit instruments are provided to other Federal law enforcement agencies for use in investigations involving program related activities under memoranda of understanding with OIG. This rule applies as well to seizures related to the Act which are made by those agencies. However, this rule specifically provides that the forfeiture provisions shall not apply to those items exchanged during the course of internal investigations by retail firms, investigations conducted by State and local law enforcement agencies, or FNS Compliance Branch investigations. For a more detailed explanation of the provisions of this rule, the reader should refer to the preamble of the proposed rule cited below. The proposed rule was published in the Federal Register on December 6, 1993, 58 FR 64172, with a 60 day comment period ending February 4, 1994. We received only one letter with comments. The commenter suggested that the rule should clarify that property not acquired by investigation is not subject to the rule, that the property belongs to USDA and disposal must be approved by USDA, and that any moneys obtained from sale of property or by forfeiture belongs to USDA and shall be deposited with USDA. We did not make any changes as a result of the comments because we believe the rule already adequately addresses the commenter's concerns. The provisions of 7 CFR 271.5(e)(1)(ii) of the rule state that the forfeiture and denial of property rights provisions shall apply to property exchanged or offered in exchange during investigations by the Inspector General, USDA, and by other authorized Federal law enforcement agencies. We believe this is clear enough without adding that it does not cover other property. Section 271.5(e)(2) clearly states that the property is deemed forfeited to USDA, and §271.5(e)(2)(v) provides custodians guidance on property disposal and refers to the applicable regulations which would be those of USDA and/or GSA. Finally, while any moneys exchanged or collected are deemed forfeited to USDA just like other property, section 7 CFR 271.5(e)(2)(vi) provides that such moneys shall be deposited into the general fund of the United States Treasury. The moneys are deposited to the general fund because OIG does not have the legal authority needed to deposit them with USDA.
