FR940512-0-00011 FR940512-0-00005 Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 9 CFR Part 94 [Docket No. 93&hyph;149&hyph;2] Importation of Animal Products and Byproducts From Countries Where BSE Exists; Removal of Portugal AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: We are amending our regulations by removing Portugal from the list of countries where bovine spongiform encephalopathy exists. Portugal had been added to the list in December 1993 after the disease was diagnosed in cattle in that country. We are now removing Portugal from the list of countries where bovine spongiform encephalopathy exists because epidemiological investigations have revealed that the cattle in which the disease was detected had been imported into Portugal from Great Britain, and that all suspect animals were destroyed. This action will relieve certain prohibitions or restrictions on the importation of certain fresh, chilled, and frozen meat, and certain other animal products and animal byproducts derived from ruminants that have been in Portugal. EFFECTIVE DATE: May 27, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. John W. Cougill, Staff Veterinarian, Import-Export Products Staff, National Center for Import-Export, Veterinary Services, APHIS, USDA, room 759, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;7834. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulations in 9 CFR parts 94 and 95 (referred to below as the regulations) govern the importation of meat, animal products, animal byproducts, hay, and straw into the United States in order to prevent the introduction of various animal diseases, including bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE). BSE is a neurological disease of bovine animals and other ruminants. The disease is not known to be contagious. The major means of spread of BSE appears to be through the use of ruminant feed containing protein and other products from ruminants infected with BSE. Therefore, BSE could become established in the United States if materials carrying the BSE agent, such as certain meat, animal products, or animal byproducts derived from ruminants in countries in which BSE exists, were imported into the United States and fed to ruminants. Sections 94.18 and 95.4 of the regulations prohibit or restrict the importation of certain meat, animal products, and animal byproducts derived from ruminants that have been in countries in which BSE exists, and ยง96.2(b) prohibits the importation of ruminant casings from countries in which BSE exists. Those countries are listed in ยง94.18 of the regulations. In an interim rule published in the Federal Register on December 13, 1993 (58 FR 65103&hyph;65104, Docket No. 93&hyph;149&hyph;1) and effective on December 7, 1993, we amended the regulations by adding Portugal to the list of countries where BSE exists after the disease was detected in cattle in Portugal. We solicited comments concerning the interim rule for a 60-day comment period ending February 11, 1994. We received three comments by that date, all of which opposed the interim rule. The comments were sent by a representative of a U.S. trade association, a U.S. manufacturer, and a representative of the Commission of the European Communities. Two of the commenters opposed the interim rule because of its effect on the importation of certain animal products from Portugal; the third commenter urged us to consider updated information regarding Portugal's epidemiological investigation of the situation. A report from the Portuguese Ministry of Agriculture to the Office of International Epizootics and the European Economic Union stated that BSE had been detected in one cow and suspected in three other cows, all of which had been imported into Portugal from Great Britain, where BSE is known to exist. This report led to our December 1993 interim rule adding Portugal to the list of countries where BSE is known to exist. Subsequent epidemiological investigations conducted by Portuguese veterinary officials revealed that the infected animal, an 8-year-old Holstein-Friesian cow, was born in Great Britain in 1984 and imported into Portugal from Great Britain in 1987. The affected cow and the three suspect cows were destroyed and the premises placed under quarantine and official control throughout the epidemiological investigation. There have been no reports of any additional animals in Portugal being affected with BSE. In the course of their investigation, Portuguese veterinary officials established that no rendered products of animal origin were ever imported for animal feed. In February 1990, the Portuguese Government prohibited the importation of live cattle and all raw materials and byproducts of animal origin from Great Britain, Northern Ireland, and the Republic of Ireland. Additionally, all livestock in Portugal, both domestic and imported, are subject to official supervision and veterinary controls established at the national level. These veterinary controls include an official registry system, animal identification, and monitoring of all animal movement. Diagnostic capabilities for BSE are available at national veterinary laboratories in Lisbon and Porto. Therefore, based on the comments received, on the epidemiological information provided by Portuguese veterinary officials, and on the results of our continuing study of the situation described in the December 1993 interim rule, we are removing Portugal from the list of countries where BSE is known to exist. Effective Date This is a substantive rule that relieves restrictions and, pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 553, may be made effective less than 30 days after publication in the Federal Register . Prompt implementation is needed to relieve unnecessary restrictions on the importation of certain fresh, chilled, and frozen meat, and certain other animal products and animal byproducts derived from ruminants that have been in Portugal. With these restrictions lifted, U.S. importers will be able to resume their importation of the animal products and animal byproducts described above. Portuguese producers and exporters that had been denied these U.S. markets by our December 1993 interim rule will be able to resume their business with the United States. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866.
