FR940505-1-00080 FR940505-1-00012 In the South Coast FIP area, the proposed FIP rule will correct the gas leak definition in SCAQMD Rule 1173. The proposed correction defines a gas leak as total gaseous hydrocarbon in excess of the applicable parts per million limit measured as methane. In the Sacramento FIP area, the proposed FIP rule will establish an inspection and repair program. In the Ventura FIP area, the proposed FIP rule will further strengthen the existing program to make it consistent with those adopted in other districts and CARB's RACT guidance. Evaluation of the environmental, economic, and other impacts of the proposed rule are discussed in EPA's technical support document. Emission reductions expected from this proposed rule are estimated at 0.8 tpd in the Sacramento area, 2.8 tpd in the South Coast, and 2.1 tpd in Ventura. (j)(2) Fugitive Emissions from Gas Processing Plants, Refineries, Bulk Plants, Bulk Terminals, and Chemical Plants (Sacramento, South Coast, Ventura). Proposed 40 CFR 52.2961(i) controls VOC emissions from fugitive leaks resulting from valves, flanges, fittings, pumps, compressors, open ended lines and/or other components at gas processing plants, refineries, bulk plants, bulk terminals, and chemical plants. 1990 VOC emissions from these fugitive sources were estimated to be less than 0.9 tons per day (tpd) in the Sacramento area, approximately 17.5 tpd in the South Coast, and 0.8 tpd in Ventura. The proposed rule builds upon current or proposed regulations and strengthens and improves existing rules through: regulation of additional fugitive sources; lower allowable leak thresholds; correction of rule deficiencies; and improved inspection and repair programs. The proposed FIP regulation is based on: CARB RACT guidance for the control of fugitive emissions of VOCs from oil and gas production and processing facilities, refineries, chemical plants, and pipeline transfer stations; Bay Area AQMD (BAAQMD) Regulation 9_Rules 18, 22, and 25; SCAQMD Rule 1173; and EPA's proposed National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants (HON) from the synthetic organic chemical manufacturing industry and equipment leaks from seven other processes (FR 52 62685). 43 43 Although EPA's proposed HON is expected to be finalized soon, the proposed HON covers only emissions designated as hazardous air pollutants, which may make up only a fraction of VOC emissions from affected FIP sources. The proposed FIP fugitives rule is intended to reduce VOC emissions. In some instances, the proposed HON is less stringent than adopted SIP regulations in California and the proposed FIP measure. Although the proposed HON was considered, EPA's proposed fugitives rule relies primarily on current California regulations and/or guidance. After the HON is finalized, EPA will clarify the overlap between existing SIP and/or proposed FIP rules and the proposed HON. The proposed rule will establish and/or lower allowable leak levels for affected components. Allowable leak levels for valves and connectors are proposed at 500 parts per million based on BAAQMD regulations 44 and EPA's proposed HON. Allowable leak levels for other components are proposed at levels based on CARB's RACT guidance and SCAQMD Rule 1173. 44 On January 1, 1997, BAAQMD Regulation 8, Rules 18 and 25 reduce allowable leak levels to 100 ppm for valves and connectors and 500 ppm for pumps and compressors. Although these lower limits are not being proposed as FIP limits at this time, EPA will continue to investigate the need for and potential reductions from leak thresholds consistent with the BAAQMD regulations. In all three FIP areas, the proposed measure will regulate fugitives from bulk plants and bulk terminals. Because only a portion of these sources have traditionally been regulated for their fugitive emissions (i.e., loading and storage of petroleum liquids), fugitive emissions may have been underestimated in previous inventory projections. Because emission factors were not readily available for these sources, emission estimates were made using fugitive emission factors for refineries. Preliminary analyses have determined that bulk plant and bulk terminal emissions may account for as much as an additional 2.9 tpd in the Sacramento area, 9.3 tpd in the South Coast, and 1.7 tpd in Ventura. Potential reductions from these sources alone would be 2.2 tpd in the Sacramento area, 4.1 tpd in the South Coast, and 1.4 tpd in Ventura. EPA requests comments and information regarding appropriate emission factors to use for fugitive emissions from bulk plants and bulk terminals. The proposed FIP rule will correct the gas leak definition in South Coast AQMD Rule 1173. The proposed correction defines a gas leak as total gaseous hydrocarbon in excess of the applicable parts per million limit measured as methane. Evaluation of the environmental, economic, and other impacts of the proposed rule are discussed in EPA's technical support document. Emission reductions expected from this proposed rule are estimated to be 0.7 tpd in the Sacramento area, 3.1 tpd in the South Coast, and 0.7 tpd in Ventura. Fugitive emission reductions from bulk plants and bulk terminals are not included in the above estimates. (k) Service Stations (Sacramento, Ventura, South Coast). Proposed rule 40 CFR 52.2961(j) reduces VOC emissions from gasoline dispensing facilities. Gasoline service stations are a source of VOC emissions created during vehicle refueling and storage tank working/breathing losses. Service station VOC emissions are estimated at approximately 3.2 tpd in the Sacramento area, 25.3 tpd in the South Coast, and 1.2 tpd in Ventura. Although service stations in the FIP areas currently have vapor recovery systems, the proposed FIP rule builds upon current Phase I and Phase II regulations and strengthens and improves existing rules by requiring pressure/vacuum relief valves on open vent pipes and the phasing out of inefficient vapor recovery system components. Pressure-vacuum relief valves are expected to virtually eliminate breathing and working losses from the storage tank vent pipe. Pressure-vacuum relief valves cost less than fifty dollars, are easily installed without underground construction, and improve efficiency of existing vapor recovery systems by one to three percent. The pressure/vacuum relief valves typically pay for themselves within less than one year and result in a cost savings. Additional emission reductions will be achieved through elimination of exemptions and the replacement of remote check valves in Phase II control systems. The Phase I efficiency is expected to be increased through the combined impact of the requirements for poppetted drybreaks in the Phase I vapor control systems, the installation of the pressure-vacuum valve on the vent pipes, and the installation of CARB certified spill boxes. Phase II efficiency is expected to be increased through the combined impact of using proper tubing between the riser and dispenser cabinet, requiring a certified insertion interlock mechanism on all bellows-equipped nozzles, and replacing non- coaxial hose with coaxial hose. Many of the proposed revisions are based on recent amendments to BAAQMD Regulation 8, Rule 7_ Gasoline Dispensing Facilities. Emission reductions expected from this proposed rule are estimated at 1.3 tpd in the Sacramento area, 8.9 tpd in the South Coast, and 0.3 tpd in Ventura. Because fuel savings result from installation of the pressure/vacuum relief valves and because inefficient vapor recovery components wear out and can be replaced by more efficient components during regularly scheduled maintenance, the cost impacts of the proposed measure will be minimized. The overall cost effectiveness is estimated at $1,600 per ton of VOC reduced. (l) Waste Burning (Sacramento, South Coast, and Ventura). Proposed 40 CFR 52.2961(k) controls VOC emissions from waste burning. Waste burning activities are defined as agricultural burning, range management burning, forest management burning, and open burning. 1990 waste burning emissions 45 were estimated at 3.8 tpd in the Sacramento FIP area, 0.7 tpd in the South Coast FIP area, and less than 0.1 in the Ventura FIP area. 45 These estimates do not include emissions from incineration and unplanned fires (e.g., structural fires and wildfires). Most waste burning activities are currently restricted by a permissive burn/no-burn day program as specified in the California Health and Safety Code Regulations. This program allows the local air district office to declare a permissive burn day or a no-burn day, requires that subject sources obtain a burn permit from the local designated county or state agency, and limits burning to permissive burn days. Waste burning is restricted to days with acceptable air quality based largely on current and forecasted visibility and particulate levels. The proposed FIP rule would complement and expand the current permissive burn/no-burn day program to incorporate ambient ozone air quality considerations. The purpose of this proposal is not to ban waste burning but to restrict waste burning to days when ambient ozone concentrations are within acceptable levels. On days predicted to exceed the California ambient air quality standard for ozone (0.09 ppm), all forms of waste burning would be prohibited. EPA is currently investigating the methodologies used to predict ozone exceedances and no-burn days. These methodologies could be used to predict air quality conditions using current and forecasted weather, meteorology, ozone levels, and other relevant criteria. A similar forecasting strategy would be used as part of the proposed FIP waste burning rule. SMAQMD has a voluntary permissive burn/no-burn program which takes into account predicted high ambient ozone levels. VCAPCD restricts burning when the California ozone standard of 0.09 ppm is expected to be exceeded. Although not contained within the proposed FIP rule, EPA expects to establish a notification system compatible with and similar to those already in place for current permissive burn day/no-burn day programs. Because poor visibility or high particulate levels can also result during conditions conducive to high ambient ozone levels, there is expected to be some overlap between current no-burn days and any additional no-burn days resulting from the proposed FIP program. During 1990 no-burn days were declared on 16 days in the Sacramento FIP area, 68 days in the South Coast FIP area, and 311 days in the Ventura FIP area. Using 1990 air quality data, the proposed rule is expected to restrict burning on an estimated additional 45 days per year (dpy) in the Sacramento FIP area, 121 dpy in the South Coast FIP area, 3 dpy in the Ventura FIP area. In the Sacramento area, the largest impact would occur on days during July through September when ozone levels typically reach their highest levels. In the South Coast, the largest impact would occur on high ozone days during March through October. Because of Ventura's current policy on waste burning, the proposal would have minimal impact.
