FR941020-2-00083 FR941020-2-00045 The DOJ will provide HUD with its debtor files contained in its system of records entitled, Debt Collection Management System, JUSTICE/JMD&hyph;006. HUD is maintaining DOJ's records only as a ministerial action on behalf of DOJ, not as a part of HUD's HUD/DEPT&hyph;2 system of records. DOJ's data contain information on individuals or corporations who have defaulted on Federal judgments. The DOJ will retain ownership and responsibility for their system of records that they place with HUD. HUD serves only as a record location and routine use recipient for DOJ's data. Notice Procedures HUD will notify individuals at the time of application (ensuring that routine use appears on the application form) for guaranteed or direct loans that their records will be matched to determine whether they are delinquent or in default on a Federal debt. HUD and the DOJ will also publish notices concerning routine use disclosures in the Federal Register to inform individuals that a computer match may be performed to determine a loan applicant's credit status with the Federal Government. Categories of Records/Individuals Involved The debtor records include these data elements: SSN, claim number, program code, and indication of indebtedness. Categories of records include: Records of claims and defaults, repayment agreements, credit reports, financial statements, records of foreclosures, and Federal judgment liens. Categories of individuals include: Former mortgagors and purchasers of HUD-owned properties, manufactured (mobile) home and home improvement loan debtors who are delinquent or in default on their loans, rehabilitation loan debtors who are delinquent or in default on their loans, and individuals or corporations against whom judgments have been filed by DOJ. Period of the Match Matching will begin at lease 40 days from the date copies of the signed (by both Data Integrity Boards) computer matching agreement are sent to both Houses of Congress or at least 40 days from the date this Notice is published in the Federal Register , whichever is later, providing comments are received which would result in a contrary determination. The matching program will be in effect and continue for 18 months with an option to renew for 12 additional months unless one of the parties to the agreement advises the other in writing to terminate or modify the agreement. Issued at Washington, DC, October 14, 1994. Marilynn A. Davis, Assistant Secretary for Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26016 Filed 10&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;12&hyph;M
