FR941219-0-00064 FR941219-0-00016 §203.508 Providing information. * * * * * (e) Each servicer of a mortgage shall deliver to the mortgagor a written notice of any assignment, sale, or transfer of the servicing of the mortgage. The notice must be sent in accordance with the provisions of §3500.21(e)(1) of this title and shall contain the information required by §3500.21(e)(2) of this title. Servicers must respond to mortgagor inquiries pertaining to the transfer of servicing in accordance with §3500.21(f) of this title. * * * * * 4. Section 203.554 is amended by adding a new paragraph (d), to read as follows: §203.554 Enforcement of late charges. * * * * * (d) During the 60-day period beginning on the effective date of transfer of the servicing of a mortgage, a late charge shall not be imposed on the mortgagor with respect to any payment on the loan. No payment shall be treated as late for any other purpose if the payment is received by the transferor servicer, rather than the transferee servicer that should receive the payment, before the due date (including any applicable grace period allowed under the mortgage documents) applicable to such payment. PART 3500_REAL ESTATE SETTLEMENT PROCEDURES ACT 5. The authority citation for 24 CFR part 3500 continues to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 2601 et seq. 6. Section 3500.2 is amended by revising the definition of ``Business day'', to read as follows: §3500.2 Definitions. * * * * * Business day means a day on which the offices of the business entity are open to the public for carrying on substantially all of the entity's business functions. * * * * * 7. In §3500.19, paragraph (a) is amended by revising the second sentence, to read as follows: §3500.19 Enforcement. (a) *␣*␣* Specific provisions for enforcing the escrow account statement provisions (12 U.S.C. 2609(c) and (d)) are set out in §3500.17. *␣*␣* * * * * * 8. A new §3500.21 is added, to read as follows: §3500.21 Mortgage servicing transfers. (a) Definitions. As used in this section: Effective date of transfer means the date on which the mortgage payment of a borrower is first due to the transferee servicer of a mortgage servicing loan pursuant to the assignment, sale or transfer of the servicing of the mortgage servicing loan. Master servicer means the owner of the right to perform servicing, which may actually perform the servicing itself or may do so through a subservicer. Mortgage servicing loan means a federally related mortgage loan, as that term is defined in §3500.2, subject to the exemptions in §3500.5, when the mortgage loan is secured by a first lien. The definition does not include subordinate lien loans or open-end lines of credit (home equity plans) covered by the Truth in Lending Act and Regulation Z, including open-end lines of credit secured by a first lien. Qualified written request means a written correspondence from the borrower to the servicer prepared in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section. Servicer means the person responsible for the servicing of a loan (including the person who makes or holds a loan if such person also services the loan). The term does not include: (1) The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) or the Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC), in connection with assets acquired, assigned, sold, or transferred pursuant to section 13(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or as receiver or conservator of an insured depository institution; or (2) The Federal National Mortgage Corporation (FNMA); the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac); the Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC); the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC); the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), including the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) and the Federal Housing Administration (FHA); the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA); the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA); and the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), in any case in which the assignment, sale, or transfer of the servicing of the mortgage servicing loan is preceded by termination of the contract for servicing the loan for cause, commencement of proceedings for bankruptcy of the servicer, or commencement of proceedings by the FDIC or RTC for conservatorship or receivership of the servicer (or an entity by which the servicer is owned or controlled). (3) The Federal Housing Administration (FHA), in cases where a mortgage insured under the National Housing Act is assigned to HUD. Servicing means receiving any scheduled periodic payments from a borrower pursuant to the terms of any mortgage servicing loan, including amounts for escrow accounts under section 10 of RESPA, and making the payments to the owner of the loan or other third parties of principal and interest and such other payments with respect to the amounts received from the borrower as may be required pursuant to the terms of the mortgage servicing loan documents or servicing contract. In the case of a home equity conversion mortgage or reverse mortgage as defined in §3500.2, servicing includes making payments to the borrower. Subservicer means a servicer who does not own the right to perform servicing, but who does so on behalf of the master servicer. Transferee servicer means a servicer who obtains or who will obtain the right to perform servicing functions pursuant to an agreement or understanding.
