FR940216-0-00092 FR940216-0-00010 4. Toxics Standard The statute sets the minimum Phase II standard for toxics reduction at 25%, although EPA has the authority to reduce this to no lower than 20% ``based on technological feasibility, considering cost.'' 38 EPA proposed both levels of reductions as options for the toxics standard. EPA has looked at the technology required to attain a 25% toxics standard, and the cost of implementing that technology. EPA expects that the technology implemented by refiners to comply with the required VOC and NO X reductions will result on average in a 26% reduction in annual toxics at reasonable costs, as discussed earlier. For certain refiners with higher baseline levels of various parameters, however, EPA expects that compliance with the VOC and NO X standards will not automatically lead to compliance with a 25% toxics standard. For these refiners, additional toxics control will typically require further benzene reduction or aromatics reduction (if octane can be maintained). Benzene reductions would impact only emissions of benzene, not 1,3-butadiene, which has been shown to be of greater cancer-causing risk to the public than the other air toxics. 39 (The statutory requirements of section 211(k) requires a focus on reductions in mass emissions of air toxics, not on a reduction in cancer risk, and therefore does not permit EPA to set the standard based on cancer risk.) Implementation of the benzene and/or aromatics reduction technology will be expensive and will raise their costs of production, putting refiners facing this situation at a competitive disadvantage to those refiners who comply with the toxics standard ``for free'' based on their compliance with the VOC and NO X standards. In addition, a requirement of additional toxics reductions may also limit refiners' flexibility in producing reformulated gasoline. 38 The toxics standard is a requirement for an average percent reduction over the entire year, not solely in the summer (high ozone) season. 39 ``Motor-Vehicle Related Air Toxics Study,'' EPA Report 420&hyph;R&hyph;93&hyph;005, April 1993. EPA has considered two additional factors in considering the feasibility of requiring this subset of refiners to pay the costs of implementing additional toxics control technology in order to meet a 25% standard. First, even if the toxics standard is reduced to 20%, EPA believes that the average toxics reduction across all refiners will still be above 25% based upon the fuel changes used to comply with the VOC and NO X standards. Second, the additional toxics control required by this subset of refiners results in very high cost per cancer incidence avoided. The main control strategies for toxics, benzene and aromatics reductions, are very expensive, in excess of $100 million/CI. This is well beyond the $1&hyph;10 million/CI which the Agency believes to be achievable through other programs. Even though a 25% toxics standard is technologically feasible, the unique circumstances discussed above raise questions about the increased cost to this subset of refiners of implementing additional toxics reduction technology. Based on these concerns regarding the costs of implementing toxics control technology, EPA is setting the toxics standard for Phase II RFG in both VOC control regions at 20%. There was general support in the comments received for the fact that the cost-effectiveness of toxics control beyond a 20% reduction is questionable. No substantive comments were received opposing the option of setting the standard at the minimum 20% reduction. Based on today's standards and the analysis summarized in the RIA, about 630 tons of toxics will be reduced in VOC control region 2 each summer and 370 tons of toxics in VOC control region 1. Emissions of all toxics except formaldehyde will be reduced. As a result of these emissions reductions, approximately 3&hyph;4 cancer incidences will be avoided annually nationwide (incremental to Phase I). VII. Enforcement Section 211(k) of the Clean Air Act requires, beginning January 1, 1995, that the gasoline sold or dispensed in certain ozone nonattainment areas must be certified as reformulated. Gasoline that is not certified as reformulated is classified as conventional gasoline and must be sold outside these nonattainment areas. Under the enforcement scheme promulgated today, refiners and importers will be required to designate all gasoline as either reformulated or conventional. Gasoline designated as reformulated must meet the standards for reformulated gasoline, and conventional gasoline must meet the anti-dumping standards for conventional gasoline. In addition, refiners and importers will be required to prepare product transfer documents for all gasoline produced or imported, that identify the gasoline as reformulated or conventional and specify restrictions as to the time and place where the gasoline may be used. Parties downstream of refiners and importers that transport, store, or dispense gasoline are responsible for ensuring that only reformulated gasoline is used in reformulated gasoline covered areas, and that reformulated gasoline is used at a time and place consistent with the time and place of use restrictions recited in the product transfer documents. In addition, downstream parties are responsible for ensuring that reformulated gasoline does not violate the per-gallon minimum and maximum standards, discussed more fully below.
