FR940902-2-00082 FR940902-2-00034 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service Notice of Availability of a Technical/Agency Draft Recovery Plan for Leptocereus Grantianus for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service announces availability for public review of a technical/agency draft recovery plan for Leptocereus grantianus. This cactus occurs only on Culebra, an island located to the northeast of Puerto Rico. The species is threatened by agricultural, residential and tourist development on adjacent uplands as well as damage from storms. The Service solicits review and comments from the public on this draft plan. DATES: Comments on the draft recovery plan must be received on or before November 1, 1994 to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contacting Ms. Susan Silander, Caribbean Field Office, P.O. Box 491, Boquerón, Puerto Rico 00622. Comments and materials received are available upon request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Ms. Susan Silander, Caribbean Field Office, P.O. Box 491, Boquerón, Puerto Rico 00622, Telephone: 809/851&hyph;7297. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring an endangered or threatened species or plant to the point where it is again a secure, self-sustaining member of its ecosystem is a primary goal of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe actions considered necessary for conservation of the species, establish them, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) requires the development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan development. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comments into account in the course of implementing approved recovery plans. This Technical/Agency Draft is for Leptocereus grantianus, a cactus endemic to the Culebra, a small island off northeastern Puerto Rico. Only one population is currently known and consists of approximately 50 individuals. This spineless cactus, reaching up to 2 meters in height and 3 to 5 centimeters in diameter, occurs in dry thickets along a rocky shoreline in southwestern Culebra. The populations is threatened by agricultural, residential, and tourist development on the adjacent uplands, cutting for use as livestock feed, damage from heavy storm surge, and possible collection. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the recovery plan described. All comments received by the date specified above will be considered prior to approval of the plan. Authority The authority for this action is Section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1531. Dated: August 25, 1994. James P. Oland, Field Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21718 Filed 9&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
