FR940503-2-00164 FR940503-2-00101 Absolute Priorities Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(3) the Secretary proposes to give an absolute preference to applications that meet one of the following priorities. Each application shall respond to only one of the three priorities, although an applicant could submit more than one application to respond to more than one priority. The Secretary funds under this competition only applications that meet one of these absolute priorities: Absolute Priority 1_Teacher Professional Development in the Use of Technology for Mathematics and Science Education The Secretary will support model projects that demonstrate effective ways of strengthening teachers' abilities to use technology in the classroom for the improvement of teaching and learning in mathematics and science at the elementary or secondary school levels, or both. Required Activities: Each project must: (a) Form a partnership to develop and implement project activities. Partnerships must include one or more of each of the following parties: local educational agency or private school(s), State educational agency, institution of higher education, and private sector party with expertise in technology. Partners must contribute resources to the operation of the project. Programming must be designed in consultation with professionals who are experts in the applicable subject matter, educational levels, and technologies to be used in the project. Projects must be coordinated with other professional development efforts in mathematics and science education, particularly with the Eisenhower State Grant Program. (b) Establish an advisory committee to guide the project. The advisory committee must include representation from each of the partners to the application, plus principals of project site schools and classroom teachers participating in the project. (c) Involve two or more schools serving underachieving students in the project. (d) Involve the majority of, if not all, teachers of mathematics and science in the participating schools in project activities. Participating teachers must implement the use of technology in their teaching of mathematics and science. (e) Provide participating teachers with sustained, intensive, high-quality professional development activities that focus on the use of technology to improve classroom instruction in mathematics and science. Project activities must reflect relevant research on teaching and learning, as well as the experiences of the partners and participating teachers. Activities must integrate academic content and pedagogical components, and be delivered largely on-site (i.e., in schools or districts) for groups of teachers working cooperatively. (f) Provide participating teachers with forums for interaction and with access to sources of technical assistance outside their schools. Projects must require that participating teachers collaborate with each other and that they participate in electronic networking with other teachers, including teachers participating in other projects funded under this program, to share experiences and knowledge about how to improve student learning through the use of technology in instruction. Projects may use up to one-third of the total Federal portion of the project budget for year one and no more than 15 percent in years two and three to purchase or lease appropriate hardware, software, and communications services or tariffs for use in these projects. In addition, projects must provide, using non-Federal funds, some of the hardware, software, and other requirements of the technology to be used in these projects. (g) Evaluate lessons learned about effective teacher professional development in the use of technology to improve mathematics and science teaching and learning, and use the information to improve the project on a continuing basis. Evaluations must address the characteristics of participating teachers and students, the technologies used and their relative effectiveness, and the effects on teaching and learning of the use of technology in instruction in mathematics and science. Evaluations must include a mid-course, on-site review by an outside panel, including experts in the use of technology in instruction and classroom teachers with successful experience in using technology to improve instruction.
