FR940524-2-00133 FR940524-2-00068 5. Name Check Review: All non-profit and for-profit applicants are subject to a name check review process. Name checks are intended to reveal if any key individuals associated with the applicant have been convicted of or are presently facing criminal charges such as fraud, theft, perjury, or other matters which significantly reflect on the applicant's management honesty or financial integrity. 6. Past Performance: Unsatisfactory performance under prior Federal awards may result in an application not being considered for funding. 7. Preaward Activities: If applicants incur any costs prior to an award being made, they do so solely at their own risk of not being reimbursed by the Government. Notwithstanding any verbal or written assurance that they may have received, there is no obligation on the part of the Department of Commerce to cover pre-award costs. 8. No Obligation for Future Funding: If an application is selected for funding, the Department of Commerce has no obligation to provide any additional future funding in connection with that award. Renewal of an award to increase funding or extend the period of performance is at the total discretion of the Department of Commerce. 9. Federal Policies and Procedures: Award Recipients and subrecipients are subject to all applicable Federal laws and Federal and Department of Commerce policies, regulations, and procedures applicable to Federal financial assistance awards. 10. Indirect Cost Rates: If applicable, the total dollar amount of the indirect costs proposed in an application under this program must not exceed the indirect cost rate negotiated and approved by a cognizant Federal agency prior to the proposed effective date of the award or 100 percent of the total proposed direct costs dollar amount in the application, whichever is less. 11. Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products: Applicants are hereby notified that any equipment or products authorized to be purchased with funding provided under this program must be American-made to the maximum extent feasible in accordance with Public Law 103&hyph;121, Sections 606 (a) and (b). 12. Intergovernmental Review: Applications under this program are not subject to Executive Order 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs.'' 13. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number: A Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number is not available for the Department of Commerce's Consortia of American Businesses in the Newly Independent States program. Dated: May 19, 1994. W. Dawn Busby, Director, Office of Export Trading Company Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12654 Filed 5&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DR&hyph;P I11␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣
