FR940505-1-00416 FR940505-1-00012 ( 1 ) By the applicable compliance date specified in paragraph (o)(5) of this section, install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a CEMS in accordance with the applicable requirements of appendices B and F of 40 CFR part 60 to demonstrate continuous compliance with the requirements of paragraph (o)(3) of this section. The CEMS shall be installed and operational before conducting the initial compliance test required under paragraphs (o)(6)(i)(C) and (o)(7) of this section. As a part of the certification requirement under paragraph (o)(6)(i)(C) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit documentation that the CEMS is in compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (o). The CEMS shall include equipment that measures and records the following: ( i ) Exhaust gas NO X and CO concentrations corrected to ISO conditions at 15 percent oxygen on a dry basis. ( ii ) Flow rate of liquid or gaseous fuels and the ratio of water- or steam-to-fuel added to the combustion chamber or to the exhaust for the reduction of NO X emissions. ( iii ) Elapsed time of operation. ( 2 ) [Reserved] (C) Each owner or operator shall submit an operating conditions deviation or excess emissions report and a monitoring systems performance report, in accordance with the requirements of ยง60.7(c) and (d) and 60.13, to the Administrator within 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter. (iii) Recordkeeping Requirements. Any owner or operator of a unit subject to this section shall maintain all records necessary to demonstrate compliance with the section for a period of five calendar years at the plant where the subject unit is located. The records shall be made available to the Administrator upon request. The owner or operator shall maintain records of the following information for each day the unit is operated: (A) Identification and location of each unit subject to the requirements of this section. (B) Calendar date of record. (C) The number of hours the unit is operated during each day including actual time of startups and shutdowns, breakdown periods, and the type and duration of maintenance and repairs. (D) The results of all compliance tests. (E) For owners or operators of units complying by means of the monitoring requirements of paragraph (o)(6)(ii)(A) of this section, the monitored operating conditions, including turbine load and fuel type, identified in the plan approved by the Administrator. (F) The NO X emission concentration (expressed as NO 2 corrected to 15 percent volume stack gas O 2 on a dry basis averaged over a period of 15 consecutive minutes) measured or predicted. (G) The CO emission concentration corrected to 15 percent volume stack gas O 2 on a dry basis averaged over a period of 15 consecutive minutes) measured or predicted. (H) Identification of time periods during which NO X and CO standards are exceeded, the reason for the exceedance, and action taken to correct the exceedance and to prevent similar future exceedances. (I) Identification of the time periods for which operating conditions and pollutant data were not obtained including reasons for not obtaining sufficient data and a description of corrective actions taken. (7) Test Methods. (i) Any owner or operator subject to an emission standard under paragraph (o)(3) of this section and required to conduct stack testing shall comply with the requirements of ยง60.8 (c), (d), and (e). The test shall be performed and data reduced and reported as follows: (A) Each emission test shall be conducted while the unit is operated at maximum capacity and operating under representative operating conditions. (B) Emission test shall be conducted in accordance with the appropriate test methods in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. Except for the modifications in this paragraph and unless otherwise approved by the Administrator: NO X shall be measured in accordance with 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 7E; CO shall be measured in accordance with 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 10; and the diluent shall be measured using 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 3A. Testing shall be conducted for twelve 15 minute testing periods. Compliance shall be evaluated for each 15 minute period. Data recorded during testing to determine the 15 minute average shall either be continuously integrated by the testing instrument and data recorder, or recorded manually at 30 second intervals during each 15 minute test period. Zero and calibration checks shall be conducted after each 15 minute test period. (ii) Any owner or operator that is subject to the requirements of paragraph (o)(3)(ii) of this section shall perform a test for CO emissions during the initial compliance test for NO X emissions to establish a ppm CO emission limit that represents good operating and combustion practices for fuel(s) burned in the unit. The CO emission limit established for determining subsequent compliance shall be documented in the applicable certification report required under paragraph (o)(6)(i)(C) of this section. (p) RACT Determination_Formica Corporation. (1) Applicability. The provisions of paragraph (p) of this section shall apply to the ``Formica Corporation'' (Formica Corporation) or any subsequent owner or operator of the Formica Corporation, Sierra Plant located at 3500 Cincinnati Avenue, Sunset Whitney Ranch, California. (2) Definitions. For the purpose of paragraph (p) this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in ยง52.2950. Air Pollution Control Officer means the Executive Officer or his or her delegate of an air quality management district or an air pollution control district.
