FR940105-2-00102 FR940105-2-00050 If a hearing is requested, the Commission will issue an Order designating the time and place of the hearing. If the Licensee fails to request a hearing within 30 days of the date of this Order, the provisions of this order shall be effective without further proceedings. If payment has not been made by that time, the matter may be referred to the Attorney General for collection. In the event the Licensee requests a hearing as provided above, the issues to be considered at such hearing shall be: (a) Whether the Licensee was in violation of the Commission's requirements as set forth in Violations II.A and II.B in the Notice referenced in section II above, and (b) Whether, on the basis of such violations and the other violations set forth in the Notice of Violation that the Licensee admitted, this Order should be sustained. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 27th day of December 1993. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. James Lieberman, Director, Office of Enforcement. Appendix_Evaluations and Conclusion On April 26, 1993, a Notice of Violation and Proposed Imposition of Civil Penalties (Notice) was issued for violations identified during two NRC inspections. The Licensee responded to the Notice on June 10, 1993. The Licensee denied Violations II.A and II.B; questioned the Severity Level classification of Violations I.A, I.B, and I.C; and requested reduction of the civil penalties. The NRC's evaluations and conclusions regarding the Licensee's requests are as follows: Restatement of Violations_Section I I.A. Condition 23 of License No. 06&hyph;00819&hyph;03 requires that licensed material be possessed and used in accordance with statements, representations, and procedures contained in an application dated December 13, 1984. Item 7 of that application, dated December 13, 1984, states that the Hospital Radioisotope Committee has the responsibility of establishing and enforcing the Hospital's Radiation Safety Program to ensure the safety and welfare of hospital personnel and property as well as protecting the surrounding community from the potential hazards of sources of ionizing radiation used at the hospital. A procedure of the Hospital's Radiation Safety Program entitled, ``Procedure for Nursing Care of Patients Containing Radioactive Sources for Therapy'', requires, in part, that ``during nursing care procedures, the nurse must check all materials used by the patient .␣.␣. for radioactive sources that may have become dislodged,'' and that ``everything used by the patient (except dishes) must be saved and monitored before disposal.'' Contrary to the above, the Hospital Radioisotope Committee did not enforce the Hospital's Radiation Safety Program to ensure safety and welfare of hospital personnel and property as well as protecting the surrounding community from the potential hazards of all sources of ionizing radiation used at the hospital. Specifically, on November 30 and December 1, 1992, nurses on the ninth floor of Yale-New Haven Hospital removed linen pads from a brachytherapy patient's room without first checking the pads for radioactive sources which may have become dislodged and failed to survey the linen pads before disposal.
