FR940628-1-00067 FR940628-1-00014 A. Agency Efforts To Address the Rollover Crash Problem The agency believes that no single type of rulemaking or other agency action could solve all, or even a majority of, the problems associated with rollover. Accordingly, it is pursuing a broad range of actions to address those problems. First, NHTSA has published an NPRM to reduce the potential for injuries to the head from contact with upper interior components (58 FR 7506, February 8, 1993). The comment period was reopened to December 1, 1993 (58 FR 54099, October 20, 1993) and a public hearing was held on November 15, 1993. As explained in the Addendum to Technical Assessment Paper, NHTSA's research indicates that head injuries are the most prevalent type of injury associated with rollovers. The agency expects to issue a final rule on this subject in late 1994. Second, with respect to anti-lock brake systems, the agency has published an advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPRM) for light duty vehicles (January 4, 1994, 59 FR 281). (``Light duty vehicles'' include cars, vans, pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating of 4,536 kilograms (10,000 pounds) or less.) Since most vehicles involved in rollovers lose their longitudinal stability before leaving the roadway, where they then trip and roll over, and since anti-lock brake systems are designed to enhance the longitudinal stability of a vehicle, a requirement for anti- lock brakes could reduce the number of rollovers. NHTSA's preliminary evaluation of rear-wheel anti-lock brake systems, the type of anti-lock brakes most often found on light trucks, indicates that anti-lock brakes on light trucks are effective in reducing the number of nonfatal single vehicle accident rollovers for almost every type of truck, under any type of road condition. Reductions of single vehicle accident rollovers were typically in the range of 30 percent to 40 percent. NHTSA is continuing to analyze the data and a comprehensive report of the findings will be published at a later date. (The preliminary evaluation is available in Docket No. 70&hyph;27&hyph;GR&hyph;026.) Third, as noted above, ejections are a frequent occurrence in fatal rollover crashes. To attempt to reduce the frequency of ejections, the agency is conducting research on glass/plastic side windows and improved door latches. Preliminary research results should be available within the next year to enable NHTSA to determine if rulemaking should be pursued in these areas. Fourth, the agency is conducting research on improvements to vehicles' roof strength that could reduce head and neck injuries. A decision whether to begin rulemaking on this subject is expected in 1994. Fifth, as noted above, safety belt use is very low among persons fatally or seriously injured in rollover crashes. NHTSA promotes increased use of safety belts through public awareness and education efforts and by supporting the implementation and enforcement of state safety belt use laws. Agency occupant protection awareness and education activities include national media campaigns; outreach through national health, medical, civic, and intergovernmental organizations; and, administration of Section 402 state highway safety program funds. The agency promotes effective state safety belt usage laws by conducting evaluation studies and demonstration projects, training law enforcement personnel, and by administering the Section 153 state incentive grant program. In addition, NHTSA has contracted with the Advertising Council to prepare two ``Vince and Larry SM '' (the agency's safety belt ``spokespersons'') public service announcements (PSAs) for television, and one ``Vince and Larry SM '' PSA for radio, on the specific benefits of safety belts in rollover crashes. One of the television PSAs and the radio PSA were available at the end of March, 1994. The other television PSA will be available approximately six months later. These safety belt initiatives will supplement the other actions to address the rollover problem. Sixth, it is well known that rollover crashes have a high incidence of alcohol involvement. The agency has numerous programs and activities aimed at reducing alcohol-related crashes, injuries, and fatalities, which follow two fundamental strategies: information-education (such as Advertising Council PSAs on television) and laws-enforcement-sanctions (such as .08 BAC, sobriety checkpoints, and increasingly severe sanctions for repeat offenders). Section 410 grants to states provide incentives to states to use these strategies. These combined strategies have been effective as alcohol-related fatalities have decreased 30 percent over the past 10 years. Seventh, and finally, the agency is issuing this notice regarding vehicle stability requirements and consumer information. B. Consumer Information Activities NHTSA believes that consumer and manufacturer behavior can be affected through the provision of consumer information regarding vehicle safety. The agency's experience with the New Car Assessment Program (NCAP) demonstrates the power of consumer information. Under the NCAP Program, the agency tests the ability of vehicles to protect their front seat occupants in frontal crash tests. The tests are similar to those conducted under Standard No. 208, Occupant Protection, to determine whether vehicles meet the Standard's injury criteria, except that the Standard's tests are conducted at 30 mph, while NCAP tests are conducted at 35 mph. Several manufacturers have informed the agency that they view it as important to perform well in the NCAP tests, even though there is no regulatory requirement to do so. The decline in the injury scores in NCAP tests over time for all manufacturers, as reported in ``Report on the Historical Performance of Different Auto Manufacturers in the New Car Assessment Program Tests,'' NHTSA, August 1993, can also be attributed partially to NCAP.
