FR940224-0-00063 FR940224-0-00012 Drafting Information The principal author of these regulations is Jeffrey A. Erickson, Office of Assistant Chief Counsel (Passthroughs and Special Industries), Internal Revenue Service. However, other personnel from the IRS and Treasury Department participated in their development. List of Subjects 26 CFR Part 1 Income taxes, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 26 CFR Part 602 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Adoption of Amendments to the Regulations Accordingly, 26 CFR parts 1 and 602 are amended as follows: PART 1_INCOME TAXES Paragraph 1. The authority citation for part 1 is amended by adding an entry in numerical order to read as follows: Authority: 26 U.S.C. 7805 *␣*␣*. Section 1.42&hyph;13 also issued under 26 U.S.C. 42(n); *␣*␣*. Par. 2. Section 1.42&hyph;13 is added to read as follows: §1.42&hyph;13 Rules necessary and appropriate; housing credit agencies' correction of administrative errors and omissions. (a) Publication of guidance. Under section 42(n), the Secretary has authority to prescribe regulations as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of section 42. The Secretary may also provide guidance through various publications in the Internal Revenue Bulletin. (See §601.601(d)(2)(ii)( b ) of this chapter.) (b) Correcting administrative errors and omissions_ (1) In general. An Agency may correct an administrative error or omission with respect to allocations and recordkeeping, as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, within a reasonable period after the Agency discovers the administrative error or omission. Whether a correction is made within a reasonable period depends on the facts and circumstances of each situation. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, an Agency need not obtain the prior approval of the Secretary to correct an administrative error or omission, if the correction is made in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section. The administrative errors and omissions to which this paragraph (b) applies are strictly limited to those described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and, thus, do not include, for example, any misinterpretation of the applicable rules and regulations under section 42. Accordingly, an Agency's allocation of a particular calendar year's low-income housing credit dollar amount made after the close of that calendar year, or the use of an incorrect population amount in calculating a State's housing credit ceiling for a calendar year are not administrative errors that can be corrected under this paragraph (b). (2) Administrative errors and omissions described. An administrative error or omission is a mistake that results in a document that inaccurately reflects the intent of the Agency at the time the document is originally completed or, if the mistake affects a taxpayer, a document that inaccurately reflects the intent of the Agency and the affected taxpayer at the time the document is originally completed. Administrative errors and omissions described in this paragraph (b)(2) include the following_ (i) A mathematical error; (ii) An entry on a document that is inconsistent with another entry on the same or another document regarding the same property, or taxpayer; (iii) A failure in tracking the housing credit dollar amount an Agency has allocated (or that remains to be allocated) in the current calendar year (e.g., a failure to include in its State housing credit ceiling a previously allocated credit dollar amount that has been returned by a taxpayer); (iv) An omission of information that is required on a document; and (v) Any other type of error or omission identified by guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see §601.601(d)(2)(ii)( b ) of this chapter) as an administrative error or omission covered by this paragraph (b). (3) Procedures for correcting administrative errors or omissions_ (i) In general. An Agency's correction of an administrative error or omission, as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, must amend the document so that the corrected document reflects the original intent of the Agency, or the Agency and the affected taxpayer, and complies with applicable rules and regulations under section 42. (ii) Specific procedures. If a document corrects a document containing an administrative error or omission that has not yet been filed with the Internal Revenue Service, the Agency, or the Agency and the affected taxpayer, should complete and file the corrected document as the original. When a document containing an administrative error or omission has already been filed with the Service, the Agency, or the Agency and the affected taxpayer, should refile a copy of the document containing the administrative error or omission, and prominently and clearly note the correction thereon or on an attached new document. The Agency should indicate at the top of the document(s) that the correction is being made under §1.42&hyph;13 of the Income Tax Regulations.
