FR940405-1-00029 FR940405-1-00010 Comments may be submitted by facsimile transmission to (202) 927&hyph;8602, provided the comments: (1) Are legible; (2) are 81/2 ’ ’×11 ’ ’ in size; (3) contain a written signature; and (4) are three pages or less in length. This limitation is necessary to assure reasonable access to the equipment. Comments sent by FAX in excess of three pages will not be accepted. Receipt of FAX transmittals will not be acknowledged. Facsimile transmitted comments will be treated as originals. Regulatory Flexibility Act It is hereby certified that this proposal will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This notice requests comments on a proposal to authorize the optional use of the designation ``Gamay Beaujolais'' on a wine label. Since the use of this designation is purely optional, this notice does not propose any new labeling, reporting, or recordkeeping requirements on winery proprietors. Therefore, the proposal will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Accordingly, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required because the proposal, if promulgated as a final rule, is not expected: (1) To have significant secondary, or incidental effects on a substantial number of small entities, or (2) to impose, or otherwise cause, a significant increase in reporting, recordkeeping, or other compliance burdens on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12866 It has been determined that this proposed regulation is not a significant regulatory action as defined by Executive Order 12866. Accordingly, this proposal is not subject to the analysis required by this Executive Order. Paperwork Reduction Act The provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96&hyph;511, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35, and its implementing regulations, 5 CFR Part 1320_Controlling Paperwork Burdens on the Public, do not apply to this notice because no requirement to collect information is proposed. Drafting Information The principal authors of this document are Charles N. Bacon and James A. Hunt, Wine and Beer Branch, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. List of Subjects in 27 CFR Part 4 Advertising, Consumer protection, Customs duties and inspections, Imports, Labeling, Packaging and containers, Wine. Authority and Issuance Accordingly, it is proposed to amend 27 CFR part 4, Labeling and Advertising of Wine, as follows: Paragraph 1. The authority citation for part 4 continues to read as follows: Authority: 27 U.S.C. 205. Par. 2. Section 4.34 is amended by adding paragraph headings to paragraphs (a) and (b); removing the last three sentences of paragraph (a); and by adding new paragraphs (c) and (d) to read as follows: §4.34 Class and type. (a) General. *␣*␣* (b) Appellation of origin requirements. *␣*␣* (c) Distinctive or fanciful names. If the class of wine is not defined in subpart C, a truthful and adequate statement of composition shall appear upon the brand label of the product in lieu of a class designation. In addition to the mandatory designation for the wine, there may be stated a distinctive or fanciful name, or a designation in accordance with trade understanding. All parts of the designation of the wine, whether mandatory or optional, shall be in direct conjunction and in lettering substantially of the same size and kind. (d) Gamay Beaujolais. A wine which derives not less than 75 percent of its volume from Pinot noir grapes or Napa Gamay grapes may be further designated ``Gamay Beaujolais.'' When the optional designation ``Gamay Beaujolais'' appears on the brand label, it shall be in direct conjunction with a varietal type designation (Pinot noir or Napa Gamay) and an appellation of origin, in lettering of substantially the same size and kind. Signed: December 29, 1993. Daniel R. Black, Acting Director. Approved: February 14, 1994. John P. Simpson, Deputy Assistant Secretary (Regulatory, Tariff & Trade Enforcement). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8046&hyph;Filed 4&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4810&hyph;31&hyph;U
