FR940707-2-00087 FR940707-2-00049 Supplies_Line 6e. Enter the total costs of all tangible expendable personal property (supplies) other than those included on Line 6d. Justification: Specify general categories of supplies and their costs. Contractual_Line 6f. Enter the total costs of all contracts, including (1) procurement contracts (except those which belong on other lines such as equipment, supplies, etc.) and (2) contracts with secondary recipient organizations, including delegate agencies. Also include any contracts with organizations for the provision of technical assistance. Do not include payments to individuals on this line. If the name of the contractor, scope of work, and estimated total costs are not available or have not been negotiated, include on Line 6h, ``Other.'' Justification: Attach a list of contractors, indicating the names of the organizations, the purposes of the contracts, and the estimated dollar amounts of the awards as part of the budget justification. Whenever the applicant/grantee intends to delegate part or all of the program to another agency, the applicant/grantee must complete this section (Section B, Budget Categories) for each delegate agency by agency title, along with the supporting information. The total cost of all such agencies will be part of the amount shown on Line 6f. Provide backup documentation identifying the name of contractor, purpose of contract, and major cost elements. Construction_Line 6g. Not applicable. New construction is not allowable. Other_Line 6h. Enter the total of all other costs. Where applicable, such costs may include, but are not limited to: Insurance; medical and dental costs; noncontractual fees and travel paid directly to individual consultants; local transportation (all travel which does not require per diem is considered local travel); space and equipment rentals; printing and publication; computer use; training costs, including tuition and stipends; training service costs, including wage payments to individuals and supportive service payments; and staff development costs. Note that costs identified as ``miscellaneous'' and ``honoraria'' are not allowable. Justification: Specify the costs included. Total Direct Charges_Line 6i. Enter the total of Lines 6a through 6h. Indirect Charges_6j. Enter the total amount of indirect charges (costs). If no indirect costs are requested, enter ``none.'' Generally, this line should be used when the applicant (except local governments) has a current indirect cost rate agreement approved by the Department of Health and Human Services or another Federal agency.
