FR940404-2-00125 FR940404-2-00084 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20170; 812&hyph;8776] Providentmutual Life and Annuity Company of America March 28, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (the ``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of application for an order under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``1940 Act''). APPLICANTS: Providentmutual Life and Annuity Company of America (``PLACA''), Providentmutual Variable Annuity Separate Account A (the ``PLACA Account''), Provident Mutual Life Insurance Company of Philadelphia (``PMLIC''), Provident Mutual Variable Annuity Separate Account A (the ``PMLIC Account''), and PML Securities Company (``PML Securities''), collectively, the ``Applicants.'' RELEVANT 1940 ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under section 6(c) of the 1940 Act for exemptions for sections 26(a)(2) and 27(c)(2) thereof. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order permitting the assessment of a mortality and expense risk charge from the assets of: The PLACA Account, which serves as a funding medium for certain variable annuity contracts issued by PLACA; the PMLIC Account, which serves as a funding medium for certain variable annuity contracts issued by PMLIC; and other separate accounts established in the future by PLACA or PMLIC, which will serve as funding media for variable annuity contracts substantially identical to those funded through the PLACA and PMLIC Accounts. (All such variable annuity contracts issued by PLACA and by PMLIC shall be referred to collectively as the ``Contracts.'') FILING DATE: The application was filed on January 13, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the Secretary of the SEC and serving Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests must be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on April 22, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, by certificate. Hearing requests should state the nature of the interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the Secretary of the SEC. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 5th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, c/o Linda E. Senker, Esq., Providentmutual Life and Annuity Company of America, 1600 Market Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patrice M. Pitts, Attorney, or Michael V. Wible, Special Counsel, Office of Insurance Products, Division of Investment Management, at (202) 272&hyph;2060. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application is available for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. PMLIC is a mutual life insurance company chartered under Pennsylvania law and authorized to transact life and annuity business in all states and the District of Columbia. PLACA, a stock life insurance company chartered under Delaware law and authorized to transact life insurance and annuity business in the District of Columbia and all states other than New York and Maine, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of PMLIC. 2. PML Securities, a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of PMLIC, is registered with the Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a broker-dealer, and is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. PML Securities will serve as the distributor and principal underwriter for the Contracts. 3. The PLACA Account was established by PLACA as a separate investment account under Delaware insurance law on January 6, 1994, as a funding medium for variable annuity contracts. The PMLIC Account was established by PMLIC as a separate investment account under Pennsylvania insurance law on January 4, 1994, as a funding vehicle for variable annuity contracts. Initially, the PLACA and PMLIC Accounts each will consist of five subaccounts: Equity, Small Cap, Managed, Bond, and Money Market (collectively, the ``Subaccounts,'' individually, the ``Subaccount''). The PLACA Account and the PMLIC Account each will be registered under the 1940 Act as a unit investment trust. 4. Each Subaccount will invest exclusively in the shares of a designated investment portfolio of the Quest for Value Accumulation Trust (the ``Fund''). In the future, PMLIC and PLACA may establish other subaccounts which will invest in specified portfolios of the Fund or other investment funds. 5. The Contracts may be purchased on a non-tax qualified basis (``Nonqualified Contracts'') or they may be purchased and used in connection with qualified retirement plans or as individual retirement annuities that quality for favorable federal income tax treatment (``Qualified Contracts''). The Contracts require a minimum initial premium payment of at least $2,000. Subsequent premium payments must be a least $100 for Nonqualified Contracts, and $50 for Qualified Contracts. The Contract owner may allocate premium payments to one or more Subaccounts, each of which will invest in a corresponding portfolio of the Fund. Premium payments will be credited with the investment experience of the appropriate Subaccount(s). The Contract owner also may allocate premium payments to the PLACA guaranteed account or the PMLIC guaranteed account, depending upon which company issues the Contract, and such payments will be credited with interest as provided for in the Contracts. (The guaranteed accounts of PLACA and PMLIC are part of those companies' respective general accounts.) 6. Prior to the earlier of the maturity date or the death of the annuitant, a Contract owner may transfer Contract account values between the Subaccounts. The Contract owner also may surrender all or withdraw a portion of the Contract account value before the earlier of the maturity date or the death of the annuitant.
