FR940805-1-00099 FR940805-1-00013 (ii) Dental screening, hygiene and treatment when the health of the resident would be adversely affected; and (iii) Additional health care services as indicated by qualified health care personnel. (20) First aid kits . The administrator shall ensure that first aid kits are available in designated areas of the facility as determined by the Safety Officer during the annual inspection. The health care provider shall determine the appropriate content of first aid kits. (21) Special medical programs . The health authority shall provide specialized health education and treatment programs, including, but not limited to, personal hygiene, diet and exercise, family planning, communicable diseases, including sexually transmitted diseases and substance abuse education, prevention, intervention and treatment. (22) Detoxification . The administrator and health authority shall develop a written plan to guide the clinical management of chemically dependent residents. The plan shall specify the process for involving the health authority and the substance abuse program on both a continuing and crisis intervention basis. The plan shall include: (i) Completion of assessment prior to admission into the program; (ii) Validation that the individual only requires non-pharmacologically supported care; (iii) Integration of individual treatment plans into the individualized program plan; and (iv) Referrals to specified community resources on release when appropriate. (23) Substance abuse programming . The administrator and health authority shall develop a written plan to provide substance abuse education, intervention, assessment and treatment to residents who are diagnosed as substance abusers. The administrator, the health authority and the substance abuse program provider shall update the plan as needed and review it at least annually. The plan shall link existing community programs and services to the facility program. The plan shall include, at a minimum: (i) Assessment and evaluation; (ii) Referral for treatment, if requested or court-ordered; and (iii) Availability of appropriate self-help groups. (24) Informed consent . The health authority shall observe informed consent standards of the community for all resident care, examinations, treatments and procedures affected by informed consent. Health care shall not be rendered against a resident's will. (25) Participation in research . The health authority shall prohibit the use of residents for medical, pharmaceutical, or cosmetic experiments. This standard shall not preclude individual treatment of a resident based on need for a specific medical procedure that is not generally available. (26) Confidentiality of health records . In compliance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) (the Privacy Act of 1974) as amended and 42 CFR Part 2 (Regulations on Confidentiality of Alcohol and Drug Abuse Patient Records), the health authority shall keep the health record confidential. The health authority shall require that, at a minimum: (i) The active health record be maintained separately from the program record; (ii) Access to the health record be controlled by the health authority; and (iii) The health authority shall share with the administrator of the facility or designee information regarding a resident's medical management, security and the ability to participate in programs. (27) Medical record contents . The health authority shall approve the method of recording entries in the record and the form and format of the record. A resident's medical record shall contain: (i) Transferred health record; (ii) Copies of the completed intake screening form, if separate; (iii) The health appraisal data collection form, if separate; (iv) Prescribed medications and their administration; (v) Laboratory, x-ray and diagnostic studies; (vi) The signature and title of each documenter; (vii) Consent and refusal forms; (viii) Release of information forms; (ix) Place, date and time of health encounters; (x) Discharge summary of hospitalization (if applicable); and (xi) Health service reports (e.g., dental, psychiatric and other consultations). (28) Transfer of health information and records . Summaries or copies of the health record shall be sent routinely to the health authority of any facility to which the resident is transferred. The resident shall authorize, in writing, the transfer of health records and information, unless otherwise provided by law or administrative regulation having the force and effect of law. (k) Release _(1) Temporary release . Temporary release programs shall include: (i) Identification of the circumstances under which residents may be released on a temporary basis; (ii) Operating procedures; (iii) Written rules of resident conduct; (iv) A record-keeping system that documents dates, times and authorization for release; (v) A system to evaluate program effectiveness; and (vi) Efforts to obtain community cooperation and support. (2) Work or education release . The administrator or designee shall encourage residents to participate in work or education release programs. The appropriate court shall sanction education and work release. (3) Final release . Written procedures for the final release of residents shall include, but not be limited to: (i) Verification of identity and release authority, including verification of completion of terms of the sentence; (ii) Verification that all resident property leaves with the resident and that no facility property leaves the facility; (iii) Completion of any pending action, such as grievances or claims for damages or lost possessions;
