FR940930-2-00059 FR940930-2-00034 8. Monitor the successful applicants' program activities and compliance with all programmatic, administrative, and budgetary requirements. Evaluation Criteria Applications will be reviewed and evaluated according to the following criteria: I. Review and Evaluation of Application A. Organizational Capability (30%) The extent to which the applicant documents: (1) recent experience of at least 12 months in operating and centrally administering a coordinated health, health-related, or community-related program which is national in scope; (2) expertise about social marketing and health communications, and/or social and behavioral science and/or the extent to which the applicant documents other relevant expertise in conducting these types of programs; and (3) ability to access and influence a particular sector (public, voluntary, religious, business, labor, media) through a network of affiliates, chapters or constituents/members to provide HIV-related technical assistance and training on public health, or related social issues other than HIV, on a national level (throughout the U.S.) to appropriate target audiences (e.g., racial and ethnic minority populations, gay men, sexual partners of intravenous drug users, and youth). B. Understanding of the Problem (15%) The extent to which the applicant demonstrates and documents its understanding of the types, magnitude, and priority of the unmet prevention needs of the target audiences, organizations, and agencies that the proposed program will address. C. Program Objectives (10%) The extent to which the proposed objectives are specific, measurable, time-phased, and consistent with the program purpose, the proposed activities, and the applicant organization's overall mission. D. Quality of Plan (25%) The quality of the applicant's plan for conducting program activities and the likelihood that the proposed methods will be successful in achieving proposed objectives. E. Organizational Experience (10%) The extent to which the applicant demonstrates support of, and intended collaboration on, the program plan and activities from Community Based Organizations (CBOs), health or education agencies, and other organizations and agencies serving target populations. F. Evaluation Plan (10%) The extent to which the evaluation plan measures the achievement of program objectives and monitors the implementation of proposed activities or the commitment to implement a collaboratively developed evaluation plan. G. Budget Justification and Adequacy of Facilities (not scored) The budget will be evaluated for the extent to which it is reasonable, clearly justified, and consistent with the intended use of cooperative agreement funds. II. Pre-decisional Site Visits A. Site visits may be conducted before CDC makes final funding decisions. Only the organizations with high-ranking applications may be visited. During the visit, CDC staff will meet with project staff, a representative of the board of directors, and other applicant principals to assess the applicant's ability to implement the proposed program, review the application and program plans for current or planned activities, and determine the special programmatic conditions and technical assistance requirements of the applicant. B. Site visits may also include a recipient capability assessment by CDC staff, the HHS Inspector General, or an outside CPA audit firm to ascertain whether existing financial and management systems and controls are adequate to receive and administer Federal funds. Funding Priorities Priority consideration will be given to applications supporting CDC's HIV/AIDS initiatives in social marketing (i.e., prevention marketing); health communications; health education/risk reduction; business and labor, religious, voluntary, and media sector capacity building and technical assistance programs. These programs are intended to increase the effectiveness of HIV prevention efforts delivered by national, State, and local organizations to change the behavior of specific segments of target audiences. Public comments are not being solicited regarding the funding priority because time does not permit solicitation and review prior to the funding date.
