FR940721-2-00076 FR940721-2-00038 •Review of diverse reasonable accommodation issues including disagreements about types of accommodation, accommodations in the occupancy cycle, procedures related to service animals, and the use of interpreters; and •Recommendations for HUD Technical Assistance. Chapter 5_Fundamental Alterations Both Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988 anticipate that, at some level, the compliance action requested or required may exhaust available resources or so alter the housing program that the action becomes infeasible. Housing providers are required to judge the feasibility of compliance actions against two criteria; fundamental alternations in the nature of the program and undue financial and administrative burdens. This chapter frames these issues in the context of program operations and management. Fundamental alternations in the nature of the program and undue financial and administrative burdens raise issues of resource management, capital planning, and ultimately, program funding. Many compliance actions can be absorbed with existing program funds, but the cost of making some programs accessible and responding to some requests for accommodations will require that Congress recognize the need for increased funding levels. Greater flexibility in HUD's rules governing the use of operating and capital budgets is also required. Specific changes in budget operating procedures and formula calculations are recommended. The Task Force also makes a general recommendation to increase the level of modernization funds for both public and assisted housing. This chapter includes: •Examples of actions that might result in fundamental alternations; •Suggestions for evaluating fundamental alternations in light of the program purpose and any services delivered on site; •Treatment of profit at assisted housing properties; •Principles that explain how the undue burdens test is unique to each reasonable accommodation request and how to judge the impact of compliance actions against available program resources; •Use of operating and capital budgeting line items for reasonable accommodation and other compliance requirements; •Program factors to consider when assessing undue burdens; •Procedural frameworks for evaluating undue financial burdens in public and assisted housing; and •A plan for identifying unfunded accessibility needs. Chapter 6_Certificates and Vouchers During the course of its deliberations, the Task Force generally discussed issues that could be addressed in a unified manner for all federally subsidized housing programs, such as the need for plain language forms and communications. Thus, the Task Force wishes to make clear that all such global recommendations, such as the need for plain language and timely and adequate notice, apply in the Section 8 Certificate and Voucher programs. However, the Task Force also dealt with issues in the public housing and project-based assistance programs, such as admissions procedures, that could not be so readily carried over into the context of the Certificate and Voucher programs; this posed a particular challenge. In those programs the housing authority does not admit an applicant to housing, is not the resident's landlord and does not evict. Instead, in a delicate balance among the three parties involved, the housing agency provides a rental subsidy to the participant and, as a quid pro quo to the private landlord's receipt of a portion of the market rent, enforces specific regulatory provisions incorporated into the Housing Assistance Payments contract. Between the private landlord and the resident-recipient flow another set of rights and obligations, arising from the lease, the HAP contract, federal law and regulation and state law. In this chapter, the Task Force has addressed only those issues that were of particular concern to Task Force members or were congruent with issues raised in the project-based context. The Task Force has not attempted a wholesale critique of the Certificate and Voucher programs not wholly rewritten any area of program administration. Nor has the Task Force, in particular, dealt with the proposed regulations to consolidate the Certificate and Voucher programs, which have not yet been implemented and so do not represent current practice. This Chapter includes recommendations concerning: •Expirations/extensions of time; •Exemptions to fair market rents; •Assistance for individuals with disabilities; •Waiting lists; •Evictions/terminations of assistance; •Lease terminations in the first year of the lease; •Damage and vacancy claims;
