FR940429-2-00083 FR940429-2-00062 In W.R. Grace & Co. v. Local Union 759, United Rubber Workers of America , 461 U.S. 757, 771 (1983), the Court held, in a Title VII case, that by entering into a conciliation agreement, the EEOC and the employer cannot alter a collective bargaining agreement without the union's consent. In that case, the conciliation agreement implemented a quota system under which the percentage of women would not be reduced during layoffs notwithstanding the fact that some women would be retained while having less seniority than their male counterparts. The Court held that absent a judicial determination the EEOC and an employer cannot alter a collective bargaining agreement without the union's consent. 461 U.S. at 770&hyph;72. In Safeway, the EEOC attempted to distinguish W.R. Grace by arguing that the conciliation agreement in Safeway did not result in the ``wholesale destruction'' of a collective bargaining agreement. Rather, the seniority system would remain intact with discriminatees being afforded their rightful place, the place they would have occupied but for the discrimination. The court rejected that argument, stating that ``we cannot agree that a difference in the degree of conflict with collective bargaining structure, beyond de minimis, [sic] can affect our ultimate decision.'' 714 F.2d at 578. Conciliation agreements, which are a form of contract and which purport to amend or alter another contract, the collective bargaining agreement, without the consent of one party, the union, must be distinguished from the retroactive award of seniority after an adjudication of discrimination. Holsey v. Armour & Co. , 743 F.2d 199, 218 (4th Cir. 1984), cert. denied, 470 U.S. 1028 (1985). There is a presumption in favor of the rightful place seniority remedy. Franks v. Bowman Transportation Co. , 424 U.S. 747, 779 n. 41 (1976). E.E.O.C. v. Pneumatics, Inc. , 779 F.2d 21, 23 (8th Cir. 1985). Indeed, the Supreme Court explicitly declined to decide in W.R. Grace whether an arbitration award for violation of the seniority provisions of a collective bargaining agreement ``could be enforced in the face of a valid judicial alteration of seniority provisions pursuant to Franks v. Bowman [] to provide relief to discriminatees under Title VII or other law.'' 461 U.S. at 767 n.9. I conclude have the authority under Section 503, after a finding of discrimination, to award retroactive seniority without participation of the union in the proceedings. Averring that the record is not complete enough to calculate the relief due complainants, OFCCP requests a remand to the ALJ for a determination of the appropriate relief. Exceptions at 68. In accordance with this opinion, Commonwealth is ordered to make offers of employment, in positions comparable to the ones for which they applied, to Complainants Gregory Gray, Wilda Matthis, Kenneth Sherrard, William Zellers and Thomas Marshall. In addition, seniority must be awarded retroactive to the date complainants would have been hired but for the illegal discrimination. Complainant Robert Etnire is to be granted additional seniority from the date he would have been hired in 1980 until his actual date of hire, June 29, 1981. The case is remanded to the ALJ to compute the amount of back pay due these complainants, taking into account the seniority they would have accrued if hired. Conclusions and Order For the foregoing reasons, I hold that Commonwealth violated Section 503 of the Act when it refused to hired Complainants Gray, Matthis, Sherrard, Zellers and Marshall and by declining to hire Complainant Etnire when he first applied. 14 Commonwealth is ordered to give the complainants, with the exception of Etnire, offers of employment within 60 days of receipt of this order. All complainants are to be awarded appropriate seniority and all other applicable benefits in accordance with this opinion. The case is remanded to the ALJ for calculation of back pay due complainants and submission of a supplemental recommended decision. 14 OFCCP also alleges that Commonwealth violated the affirmative action clause by discrimination against complaints. Exceptions at 67. Since I have concluded that Commonwealth has discriminated against six of the complainants (potential discrimination against Complainant David Worthington was not addressed because no relief was available), it has violated the affirmative action clause. 41 CFR 60&hyph;741.4(a). If Defendant Commonwealth Aluminum fails to comply with any provision of this order within the specified time periods, Defendant, its officers, subsidiaries, and successors shall be ineligible for the award of any government contracts or subcontracts, and shall be ineligible for extensions or other modifications of any existing Government contracts or subcontracts, until Defendant has satisfied the Assistant Secretary of Labor that it is in compliance with the provisions of Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the regulations and orders issued thereunder which have been found to have been violated in this case. So Ordered. Washington, DC. John R. Fraser, Acting Assistant Secretary for Employment Standards.
