FR940907-0-00038 FR940907-0-00015 The types of records that must be kept are specific to the coating or graphic arts line and the method by which it is meeting the appropriate emission limit. All of the rules submitted for approval in the June 12, 1993 submittal have been reviewed and found to be approvable for incorporation into the Michigan ozone SIP. II. November 1993 Submittal On November 15, 1993 MDNR submitted to EPA a SIP revision to address the remaining deficiencies in the State's VOC RACT regulations which were not corrected by the June 12, 1993 submittal. Listed below are descriptions of the changes this SIP submittal proposed. A. Rule 601␣(Definitions) A revised definition for the term ``person responsible'' as used in Part 6 rules has been added. B. Rule 602␣(General Provisions for Existing Sources of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions) Provisions allowing for alternative compliance methods in Rules 628 and 629 require site-specific SIP revisions when implemented. C. Rule 624␣(Emission of Volatile Organic Compounds From an Existing Graphic Arts Line) An unacceptable prorating method for recordkeeping has been removed. D. Rule 628␣(Emission of Volatile Organic Compounds From Components of Existing Process Equipment Used in Manufacturing Synthetic Organic Chemicals and Polymers; Monitoring Program) and Rule 629 (Emission of Volatile Organic Compounds From Components of Existing Process Equipment Used in Processing Natural Gas; Monitoring Program) Test methods have been added which define how the percent VOC in a piece of equipment is to be determined. Provisions allowing reduced frequency of monitoring for low-leaking equipment have been changed to comply with EPA requirements. Wording was added requiring that all equivalent control methods must be submitted to EPA as site-specific SIP revisions as specified in Rule 602. The counties affected by these rules have been listed in the same format as other similar rules, for the purpose of uniformity. E. Non-CTG RACT Rules There are 3 non-CTG major sources of VOCs located in Michigan's Detroit-Ann Arbor ozone nonattainment area. These sources are: VCF Films, Inc.; Ford Motor Company's Utica Trim Plant; and the Woodbridge Corporations Whitmore Lake Plant (formerly Johnson Controls, Inc.). The course of action Michigan pursued for these companies was the development of administrative consent orders requiring implementation of RACT-level controls. VCF Films, Inc. has entered into an administrative consent order requiring RACT-level controls for VOC emissions for its film casting processes. This order has been submitted as a SIP revision.
