FR940512-2-00192 FR940512-2-00078 Part VI. Appendices Appendix A_Basic Center Program Performance Standards Program Performance Standards I. Purpose The Program Performance Standards established by the Bureau for its funded centers relate to the basic program components enumerated in section 317 of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act and as further detailed in the Regulations and Program Guidance governing the implementation of the Act. They address the methods and processes by which the needs of runaway and homeless youth and their families are being met, as opposed to the outcome of the services provided on the clients served. The terms program performance standard, criterion, and indicators are used throughout both the instrument and the instructions. These terms are defined as follows: Program performance standard: The general principle against which a judgment can be made to determine whether a service or an administrative component has achieved a particular level of attainment. Criterion: A specific dimension or aspect of a program performance standard which helps to define that standard and which is amenable to direct observation or measurement. Indicator: The specific documentation which demonstrates whether a criterion (or an aspect of a criterion) is being met and thereby the extent to which a specific aspect of a standard is being met. Fourteen program performance standards, with related criteria, are established by the Bureau for the projects funded under the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act. Nine of these standards relate to service components (outreach, individual intake process, temporary shelter, individual and group counseling, family counseling, service linkages, aftercare services, recreational programs, and case disposition), and five to administrative functions or activities (staffing and staff development, youth participation, individual client files, ongoing project planning, and board of directors/advisory body). Although fiscal management is not included as a program performance standard, it is viewed by FYSB as being an essential element in the operation of its funded projects. Therefore, as validation visits are made, the Regional ACF specialist and/or staff from the Office of Fiscal Operations will also review the project's financial management activities. FYSB views these program performance standards as constituting the minimum standards to which its funded projects should conform. The primary assumption underlying the program performance standards is that the service and administrative components which are encompassed within these standards are integral (but not sufficient in themselves) to a program of services which effectively addresses the crisis and long-term needs of runaway and homeless youth and their families. The program performance standards are designed to serve as a developmental tool, and are to be employed by both the project staff and the Regional ACF staff specialists in identifying those service and administrative components and activities of individual projects which require strengthening and/or development either through internal action on the part of staff or through the provision of external technical assistance. II. Program Performance Standards and Criteria The following constitute the program performance standards and criteria established by the Bureau for its funded centers. Each standard is numbered, and each criterion is listed after a lower case letter. 1. Outreach. The project shall conduct outreach efforts directed towards community agencies, youth and parents. 2. Individual Intake Process. The project shall conduct an individual intake process with each youth seeking services from the project. The individual intake process shall provide for: a. Direct access to project services on a 24-hour basis.
