FR940627-0-00142 FR940627-0-00019 In general, the composition of evaporative emissions from vehicles does not resemble fully-evaporated whole samples of raw fuels or fuel additives. This phenomenon is due to differences in the vapor pressure of the fuel or fuel additive components and the effects of evaporative emission control equipment. To simulate this phenomenon with the EEG, procedures are to be followed to ensure that the evaporated fraction contain a reasonable representation of potential evaporated emission compounds. The EEG will be run at 13 # 05 ○F and will be equipped with a drain. The fuel will be drained and replenished periodically in order to maintain a constant composition and prevent the build-up of heavier compounds in the non-evaporated portion. The concentration of emissions of the evaporated fuel or additive/base fuel mixture in the vapor space of the EEG during the time emissions are being withdrawn for testing shall not vary more than ten percent from the equilibrium concentration in the vapor space of emissions generated from fresh fuel or additive/base fuel mixture in the evaporative chamber. EPA recognizes that other methods may also be suitable for generating F/FA evaporative emission mixtures for the testing purposes of this program. One possible alternative method was suggested in a comment received by EPA in response to the Reopening Notice. 38 Based on the distillation properties of the test formulation, the suggested method would involve the distillation, condensation, and storage of the light-end components of the test fuel mixture, with revaporization of this whole fraction to generate test atmospheres. Other alternatives may also be valid. To accommodate these potential alternatives, the final rule contains a provision (see §79.57(f)(5) of the accompanying regulations) which permits manufacturers to request approval for methods other than the EEG for generating evaporative emission test atmospheres. To be granted, such requests must include supporting information which demonstrates (among other requirements) that the proposed procedures will generate emissions reasonably similar to in-use evaporative emission mixtures and that the generated emissions will be sufficiently concentrated to be useful in the context of toxicology tests. Approved procedures will be placed in the public docket. 38 Comments of the American Petroleum Institute on U.S. EPA's Fuels and Fuel Additives Registration Regulations, March 28, 1994 (Item IV&hyph;D&hyph;49 in Docket A&hyph;90&hyph;07). For applicable F/FAs, evaporative emission characterization requirements include the measurement of total volatile organic compounds with speciation of the hydrocarbon compounds, alcohols, ethers, and atypical compounds. Characterization requirements are discussed in Section VII.B. For biological testing, evaporative emissions will be diluted and routed to the animal chambers in a manner similar to the method used for combustion emissions health effects testing, as described in the previous section, except that a mixing chamber is not required. The rate of emission generation shall be high enough to supply the biological exposure chamber with sufficient emissions to allow for a minimum of fifteen air changes per hour. The concentration of total hydrocarbons in the evaporative emission stream routed to the biological exposure chambers is to be diluted to three separate concentrations to establish a range of responses similar to combustion emission testing (see previous section). Evaporative emissions are not constrained by CO, NO X , or CO 2 levels, and hence can be used at higher concentrations than combustion emissions. Verification testing is required for evaporative emissions in a manner analogous to the verification testing performed for combustion emissions. D. Vehicle Selection EPA is requiring that new vehicles or engines be used for the combustion emission generation and testing of F/FAs to avoid the carry-over effects from previously used fuels. All F/FAs must be tested in vehicles or engines (corresponding to chassis or engine dynamometer testing, respectively) that have been operated exclusively on the fuel or additive/base fuel mixture to be tested.
