FR940725-0-00109 FR940725-0-00013 (c) Evaluation of need. _Assurance that the agency will provide for the following: (1) Initial evaluation. _An evaluation of the need for the level of care provided in a hospital, a NF, or an ICF/MR when there is a reasonable indication that a recipient might need the services in the near future (that is, a month or less) unless he or she receives home or community-based services. For purposes of this section, ``evaluation'' means a review of an individual recipient's condition to determine_ (i) If the recipient requires the level of care provided in a hospital as defined in ยง440.40 of this subchapter, a NF as defined in section 1919(a) of the Act, or an ICF/MR as defined by ยง440.150 of this subchapter; and (ii) That the recipient, but for the provision of waiver services, would otherwise be institutionalized in such a facility. (2) Periodic reevaluations. _Reevaluations, at least annually, of each recipient receiving home or community-based services to determine if the recipient continues to need the level of care provided and would, but for the provision of waiver services, otherwise be institutionalized in one of the following institutions: (i) A hospital; (ii) A NF; or (iii) An ICF/MR. * * * * * (e) Average per capita expenditures. _Assurance that the average per capita fiscal year expenditures under the waiver will not exceed 100 percent of the average per capita expenditures that would have been made in the fiscal year for the level of care provided in a hospital, NF, or ICF/MR under the State plan had the waiver not been granted. (1) These expenditures must be reasonably estimated and documented by the agency. (2) The estimate must be on an annual basis and must cover each year of the waiver period. (f) Actual total expenditures. _Assurance that the agency's actual total expenditures for home and community-based and other Medicaid services under the waiver and its claim for FFP in expenditures for the services provided to recipients under the waiver will not, in any year of the waiver period, exceed 100 percent of the amount that would be incurred by the State's Medicaid program for these individuals, absent the waiver, in_ (1) A hospital; (2) A NF; or (3) An ICF/MR. (g) Institutionalization absent waiver. _Assurance that, absent the waiver, recipients in the waiver would receive the appropriate type of Medicaid-funded institutional care (hospital, NF, or ICF/MR) that they require. (h) Reporting. _Assurance that annually, the agency will provide HCFA with information on the waiver's impact. That information must be consistent with a data collection plan designed by HCFA and must address the waiver's impact on_ (1) The type, amount, and cost of services provided under the State plan; and (2) The health and welfare of recipients. (i) Habilitation services. _Assurance that prevocational, educational, or supported employment services, or a combination of these services, if provided as habilitation services under the waiver, are_ (1) Not otherwise available to the individual through a local educational agency under section 602 (16) and (17) of the Education of the Handicapped Act (20 U.S.C. 1401 (16 and 17)) or as services under section 110 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 730); and (2) Furnished only to individuals who have been deinstitutionalized, regardless of discharge date from a Medicaid-certified NF or ICF/MR. (3) Furnished as part of expanded habilitation services on or after April 7, 1986, if the State has requested and received HCFA's approval under a waiver or an amendment to a waiver.
