FR940513-1-00027 FR940513-1-00008 Trace flock. A flock in which a Veterinary Services representative has determined that one animal, which was diagnosed as a scrapie-positive animal at an age of 54 months or less, was born. We consider each of the flocks and animals described in these definitions to pose a risk of transmitting scrapie. The proposed changes to the regulations would both ensure that such animals are not exported, and make the terminology used in part 91 consistent with that used in our domestic scrapie regulations. We are making several other changes to the export provisions in §§91.6(a) and 91.8(a). As noted above, those paragraphs prohibit the export of a sheep or goat if it was moved from premises located in an area quarantined for scrapie, or if it is the progeny, sire or dam, or full or half brother or sister of any animal found to be affected with scrapie. The prohibition of the export of sheep and goats from premises in a quarantined area is outdated. The provisions that formerly were set forth in part 79 for quarantining areas in which scrapie exists have been replaced in part 54 with a program focusing on individual flocks. Therefore, we are proposing to remove the prohibition, in §§91.6(a) and 91.8(a), of the export of sheep and goats from premises in an area quarantined for scrapie. We are also proposing to make nonsubstantive changes to the wording in §§91.6(a) and 91.8(a). We would replace the words ``sire or dam'' with the word ``parent,'' and would replace the words ``full or half brother or sister'' with the word ``sibling.'' Definition of Scrapie-Exposed Animals in 9 CFR part 54 As noted above, the definition of scrapie-exposed animals in part 54 differs from the definition of exposed animals in part 79. The definition in part 54 reads as follows: Scrapie-exposed animals. Animals, other than affected or bloodline animals, in a flock in which an affected animal has been diagnosed by a Veterinary Services representative or state representative. Animals in the flock are no longer considered exposed after they are destroyed or upon the flock's release from surveillance by state animal health officials. This definition is outdated and does not reflect current practice. For instance, we no longer conduct a bloodline program, nor is surveillance conducted under the current voluntary flock certification program. The definition of exposed animal in part 79 (set forth above) was published as part of the current program, and does reflect current practice. Therefore, we are proposing to amend §54.1 to remove the definition of scrapie-exposed animals and to add the same definition of exposed animal that appears in §79.1. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866, and, therefore, has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 603, we have performed an Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis regarding the impact of this proposed rule on small entities. This proposed rule may have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. However, we do not currently have all the data necessary for a comprehensive analysis of the effects of this rule on small entities. Therefore, we are inviting comments concerning potential impacts. In particular, we are interested in determining the number and kind of small entities that may incur benefits or costs from implementation of this proposed rule. Under 21 U.S.C. 105, 113, 120, 121, 612, 613, and 614, the Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to promulgate regulations to require inspection and certification of animals intended for export from the United States, and to take other measures to prevent the exportation of diseased livestock. Under this proposed rule, we would require that the origin health certificate required for animals exported from the United States include any test results, certifications, or other statements required by the foreign country of destination. Under this proposed rule, we would also revise the export regulations in §§91.6(a)(3) and 91.8(a) to make them consistent with the regulations in 9 CFR parts 54 and 79 regarding the Voluntary Scrapie Flock Certification Program. We anticipate the proposed changes involving certification will have little or no impact on small domestic exporters. In order for exporters to sell their animals abroad, the animals must meet the import requirements of the country of destination. Therefore, it is in the exporter's interest, even under the current regulations, to ensure that those requirements are met. The proposed change would require only that the origin health certificate include all test results, certifications, or other statements required by the country of destination. However, estimates of the number of animals and the number of small entities that would be affected, and the potential costs to exporters, are not available. The proposed changes concerning sheep and goats with regard to scrapie would affect some producers. Under the current regulations in part 91, sheep and goats from source flock premises may not be exported, and source flock premises are considered those from which an animal affected with scrapie was moved within 18 months or less prior to showing signs of scrapie. Under the proposed regulations, the export of sheep and goats from source flocks would continue to be prohibited, but the meaning of ``source flock'' would be revised to mean a flock in which at least two animals were diagnosed as scrapie-positive animals at an age of 54 months or less, provided the second diagnosis was made within 60 months of the first, and provided the requirements of a flock plan have not been completed. This change would make the regulations more restrictive, and could increase the number of animals prohibited exportation because they originated in a source flock. However, as of September 1993, there were only 8 source flocks in the United States. Although the proposed change would apply to both sheep and goats, at present the number of goats being exported is minimal. There are approximately 92,500 sheep farms in the United States, with approximately 11 million sheep. The large majority of these are small entities. Ninety-nine percent of the sheep farms in this country each have annual sales totalling less than $500,000, and approximately 77,000 have fewer than 100 sheep. In 1992, there were approximately 830,000 sheep exported from the United States.
