FR940930-0-00100 FR940930-0-00017 Agreement means a collective bargaining agreement. Bargaining representative means an individual or entity designated or selected, under any applicable Federal, State, or local law, or public entity collective bargaining agreement, to represent employees in collective bargaining, or any other employee representative designated or selected under any law. * * * * * Collective bargaining agreement means an agreement entered into between an employing entity and the bargaining representative of its employees. Contract means an employer-employee or public entity-employee contract, or a contract for health benefits. Eligible employee means an employee who meets the employer's requirements for participation in the health benefits plan. * * * * * Employer has the meaning given that term in section 3(d) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, except that it_ (1) Includes non-appropriated fund instrumentalities of the United States Government; and (2) Excludes the following: (i) The governments of the United States, the District of Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States, the 50 States and their political subdivisions, and any agencies or instrumentalities of any of the foregoing, including the United States Postal Service and Postal Rate Commission. (ii) Any church, or convention or association of churches, and any organization operated, supervised, or controlled by a church, or convention or association of churches that meets the following conditions: (A) Is an organization that is described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. (B) Does not discriminate, in the employment, compensation, promotion or termination of employment of any personnel, or in the granting of staff and other privileges to physicians or other health personnel, on the grounds that the individuals obtain health care through HMOs, or participate in furnishing health care through HMOs. Health benefits plan means any arrangement, to provide or pay for health services, that is offered to eligible employees, or to eligible employees and their eligible dependents, by or on behalf of an employing entity. Public entity means the 50 states, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands and American Samoa and their political subdivisions, the District of Columbia, and any agency or instrumentality of the foregoing, and political subdivisions include counties, parishes, townships, cities, municipalities, towns, villages, and incorporated villages. Qualified HMO means an HMO that has in effect a determination, made under subpart D of this part, that the HMO is an operational, preoperational, or transitional qualified HMO. To offer a health benefits plan means to make participation in a health benefits plan available to eligible employees, or to eligible employees and their eligible dependents regardless of whether the employing entity makes a financial contribution to the plan on behalf of these employees, directly or indirectly, for example, through payments on any basis into a health and welfare trust fund. 2. Sections 417.151 through 417.156 are revised to read as follows: ยง417.151 Applicability. (a) Basic rule. This subpart applies to any employer or public entity that offers a health benefits plan to its employees and meets the conditions specified in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. (b) Number of employees. During any calendar quarter of the preceding calendar year, the employer or public entity employed an average of not less than 25 employees.
