FR940616-2-00112 FR940616-2-00088 UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY Regional Scholar Exchange Program ACTION: Notice_Request for Proposals (RFP). SUMMARY: The United States Information Agency (USIA) invites applications from U.S. not-for-profit organizations engaged in international exchange programs to conduct research exchanges in the humanities and social sciences of pre- and/or post-doctoral students and scholars with Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzia, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Exchange programs must recruit nationally and select participants through an open merit-based competitive process. Only organizations with at least four years of experience in international exchange activities are eligible to apply. Both existing and new projects are eligible. These exchanges are subject to the availability of funding for Fiscal Year 1995. Support is offered for two categories: Category A, Short-term (defined as being less than six months or the equivalent of one academic year), and/or Long-term (the equivalent of at least six months or one academic year) Research Exchanges with Armenia, Azerbaijan*, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzia, Moldova, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan; and Category B, Short-term (defined as being less than six months or the equivalent of one academic year), and/or Long-term (the equivalent of at least six months or one academic year) Research Exchanges with Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Each category has separate conditions and requirements which are stated in this announcement. Institutions may address one or both categories, but must submit a separate proposal for each category. Proposals for Category A may include all 12 countries, a regional grouping of countries, or one country. Proposals for Category B may include one, two or three of the listed countries. The goal of the program is to ensure the broadest geographic distribution in the New Independent States, the Baltics, and the U.S. Programs should be for two-way exchanges, although they do not need to be evenly reciprocal. Organizations may request funding for one or both sides of the exchange. Proposals for programs that do not fit into either Category A or B will be considered technically ineligible. * Please note: Programs with Azerbaijan are subject to the restrictions of Section 907 of the Freedom Support Act of 1992: Employees of the Government of Azerbaijan or any of its instrumentalities are excluded from participation and no U.S. participant overseas may work for the Government of Azerbaijan or any of its instrumentalities.
