FR940811-0-00041 FR940811-0-00016 9. Long Term Impacts Several commentors noted that the Final EIS stated that significant long-term impacts at the proposed dump site are likely to occur from ocean disposal of dredged material. Response The Final EIS classified physical impacts to benthos within the disposal site boundaries as significant ( e.g., potential changes in sediment texture, and some smothering of infauna are unavoidable). Other significant (e.g., toxicological) impacts are not expected because of requirements for extensive pre-disposal physical, chemical, and biological testing of proposed dredged material. In addition, controls will be implemented through permit conditions and the provisions of the SMMP to prevent any significant impacts occurring outside the disposal site boundaries. 10. Exclusion From Testing One commentor expressed concern that certain materials, based upon their physical characteristics and their location in relation to sources of contamination, would be dumped into the ocean without chemical and biological testing. They also expressed concern that the person who determines this exclusion not be an employee of the dredging or dumping company. Response The ocean dumping regulations [40 CFR 227.13(b)] set forth conditions under which dredged material may be determined to be suitable for ocean disposal without chemical and biological testing (``exclusion criteria''). The determination of exclusion from testing is made by EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers in accordance with these criteria, and not by the dredging company or the permit applicant. 11. Need for Mitigation for Disposal Site Use One commentor estimated, based on a draft Habitat Evaluation Procedure (HEP) analysis, that at least 60 acres of habitat would be needed to replace habitat value losses at the 6.5 square nautical mile ocean disposal site, and stated that EPA should consider including compensatory mitigation as a component of the site designation and monitoring process. Response The commentor's draft analysis is based in part on a misunderstanding of the site designation EIS, and incorrectly assumes that significant impacts will occur well beyond the boundaries of the disposal site. EPA does not share the commentor's conclusion that compensatory mitigation is needed for use of the ocean disposal site in part because: (1) The site location has been selected specifically to minimize any off-site impacts due to disposal of dredged material, as documented in the Final EIS; (2) only suitable non-toxic sediments may be disposed at the site, in accordance with EPA's Ocean Dumping Criteria; (3) unlike upland or wetland ``fills,'' disposed sediments will not alter the site's basic habitat type ( e.g. , disposal of suitable dredged material at the site is not the same as permanently changing a wetland into an upland, or a seasonal wetland into a tidal wetland); and (4) ongoing site monitoring, and management actions as necessary, will ensure that no significant off-site adverse impacts will occur or persist during the 50-year period of site use. 12. Sea Surface Microlayer Several commentors stated that EPA has ignored concerns raised about contamination of the sea surface microlayer as a result of dredged material disposal at the site, and has missed opportunities to resolve this issue through field studies. Response EPA has fully considered comments regarding potential contamination of the sea surface microlayer. In addition, EPA consulted with the LTMS technical review panel (see listing in Table 5.2&hyph;1 of the Final EIS) on this issue. Based on the available information regarding the sea surface microlayer, EPA has determined that the potential for significant contamination of or impacts to the sea surface microlayer as a result of disposal site use is not significant. The specific characteristics of this deep ocean disposal site (including its location in a turbulent open ocean environment approximately 50 miles offshore), and the characteristics of the dredged material that is expected to be disposed there (suitability for ocean disposal established by extensive physical, chemical, and biological testing), support this conclusion. The LTMS technical review panel view was consistent with EPA's determination. Consequently, monitoring of the sea surface microlayer is not included in the SMMP at this time. However, EPA does not discourage independent sampling in the vicinity or submission of any data collected in or near the site. 13. Discussion of ``Alternative Site 2'' One commentor recommended that EPA emphasize that significant commercial fish abundances and fish habitats exist in this area which would have precluded designation of a site in this area, even if the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary did not exist. Response The site designation Final EIS describes the greater importance of the continental shelf, including Study Area 2, for commercially important fish species relative to SF&hyph;DODS and the other off-shelf alternative sites. The Final EIS also notes that since Study Area 2 is within the boundaries of the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary, it would not comply with EPA's site designation criteria and therefore could not be designated. 14. Inclusion of SMMP in the Site Designation Rule Several commentors recommended that the entire SMMP be included as part of the regulation designating the site. Response The Final Rule has been revised to include specific provisions governing site monitoring and site management. These provisions establish the legal basis for requiring site monitoring and site management and establish the basic criteria for adequate site monitoring and management measures. These provisions further establish the basic criteria for using site monitoring data to make adjustments to site management or site use. The provisions of the Final Rule are sufficient, in EPA's view, to create environmentally appropriate and legally enforceable site monitoring and site management regimes. On April 20, 1994, EPA published a Public Notice in the Federal Register indicating the availability of a proposed SF&hyph;DODS Site Monitoring and Management Plan (``SMMP'') and soliciting public comment on the SMMP. As noted above, EPA has now incorporated the major aspects of the proposed SMMP directly into the Rule. In addition, EPA will publish the ``SMMP Implementation Manual'' based upon the SMMP. The SMMP Implementation Manual will provide operational details concerning site monitoring and management measures that are not necessary or appropriate for inclusion in EPA's Final Rule designating the SF&hyph;DODS (also see response to comment number 25, below). The SMMP Implementation Manual will serve to document EPA's interpretation of the specific measures that are appropriate for implementing the provisions required in the Final Rule. EPA intends to notify the public and solicit public comments if any future changes are made to the SMMP Implementation Manual.
