FR941003-0-00021 FR941003-0-00005 4. The revisions and additions read as follows: §1.42&hyph;5 Monitoring compliance with low-income housing credit requirements. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* (vi) The annual income certification of each low-income tenant per unit. For an exception to this requirement, see section 42(g)(8)(B) (which provides a special rule for a 100 percent low- income building); (vii) * * * For an exception to this requirement, see section 42(g)(8)(B) (which provides a special rule for a 100 percent low-income building). * * * * * * * * (c) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* (iii) The owner has received an annual income certification from each low-income tenant, and documentation to support that certification; or, in the case of a tenant receiving Section 8 housing assistance payments, the statement from a public housing authority described in paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section. For an exception to this requirement, see section 42(g)(8)(B) (which provides a special rule for a 100 percent low-income building); * * * * * Par. 3. Section 1.42&hyph;14 is added to read as follows: §1.42&hyph;14 Allocation rules for post-1989 State housing credit ceiling amounts. (a) In general. The State housing credit ceiling for a State for any calendar year after 1989 is comprised of four components. The four components are_ (1) $1.25 multiplied by the State population (the population component); (2) The unused State housing credit ceiling, if any, of the State for the preceding calendar year (the unused carryforward component); (3) The amount of State housing credit ceiling returned in the calendar year (the returned credit component); plus (4) The amount, if any, allocated to the State by the Secretary under section 42(h)(3)(D) from a national pool of unused credit (the national pool component). (b) The population component. The population component of the State housing credit ceiling of a State for any calendar year is determined pursuant to section 146(j). Thus, a State's population for any calendar year is determined by reference to the most recent census estimate, whether final or provisional, of the resident population of the State released by the Bureau of the Census before the beginning of the calendar year for which the State's housing credit ceiling is set. Unless otherwise prescribed by applicable revenue procedure, determinations of population are based on the most recent estimates of population contained in the Bureau of the Census publication, Current Population Report, Series P&hyph;25; Population Estimates and Projections, Estimates of the Population of States. For convenience, the Internal Revenue Service publishes the population estimates annually in the Internal Revenue Bulletin. (See §601.601(d)(2)(ii)( b )). (c) The unused carryforward component. The unused carryforward component of the State housing credit ceiling for any calendar year is the excess, if any, of the sum of the population and returned credit components, over the aggregate housing credit dollar amount allocated for the year. Any credit amounts attributable to the national pool component of the State housing credit ceiling that remain unallocated at the close of a calendar year are not carried forward to the succeeding calendar year; instead, the credit expires and cannot be reallocated by any Agency. (d) The returned credit component_ (1) In general. The returned credit component of the State housing credit ceiling for any calendar year equals the housing credit dollar amount returned during the calendar year that was validly allocated within the State in a prior calendar year to any project that does not become a qualified low-income housing project within the period required by section 42, or as required by the terms of the allocation. The returned credit component also includes credit allocated in a prior calendar year that is returned as a result of the cancellation of an allocation by mutual consent or by an Agency's determination that the amount allocated is not necessary for the financial feasibility of the project. For purposes of this section, credit is allocated within a State if it is allocated from the State's housing credit ceiling by an Agency of the State or of a constitutional home rule city in the State. (2) Limitations and special rules. The following limitations and special rules apply for purposes of this paragraph (d). (i) General limitations. Notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph (d), returned credit does not include any credit that was_ (A) Allocated prior to calendar year 1990; (B) Allowable under section 42(h)(4) (relating to the portion of credit attributable to eligible basis financed by certain tax-exempt bonds under section 103); or (C) Allocated during the same calendar year that it is received back by the Agency. (ii) Credit period limitation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph (d), an allocation of credit may not be returned any later than 180 days following the close of the first taxable year of the credit period for the building that received the allocation. After this date, credit that might otherwise be returned expires, and cannot be returned to or reallocated by any Agency. (iii) Three-month rule for returned credit. An Agency may, in its discretion, treat any portion of credit that is returned from a project after September 30 of a calendar year and that is not reallocated by the close of the calendar year as returned on January 1 of the succeeding calendar year. In this case, the returned credit becomes part of the returned credit component of the State housing credit ceiling for the succeeding calendar year. Any portion of credit that is returned from a project after September 30 of a calendar year that is reallocated by the close of the calendar year is treated as part of the returned credit component of the State housing credit ceiling for the calendar year that the credit was returned. (iv) Returns of credit. Subject to the limitations of paragraphs (d)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section, credit is returned to the Agency in the following instances in the manner described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. (A) Building not qualified within required time period. If a building is not a qualified building within the time period required by section 42, it loses its credit allocation and the credit is returned. For example, a building is not qualified within the required time period if it is not placed in service within the period required by section 42 or if the project of which the building is a part fails to meet the minimum set-aside requirements of section 42(g)(1) by the close of the first year of the credit period. (B) Noncompliance with terms of the allocation. If a building does not comply with the terms of its allocation, it loses the credit allocation and the credit is returned. The terms of an allocation are the written conditions agreed to by the Agency and the allocation recipient in the allocation document.
