FR940627-0-00153 FR940627-0-00019 A. General Methodology 1. Exposure Duration As mentioned previously, EPA originally proposed a program that included six separate tests for the evaluation of the endpoints of concern. Because of cost considerations, a minimum six-week (42-day) exposure period was proposed in the NPRM, instead of the traditional 90-day test. EPA requested comments on the adequacy of the proposed exposure period and exposure regimen, and on the possibility of extending these tests to 90 days for comparability to historical data. Comments were also requested on the possible use of an alternative approach for the testing program, the Screening Information Data Set (SIDS) protocol developed for use by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The standard SIDS protocol is designed as a single-study screen (45-day) for repeat dose, reproductive, and developmental effects. Public comments from industry supported the 90-day test over either the proposed 42-day test or the SIDS protocol. Commenters expressed concern regarding both of these protocols because relatively less scientific experience and historical comparison data are available for these shorter test scenarios. Upon reconsideration, EPA agrees that the 90-day protocol is more suitable and more cost effective than either of the alternatives proposed in the NPRM for purposes of the F/FA registration program. EPA recognizes that the shorter tests might miss some adverse health effects that might be identified with the 90-day exposure. Apart from the study duration, the SIDS protocol includes somewhat less information for each endpoint, in comparison with the selected 90-day subchronic inhalation study, with relatively small savings in time and cost. For example, the SIDS protocol includes a fertility screen (i.e., one-generation reproductive study), but does not include an examination of the fetus for teratogenic effects. Thus, today's final rule requires F/FA manufacturers to use the more standard 90-day subchronic inhalation protocol for the evaluation of health effects, with an exposure regimen of at least six hours per day, five days per week. EPA judges the exposure regimen of five days per week for the 90-day protocol to be the minimum acceptable exposure period for the purposes of the Tier 2 evaluation. Also, the 90-day protocol provides a broad and efficient testing approach that allows the evaluation of several endpoints at the end of the same exposure period using the same exposed test animals. As a result, the modified Tier 2 program provides a reduction in the number of animals needed to perform the evaluation of the endpoints of concern and savings on emission generation and testing costs. 2. Animal Model and Laboratory Practices
