FR940627-0-00140 FR940627-0-00019 The combustion emissions generated for animal testing are to be diluted prior to delivery to the test animals. The CVS system, commonly used to condition exhaust for sampling and analysis, provides for controlled ambient air dilution of the combustion emissions. However, water condensation can be a problem during CVS system sample conditioning, depending upon vehicle fuel consumption and fuel economy, dilution air humidity, and exhaust/diluent ratio. 33 The use of pre-dried dilution air will lower the sample humidity, thus permitting lower dilution ratios and higher concentration of hydrocarbons to be achieved without condensation of water vapor. The minimum dilution ratio will vary with fuel composition. For example, a minimum dilution ratio of about 1:5 raw exhaust (dewpoint about 125 ○F) with dry, clean filtered air is expected for gasoline fuels to reduce the water concentration to a dewpoint of about 68 ○F. The minimum dilution ratio (maximum exhaust flow rate) occurs at about 200 seconds into the UDDS transient driving cycle. The dilution ratio is expected to be greater for methanol, ethanol, and natural gas fuels than for gasoline fuels because the exhaust water concentrations are greater with these alternative fuels. Heated transfer ducts or tubing can be used to avoid water condensation in much of the system, but the dilution/mixing/integration chamber will generally be at or near laboratory temperature (about 70 ○F), and CVS dilution will have to be adequate to assure that the cumulative integrated chamber dew point remains below laboratory temperature at all times. 33 An example procedure on how to deal with water vapor condensation problems is found in Black and Snow, ``Constant Volume Sampling System Water Condensation,'' SAE 940970, 1994. This paper describes a ``spreadsheet'' procedure for detailed, second by second, determination of diluted exhaust dew point and the necessary CVS system flow rates to avoid water vapor condensation. After initial dilution to preserve the character of the emissions, the exhaust stream may be further diluted to achieve the desired biological exposure concentrations. In testing the emissions of a particular fuel or additive/base fuel mixture, a manufacturer shall determine an optimum range of dilutions with which to characterize the health effects of the test substance. The range of dilutions shall include, at a minimum, an overtly or highly toxic concentration, a minimally toxic or non-toxic concentration, and a concentration of emissions having an intermediate level of toxicity. The selected concentrations must allow the determination of a concentration-response relationship (see Section VIII.A.3). EPA recommends that manufacturers review available literature for information on the design of inhalation studies. 34 34 An example reference is Phalen, R. F., ``Inhalation Studies: Foundations and Techniques,'' CRC Press, Inc., Boca Raton, Florida, 1984. One important factor to consider in determining the exposure concentrations or dilutions is the effect of carbon monoxide (CO) concentration in test animals. The CO concentration in the emissions is expected to be a limiting factor in establishing the appropriate dilutions for the testing of F/FAs. Anoxia, among other negative health effects from this combustion product, may mask the more subtle health effects of F/FA emissions. EPA recommends that manufacturers review available literature on previous toxicity studies for information on appropriate CO concentrations that have been used in the exposure of laboratory animals to automobile emissions. 35 36 37 35 Stara et al., ``Long-Term Effects of Air Pollutants in Canine Species,'' EPA/600/8&hyph;80/014, 1980. 36 Brightwell, J. et al., ``Neoplastic and Functional Changes in Rodents after Chronic Inhalation of Engine Exhaust Emissions,'' In: Ishinishi, N. et al., (eds), Carcinogenic and Mutagenic Effects of Diesel Engine Exhaust, Elsevier Science Publishers, Amsterdam, pp. 471&hyph;485, 1986; available in Docket A&hyph;90&hyph;07, Item No. IV&hyph;A&hyph;17. 37 Pepelko, W. E. et al., ``Effect of 90 Days Exposure to Catalytically Treated Automobile Exhaust in Rats,'' Environmental Research, Volume 19, pp. 91&hyph;101, 1979.
