FR941007-0-00098 FR941007-0-00024 (ii) General information. (A) The ship's name, call sign, official number, International Maritime Organization (IMO) international number, and principal characteristics. (B) [Reserved] (2) Preamble. This section must contain an explanation of the purpose and use of the plan and indicate how the shipboard plan relates to other shore-based plans. (3) Reporting Requirements . This section of the plan must include information relating to the following: (i) When to report. A report shall be made whenever an incident involves_ (A) A discharge of oil resulting from damage to the ship or its equipment, or for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship or saving life at sea; (B) A discharge of oil during the operation of the ship in excess of the quantities or instantaneous rate permitted in ยง151.10 of this subpart or in ยง157.37 of this subchapter; or (C) A probable discharge. Factors to be considered in determining whether a discharge is probable include, but are not limited to: ship location and proximity to land or other navigational hazards, weather, tide, current, sea state, and traffic density. The master must make a report in cases of collision, grounding, fire, explosion, structural failure, flooding or cargo shifting, or an incident resulting in failure or breakdown of steering gear, propulsion, electrical generating system, or essential shipborne navigational aids. (ii) Information required. This section of the plan must include a notification form, such as that depicted in Table 151.26(b)(3)(ii)(A), that contains information to be provided in the initial and follow-up notifications. The initial notification should include as much of the information on the form as possible, and supplemental information, as appropriate. However, the initial notification must not be delayed pending collection of all information. Copies of the form must be placed at the location(s) on the ship from which notification may be made. BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;14&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSer07OC94.020 E:GRAPHICSER07oc94.021 BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;14&hyph;C (iii) Whom to contact. (A) This section of the plan must make reference to the appendices listing coastal state contacts, port contacts, and ship interest contacts. (B) For actual or probable discharges of oil, the reports must comply with the procedures described in MARPOL Protocol I. The reports shall be directed to either the nearest Captain of the Port (COTP) or to the National Response Center (NRC), toll free number 800&hyph;424&hyph;8802. (4) Steps to control a discharge. This section of the plan must contain a discussion of procedures to address the following scenarios: (i) Operational spills: The plan must outline procedures for removal of oil spilled and contained on deck. The plan must also provide guidance to ensure proper disposal of recovered oil and cleanup materials; (A) Pipe leakage: The plan must provide specific guidance for dealing with pipe leakage; (B) Tank overflow: The plan must include procedures for dealing with tank overflows. It must provide alternatives such as transferring cargo or bunkers to empty or slack tanks, or readying pumps to transfer the excess ashore; (C) Hull leakage: The plan must outline procedures for responding to spills due to suspected hull leakage, including guidance on measures to be taken to reduce the head of oil in the tank involved either by internal transfer or discharge ashore. Procedures to handle situations where it is not possible to identify the specific tank from which leakage is occurring must also be provided. Procedures for dealing with suspected hull fractures must be included. These procedures must take into account the effect of corrective actions on hull stress and stability. (ii) Spills resulting from casualties: Each of the casualties listed below must be treated in the plan as a separate section comprised of various checklists or other means which will ensure that the master considers all appropriate factors when addressing the specific casualty. These checklists must be tailored to the specific ship. In addition to the checklists, specific personnel assignments for anticipated tasks must be identified. Reference to existing fire control plans and muster lists is sufficient to identify personnel responsibilities in the following situations: (A) Grounding; (B) Fire or explosion; (C) Collision; (D) Hull failure; and (E) Excessive list. (iii) In addition to the checklist and personnel duty assignments required by paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, the plan must include_
