FR940617-0-00171 FR940617-0-00026 (a) The manufacturer of any nonroad engine that is certified under the averaging, banking, and trading program must establish, maintain, and retain the following adequately organized and indexed records for each such engine produced: (1) EPA engine family; (2) Engine identification number; (3) Engine model year and build date, (4) Power rating; (5) Purchaser and destination; and (6) Assembly plant. (b) The manufacturer of any nonroad engine family that is certified under the averaging, banking, and trading program must establish, maintain, and retain the following adequately organized and indexed records for each such family: (1) EPA engine family; (2) Family emission limit (FEL); (3) Power rating for each configuration tested; (4) Projected applicable production/sales volume for the model year; and (5) Actual applicable production/sales volume for the model year. (c) Any manufacturer producing an engine family participating in trading reserved credits must maintain the following records on a quarterly basis for each engine family in the trading program: (1) The engine family; (2) The actual quarterly and cumulative applicable production/sales volume; (3) The value required to calculate credits as given in §89.207&hyph;96; (4) The resulting type and number of credits generated/required; (5) How and where credit surpluses are dispersed; and (6) How and through what means credit deficits are met. (d) The manufacturer must retain all records required to be maintained under this section for a period of eight years from the due date for the end-of-model-year report. Records may be retained as hard copy or reduced to microfilm, ADP diskettes, and so forth, depending on the manufacturer's record retention procedure; provided, that in every case all information contained in the hard copy is retained. (e) Nothing in this section limits the Administrator's discretion in requiring the manufacturer to retain additional records or submit information not specifically required by this section. (f) Pursuant to a request made by the Administrator, the manufacturer must submit to the Administrator the information that the manufacturer is required to retain. (g) EPA may void ab initio under §89.126&hyph;96(c) a certificate of conformity for an engine family for which the manufacturer fails to retain the records required in this section or to provide such information to the Administrator upon request. §89.211&hyph;96 End-of-year and final reports. (a) End-of-year and final reports must indicate the engine family, the actual applicable production/sales volume, the values required to calculate credits as given in §89.207&hyph;96, and the number of credits generated/required. Manufacturers must also submit how and where credit surpluses were dispersed (or are to be banked) and/or how and through what means credit deficits were met. Copies of contracts related to credit trading must be included or supplied by the broker, if applicable. The report shall include a calculation of credit balances to show that the summation of the manufacturer's use of credits results in a credit balance equal to or greater than zero. (b) The applicable production/sales volume for end-of-year and final reports must be based on the location of the point of first retail sale (for example, retail customer, dealer, secondary manufacturer) also called the final product purchase location. (c)(1) End-of-year reports must be submitted within 90 days of the end of the model year to: Director, Manufacturers Operations Division (6405&hyph;J), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC 20460. (2) Final reports must be submitted within 270 days of the end of the model year to: Director, Manufacturers Operations Division (6405&hyph;J), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC 20460. (d) Failure by a manufacturer participating in the averaging, banking, or trading program to submit any end-of-year or final reports in the specified time for all engines is a violation of sections 203(a)(1) and 213 of the Clean Air Act for each engine. (e) A manufacturer generating credits for deposit only who fails to submit end-of-year reports in the applicable specified time period (90 days after the end of the model year) may not use the credits until such reports are received and reviewed by EPA. Use of projected credits pending EPA review is not permitted in these circumstances. (f) Errors discovered by EPA or the manufacturer in the end-of-year report, including errors in credit calculation, may be corrected in the final report up to 270 days from the end of the model year. (g) If EPA or the manufacturer determines that a reporting error occurred on an end-of-year or final report previously submitted to EPA under this section, the manufacturer's credits and credit calculations will be recalculated. Erroneous positive credits will be void except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section. Erroneous negative credit balances may be adjusted by EPA. (h) If within 270 days of the end of the model year, EPA review determines a reporting error in the manufacturer's favor (that is, resulting in an increased credit balance) or if the manufacturer discovers such an error within 270 days of the end of the model year, the credits shall be restored for use by the manufacturer. §89.212&hyph;96 Notice of opportunity for hearing. Any voiding of the certificate under §§89.203&hyph;96(f), 89.206&hyph;96(d), 89.209&hyph;96(c) and 89.210&hyph;96(g) will be made only after the manufacturer concerned has been offered an opportunity for a hearing conducted in accordance with §§89.512 and 89.513 and, if a manufacturer requests such a hearing, will be made only after an initial decision by the Presiding Officer.
