FR940111-2-00094 FR940111-2-00059 H. Surveillance The Exchange will use the same surveillance procedures currently utilized for each of the Exchange's other index options to monitor trading in Nasdaq Index options and Index LEAPS. These procedures include complete access to trading activity in the underlying securities. I. Disclaimer The CBOE has proposed placing in its Rules a disclaimer of liability made by Nasdaq and its affiliates that Nasdaq and such affiliates do not make any warranties as to the results obtained from the Nasdaq index, any opening, intra-day or closing value therefore, any related data, or any errors or delays in calculating or disseminating the Index, in connection with the trading of option contracts based on the Index. The disclaimer is similar to other disclaimers made on behalf of Standard & Poor's Frank Russell Company, and LIFFE Administration & Management, that are currently in the CBOE's Rules. 17 17 See CBOE Rule 24.14. III. Commission Findings and Conclusions The Commission has reviewed the proposal to list and trade Nasdaq Index options and Index LEAPS. As discussed below, the Commission believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange. In particular, the Index is broad-based, the proposed options are designed to reduce the potential for manipulation, and the proposal to list and trade Nasdaq Index options and Index LEAPS is consistent with the CBOE's obligation to promote investor protection. 18 The Commission finds that the trading of options on the Index, including full-value and reduced-value Index LEAPS, will permit investors to participate in the price movements of the 100 securities on which the Index is based. Further, trading of options on the Index will allow investors holding positions in some or all of the securities underlying the Index to hedge the risks associated with their portfolios. Accordingly, the Commission, believes the Nasdaq Index options will provide investors with an important trading and hedging mechanism that should reflect accurately the overall movement of 100 of the largest non-financial stocks listed on the Nasdaq National Market. By broadening the hedging and investment opportunities of investors, the Commission believes that the trading of Nasdaq Index options will serve to protect investors, promote the public interest, and contribute to the maintenance of fair and orderly markets. 19 18 The CBOE is a member of the Intermarket Surveillance Group (``ISG''), which was formed on July 14, 1983 to, among other things, coordinate more effectively surveillance and investigative information sharing arrangements in the stock and options markets. See Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, July 14, 1983. The most recent amendment to the ISG Agreement, which incorporates the original agreement and all amendments made thereafter, was signed by ISG members on January 29, 1990. See Second Amendment to the Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, January 29, 1990. The Commission understands that the ISG Agreement, as amended, covers investigations and inquiries regarding trading activity in Nasdaq Index options and component securities. 19 Pursuant to section 6(b)(5) of the Act, the Commission must predicate approval of any new option or warrant proposal upon a finding that the introduction of such new derivative instrument is in the public interest. Such a finding would be difficult for a derivative instrument that served no hedging or other economic function, because any benefits that might be derived by market participants likely would be outweighed by the potential for manipulation, diminished public confidence in the integrity of the markets, and other valid regulatory concerns. In this regard, the trading of listed options on the Nasdaq Index will provide investors with a hedging vehicle that should reflect the overall movement of 100 of the largest non-financial stocks listed on the Nasdaq National Market. The Commission also believes that these options will provide investors with a means by which to make investment decisions in the utilities equity market, allowing them to establish positions or increase existing positions in utilities stocks in a cost effective manner. The trading of options on the Nasdaq Index, including the trading of full-value and reduced-value Index LEAPS, however, raises several concerns, namely issues related to index design, customer protection, surveillance, and market impact. The Commission believes, for the reasons discussed below, that the CBOE has addressed these concerns adequately.
