FR941102-2-00107 FR941102-2-00072 1. Participants in the Exchange Privilege and Conversion Offer for the Trusts will, in the purchase and sale of units of the Trusts, be subject to the same portfolio pricing terms as are set forth in the prospectus for each Trust and will purchase and sell units of the Trusts based on the same portfolio pricing terms as all other investors who purchase and sell units of the Trusts through the Sponsors or the underwriters in regular transactions. 2. The prospectus for each Trust and any sales literature or advertisement that mentions the existence of the Exchange Privilege will disclose that the Exchange Privilege is subject to termination and that its terms are subject to change. 3. Whenever the Exchange Privilege is to be terminated or its terms are to be amended materially, any holder of a security subject to that privilege will be given prominent notice of the impending termination or amendment at last 60 days prior to the date of termination or the effective date of the amendment, provided that: (a) No such notice need be given if the only material effect of an amendment is to reduce or eliminate the sales charge payable at the time of an exchange, to add one or more new series eligible for the Exchange Privilege, or to delete a series which has terminated, and (b) No notice need be given if, under extraordinary circumstances, either_ (i) There is a suspension of the redemption of units of a Trust under section 22(e) of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, or (ii) A Trust temporarily delays or ceases the sale of its units because it is unable to invest amounts effectively in accordance with applicable investment objectives, policies and restrictions. 4. During the 60 day period described in condition 3 above, the Sponsors will maintain a secondary market in units that could be acquired by affected unitholders. 5. The applicable sales charge for the purchase of units of a Trust for Trust unitholders who wish to exercise the Exchange Privilege within the first five months from the date of their purchase of units of a Trust, where the applicable public offering price for the Trust units being purchased includes higher sales charges than the sales charges applicable to the units being exchanged, will be the greater of the reduced sales charge (up to 1.5% of the public offering price of each unit (or per 1,000 units for Mortgage Securities Trust or per 100 units for the Equity Securities Trust)), or an amount which, when coupled with the sales charge actually paid on purchase of the units being exchanged, would equal the sales charge applicable to direct purchases of the quantity of Trust units being acquired, determined as of the date of the exchange. 6. The applicable sales charge for the purchase of units of a Trust for Redemption Trust unitholders who wish to exercise the Conversion Offer within the first five months from the date of their purchase of units of a Redemption Trust, where the applicable public offering price for the Trust units being purchased includes higher sales charges than the sales charges applicable to the units being converted, will be the greater of the reduced sales charge (up to 1.5% of the price of each unit (or per 1,000 units for Mortgage Securities Trust or per 100 units for the Equity Securities Trust)), or an amount which, when coupled with the sales charge actually paid on purchase of the units being converted, would equal the sales charge applicable to direct purchases of the quantity of Trusts units being acquired, determined as of the date of the conversion. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27164 Filed 11&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
