FR940511-2-00168 FR940511-2-00108 The normal GSCC delivery process should provide members with timely delivery of their auction awards to the extent that members have net long positions consisting of auction securities. Because members could be flat or short with respect to other GSCC members and long with respect to non-GSCC dealers or their customers, GSCC will provide a mechanism for ensuring timely delivery of needed auction purchases to a member who, as a result of its secondary market trading, will have on issue date a net short or flat position, or a long position that is smaller than the amount of auction purchases that it requires. 12 Under this procedure, no later than the evening of the second business day prior to issue date, 13 each such member can request that GSCC deliver to it auction purchases made by such member on a CUSIP-by-CUSIP basis (``Priority Delivery Request''). GSCC will split such member's existing net settlement position into a long position equal to the level of the requested delivery, and an offsetting short position. For purposes of calculating a member's required clearing fund deposit, a priority delivery request will be treated as if it were a net long position if it is greater than the member's actual net long position. 12 GSCC will monitor the use of this mechanism to ensure that only members who need immediate delivery of auction securities are requesting the priority delivery. 13 For auctions that are held on the business day immediately prior to issue date, the request must be made by no later than on the auction date. GSCC will establish the following auction award delivery priorities: first to members to fulfill Priority Delivery Requests; next to members with net long positions to the extent comprised of auction purchases; and then to members with net long positions that remain unfilled, on an equal basis, in $50 million increments. 14 14 The maximum par amount of securities that can be delivered over FedWire is $50 million. GSCC delivers the securities at the maximum amount for operational ease, to provide a more efficient method to distribute securities. f. Participant Failure In the event that a member with an auction award fails, on or prior to issue date, GSCC could incur a loss above the amount of collateral it holds from that member in liquidating the member's positions. The Treasury will not be liable for assessment for any loss that occurs as a result of the auction purchase. Instead, pursuant to its arrangement with the Treasury, GSCC will have the right to refuse delivery from a Federal Reserve Bank on issue date of all or a portion of the auction purchases of a GSCC member if certain conditions exist. A netting member who made the auction purchase in a CUSIP must remain in a long position in that CUSIP. GSCC must have reasonable cause to believe, based on the information it has received, that the member cannot or will not timely take delivery of and fully pay for auction purchase amounts due it from GSCC. GSCC must have determined from its analysis and prevailing market conditions that there is reasonable cause to believe that, if it were to liquidate the member's position, GSCC would incur a loss that would not be covered by the margin deposited by the member with GSCC and/or profits from the liquidation of other positions of the member. GSCC can specify the amount of auction purchases on which it will not take delivery, which amount may not exceed the member's net long position in that CUSIP. GSCC must notify the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank, in a mutually acceptable manner, of its exercise of this right by no later than 8:30 a.m. New York time on the relevant issue date. The failing member will remain responsible for the payment of such securities pursuant to the terms established by the Treasury. If GSCC incurs a residual loss as the result of the liquidation of a member's auction purchase, the loss will be allocated in the same manner as any other allocation of loss. The loss will be spread among all of the netting members that the failed member did business with on or prior to the day of default. 2. Locked-In Trades The proposed rule change establishes a facility permitting GSCC to treat trade data received from designated sources other than a Federal Reserve Bank, such as exchanges or clearing corporations, as locked-in trades. 15 15 Proposals to extend this facility to organizations other than Federal Reserve Banks should be submitted for Commission review under section 19(b) of the Act prior to establishing links with other locked-in trade sources. a. Reporting of Locked-In Trade Data GSCC will accept trade data from a locked-in trade source without matching it with data provided by a member. GSCC will report these locked-in trades to members as part of its daily comparison output. For purposes of GSCC's rules, locked-in trades will be considered as compared trades and will be as valid, binding, and enforceable as comparisons issued based on a match of corresponding data submitted to GSCC by two members. Each member that makes an eligible locked-in trade will be obligated to provide GSCC with authorization for GSCC to receive data on the locked-in trade from the locked-in trade source. A locked-in trade source can correct or delete a previously submitted trade by providing appropriate instructions to GSCC. If the locked-in trade source is not a party to the trade, GSCC may delete or correct the data upon receipt of matching instructions from each member that is a party to the trade.
