FR940429-0-00101 FR940429-0-00012 (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099a&hyph;3) Subpart B_Allotment Formula and Funding Procedures §667.11 Allotment formula. (a) For each fiscal year for which funds are appropriated to carry out this part, the Secretary_ (1) Allots $30,000 to Guam, $30,000 to American Samoa, $30,000 to the Northern Mariana Islands, $30,000 to the Virgin Islands, and $30,000 to the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands; (2) Calculates each remaining State's allotment of the remaining funds under paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and (3) Notifies each State of its allotment. (b) Except for the funds allotted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section to Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Secretary allots to a State those remaining funds appropriated to carry out this part by_ (1) Determining the percentage of institutions participating in a title IV, HEA program that are in each State by dividing the number of institutions located in that State that are certified to participate in a title IV, HEA program by the total number of institutions that are certified to participate in all States; (2) For the latest award year for which information is available, determining the percentage of title IV, HEA program funds by dividing the total amount of title IV, HEA program funds that were made available to students who enrolled in the institutions in that State that participate in a title IV, HEA program, or to those students' parents, by the total amount of title IV, HEA program funds that were made available to students, or to those student's parents, who enrolled in institutions that participate in a title IV, HEA program in all States; (3) Averaging the two percentages determined in paragraph (b) (1) and (2) of this section; (4) Calculating an ``initial distribution'' by multiplying the average percentage determined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section by the amount appropriated to carry out this part, less the total amount allotted to Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands; (5)(i) Determining which States receive less than $75,000 under the initial distribution; (ii) Providing each of those States with $75,000; and (iii) Calculating the difference between the $75,000 provided to each of those States and those States' initial distribution; (6)(i) Determining which States receive more than $75,000 under the initial distribution; and (ii) Calculating the difference between each of those States' initial distribution and $75,000; (7) Calculating a ``reduction percentage'' by dividing the total amount obtained in paragraph (b)(5)(iii) of this section by the total amount obtained in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section; and (8) Reducing the initial distribution of each State in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section by the product of the amount obtained in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section and the reduction percentage in paragraph (b)(7) of this section. (c) If the Secretary determines that a SPRE will not spend its entire allotment during the period for which those funds are made available, or if a SPRE does not spend its allotment by the end of the period for which those funds are made available, the Secretary reallots those funds to other SPREs_ (1) For unanticipated and extraordinary legal expenses; or (2) In a manner the Secretary determines best carries out the purposes of the State Postsecondary Review Program. (d) Federal and State matching funds under the SSIG and NEISP programs are excluded from the calculations in this section. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099a&hyph;1099a&hyph;3) §667.12 Application for funds. (a)(1) General. For each fiscal year for which funds are appropriated to carry out this part, a State that has entered into an agreement with the Secretary under §667.3 shall apply to the Secretary to receive its allotment. The State's application must contain the information required in paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section, as appropriate. The Secretary publishes in the Federal Register the date by which a State must submit its application. (2) Established review standards. A State has established review standards if those standards met the requirements in §667.21 and the Secretary did not disapprove those standards under §667.22. (b) Application before standards are established. (1) If a State has not established review standards, to receive its allotment, the State_ (i) Must submit a plan to develop_ (A) The review standards described in §667.21, in consultation with the institutions in that State. The plan must describe the manner in which consultation will take place; and (B) The procedures for receiving and responding to complaints from students, faculty, and others regarding institutions in the State, in consultation with institutions in that State. The plan must describe the manner in which consultation will take place; (ii) May submit a plan to_ (A) Identify information maintained by institutions and State agencies, other than the information institutions are required to maintain under the Student Right-to-Know and Campus Security Act, that is relevant to developing the State review standards; (B) Identify systems in which the information described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section is maintained; and
