FR940317-1-00075 FR940317-1-00013 (c) Companion claim. When two or more claims arising from the same incident are by reason of differences in amounts within the monetary jurisdiction of different approval or settlement authorities, all such claims will be forwarded to the authority having jurisdiction over the claim presented in the greatest amount. This authority may either settle the claims or return the claim to the appropriate field claims office for settlement in accordance with his or her guidance. (1) The same procedure will be followed when a potential claim exists in an amount estimated to be beyond the jurisdiction of the approval or settlement authority actually considering the matter. For example, the foregoing applies when a small subrogated property damage claim is received arising from an incident in which severe personal injury or death has occurred but to which no claim has yet been filed. In a case of clear liability, authorization to settle the claim within the monetary jurisdiction of the requesting officer may be obtained telephonically or by other expeditious means. (2) Similarly, where there is a claim for property damage and no evidence (for example, police report, report of survey, collateral accident investigation, and witness interviews) of personal injury, the property damage claim may be settled by the authority having jurisdiction. However, where there is evidence of personal injury, the foregoing caveat regarding settlement and payment of lesser claims will apply. In such instances the claimant will be informed that settlement of a property damage claim will preclude settlement of a subsequently filed personal injury claim and vice versa. (See ยง536.176 on personnel claims and ยง537.32 on companion claims in litigation.) (d) Property claim of a claims authority or superior. A claim arising from loss or damage to the property of an approval or settlement authority or his or her superior officer in the chain of command will be forwarded without recommendation to the next higher settlement authority (in the case of a division, this would be a corps level settlement authority; in an overseas area, this includes a command claims service) or to USARCS. ยง536.32 Settlement agreement. (a) General. (1) Except under subpart K, if a claim is determined to be meritorious in an amount less than claimed, or if a claim involving personal injuries or death is approved in full, a settlement agreement will be obtained prior to payment. A settlement agreement may be required in other instances when, in the opinion of the adjudicating authority, good legal practice so dictates; for example, where family or other multiple interests may be involved. (2) A DA Form 1666 may be used for settlement of claims under the FTCA for less than $2,500 and for all other claims payable from Army funds. Claims payable in excess of $2500 under the FTCA will be settled using Standard Form 1145, Voucher for Payment Under the Federal Tort Claims Act. In some cases a special settlement agreement may be necessary to reflect the full understanding of the parties. However, all such special agreements should incorporate the language of the acceptance block on the Standard Form 1145. (3) Acceptance by a claimant of an award under subparts C and K constitutes a full and final settlement and release of any and all claims against the United States and against the military or civilian personnel whose act or omission gave rise to the claim. The claimant should be so advised prior to the initiation of negotiations. Where this is done orally and the claimant is unrepresented, a memorandum of the conversation should be placed in the file and a copy furnished to the claimant. Also, settlement negotiations with unrepresented claimants should also be preserved in the form of memoranda retained in the file with a copy furnished to the claimant. While a settlement agreement is not required in claims adjudicated under subpart K, the settlement authority approving payment may require one at his or her discretion. (b) Claims involving minors. (1) Generally, only a court-appointed guardian of the estate of a minor, or a person performing a similar function under the supervision of a court, can execute a binding settlement agreement relative to a minor's claim. Therefore, a guardian of the estate of the minor or similar functionary must be appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction and must execute a settlement agreement before a claim is approved and paid. (See ยง536.35.) However, this requirement can be eliminated and the settlement agreement can be signed by a parent, next-of-kin, or a friend if the contemplated payment is small and the cost of obtaining a court-appointed guardian would materially deplete the award. (2) In foreign countries where the amount agreed to does not exceed $2,500.00, the requirement for obtaining a guardian may be eliminated. However, in areas where the FTCA (subpart D) applies, local law should be consulted as a basis for determining whether a court appointed guardian should be required. The requirement to appoint a guardian should not be imposed until a particular claim is determined to be meritorious in an amount that would require the appointment of a guardian. The claimant should be advised of this requirement well in advance of settlement negotiations so that the cost of establishing guardianship can be considered by the claimant as a factor in evaluating the claim. This requirement also can be eliminated if local law authorizes or requires a claim such as for the death of a parent of the minor, to be presented on behalf of the estate of the decedent by an administrator, administratrix, or the like. In such cases, a settlement agreement signed by the administrator, administratrix, or the like will suffice if, under local law, such action is binding on the minor.
