FR941216-1-00004 FR941216-1-00001 The authority citation for these proposed special conditions is as follows: Authority: 49 U.S.C. app. 1344, 1348(c), 1352, 1354(a), 1355, 1421 through 1431, 1502, 1651(b)(2), 42 U.S.C. 1857f&hyph;10, 4321 et seq.; E.O. 11514; and 49 U.S.C. 106(g). The Proposed Special Conditions Accordingly, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) proposes the following special conditions as part of the type certification basis for the Dassault Aviation Model Falcon 2000 airplane. (a) General: An ATTCS is defined as the entire automatic system, including all devices, both mechanical and electrical, that sense engine failure, transmit signals, actuate fuel controls or power levers, or increase engine power by other means on operating engines to achieve scheduled thrust or power increases and furnish cockpit information on system operation. (b) Automatic takeoff thrust control system (ATTCS). The engine power control system that automatically resets the power or thrust on the operating engine (following engine failure during the approach for landing) must comply with the following requirements: (1) Performance and System Reliability Requirements. The probability analysis must include consideration of ATTCS failure occurring after the time at which the fightcrew last verifies that the ATTCS is in a condition to operate until the beginning of the critical time interval. (2) Thrust Setting. The initial takeoff thrust set on each engine at the beginning of the takeoff roll or go-around may not be less than: (i) Ninety (90) percent of the thrust level set by the ATTCS (the maximum takeoff thrust or power approved for the airplane under existing ambient conditions); (ii) That required to permit normal operating of all safety-related systems and equipment dependent upon engine thrust or power lever position; or (iii) That shown to be free of hazardous engine response characteristics when thrust is advanced from the initial takeoff thrust or power to the maximum approved takeoff thrust or power. (3) Powerplant Controls. In addition to the requirements of ยง25.1141, no single failure or malfunction, or probable combination thereof, of the ATTCS, including associated systems, may cause the failure of any powerplant function necessary for safety. The ATTCS must be designed to: (i) Apply thrust or power on the operating engine(s), following any one engine failure during takeoff or go-around, to achieve the maximum approved takeoff thrust or power without exceeding engine operating limits; and (ii) Provide a means to verify to the flightcrew before takeoff and before beginning an approach for landing that the ATTCS is in a condition to operate. (c) Critical Time Interval. The definition of the Critical Time Interval in Appendix I, Section 125.2(b) shall be expanded to include the following: (1) When conducting an approach for landing using ATTCS, the critical time interval is defined as follows: (i) The critical time interval begins at a point on a 2.5 degree approach glide path from which, assuming a simultaneous engine and ATTCS failure, the resulting approach climb flight path intersects a flight path originating at a later point on the same approach path corresponding to the Part 25 one-engine-inoperative approach climb gradient. The period of time from the point of simultaneous engine and ATTCS failure to the intersection of these flight paths must be no shorter than the time interval used in evaluating the critical time interval for takeoff beginning from the point of simultaneous engine and ATTCS failure and ending upon reaching a height of 400 feet. (ii) The critical time interval ends at the point on a minimum performance, all-engines-operating go-around flight path from which, assuming a simultaneous engine and ATTCS failure, the resulting minimum approach climb flight path intersects a flight path corresponding to the Part 25 minimum one-engine-inoperative approach climb gradient. The all-engines-operating go-around flight path and the Part 25 one-engine-inoperative approach climb gradient flight path originate from a common point on a 2.5 degree approach path. The period of time from the point of simultaneous engine and ATTCS failure to the intersection of these flight paths must be no shorter than the time interval used in evaluating the critical time interval for the takeoff beginning from the point of simultaneous engine and ATTCS failure and ending upon reaching a height of 400 feet. (2) The critical time interval must be determined at the altitude resulting in the longest critical time interval for which one-engine-inoperative approach climb performance data are presented in the Airplane Flight Manual. (3) The critical time interval is illustrated in the following figure: BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M E:GRAPHICSEP16DE94.070 BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;C *The engine and ATTCS failed time interval must be no shorter than the time interval from the point of simultaneous engine and ATTCS failure to a height of 400 feet used to comply with I25.2(b) for ATTCS use during takeoff. Issued in Renton, Washington, on December 2, 1994. Darrell M. Pederson, Acting Manager Transport Airplane Directorate Aircraft Certification Service, ANM&hyph;100. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30955 Filed 12&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
