FR940804-0-00085 FR940804-0-00023 The substantive prohibitions and coverage of title I, title II, and section 504 overlap to a significant extent. There is, therefore, a potential for duplicative efforts by the many Federal agencies responsible for ensuring compliance with these laws in their processing of complaints. Thus, pursuant to section 107(b) of the ADA, the Department and the Commission are promulgating this joint final rule to establish procedures for coordinating the processing of complaints that fall within the overlapping jurisdiction of section 504 and title I of the ADA. For convenience and clarity in processing complaints, this rule also incorporates the provisions established by the Department's title II rule at 28 CFR 35.171(b)(2)&hyph;(3) for coordinating the processing of complaints against public entities: (i) that fall within the jurisdiction of title II and title I (but are not covered by section 504); and (ii) that are covered by title II, but not title I (whether or not they are also covered by section 504). This reiteration of title II procedures does not amend or change the title II regulation as previously published. The Commission does not express an opinion on the title II procedures set forth herein, since they merely repeat a previously published regulation over which the Commission has no direct authority. The Commission and the Department of Labor also have published joint rules implementing section 107(b) of the ADA as it pertains to title I and section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act. See 29 CFR part 1641, 41 CFR part 60&hyph;742 (57 FR 2960, January 24, 1992). Analysis of Comments and Revisions Overview The Commission received ten comments in response to a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) published jointly with the Department of Justice on April 21, 1992. 57 FR 14630. In addition, the Commission received comments from various affected Federal agencies on both the proposed regulation and on the draft final regulation, pursuant to interagency coordination under Executive Order 12067. The Commission and the Department of Justice have carefully considered all of the comments and made various revisions in response to them. A number of commenters expressed reservations about the feasibility of the procedures set forth in the NPRM and suggested various alternative procedures. Several commenters strongly urged that procedures similar to those set forth in the regulation promulgated to coordinate processing of complaints of employment discrimination filed against recipients of federal financial assistance be adopted. See 28 CFR part 42; 29 CFR part 1691 (hereinafter, the title VI/title VII regulation). The title VI/title VII regulation established procedures for handling complaints of employment discrimination filed against recipients of Federal financial assistance subject to title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, the State and Local Fiscal Assistance Act of 1972, as amended, and other provisions of Federal law that prohibit discrimination on grounds of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin, in programs or activities receiving Federal financial assistance, when there is overlapping jurisdiction under title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Under the NPRM's ``first filed approach,'' the EEOC and any section 504 agency with jurisdiction over a charge or complaint would process those charges or complaints that were actually filed with it, pursuant to title I of the ADA or section 504, respectively. In the case of a charge or complaint that was physically filed with both the EEOC and a section 504 agency with jurisdiction, the agency that first received the complaint or charge would process it, absent special circumstances, while the second agency would defer processing pending the conclusion of the first agency's investigation. Numerous section 504 agencies expressed concern about the practical difficulties inherent in the NPRM's approach, including ascertaining which agency actually received a charge or complaint first in the case of a charge or complaint filed with both the EEOC and a section 504 agency. Accordingly, as suggested by a number of commenters, the final regulation adopts an approach similar to that of the title VI/title VII regulation. Under the final rule, a complaint solely alleging employment discrimination against a single individual (hereinafter, an individual complaint) that is filed with a section 504 agency with jurisdiction over the complaint will ordinarily be transferred to the EEOC for processing, unless the complainant specifically requests processing by the section 504 agency. Section 504 agencies, however, will retain for processing any complaints that allege: (i) a pattern or practice of discrimination in employment; or (ii) discrimination both in employment and in other services or practices of a respondent that are covered by section 504. For a comprehensive analysis of the new procedures, see the discussion of ยง XX .6, below. The NPRM presented two options regarding the legal standard to be applied by section 504 agencies, and the preamble to the NPRM discussed the rationale for each option. Although numerous comments on these options were received in response to the NPRM, recent amendments to the Rehabilitation Act have resolved this issue. See section 506 of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992, Pub. L. 102&hyph;569, 106 Stat. 4344. Therefore, as provided in that amendment, the final regulation directs section 504 agencies to apply the standards of title I of the ADA. See the discussion of ยง XX .12, below. Commenters also requested that time frames for the processing of complaints be added to the final regulation. Because, in certain cases, individual agencies may have requirements that preclude meeting fixed time frames for certain stages of the complaint investigation process, this suggestion has not been adopted. For example, when disclosure of the complainant's identity is necessary for the investigation of a section 504 or title II complaint, the Department requires receipt of a signed consent form from the complainant prior to notifying a respondent that the Department has received a complaint of discrimination. Therefore, the final regulation retains the more general requirement that agencies act promptly and in accordance with applicable law. Various commenters also noted the inefficiency of the requirement that a section 504 agency refer a complaint to the Civil Rights Division for a determination of jurisdiction when the agency does not have section 504 jurisdiction, but does have title II jurisdiction. In response, the regulation has been revised to require that a complaint be referred to the Civil Rights Division only when the section 504 agency that initially receives the complaint has neither section 504 nor title II jurisdiction.
