FR941122-0-00097 FR941122-0-00014 Tuesday November 22, 1994 Part IX Department of Justice Bureau of Prisons 28 CFR Part 551 Pretrial Inmates; Final Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 224␣/␣Tuesday, November 22, 1994␣/␣Rules and Regulations DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE Bureau of Prisons 28 CFR Part 551 [BOP&hyph;1001&hyph;F] RIN 1120&hyph;AA00 Pretrial Inmates AGENCY: Bureau of Prisons, Justice. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: In this document, the Bureau of Prisons is amending its rule on Pretrial Inmates. Changes made in this amendment include the addition of provisions for the review of the pretrial inmate's status, the replacement of references to waiver of separation, and a revision of the definition of ``pretrial inmate'' to clarify that the definition does not include an inmate who is awaiting sentence once the Bureau has received notification of the conviction. This document also makes several other procedural, editorial, and nomenclature changes. This amendment is intended to update Bureau of Prisons policy regarding pretrial inmates. EFFECTIVE DATE: November 22, 1994. ADDRESSES: Office of General Counsel, Bureau of Prisons, HOLC Room 754, 320 First Street, NW., Washington, DC 20534. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Roy Nanovic, Office of General Counsel, Bureau of Prisons, phone (202) 514&hyph;6655. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Bureau of Prisons is amending its rule on Pretrial Inmates. A final rule on this subject was published in the Federal Register November 13, 1980 (45 FR 75133). For the convenience of the reader, the entire text of the rule is being published. A summary of the changes follows. The subpart has been revised to remove gender-specific references. In addition, various editorial and conforming amendments (such as revising ``pre-trial'' to read ``pretrial'') have been made as necessary. These editorial and conforming amendments make no change in the intent of the regulations. Section 551.100 is revised for the sake of clarity and to include a statement that pretrial inmates will be separated, to the extent practicable, from convicted inmates. The practicability of separation is contingent upon the design, structure, and operation of the individual institution. Where it is not practicable to keep all pretrial inmates separate, after intake screening and assessment, Bureau staff may, based upon sound correctional judgment, permit inmates who do not present a risk to the security or orderly running of the institution to have regular contact with convicted inmates. As part of its mandate to provide for the care, custody, control, treatment, and instruction of inmates, the Bureau provides a range of programming opportunities to convicted inmates. These programming opportunities may be made available to pretrial inmates if staff determine that such would be consistent with institution security and good order. Pretrial inmates will have the opportunity to discuss separation needs with staff during intake screening and reviews. Previously, the Bureau provided for inmates to request a waiver of separation. Under this former procedure, Bureau staff were still responsible for making the determination to maintain or not to maintain separation for pretrial inmates. This revision, therefore, does not lessen the Bureau's commitment to provide for the safety of pretrial inmates. Section 551.101 is revised and reorganized for the sake of clarity. New paragraph (a) introductory text is revised to clarify that ``pretrial inmate'' means a person who is legally detained but for whom the Bureau has not received notification of conviction. A person who has pleaded or been found guilty and who is awaiting sentence is not considered to be a pretrial inmate once the Bureau has received notification of conviction. This change is consistent with the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 3142(i)(2) which states that pretrial inmates are to be kept separate, to the extent practicable, from persons awaiting or serving sentences. New paragraph (a)(1) substitutes the phrase ``deportable alien'' for ``detained alien'' to better clarify the intent of this paragraph. New paragraph (a)(2) specifies which types of mental health commitments under 18 U.S.C. Chapter 313 should be considered as pretrial inmates. Inmates who have been committed to the Bureau for long-term custody and who are not awaiting further court proceedings are not considered to be pretrial inmates. Former paragraph (a)(2) is reworded and redesignated as new paragraph (a)(3). Paragraph (b) is revised to remove administrative references to the Judgment and Commitment form. The sentencing court uses that form to provide notice of conviction to the Bureau, ordinarily following imposition of sentence. Procedures for receiving notice of conviction are included in implementing instructions to staff.
