FR941107-2-00153 FR941107-2-00088 The current procedures require that MOC orders in any stock related to a strategy involving derivative index products be entered for execution by 3:40 p.m. and that no cancellation or reduction of any MOC order in any stock take place after 3:40 p.m. In addition, Floor brokers representing orders related to a strategy involving derivative index products must indicate their MOC interest to the specialist by 3:40 p.m. However, a Floor broker who is handling a working order that is not derivative-related, may continue to work that order until just before the close, and if so instructed by his or her customer, may turn the unfilled balance over to the specialist for execution at the market at the close. For the pilot stocks, a single publication of imbalances of 50,000 shares or more is made as soon as practicable after 3:40 p.m. After the imbalance publication, MOC orders in the pilot stocks may be entered only to offset a published imbalance. The entry of MOC orders after 3:40 p.m. to establish or liquidate positions related to a strategy involving derivative instruments is not permitted even if such orders might offset published imbalances. The auxiliary procedures utilized for expiration days have been approved as a pilot on a yearly basis and are due to expire on October 31, 1994. These procedures have been effective in minimizing excess volatility on the close on expiration days. The Exchange recommends that the procedures described above be extended to October 31, 1995. The Exchange continues to believe, however, that concerns about excess market volatility that may be associated with the expiration or settlement of derivative index products would be most appropriately addressed if the expiration or settlement value of all such products were based on the NYSE opening rather than the closing price on the last business day prior to the expiration or settlement of the product. 2. Statutory Basis The basis under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the ``Act'') for the proposed rule change is the requirement under section 6(b)(5) that an Exchange have rules that are designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments to, and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants or Others The Exchange has neither solicited nor received written comments on the proposed rule change. III. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. ยง552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NYSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;32 and should be submitted by November 28, 1994.
