FR940325-1-00097 FR940325-1-00008 (a) The BLM may enter into a cooperative range improvement agreement with any person, organization, or other government entity for the installation, use, maintenance, and/or modification of range improvements or rangeland developments to achieve management or resource condition objectives. The cooperative range improvement agreement shall specify how the costs or labor, or both, shall be divided between the United States and cooperator(s). (b) Subject to valid rights existing on (The Effective Date of the Final Rule will be Inserted here), the United States shall have title to all permanent structural range improvements made on public lands. (c) The permittee or lessee may retain title to temporary structural range improvements such as loading chutes, corrals and water troughs for hauled water if no part of the cost for improvement was borne by the United States. (d) The United States shall have title to nonstructural range improvements such as seeding, spraying, and chaining. (e) Range improvement work performed by a cooperator or permittee on the public lands or lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management does not confer the exclusive right to use the improvement or the land affected by the range improvement work. 34. Section 4120.3&hyph;3 is amended by revising the first sentence of paragraph (a), and paragraphs (b) and (c) to read as follows: §4120.3&hyph;3 Range improvement permits. (a) Any permittee or lessee may apply for a range improvement permit to install, use, maintain, and/or modify range improvements that are needed to achieve management objectives established for the allotment in which the permit or lease is held. *␣*␣* (b) The permittee or lessee may hold the title to authorized removable range improvements used as livestock handling facilities such as corrals, creep feeders and loading chutes, and to temporary improvements such as troughs for hauled water. Title to permanent range improvements authorized after (The Effective Date of the Final Rule will be Inserted here), will be in the United States. After (The Effective Date of the Rule will be Inserted here), the authorization for new permanent water developments such as spring developments, wells, reservoirs, stock tanks, and pipelines shall be through cooperative range improvement agreements. A permittee's or lessee's interest for contributed funds, labor, and materials shall be documented by the authorized officer to ensure proper credit for the purposes of §§4120.3&hyph;5 and 4120.3&hyph;6(c). (c) Where a permittee or lessee cannot make use of the forage available for livestock and an application for temporary nonuse or conservation use has been denied or the opportunity to make use of the available forage is requested by the authorized officer, the permittee or lessee shall cooperate with the temporary authorized use of forage by another operator, when it is authorized by the authorized officer following consultation with the preference permittee(s) or lessee(s). (1) A permittee or lessee shall be reasonably compensated for the use and maintenance of improvements and facilities by the operator who has an authorization for temporary grazing use. (2) The authorized officer may mediate disputes about reasonable compensation and, following consultation with the interested parties, make a determination concerning the fair and reasonable share of operation and maintenance expenses and compensation for use of authorized improvements and facilities. (3) Where a settlement cannot be reached, the authorized officer shall issue a temporary grazing authorization including appropriate terms and conditions and the requirement to compensate the preference permittee or lessee for the fair share of operation and maintenance as determined by the authorized officer under subpart 4160 of this part.
