FR941011-1-00029 FR941011-1-00012 42.1303 Applicability. (a) The specific requirements of this subpart apply to the extent specified by the agency responsible for contract administration. (b) This subpart applies to the total contractor organization or a separate entity of it such as an affiliate, division, or subdivision that performs its own compensation system administration. (c) This subpart does not apply to small businesses; those portions of contractor compensation systems that cover employees whose compensation is subject to collective bargaining agreements; or educational institutions and nonprofit organizations, unless the Office of Management and Budget has authorized such entities to use the commercial cost principles in Subpart 31.2. (d) All contractors who receive prime contracts or subcontracts must have a compensation system which conforms to the standards at 42.1304, except when all contracts and subcontracts are_ (1) Awarded under the set-aside, or section 8(a), procedures of Part 19; (2) Less than the small purchase threshold set forth in 13.000; or (3) Other than cost type contracts or fixed-price contracts covered by 31.102. 42.1304 General. (a) Compensation system reviews are conducted to ensure that contractor compensation systems comply with the policies in 42.1302. (b) Compensation systems may be appropriately tailored, as determined by the contracting officer, based on the size of the contractor. As a minimum, such systems should_ (1) Adequately describe the policies, procedures, and operating instructions regarding_ (i) Design and operation of job analysis and job evaluation processes, wage and salary pay structure(s), and performance appraisal and merit pay systems; (ii) Pay policies, bases, and methods used to formulate pay increases and starting rates; (iii) Approval levels, guidelines, and supporting documentation for all compensation actions; and (iv) Compliance with laws, regulations, and contract requirements. (2) Have jobs which_ (i) Are defined with valid, up-to-date documentation; (ii) Have accurate job evaluation documentation; (iii) Are accurately assigned to a job grade or level as determined by job evaluation results; and (iv) Assure that pay rates are competitive with comparable external labor market average pay rates (i.e., are based on relevant labor market survey data obtained, analyzed, and compared with the contractor's benchmark jobs, including the five jobs with the highest aggregate cost impact on the contractor). (3) Not exceed the average of benchmark job pay rates within job grades or levels by more than 10 percent of the average of relevant labor market data without justification that there is no material harm to the Government; (4) Require periodic internal reviews of policy compliance, administrative process measures, adequacy of documentation, and reports to management on the results of reviews and recommendations for improvements, and require corrective action plans to be developed, implemented, and tested; and (5) Provide audit trails and maintain records necessary to evaluate and to verify through testing that the system is operating as desired. 42.1305 Responsibilities. (a) The administrative contracting officer (ACO) will neither approve nor disapprove a contractor's compensation system, but only determine whether it adequately conforms to the standards set forth in 42.1304.
