FR940621-2-00077 FR940621-2-00051 AT&T Management Pension Plan and AT&T Pension Plan (the AT&T Plans), and BellSouth Management Pension Plan and BellSouth Pension Plan (the BellSouth Plans; collectively, the Plans). Located in Morristown, New Jersey. [Application Nos. D&hyph;9607, D&hyph;9608, D&hyph;9609, D&hyph;9610]. Proposed Exemption The Department is considering granting an exemption under the authority of section 408(a) of the Act and section 4975(c)(2) of the Code and in accordance with the procedures set forth in 29 CFR Part 2570, Subpart B (55 FR 32836, 32847, August 10, 1990). If the exemption is granted the restrictions of sections 406(a), 406 (b)(1) and (b)(2) of the Act and the sanctions resulting from the application of section 4975 of the Code, by reason of section 4975(c)(1) (A) through (E) of the Code, shall not apply, effective June 3, 1993, to the past and proposed lease (the Lease) by the Plans, through the Telephone Real Estate Equity Trust (TREET), of office space in Southpark C, a commercial office building in Austin, Texas, to American Telephone and Telegraph Co. (AT&T), one of the sponsors of the Plans; provided that the following conditions are satisfied: (A) The interests of TREET for all purposes under the Lease are represented by Hill Partners, which is independent of and unrelated to AT&T, serving as a fiduciary under the Act; (B) At all times under the Lease, AT&T pays TREET rent of no less than the fair market rental value of the Property; and (C) All terms and conditions of the Lease are at least as favorable to TREET as those which TREET could obtain in arm's-length transactions with unrelated parties; EFFECTIVE DATE: This exemption, if granted, will be effective as of June 3, 1993. Summary of Facts and Representations 1. The AT&T Plans are defined benefit pension plans sponsored by the American Telephone & Telegraph Company (AT&T), a New York public corporation engaged in a wide variety of nationwide and international telecommunications services, including the design, manufacture, marketing and servicing of transmission and switching equipment, silicon chip products, electronic components, computers and software, and products and services for the U.S. Department of Defense and related agencies. The BellSouth Plans are defined benefit pension plans sponsored by BellSouth, a Georgia public corporation created by the reorganization of AT&T in 1984. BellSouth is engaged in the furnishing of exchange telecommunications and exchange access service within specific geographic areas of the southern United States, directory advertising and publishing, marketing of customer premises telecommunications equipment, the provision of advanced mobile communications services using cellular technology, and other miscellaneous business activities. 2. TREET is a group trust which is utilized for the investment on an undivided basis of certain real estate assets of the Plans, resulting from the reorganization of AT&T and its subsidiaries pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization (the Reorganization) approved by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in the matter of U.S. v. Western Electric Co., Inc., et.al (Civil Action No. 82&hyph;1092). The assets of the Plans' predecessor plans had been held in trusts established for the Bell System Pension Plan (the BSPP) and the Bell System Management Pension Plan (the BSMPP). On January 1, 1984, the trusts for the BSPP and the BSMPP were merged into the Bell System Trust (the BST). Substantially all of the non-real estate assets in the BST were transferred to a new AT&T trust. The real estate assets were retained in the BST, which was amended and restated as TREET. The original participants in TREET were employee benefit plans maintained by various separate companies resulting from the Reorganization (the New Companies' Plans), each of which agreed that interests in TREET would be bought and sold only among the participating plans. Buying and selling of interests in TREET has occurred among the Bell Companies' Plans in such manner that the AT&T Plans and the BellSouth Plans are the only New Companies' Plans which continue to own participating interests in TREET. As of December 31, 1992, TREET had net assets of approximately $2,637,276,588. Currently, the only participants in TREET are the AT&T Master Pension Trust, which holds the assets of the AT&T Plans, and the BellSouth Master Pension Trust, which holds the assets of the BellSouth Plans. On January 1, 1993, the assets of seventeen defined benefit plans sponsored by the NCR Corporation (NCR) were added to the AT&T Master Pension Trust, as a result of AT&T's acquisition of NCR. 3. As named fiduciary of TREET, AT&T has utilized more than a hundred independent trustees and investment managers to manage TREET assets, including Karsten Realty Advisors (Karsten). Karsten is a California corporation operating as an investment adviser registered under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940, as amended. With its headquarters in Los Angeles, Karsten engages in rendering advice with respect to the acquisition, management, financing and disposition of real properties in many locations on behalf of approximately 18 pension funds and other clients. As of December 31, 1993, Karsten had approximately $600 million in assets under its management, including approximately $500 million in tax-exempt assets. Karsten's services to TREET include the supervision of property managers and leasing agents and the provision of recommendations regarding sales or other dispositions of properties. On February 1, 1994, the assets of Karsten were acquired by Koll Realty Advisors (Koll), which assumed Karsten's obligations with respect to TREET. Koll is a California corporation functioning as an investment adviser registered under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940, as amended. AT&T represents that it is unaffiliated with Karsten and Koll, and that Karsten and Koll are each ``qualified professional asset managers'' within the meaning of Prohibited Transaction Class Exemption 84&hyph;14 (PTE 84&hyph;14, 49 FR 9494, March 13, 1984). Among TREET's assets which have been under Karsten's management is Southpark, a commercial office development in which AT&T was a lessee at the time TREET acquired it. AT&T is requesting an exemption for its past and proposed lease of space in Southpark from TREET under the terms and conditions described herein. 4. During 1981, the Mercantile Real Estate Fund for Employee Benefit Plans (the Mercantile Fund) extended a line of credit in the amount of $5,641,000 (the Loan) to real estate developer Crowe-Simmons-Gottesman (Crowe) to finance the development of several commercial buildings which included Southpark, an office complex located in the Crowe Industrial Park South in Austin, Texas. The Loan was secured by a non-recourse promissory note (the Note) and by a deed of trust granting the Mercantile Fund a security interest in the three office buildings of Southpark, designated as Southpark A, B and C (the Deed of Trust). The Loan was also secured by an assignment of building rents from Southpark A, B and C. AT&T represents that the parties to the Loan are independent of an unrelated to TREET and AT&T.
