FR940920-1-00080 FR940920-1-00008 A. Air Impacts The air emission reductions discussed below, as well as all other impacts discussed in today's proposal, are nationwide impacts that would result from full implementation of the guidelines and are relative to the current baseline MWC population, considering in-place air pollution control devices. These are not incremental impacts relative to the February 11, 1991 emission guidelines. The total impacts are presented because the February 11, 1991 guidelines have not been implemented and are being significantly altered by today's proposal. Under today's proposed emission guidelines, nationwide emissions of total dioxins/furans would be reduced by about 157 kilograms per year (kg/yr) compared with emissions in the absence of nationwide guidelines. Emissions of dioxins/furans on a TEQ basis would be reduced by about 2,620 grams per year (g/yr). This represents a nationwide reduction of about 99 percent compared to baseline levels in the absence of the guidelines. Remaining nationwide dioxin/furan emissions would be about 42 g/yr TEQ. Nationwide emissions of PM would be decreased by about 3,100 megagrams per year (Mg/yr) compared with levels in the absence of emission guidelines. This represents a reduction of just under 50 percent compared to baseline levels in the absence of nationwide guidelines. In combination with baseline control, this would represent greater than 99-percent PM control. Emissions of Cd would be reduced by about 6 Mg/yr, Pb would be reduced by about 91 Mg/yr, and Hg would be reduced by about 48 Mg/yr. These emission reductions represent decreases of about 70 to 80 percent for each of these three metals. In combination with baseline control, this would represent greater than 99-percent control for Cd and Pb and greater than 80-percent control for Hg. Nationwide emissions of SO 2 and HCl would be decreased by 43,000 Mg/yr and 56,000 Mg/yr, respectively, relative to current baseline levels. This represents about 87-percent control of acid gases compared to baseline levels in the absence of emission guidelines. In combination with baseline control, this would represent about 95-percent control of these acid gases. The proposed emission guidelines would reduce nationwide emissions of NO X by 19,000 Mg/yr, representing an overall nationwide emission reduction of over 30 percent compared to baseline levels that would be emitted without the proposed guidelines. B. Water and Solid Waste Impacts Water and solid waste impacts that would result from today's proposal were determined not to be significant. No water pollution impacts are projected because the control technologies considered would not produce a wastewater stream. The EPA believes that MWC ash disposal is adequately addressed by current waste management standards, so that considerations of ash quality need not play a role in this rulemaking. C. Energy Impacts The energy impacts of applying add-on pollutant emission controls required as part of today's proposal would not result in significant energy impacts. Today's proposal for MWC acid gases, MWC organics, MWC metals, and NO X would affect an estimated 179 MWC plants and would result in energy requirements of 400 to 500 gigawatt-hours per year (GW-hr/yr) of electricity to operate the air pollution control devices, and about 780 terajoules per year (TJ/yr) of natural gas to maintain combustor operating conditions that reflect GCP. Most of the MWC's that would be affected by the proposed guidelines generate electricity for sale. For example, a large mass burn/waterwall MWC plant would generate about 500 GW-hr/yr of electricity. The energy to operate its air pollution control equipment would represent only about 4 percent of generation. Additionally, natural gas that is fired for GCP requirements represents less than 0.2 percent of the annual heat input to MWC's. Considering that a large percentage of new power plant capacity to be constructed in the next 10 years will fire natural gas, the firing of small amounts of natural gas for GCP (while generating electricity) actually reallocates natural gas use rather than just increasing consumption. D. Cost and Economic Impacts 1. National Overview The EPA projects that about 33 million Mg of MSW will be combusted in the year 2000 in existing MWC plants subject to the guidelines being proposed today. The EPA estimates that there would be 179 existing MWC plants in operation that would be subject to the subpart Cb guidelines: 60 in the 35- to 225-Mg/day capacity range and 119 in the larger than 225-Mg/day capacity range. The typical plant has two or three MWC units. The cost estimates given below are in 1990 dollars and are for emission control and compliance testing. The estimates do not include costs for such things as permitting and enforcement. To estimate the costs of the guidelines being proposed today, the EPA has taken into account all existing control equipment. Cost estimates are incremental over costs associated with the control equipment in current use and include retrofit premiums. Cost estimates are total costs for the revised MWC guidelines and are not incremental to the February 11, 1991 guidelines. The nationwide annual cost of the guidelines including testing, reporting, and recordkeeping for acid gas, PM, Hg, and NO X control would be about $445 million. The national average annual cost of the guidelines per unit of MSW combusted would be about $14/Mg.
