FR940831-2-00121 FR940831-2-00089 The Commission believes that allowing investors to designate an investment adviser to receive proxy and related issuer materials and vote their proxies removes impediments to a free and open market. As noted by the commenters, investors have been requesting that investment advisers be authorized to receive issuer materials and vote proxies for the investor. Investors choosing an investment adviser arrangement may feel that they do not need to receive issuer information since the investment adviser is making investment decisions on the investor's behalf. The Commission acknowledges that investors might view the receipt of issuers materials and the ability to vote proxies as part of the investment adviser's continuing activities in managing customer accounts. Furthermore, the Commission acknowledges that some investors, in choosing to utilize the services of an investment adviser, are indicating that they do not have the knowledge or inclination to review complicated issuer or proxy materials or to vote proxies. These investors, in particular, may feel frustrated when inundated with unwanted issuer materials. Furthermore, the Commission believes that the proposed rule change will permit the investment adviser to make more expedient, informed investment decisions, thereby facilitating securities transactions in accordance with the Act. For these reasons, the Commission believes that the proposed rule change appropriately gives investors the freedom to choose whether to receive proxy and related issuer materials and vote the proxies or to designate an investment adviser to perform these functions on their behalf. Section 6(b)(5) of the Act also provides that the rules of an exchange should protect investors and the public interest. The Commission believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the public interest and the protection of investors. The Commission notes that the rule change permits investors who wish to receive and vote proxies and receive other issuer materials to continue to do so. The proposed rule change affords beneficial owners the choice to delegate this authority when the beneficial owner has already granted discretion in his investment account to an investment adviser. In addition, investors will have the authority to rescind designation of an investment adviser at any time, and, prior to the effective date of such designation, member organizations must provide beneficial owners written notice of their right to rescind the designation. Finally, the Commission believes the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b)(8) of the Act, which requires that the rules of an exchange not impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. The Commission believes the proposed rule change should serve to eliminate unnecessary burdens on competition in recognition that advisers not subject to NYSE rules already are able to vote proxies for their clients. The Commission finds good cause to accelerate approval of Amendment No. 1. Amendment No. 1 made clarifying, technical changes to the text of the rule, and did not propose new substantive provisions to the proposed rule change. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) 12 of the Act, that the proposed rule chance (SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;93&hyph;37) is approved, including Amendment No. 1 on an accelerated basis. 12 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 13 13 17 U.S.C. 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1992). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21475 Filed 8&hyph;30&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
