FR940228-2-00017 FR940228-2-00004 Petitioner first attempted to value the factors of production using Indian information. Where this was not possible, petitioner valued the factors of production using the U.S. industry's costs, where it was determined that this provided a reasonable basis upon which to value certain factors of production. Petitioner valued the factors of production of the subject merchandise in the PRC as follows: •For material costs (seed and fertilizer), petitioner relied on Indian factors based on its foreign market research, using public information whenever possible. •For most labor costs (seed cracking, field preparation, planting, weed control, fertilization, irrigation, digging, windrowing and harvesting), petitioner relied on an industry expert's estimate of Chinese factors which was based on the expert's knowledge of the Chinese industry and the expert's own experience with nonmechanized garlic production, using public information whenever possible. Petitioner valued such labor costs on the basis of Indian production experience as developed in its foreign market research. For other labor costs related to hauling, sorting, grading, inspecting, and shrinkage, petitioner relied on the U.S. industry's cost-per-pound for these operations. •Petitioner added an amount for all other manufacturing costs and related overhead equal to 10 percent of direct material and labor costs. •Petitioner added an amount for shrinkage loss of 7 percent of the cost of production, based on U.S. experience. •For selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A), petitioner used the statutory minimum of ten percent of the cost of production. •For profit, petitioner used the statutory minimum of eight percent of the cost of manufacture plus SG&A. •Petitioner added an amount for packing based on the average, actual experience of the U.S. industry. Based on petitioner's calculations, the dumping margins range from 266.73 to 376.67 percent. For purposes of this initiation, no adjustments were made to petitioner's calculations. Initiation of Investigation We have examined the petition on fresh garlic and have found that the petition meets the requirements of section 732(b) of the Act. Therefore, we are initiating an antidumping duty investigation to determine whether imports of fresh garlic from the PRC are being, or are likely to be, sold in the United States at less than fair value. International Trade Commission (ITC) Notification Section 732(d) of the Act requires us to notify the ITC of this action and we have done so. Preliminary Determination by the ITC The ITC will determine by March 17, 1994, whether there is a reasonable indication that an industry in the United States is materially injured, or is threatened with material injury, by reason of imports of fresh garlic from the PRC. A negative ITC determination will result in a termination of the investigation; otherwise, the investigation will proceed according to statutory and regulatory time limits. This notice is published pursuant to section 732(c)(2) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.13(b). Dated: February 22, 1994. Joseph A. Spetrini, Acting Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4503 Filed 2&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
