FR940902-0-00117 FR940902-0-00010 (b) Basic standard. Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, each recipient and subrecipient shall be paid in advance, provided it demonstrates the willingness and ability to limit advanced funds to the actual immediate disbursement needs in carrying out the JTPA program. (c) Advance payments. To the maximum extent feasible, each subrecipient shall be provided advance payments via electronic funds transfer, following the procedures of the awarding agency. (d) Reimbursement. (1) Reimbursement is the preferred method when the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section are not met. (i) Each recipient shall submit requests for reimbursement in accordance with the provisions at 31 CFR part 205. (ii) Each subrecipient shall submit requests for reimbursement in accordance with requirements established by the awarding agency. (2) Each subrecipient shall be paid as promptly as possible after receipt of a proper request for reimbursement. (e) Working capital advance payments. If a subrecipient cannot meet the criteria for advance payments described in paragraph (b) of this section, and the awarding agency has determined that reimbursement is not feasible because the subrecipient lacks sufficient working capital, the awarding agency may provide cash on a working capital advance payment basis. Under this procedure, the awarding agency shall advance cash to the subrecipient to cover its estimated disbursement needs for an initial period, generally geared to the subrecipient's disbursing cycle. In no event may such an advance exceed 20 percent of the award amount. Thereafter, the awarding agency shall reimburse the subrecipient for its actual cash disbursements. The working capital advance method of payment shall not be used by recipients or subrecipients if the reason for using such method is the unwillingness or inability of the recipient or subrecipient to provide timely advances to the subrecipient to meet the subrecipient's actual cash disbursements. (f) Effect of program income, refunds, and audit recoveries on payment. Each recipient and subrecipient shall disburse cash received as a result of program income, rebates, refunds, contract settlements, audit recoveries, and interest earned on such funds before requesting additional cash payments. (g) Cash depositories. (1) Consistent with the national goal of expanding the opportunities for minority business enterprises, each recipient and subrecipient is encouraged to use minority-owned banks (a bank which is at least 50 percent owned by minority group members). Additional information may be obtained from the Minority Business Development Agency, Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230. (2) A recipient or subrecipient shall not be required to maintain a separate bank account but shall separately account for Federal funds on deposit. (h) Interest earned on advances. (1) An interest liability shall accrue on advance payments between Federal agencies and State governments, as provided by the Cash Management Improvement Act (31 U.S.C. 6501, et seq.) and implementing regulations at 31 CFR part 205. (2) Each recipient and subrecipient shall account for interest earned on advances of Federal funds as program income, as provided at ยง627.450 of this part, Program income. ยง627.435 Cost principles and allowable costs. (a) General. To be allowable, a cost shall be necessary and reasonable for the proper and efficient administration of the program, be allocable to the program, and, except as provided herein, not be a general expense required to carry out the overall responsibilities of the Governor or a governmental subrecipient. Costs charged to the program shall be accorded consistent treatment through application of generally accepted accounting principles appropriate to the JTPA program, as determined by the Governor. (b) Whether a cost is charged as a direct cost or as an indirect cost shall be determined in accordance with the descriptions of direct and indirect costs contained in the OMB Circulars identified in DOL's regulations at 29 CFR 97.22(b). (c) Costs allocable to another Federal grant, JTPA program, or cost category may not be shifted to a JTPA grant, subgrant, program, or cost category to overcome fund deficiencies, avoid restrictions imposed by law or grant agreements, or for other reasons. (d) Applicable credits such as rebates, discounts, refunds, and overpayment adjustments, as well as interest earned on any of them, shall be credited as a reduction of costs if received during the same funding period that the cost was initially charged. Credits received after the funding period shall be returned to the Department as provided for at ยง627.490(b). (e) The following costs are not allowable charges to the JTPA program: (1) Costs of fines and penalties resulting from violations of, or failure to comply with, Federal, State, or local laws and regulations; (2) Back pay, unless it represents additional pay for JTPA services performed for which the individual was underpaid; (3) Entertainment costs;
