FR940603-1-00093 FR940603-1-00009 (iii) Bidder shall provide to Owner's satisfaction evidence of Bidder's ability to comply with the indemnification provisions of subparagraphs i and ii above, which evidence may include but may not be limited to a bond or liability insurance policy obtained for this purpose through a licensed surety or insurance company. (g) Any and all excess earth, rock, debris, underbrush and other useless material shall be removed by the Bidder from the site of the Project as rapidly as practicable as the work progresses. There should be no disposition of trash in streams or waterways. Herbicides, other chemicals or their containers should not be deposited in or near streams, waterways or pastures. (h) Upon violation by the Bidder of any of the provisions of this section, after written notice of such violation given to the Bidder by the Engineer or the Owner, the Bidder shall immediately correct such violation. Upon failure of the Bidder so to do the Owner may correct such violation at the Bidder's expense: Provided, however, that the Owner may, if it deems it necessary or advisable, correct such violation at the Bidder's expense without such prior notice to the Bidder. (i) The Bidder shall submit to the Owner monthly reports in duplicate of all accidents, giving such data as may be prescribed by the Owner. (j) The Bidder shall not proceed with the cutting of trees or clearing of right-of-way without written notification from the Owner that proper authorization has been received from the owner of the property, and the Bidder shall promptly notify the Owner whenever any landowner objects to the trimming or felling of any trees or the performance of any other work on its land in connection with the Project and shall obtain the consent in writing of the Owner before proceeding in any such case. Section 2. Insurance The Bidder shall take out and maintain throughout the contract period insurance of the following types and minimum amounts: (a) Workers' compensation and employers' liability insurance, as required by law, covering all their employees who perform any of the obligations of the contractor, engineer, and architect under the contract. If any employer or employee is not subject to the workers' compensation laws of the governing state, then insurance shall be obtained voluntarily to extend to the employer and employee coverage to the same extent as though the employer or employee were subject to the workers' compensation laws. (b) Public liability insurance covering all operations under the contract shall have limits for bodily injury or death of not less than $1 million each occurrence, limits for property damage of not less than $1 million each occurrence, and $1 million aggregate for accidents during the policy period. A single limit of $1 million of bodily injury and property damage is acceptable. This required insurance may be in a policy or policies of insurance, primary and excess including the umbrella or catastrophe form. (c) Automobile liability insurance on all motor vehicles used in connection with the contract, whether owned, nonowned, or hired, shall have limits for bodily injury or death of not less than $1 million per person and $1 million per occurrence, and property damage limits of $1 million for each occurrence. This required insurance may be in a policy or policies of insurance, primary and excess including the umbrella or catastrophe form. The Owner shall have the right at any time to require public liability insurance and property damage liability insurance greater than those required in subsection ``b'' and ``c'' of this Section. In any such event, the additional premium or premiums payable solely as the result of such additional insurance shall be added to the Contract price. The policies of insurance shall be in such form and issued by such insurer as shall be satisfactory to the Owner. The Bidder shall furnish the Owner a certificate evidencing compliance with the foregoing requirements which shall provide not less than (30) days prior written notice to the Owner of any cancellation or material change in the insurance. Section 3._Delivery of Possession and Control to Owner (a) Upon written request of the Owner the Bidder shall deliver to the Owner full possession and control of any portion of the Project provided the Bidder shall have been paid at least ninety percent (90%) of the cost of construction of such portion. Upon such delivery of the possession and control of any portion of the Project to the Owner, the risk and obligations of the Bidder as set forth in Article IV, Section 1 (f) hereof with respect to such portion of the Project so delivered to the Owner shall be terminated: Provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall relieve the Bidder of any liability with respect to defective materials and workmanship as contained in Article II, Section 4 hereof.
