FR940419-1-00067 FR940419-1-00009 (c) Adjustments to total income. (1) Operating subsidy will reflect changes in inflation, utility rates and consumption, and changes in the number of units in the project. (2) In addition to the amount of income derived from the project (from sources such as rents and charges) and the operating subsidy calculated in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, the contract may specify that income be provided to the project from other sources of income of the HA. (3) The following conditions may not affect the amounts to be provided to a project managed by a resident management corporation under this subpart: (i) Any reduction in the total income of a HA that occurs as a result of fraud, waste, or mismanagement by the HA; or (ii) Any change in the total income of a HA that occurs as a result of project-specific characteristics that are not shared by the project managed by the corporation under this subpart. (d) Retention of excess revenues. Any income generated by a resident management corporation that exceeds the income estimated for the income category involved must be excluded in subsequent years in calculating: (1) The operating subsidy provided to a HA under subpart J of this part; and (2) The funds provided by the HA to the resident management corporation. (e) Use of retained revenues. Any revenues retained by a resident management corporation under paragraph (d) of this section may only be used for purposes of improving the maintenance and operation of the project, establishing business enterprises that employ residents of Indian housing, or acquiring additional dwelling units for low-income families. Units acquired by the resident management corporation will not be eligible for payment of operating subsidy. ยง905.972 TOP Audit and administrative requirements. (a) Annual audit of books and records. The financial statements of a RMC managing a project under this subpart must be audited annually by a licensed certified public accountant, designated by the RMC, in accordance with generally accepted government audit standards. A written report of each audit must be forwarded to HUD and the HA within 30 days of issuance. (b) Relationship to other authorities. The requirements of paragraph (a) of this section are in addition to any other Federal law or other requirement that would apply to the availability and audit of books and records of RMCs under this part. (c) General administrative requirements. Except as modified by this part, RMCs must comply with the requirements of OMB Circulars A&hyph;110 and A&hyph;122, as applicable. Family Investment Centers (FIC) Program ยง905.980 General. (a) The Family Investment Centers (FIC) Program. This program provides families living in Indian housing with better access to educational and employment opportunities by: (1) developing facilities in or near Indian housing for training and support services; (2) mobilizing public and private resources to expand and improve the delivery of such services; (3) providing funding for such essential training and support services that cannot otherwise be funded; and (4) improving the capacity of management to assess the training and service needs of families, coordinating the provision of training and services that meet such needs, and ensuring the long-term provision of such training and services. (b) Supportive Services. New or significantly expanded services essential to providing families in Indian housing with better access to educational and employment opportunities to achieve self-sufficiency and independence. HAs applying for funds to provide supportive services must demonstrate that the services will be provided at a higher level than currently provided. Supportive services may include: (1) Child care; (2) Employment training and counseling; (3) Computer skills training;
