FR940922-2-00033 FR940922-2-00012 Intent To Prepare a Draft Environmental Impact Statement for Floodwater Retarding Structures, Coldwater River Watershed, Demonstration Erosion Control Project, Yazoo Basin, MS AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, DOD. ACTION: Notice of Intent. SUMMARY: Proposed floodwater retarding structures for the Coldwater River Watershed are an integral part of the overall or system plan for the control of erosion, sediment, and flooding in the Coldwater River Watershed. The structures will provide flood control storage to reduce peak flows on streams within this watershed system as well as serve as a sediment basin and function in the control of head cutting or on some streams. ADDRESSES: USAED, Vicksburg, ATTN: CELMK&hyph;PD&hyph;Q, 2101 North Frontage Road, Vicksburg, Mississippi 39180&hyph;5191. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Wendell L. King, (601) 631&hyph;5967. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 1. Proposed Action: The proposed Coldwater Creek Watershed, Floodwater Retarding Structures project is a component of the Demonstration Erosion Control Project, which was initially authorized by Public Law 98&hyph;8, ``The Emergency Jobs Appropriation Act of 1983.'' Public Law 98&hyph;50, ``The Energy and Water Development Appropriation Act of Fiscal Year 1984,'' directed Joint effort by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service, for the foothills areas of the Yazoo Basin. 2. Alternatives. The proposed floodwater retarding structures represent one element of the systems approach used to analyze and recommend solutions to the interrelated problems of flooding, sediment, and erosion control. Other elements of this system solution include grade control structures, bank stabilization, debris basins, and land treatments that have been evaluated in previous environmental documentation. 3. A. A scoping meeting is tentatively scheduled to be held in October 1994. Public notice will be published to inform the general public of the location, time, and date. All affected Federal, state, and local agencies and interested private organizations and groups will be invited to participate. B. The Soil Conservation Service is a cooperating agency in this proposed project. The Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and Mississippi Department of Wildlife, Fisheries and Parks will be invited to participate as cooperating agencies. 4. A Draft Environmental Impact Statement will be available for review by the general public during FY 96. Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23400 Filed 9&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;PU&hyph;M
