FR941221-2-00119 FR941221-2-00078 Absolute Priority 2_Longitudinal Study of the Impact of Early Intervention Services on Infants and Toddlers With Disabilities Background: As Part H of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act moves into full implementation, there is a critical need to discern the immediate and long-term effects of this program on children, families, and service providers. Although federally mandated data collection activities provide some information on the ages of infants and toddlers served by the program and on the services received and their settings, little is known on a national basis about the developmental and behavioral characteristics of children served by the program. Moreover, a national systematic evaluation of the impact of the Part H program on children, families and other stakeholders within the context of child development is clearly lacking. PRIORITY: The Assistant Secretary establishes an absolute priority for a project to design and conduct a five-year longitudinal study of infants and toddlers and their families served under Part H. The project must assess the effects of the program over a five-year period, and include an evaluation of the Part H program impact on children, families, and service providers. The study design must consider the interaction of program variables with variables related to childhood development. The project must conduct analyses that: (1) Compare and evaluate different patterns of child development related to long-term outcomes for children and their families; (2) Assess the effects of socioeconomic, demographic and health-related variables on long-term developmental and behavioral characteristics of the children; (3) Isolate and explain the long-term effects of intervention on children and their families; (4) Incorporate factors related to medical variables (e.g., psychological, physiological, and anatomical structure or function), personal functioning variables, and the interaction of the environment with these variables that could result in a disadvantage limiting or preventing the fulfillment of an age-appropriate role; (5) Incorporate family variables, including family background and the need for service; and (6) Provide information on services, service-providers, and the appropriateness of particular service settings. The project must budget for three trips annually to Washington, DC, for (1) a two-day Research Project Directors' meeting; and (2) an additional two meetings, to meet and collaborate with the project officer of the Office of Special Education Programs (OSEP), and with other relevant OSEP funded projects. The project must also coordinate activities with the ongoing Policy Research Institute funded by OSEP. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Scott Brown, U.S. Department of Education, 600 Independence Avenue, SW., Switzer Building, Room 3522, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;2641. Telephone: (202) 205&hyph;8117. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. Applicable Program Regulations: 34 CFR Part 327. Program Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1418. Dated: December 15, 1994. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.159, Special Studies Program) Judith E. Heuman, Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31304 Filed 12&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
