FR940512-2-00009 FR940512-2-00006 United States Price The Department used purchase price (PP), as defined in section 772 of the Tariff Act, in calculating U.S. price (USP) when the merchandise was purchased, or agreed to be purchased, prior to the date of importation, from the producer of the merchandise through a related sales agent in the United States by unrelated U.S. purchasers. We determined that PP was the most appropriate determinant of USP for these sales based on the following factors: (1) The merchandise was shipped directly from the manufacturer to the unrelated buyer without being introduced into the inventory of the respondent's related U.S. selling agent; (2) This was the customary commercial channel for sales of this merchandise between the parties involved; and (3) The respondent's related sales agent acted mainly as a processor of sales-related documentation and communication links with the unrelated U.S. customer. Where all the above elements are met, we regard the routine selling functions of the exporter as merely having been relocated geographically from the country of exportation to the United States, where the sales agent performs them. Whether these functions take place in the United States or abroad does not change the substance of the functions themselves. See Outokumpu Copper Rolled Products v. United States, 829 F.Supp. 1371, 1378 (CIT 1993). We calculated purchase price based on packed delivered prices. We made deductions for ocean freight, marine insurance, brokerage and handling, and U.S. Customs duties and fees, in accordance with section 772(d)(2) of the Tariff Act. We adjusted ICI's reported U.S. interest rate to correct a minor error in the interest calculation found at verification. We used the best information available (BIA) for marine insurance. At verification we discovered that ICI had failed to report that it obtains marine insurance from a related company. Further, company officials did not demonstrate that marine insurance rates were at arm's length. In the absence of a second company involved in either this review or the less-than-fair-value (LTFV) investigation from which, as BIA, marine insurance rates might be selected, we calculated a percentage of unit price based on publicly-available data as reported in the administrative review of INC from Brazil. See Industrial Nitrocellulose from Brazil: Preliminary Results of Antidumping Duty Administrative Review, (58 FR 27537) May 10, 1993. We made an addition to USP for value-added taxes (VAT) in accordance with section 772(d)(1)(C) of the Tariff Act. In making our adjustment for VAT, we followed the instructions of the United States Court of International Trade (CIT) in Federal Mogul Corp. and the Torrington Co. v. United States, 834 F.Supp. 1391 (CIT 1993). The Department added to USP the result of multiplying the foreign market tax rate by the price of the United States merchandise at the same point in the chain of commerce that the foreign market tax was applied to foreign market sales. The Department also adjusted the tax amount calculated for USP and the amount of tax included in foreign market value (FMV). We deducted the portions of the foreign market tax and the USP tax that are the result of expenses that are included in the foreign market price used to calculate foreign market tax and in the USP used to calculate the USP tax. Because these expenses are later deducted to calculate FMV and USP, these adjustments are necessary to prevent our new methodology for calculating the USP tax from creating dumping margins where no margins would exist if no taxes were levied upon foreign market sales. We disagree with ICI's claim that certain sales, that were sold to a related party and further processed in the United States before sale to the first unrelated party, were PP sales.
