FR940112-2-00051 FR940112-2-00039 [Docket No. 93&hyph;19] Cancellation of Tariffs for Failure To Comply With Automated Tariff Filing and Information System (``ATFI'') Filing Requirements By Order published in the Federal Register (58 FR 50550) on September 28, 1993 (``September Order''), the Commission directed 103 carriers with tariffs on file in the Worldwide, Asian and South Pacific trade areas to show cause by November 12, 1993, why their paper tariffs should not be cancelled for failure to register and file a tariff in ATFI by the required date (i.e., June 4, 1993). This action was taken pursuant to section 8 of the Shipping Act of 1984 (U.S.C. app. 1707), the Commission's regulations implementing ATFI at 46 CFR part 514 and Supplemental Report Nos. 2, 3 and 4 1 issued in Docket No. 90&hyph;23, Notice of Inquiry on Ocean Freight Tariffs in Foreign and Domestic Offshore Commerce (Automated Tariff Filing and Information System). 1 Supplemental Report No. 2, served August 4, 1992, Supplemental Report No. 3 (57 FR 59999) and Supplemental Report No. 4 (58 FR 31522) advised the public that failure to convert tariffs to ATFI format by scheduled filing dates would subject entities to show cause proceedings for cancellation of tariffs. Sec. 502(b)(1) of Public Law 102&hyph;582 (``Pub. L. 102&hyph;582'') requires all tariffs and essential terms of service contracts filed with the Commission to be in electronic format. World Tariff Services, Inc. (``WTS''), filed the only formal response to the September Order. It did so on behalf of 26 carriers named in the Order. 2 Other carriers contacted the Commission informally by letter or telephone or filed their tariff in ATFI. The Commission did not receive any response whatsoever from 42 of the respondents. 2 ACB Ocean Line, Inc.; Alcar International Inc.; Aston International, Inc.; Breakbulk & Consolidation Services Pte Ltd.; Combitainer Ltd.; Enko International Ltd.; Fashion Distribution Services, Inc.; Firstair, Inc.; Freight International Services, Ltd.; International Cargo Express, Ltd.; Master Air Cargo, Inc.; United Cargo Link Italia Srl; Vantage International Forwarding Ltd.; W S A Lines Ltd.; American Freight Lines Ltd.; Amership, Inc.; LEP Freightways International Limited; Polar Steamship and Commerce Company Inc.; Pro-Service Forwarding, Co., Inc.; Sea Lanes Line Inc.; Americargo Lines, Inc.; Crystal Freight Services (HK) Ltd.; POL-Express, Inc.; DJ International Freight Services, Inc.; Tigris International Corp.; and United Transport Associates Inc. WTS states that 14 of the carriers named in its response have satisfied the Commission's requirements and filed an ATFI tariff, that three carriers have ceased doing business and have voluntarily cancelled their tariffs, and that nine other carriers either have completed the ATFI registration process, are in the process of doing so, or recently submitted the necessary information to WTS so that it may initiate ATFI registration. Two of those carriers have in fact completed the registration process and filed an ATFI tariff. The 42 carriers that did not respond to the September Order and have not registered in ATFI or filed an ATFI tariff will have their tariffs or portions of tariffs currently on file with the Commission with Worldwide, Asian or South Pacific scopes cancelled. Twenty-five carriers responded and/or registered for ATFI, but did not file the required tariff. These carriers, which include seven of WTS's clients, have not provided sufficient grounds to justify their failure to file. Accordingly, these carriers also will have their tariffs or applicable portions of their tariffs cancelled. Carriers who have filed their tariffs in ATFI will be dismissed from the proceeding. Therefore, it is ordered, That the tariffs or portions of tariffs currently on file with the Commission with Worldwide, Asian or South Pacific scope of the carriers identified in Appendix A to this Order are cancelled effective upon publication of the Order in the Federal Register . It is further ordered, That the parties listed in Appendix B to this Order are dismissed from this proceeding. By the Commission. Joseph C. Polking, Secretary.
