FR940111-2-00103 FR940111-2-00063 11. Fund stockholders who oppose the reorganization may redeem their shares at any time before the Closing Date. Redeeming stockholders, however, would forego the tax benefit of the reorganization because the elimination of the capital gains tax associated with the Nabors stock will inure only to the benefit of Fund stockholders who receive liquidating distributions. Applicants' Legal Analysis 1. Because the Fund owns of record more than 5% of the outstanding shares of Nabors, Nabors is an ``affiliated person'' of the Fund within the meaning of section 2(a)(3) of the Act. Because Mr. Whitman controls the Fund's investment adviser, is a director of the Fund and Nabors, and holds a substantial indirect interest in Nabors, Mr. Whitman is an affiliated person of the Fund and Nabors. The Affected Persons, by virtue of their official positions and/or employment relationships, are affiliated persons of the Fund or affiliated persons of such persons. 2. Section 17(a)d of the Act, in relevant part, makes it unlawful for any affiliated person of a registered investment company, or any affiliated person of such an affiliated person, acting as principal, to purchase from or sell to such registered company any security or other property. Section 17(b) of the Act authorizes the Commission to exempt a proposed transaction from section 17(a) if: (i) The terms of the proposed transaction, including the consideration to be paid or received, are reasonable and fair and do not involve overreaching on the part of any person concerned; (ii) the proposed transaction is consistent with the policy of each registered investment company concerned, and (iii) the proposed transaction is consistent with the general purposes of the Act. 3. For the reasons discussed above, the Fund Board and the Nabors Board found that the reorganization is in the best interests of the Fund and Nabors, respectively, and will not dilute the interests of the existing stockholders of either company. In addition, each Board determined that the terms of the proposed reorganization and the consideration to be paid or received are fair and reasonable and do not involve overreaching by any person. Although the Fund has agreed to pay most of the costs associated with the reorganization, applicants aver that the benefits to the Fund, in particular the elimination of a $30 million deferred tax liability, substantially outweigh any such costs. Accordingly, applicants submit that the proposed reorganization satisfies the standards of section 17(b). 4. Section 17(d) and rule 17d&hyph;1, taken together, prohibit an affiliated person of a registered investment company or an affiliated person of such person, acting as principal, from participating in any joint enterprise or other joint arrangement in which such registered company is a participant, without prior receipt of a Commission order. Under rule 17d&hyph;1(b), the Commission will consider whether the participation of such registered company in such joint enterprise or arrangement on the basis proposed is consistent with the provisions, policies, and purposes of the Act, and the extent to which such participation is on a basis different from or less advantageous than that of other participants. 5. There are no employment contracts or other special benefits accorded to any affiliated person of the Fund or Nabors under the Reorganization Agreement. Indeed, the reorganization could be considered detrimental to Mr. Whitman and those Affected Persons who are employees of EQSF because it will eliminate the management fee currently payable to EQSF by the Fund. Accordingly, applicants submit that the proposed reorganization satisfies the standards for an order under rule 17d&hyph;1. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;625 Filed 1&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
