FR940118-0-00043 FR940118-0-00012 The Bureau of Prisons has determined that this rule is not a significant regulatory action for the purpose of E.O. 12866; this rule was reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. After review of the law and regulations, the Director, Bureau of Prisons has certified that this rule, for the purpose of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 96&hyph;354), does not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Interested persons may submit comments concerning this rule by writing to the previously cited address. These comments will be considered but will receive no response in the Federal Register . List of Subjects in 28 CFR Part 301 Federal prison industries, Indemnity payments, Prisoners. Kathleen M. Hawk, Commissioner of Federal Prison Industries, and Director, Bureau of Prisons. Accordingly, pursuant to the rulemaking authority vested in the Attorney General in 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and delegated to the Director, Bureau of Prisons in 28 CFR 0.96(p) and 0.99, part 301 of 28 CFR, chapter III is amended as set forth below. Chapter III_Federal Prisons Industries, Inc., Department of Justice PART 301_INMATE ACCIDENT COMPENSATION 1. The authority citation for 28 CFR part 301 continues to read as follows: Authority: 18 U.S.C. 4126, 28 CFR 0.99, and by resolution of the Board of Directors of Federal Prison Industries, Inc. 2. In ยง301.101, paragraphs (a) and (b) are revised to read as follows: ยง301.101 Purpose and scope. * * * * * (a) Inmate Accident Compensation may be awarded to former federal inmates or their dependents for physical impairment or death resultant from injuries sustained while performing work assignments in Federal Prison Industries, Inc., in institutional work assignments involving the operation or maintenance of a federal correctional facility, or in approved work assignments for other federal entities; or, (b) Lost-time wages may be awarded to inmates assigned to Federal Prison Industries, Inc., to paid institutional work assignments involving the operation or maintenance of a federal correctional facility, or in approved work assignments for other federal entities for work-related injuries resulting in time lost from the work assignment. 3. In ยง301.102, paragraph (b) is revised and paragraphs (d) and (e) are added to read as follows: ยง301.102 Definitions. * * * * * (b)(1) For purposes of this part, the term release is defined as the removal of an inmate from a Bureau of Prisons correctional facility upon expiration of sentence, parole, final discharge from incarceration of a pretrial inmate, or transfer to a community corrections center or other non-federal facility, at the conclusion of the period of confinement in which the injury occurred. (2) In the case of an inmate who suffers a work-related injury while housed at a community corrections center, release is defined as the removal of the inmate from the community corrections center upon expiration of sentence, parole, or transfer to any non-federal facility, at the conclusion of the period of confinement in which the injury occurred.
