FR940621-1-00020 FR940621-1-00006 Upon reasonable request, each responsible party shall submit the following to the Commission or shall make the following available for inspection: (a) The records required by §§2.938 and 2.955. (b) A sample unit of the equipment covered under an authorization. (c) The manufacturing plant and facilities. 25. Section 2.938 is revised to read as follows: §2.938 Retention of records. (a) For each equipment subject to the Commission's standards, the responsible party shall maintain the records listed below: (1) A record of the original design drawings and specifications and all changes that have been made that may affection compliance with the standards and the requirements of §2.931. (2) A record of the procedures used for production inspection and testing to ensure conformance with the standards and the requirements of §2.931. (3) A record of the test results that demonstrate compliance with the appropriate regulations. (b) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section shall also apply to a manufacturer of equipment produced under the provisions of §2.929(b) of this chapter. The retention of the records by the manufacturer under these circumstances shall satisfy the grantee's responsibility under paragraph (a) of this section. (c) The records listed in paragraph (a) of this section shall be retained for one year after the manufacture of said equipment has been permanently discontinued, or until the conclusion of an investigation or a proceeding if the responsible party (or under paragraph (b) of this section the manufacturer) is officially notified that an investigation or any other administrative proceeding involving its equipment has been instituted. §2.941 [Amended] 26. Section 2.941 is amended by revising the reference in paragraph (b) ``§0.457'' to read ``§§0.441 through 0.470''. 27. Section 2.946 is amended by revising the first sentence in paragraph (a) to read as follows: §2.946 Penalty for failure to provide test samples and data. (a) Any responsible party, as defined in §2.909 of this chapter, and any party who markets equipment subject to the provisions on this chapter shall provide a test sample(s) or data upon request by the Commission. *␣*␣* * * * * * 28. Section 2.953 is amended by revising the title and by revising paragraph (a), (b), and (d) to read as follows: §2.953 Responsibility for compliance. (a) In verifying compliance, the responsible party, as defined in §2.909 of this chapter, warrants that each unit of equipment marketed under the verification procedure will be identical to the unit tested and found acceptable with the standards and that the records maintained by the responsible party continue to reflect the equipment being produced under such verification within the variation that can be expected due to quantity production and testing on a statistical basis. (b) The importer of equipment subject to verification may upon receiving a written statement from the manufacturer that the equipment complies with the appropriate technical standards rely on the manufacturer or independent testing agency to verify compliance. The test records required by §2.955, however, should be in the English language and made available to the Commission upon a reasonable request, in accordance with §2.956 of this chapter. (c) *␣*␣* (d) Verified equipment shall be reverified if any modification or change adversely affects the emanation characteristics of the modified equipment. The party designated in §2.909 of this chapter bears responsibility for continued compliance of subsequently produced equipment. 29. Section 2.955 is amended by revising paragraphs (a) introductory text and (a)(3) to read as follows: §2.955 Retention of records. (a) For each equipment subject to verification, the responsible party, as shown in §2.909 of this chapter, shall maintain the records listed below: * * * * * (3) A record of the measurements made on an appropriate test site that demonstrates compliance with the applicable regulations. The record shall: (i) Indicate the actual date all testing was performed. (ii) State the name of the test laboratory, company, or individual performing the verification testing. The Commission may request additional information regarding the test site, the test equipment or the qualifications of the company or individual performing the verification tests. (iii) Contain a description of how the device was actually tested, identifying the measurement procedure and test equipment that was used.
