FR940602-1-00060 FR940602-1-00013 Toilet Facilities Table 1No. of employees 1Minimum no. of facilities 20 or less 1 toilet seat. 20 or more 1 toilet seat and 1 urinal per 40 workers. 200 or more 1 toilet seat and 1 urinal per 50 workers. (b) Drinking water. (1) Potable drinking water shall be accessible to employees at all times. (2) Potable drinking water containers shall be clean, containing only water and ice, and shall be fitted with covers. (3) Common drinking cups are prohibited. (c) Prohibited eating areas. Consumption of food or beverages in areas where hazardous materials are stowed or being handled is prohibited. (d) Garbage and overboard discharges . Work shall not be conducted in the immediate vicinity of uncovered garbage or in the way of overboard discharges from the vessel's sanitary lines unless employees are protected from the garbage or discharge by a baffle or splash boards. ยง1918.96 Longshoring operations in the vicinity of maintenance and repair work. (a) Noise interference (See also ยง1918.1(b)(10)). Longshoring operations shall not be carried on when noise interferes with communications of warnings or instructions. (b) Falling objects. Longshoring operations shall not be carried on in the hold or on deck beneath work being conducted overhead whenever such work exposes the employee to a hazard of falling objects. (c) Hot work. Longshoring operations shall not be carried on where the employee is exposed to injurious light rays, hot metal, or sparks, as a result of welding or cutting. (d) Abrasive blasting and spray painting. Longshoring operations shall not be carried on in the immediate vicinity of abrasive blasting or spray painting operations. (e) Non-ionizing radiation. Longshoring operations shall not be carried on when there is a danger that non-ionizing radiation (electromagnetic radiation) from a vessel's radio or radar, or from radio or television transmitting towers ashore could harm employees that are involved in cargo handling operations. ยง1918.97 First aid and lifesaving facilities. (a) Injury reporting. The employer shall direct each employee to report every injury, regardless of severity, to the employer. (b) First aid. A first aid kit shall be available at or near to each vessel being worked, and at least one person holding a valid first aid certificate, such as one issued by the Red Cross or other equivalent organization, shall be available to render first aid when work is in progress.
