FR940407-2-00163 FR940407-2-00081 Section F_Other Budget Information Direct Charges_Line 21. Use this space and continuation sheets as necessary to fully explain and justify the major items included in the budget categories shown in Section B. Include sufficient detail to facilitate determination of allowability, relevance to the project, and cost benefits. Particular attention must be given to the explanation of any requested direct cost budget item which requires explicit approval by the Federal agency. Budget items which require identification and justification shall include, but not be limited to, the following: A. Salary amounts and percentage of time worked for those key individuals who are identified in the project narrative; B. Any foreign travel; C. A list of all equipment and estimated cost of each item to be purchased wholly or in part with grant funds which meet the definition of nonexpendable personal property provided on Line 6d, Section B. Need for equipment must be supported in program narrative; D. Contractual: major items or groups of smaller items; and E. Other: group into major categories all costs for consultants, local transportation, space, rental, training allowances, staff training, computer equipment, etc. Provide a complete breakdown of all costs that make up this category. Indirect Charges_Line 22. Enter the type of HHS or other cognizant Federal agency approved indirect cost rate (provisional, predetermined, final or fixed) that will be in effect during the funding period, the estimated amount of the base to which the rate is applied and the total indirect expense. Also, enter the date the rate was approved and attach a copy of the rate agreement. Remarks_Line 23. Provide any other explanations and continuation sheets required or deemed necessary to justify or explain the budget information. C. SF&hyph;424B Assurances-Non-Construction All applicants must fill out, sign, date and return the Assurances with the application. Part VII_Contents of Application and Receipt Process A. Contents of Application Each application submission should include a signed original and four additional copies of the application. Each application should include the following in the order presented: 1. Table of Contents; 2. Completed Standard Form 424 which has been signed by an Official of the organization applying for the grant who has authority to obligate the organization legally. ( Note: The original SF&hyph;424 must bear the original signature of the authorizing representative of the applicant organization) 3. Budget Information-Non-Construction Programs (SF&hyph;424A); 4. A narrative budget justification for each object class category required under Section B, SF&hyph;424A; 5. Filled out, signed, and dated Assurances-Non-Construction Programs (SF&hyph;424B); 6. By signing and submitting this application, the applicant is certifying that it will comply with the Federal requirements concerning debarment regulations set forth in attachments E and F. 7. Restrictions on Lobbying, Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements: fill out, sign and date form found at Attachment H. 8. Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, SF&hyph;LLL: Filled out, signed, and dated form found at Attachment H, if appropriate. 9. An Executive Summary_not to exceed 300 words; 10. A Project Narrative consisting of the following elements preceded by a consecutively numbered Table of Contents that will describe the project in the following order: (i) Eligibility Confirmation (ii) Organizational Experience and Staff Responsibilities (iii) Analysis of Need (iv) Project Design/Work Program (v) Business Plan (If appropriate) (vi) Third-Party Evaluation (vii) Cooperative Partnership Agreement (viii) Budget Appropriateness and Reasonableness 11. Appendices_proof of non-profit status as outlined in Part I, Section B; proof that the organization is a community development corporation, if applying under the CDC Set-aside; commitments from officials of businesses that will be expanded or from franchises, where applicable; Single Point of Contact comments, if applicable; Maintenance of Effort Certification and resumes. The total number of pages for the narrative portion of the application package must not exceed 50 pages, excluding Appendices. Pages should be numbered sequentially throughout, excluding Appendices, beginning with the SF 424 as Page 1. The application may also contain letters that show collaboration or substantive commitments to the project by organizations other than the JOBS agency. Such letters are not part of the narrative and should be included in the Appendices. These letters are, therefore, not counted against the fifty page limit. Applications must be uniform in composition since OCS may find it necessary to duplicate them for review purposes. Therefore, applications must be submitted on white 81/2×11 inch paper only. They must not include colored, oversized or folded materials. Do not include organizational brochures or other promotional materials, slides, films, clips, etc. in the proposal. They will be discarded if included. The applications should be two-holed, punched at the top center and fastened separately with a compressor slide paper fastener, or a binder clip. The submission of bound applications, or applications enclosed in binders, is specifically discouraged. Attachment J provides a checklist to applicants in preparing a complete application package. B. Acknowledgement of Receipt Applicants who meet the initial screening criteria outlined in Part V, Section E, 1, will receive an acknowledgement postcard with an assigned identification number. Applicants are requested to supply a self-addressed mailing label with their application which can be attached to this acknowledgement postcard. This number and the program letter code must be referred to in all subsequent communication with OCS concerning the application. If an acknowledgement is not received within three weeks after the deadline date, please notify ACF by telephone (202) 401&hyph;9234.
