FR941006-2-00164 FR941006-2-00113 1. After the grant has been awarded, when are the first quarterly reports due ? Quarterly Progress Reports and Financial Status Reports must be submitted within 30 days after the end of every calendar quarter_i.e. no later than January 30, April 30, July 30, and October 30_regardless of the project's start date. The reporting periods covered by each quarterly report end 30 days before the respective deadline for the report. When an award period begins December 1, for example, the first Quarterly Progress Report describing project activities between December 1 and December 31 will be due on January 30. A Financial Status Report should be submitted even if funds have not been obligated or expended. By documenting what has happened over the past three months, Quarterly Progress Reports provide an opportunity for project staff and Institute staff to resolve any questions before they become problems, and make any necessary changes in the project time schedule, budget allocations, etc. Thus, the Quarterly Project Report should describe project activities, their relationship to the approved timeline, and any problems encountered and how they were resolved, and outline the tasks scheduled for the coming quarter. It is helpful to attach copies of relevant memos, draft products, or other requested information. An original and one copy of a Quarterly Progress Report and attachments should be submitted to the Institute. Additional Quarterly Progress Report or Financial Status Report forms may be obtained from the grantee's Program Manager at SJI, or photocopies may be made from the supply received with the award. 2. Do reporting requirements differ for renewal grants or package grants ? Recipients of a continuation, on-going support, or package grant are required to submit quarterly progress and financial status reports on the same schedule and with the same information as recipients of a grant for a single new project. A continuation or an on-going support grant should be considered as a supplement to and extension of the original award, and the reports numbered accordingly. For example, if the last quarterly report filed under the original award is report number six, the first report including a portion of the renewal grant should be report number seven. Recipients of a package grant should file a summary Financial Status Report covering the entire package as well as separate financial reports for each of the projects in the package, identified by letter of the alphabet (e.g., SJI&hyph;93&hyph;15R-J&hyph;001&hyph;A; SJI&hyph;93&hyph;15R-J&hyph;001&hyph;B; SJI&hyph;93&hyph;15R-J&hyph;001&hyph;C). 3. What information about project activities should be communicated to SJI ? In general, grantees should provide prior notice of critical project events such as advisory board meetings or training sessions so that the Institute Program Manager can attend if possible. If methodological, schedule, staff, budget allocations, or other significant changes become necessary, the grantee should contact the Program Manager prior to implementing any of these changes, so that possible questions may be addressed in advance. Questions concerning the financial requirements section of the Guideline, quarterly financial reporting or payment requests, should be addressed to the Chief or Deputy Chief of the Institute's Finance and Management Division. It is helpful to include the grant number assigned to the award on all correspondence to the Institute. 4. Why is it important to address the special conditions that are attached to the award document ? In some instances, a list of special conditions is attached to the award document. The special conditions are imposed to establish a schedule for reporting certain key information, to assure that the Institute has an opportunity to offer suggestions at critical stages of the project, and to provide reminders of some, but not all of the requirements contained in the Grant Guideline. Accordingly, it is important for grantees to check the special conditions carefully and discuss with their Program Manager any questions or problems they may have with the conditions. Most concerns about timing, response time, and the level of detail required can be resolved in advance through a telephone conversation. The Institute's primary concern is to work with grantees to assure that their projects accomplish their objectives, not to enforce rigid bureaucratic requirements. However, if a grantee fails to comply with a special condition or with other grant requirements, the Institute may, after proper notice, suspend payment of grant funds or terminate the grant. Sections X., XI., and XII. of the Grant Guideline contain the Institute's administrative and financial requirements. Institute Finance and Management Division staff are always available to answer questions and provide assistance regarding these provisions. 5. What is a Grant Adjustment ? A Grant Adjustment is the Institute's form for acknowledging the satisfaction of special conditions, or approving changes in grant activities, schedule, staffing, sites, or budget allocations requested by the project director. It also may be used to correct errors in grant documents, add small amounts to a grant award, or deobligate funds from the grant. 6. What schedule should be followed in submitting requests for reimbursements or advance payments ? Requests for reimbursements or advance payments may be made at any time after the project start date and before the end of the 90-day close-out period. However, the Institute follows the U.S. Treasury's policy limiting advances to the minimum amount required to meet immediate cash needs. Given normal processing time, grantees should not seek to draw down funds for periods greater than 30 days from the date of the request.
