FR940810-0-00010 FR940810-0-00003 9 CFR Part 160 [Docket No. 93&hyph;033&hyph;2] Veterinary Accreditation AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: We are amending the regulations concerning Federal accreditation of veterinarians to add a definition of ``sign.'' Adding this definition will clarify that accredited veterinarians are prohibited from authorizing other persons to sign certain official documents. We have determined that this change is necessary to maintain the integrity of our veterinary accreditation program. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 9, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. J. A. Heamon, Staff Veterinarian, Sheep, Goat, Equine, and Poultry Diseases Staff, Veterinary Services, APHIS, USDA, room 700, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;6954. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulations in 9 CFR parts 160, 161, and 162 pertain to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service's (APHIS) veterinary accreditation program. Through this program, APHIS authorizes veterinarians in private practice to perform certain official services and duties on behalf of APHIS Veterinary Services officials. These responsibilities include such activities as examining livestock for clinical signs of disease, vaccinating animals for brucellosis, drawing and shipping blood for testing, and preparing health certificates required for domestic or international movement. Section 161.3 (hereafter referred to as the regulations) sets forth the standards for accredited veterinarian duties. The regulations cover several requirements and prohibitions regarding the preparation of official forms, certificates, records and reports. The regulations use the term ``sign.'' As used in the regulations, ``sign'' means that an accredited veterinarian signs a document, in his or her own hand. However, ``sign'' is not defined in the regulations. This has led to some confusion concerning the signature requirements. Therefore, to clarify the regulations, we published in the Federal Register on March 18, 1994 (58 FR 12863&hyph;12864, Docket No. 93&hyph;033&hyph;1), a proposal to amend the regulations to add a definition of ``sign.'' We solicited comments concerning our proposal for a 60-day comment period ending May 17, 1994. We received two comments by that date. They were from a state department of agriculture and from a veterinary medical association. One commenter supported the proposed rule. The other commenter objected to the proposed rule, saying it is the prerogative of business owners, including veterinarians, to authorize other individuals to sign documents using the business owner's name. We are not making any changes in the rule based on this comment. A business owner's right to authorize others to sign documents is not unlimited. Accredited veterinarians are authorized by the Federal Government to perform certain functions on behalf of the Federal Government. These include signing documents. Veterinarians are accredited only if they meet certain standards. Other persons, to whom veterinarians might delegate their responsibilities under the accreditation program, might not meet the Federal Government's accreditation standards. This could lead to foreign animal health officials losing confidence in the integrity of the veterinary accreditation program. This, in turn, could result in the loss of export markets for U.S. livestock. Therefore, based on the rationale set forth in the proposed rule and in this document, we are adopting the provisions of the proposal as a final rule without change. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866, and, therefore, has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. This final rule will merely clarify that accredited veterinarians must sign official documents in their own hand. We do not anticipate that this final rule will have any economic effect whatsoever. Under these circumstances, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12372 This program/activity is listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under No. 10.025 and is subject to Executive Order 12372, which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials. (See 7 CFR part 3015, subpart V.)
