FR940713-0-00014 FR940713-0-00006 Regulatory Flexibility Certification In accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), the Commission certifies that this change does not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This final rule affects all licensees required to report special nuclear material transactions using DOE/NRC Forms 741, 741A, 742, 742C, and 740M. Owners of nuclear power plants and fuel fabrication plants have already automated most, if not all, of their material accounting program and can easily generate computer-readable reports. Other affected licensees include laboratories, universities, colleges, medical clinics and hospitals, some of which may fall within the scope of the NRC's size standards for determination of which NRC licensees qualify as small entities (December 9, 1985; 50 FR 50241). One commenter stated that the proposed rule would increase the burden for licensees with manual accountability systems by requiring manual entry of data to diskette and a hard-copy data check for accuracy. Entities that may not yet have automated their reporting may obtain a diskette from the NRC to assist them in satisfying their reporting requirements. No respondent has stated a lack of computer capability to use such a diskette, and the likelihood of such a need is remote in view of the types of affected licensees. In addition, NRC staff experience with computer readable transfer of information indicates less burden and more efficiency for licensees and the NRC than transfer of hard-copy information. For these reasons, any initial cost associated with preparation of computer readable reports should be minimal and lead to a reduction in reporting burden for all affected licensees. Backfit Analysis The NRC has determined that a backfit analysis is not required for this final rule because these amendments do not involve any provisions that would impose backfits as defined in 10 CFR 50.109(a)(1). List of Subjects 10 CFR Part 40 Criminal penalties, Government contracts, Hazardous materials_ transportation, Nuclear materials, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Source material, Uranium. 10 CFR Part 72 Manpower training programs, Nuclear materials, Occupational safety and health, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Security measures, Spent fuel. 10 CFR Part 74 Accounting, Criminal penalties, Hazardous materials_transportation, Material control and accounting, Nuclear materials, Packaging and containers, Radiation protection, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Scientific equipment, Special nuclear material.
