FR940805-2-00142 FR940805-2-00073 Section III&hyph;A&hyph;2&hyph;c. For extrachromosomal elements and microorganisms (including viruses), rearrangements and amplifications within a single genome. Rearrangements involving the introduction of DNA from different strains of the same species would not be covered by this exemption.'' Based on these amendments to the NIH Guidelines, that have previously been recommended by the Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee, and the fact that the principles of planned introduction are now in place which provide a risk-assessment method by other Federal regulatory agencies, the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities requests that Appendix L be deleted from the NIH Guidelines. Appendix L will be deleted as follows: Appendix L. Release into the Environment of Certain Plants Appendix L&hyph;I. General Information Appendix L specifies conditions under which certain plants as specified below, may be approved for release into the environment. Experiments in this category cannot be initiated without submission of relevant information on the proposed experiment to NIH, review by the RAC Plant Subcommittee, and specific approval by the NIH Director. Such experiments also require the approval of the Institutional Biosafety Committee before initiation. Appendix L&hyph;II. Criteria Allowing Review by the RAC Plant Subcommittee Without the Requirement for Full RAC Review ``In consultation with the RAC Plant Subcommittee and without the requirement for full RAC review (Institutional Biosafety Committee review and approval is necessary), NIH/ORDA may approve the growing of plants containing recombinant DNA in the field under the following conditions: (i) the plant species is a cultivated crop of a genus that has no species known to be a noxious weed; (ii) the introduced DNA consists of well-characterized genes containing no sequences harmful to humans, animals, or plants; (iii) the vector consists of DNA from exempt host-vector systems (see Appendix C), from plants of the same or closely related species, from nonpathogenic prokaryotes or nonpathogenic lower eukaryotic plants, from plant pathogens only if sequences resulting in production of disease symptoms have been deleted, or chimeric vectors constructed from sequences of exempt host-vector systems (see Appendix C) or from sequences from plant pathogens in which the disease symptoms have been deleted. The DNA may be introduced by any suitable method. If sequences resulting in production of disease symptoms are retained for purposes of introducing the DNA into the plant, greenhouse-grown plants must be shown to be free of such sequences before such plants, their derivatives, or seed can be used in field tests; (iv) plants are grown in controlled access fields under specified conditions appropriate for the plant under study and the geographical location. Such conditions should include provisions for using good cultural and pest control practices, for physical isolation from plants of the same species outside of the experimental plot in accordance with pollination characteristics of the species, and the prevention of plants containing recombinant DNA from becoming established in the environment. Review by the Institutional Biosafety Committee should include an appraisal by scientists knowledgeable of the crop, its production practices, and the local geographical conditions. Procedures for assessing alterations in and the spread of organisms containing recombinant DNA must be developed. The results of the outlined tests must be submitted for review and approval by the Institutional Biosafety Committee. Copies of such results must be submitted to the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, National Institutes of Health, Building 31, Room 4B11, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, (301) 496&hyph;9838.'' The proposed amendment was reviewed by the Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee during its June 9&hyph;10, 1994, meeting. The Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee approved a motion to accept the deletion of Appendix L, Regarding Release into the Environment, by a vote of 13 in favor, 0 opposed, and no abstentions.
