FR940805-1-00098 FR940805-1-00013 (6) Meetings with provider . The health authority shall meet with the administrator or designee at least quarterly to review and evaluate the health care delivery system. The health authority shall provide an annual statistical report which documents the level and amount of health care services provided. (7) Review of health care policies . The health authority and the administrator shall review and approve all policies and procedures relative to the health care plan prior to submission of these policies to the Chief, Division of Law Enforcement. Policies and procedures shall be reviewed at least annually and documented by signature and date. (8) Health training program . The responsible health authority, in cooperation with the administrator, shall establish a health training program. The program shall provide instruction in the following areas: (i) Appropriate procedures to prevent the spread of communicable diseases; (ii) Ability to respond to health-related situations within four minutes; (iii) Recognition of signs, symptoms and actions required in potential emergency situations; (iv) Recognition of chronic illness; (v) Administration of first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR); (vi) Methods of obtaining assistance from the health care provider; (vii) Recognition of signs and symptoms of and management of residents with mental illness, retardation, emotional disturbance, chemical dependency and suicidal behavior; and (viii) Procedures for patient transfers to appropriate medical facilities or health care providers. (9) Sick call . The administrator or designee shall provide for the collection and referral of resident requests for health care. The facility shall have a system of sick call in-house or at the health care facility. The system shall include provision for referral of residents by staff for medical or other behavioral health evaluation, i.e, mental health, substance abuse, suicide. Sick call shall be held no less than once per week. (10) Twenty-four-hour emergency care . The administrator and health authority shall develop a written plan for the provision of twenty-four hour emergency medical, dental and mental health care. The administrator and the health authority shall update the plan as needed and shall review it at least annually. At a minimum, the plan shall include: (i) Emergency evacuation of the resident from the facility; (ii) Emergency evaluation of the resident for medical or mental health problems; (iii) Use of an emergency medical vehicle; (iv) Use of one or more designated hospital, clinic, emergency on-call physician, dentist, psychiatrist, qualified psychologist or otherwise qualified clinician; and (v) Procedures that provide for the immediate transfer of residents when appropriate. (11) Health care treatment . Health care staff or health-trained community residential staff shall perform treatment pursuant to written direct orders by personnel authorized by law to give such orders. (12) Licensure requirements . The health authority shall comply with all applicable federal law, licensure requirements, rules, regulations and medical protocols in the delivery of health care services to the resident population. (13) Traditional practitioners . The facility shall allow residents to participate in or receive traditional healing ceremonies and to use traditional healing methods, limited only to the degree necessary to preserve institutional security and order. (14) Prohibited use of residents . Residents shall not perform direct patient services, schedule health care appointments, determine access of other residents to health care services, access to first aid kits, handle or have access to surgical instruments, syringes, needles, medications, or health records, or operate equipment for which they are not trained. (15) Management of medications . The administrator and health authority shall provide for the proper management of individual doses of medications kept in the facility. The administrator and health authority shall review the policy annually and update it as needed. (16) Administration of medications . The administrator or designee shall ensure that persons administering medications have received training appropriate to their assignment. Employees shall administer medications according to direct or physician orders and shall record the administration of medications in a manner and on a form approved by the responsible physician. (17) Preliminary health care screening . The administrator or designee shall ensure that all residents have received a health screening interview prior to acceptance into the community residential program. (18) Health appraisal . The health authority shall provide a health appraisal for each resident is provided within fourteen days of admission unless there is documentation that the resident has had an appraisal within thirty days prior to admission to the facility. A health-trained professional or otherwise qualified personnel shall collect health history and vital signs. Only qualified health care personnel shall collect other data. The health appraisal shall include: (i) Review of the transferred health record and/or health screening; (ii) Screening for diet counseling for medical reasons; (iii) Collection of additional data to complete the medical, dental, psychiatric and immunization histories, if not already available; (iv) Recording of height, weight, pulse, blood pressure and temperature, if not already available; (v) Administration of laboratory and other tests and examinations as appropriate, if medically indicated; (vi) Notation of additional comments as needed; and (vii) Initiation of therapy as appropriate. (19) Health examination . Qualified health care personnel shall complete a health examina tion for each resident within thirty days of admission. The examination shall include: (i) A ``hands-on'' examination by an appropriately licensed health care professional;
