FR940404-2-00191 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the International Cotton Advisory Committee (ICAC), 52nd Plenary Meeting, New Delhi, October 10&hyph;15, 1993 Representative Kenneth E. Howland, Director, Tobacco, Cotton and Seeds Division, Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture Alternate Representative Russell Barlowe, Fibers Analyst, World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture Advisers Lana Bennett, Cotton Group Leader,Tobacco, Cotton and Seeds Division, Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture Wayne Bjorlie, Leader, Fibers Group, Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture Daniel B. Conable, Agricultural Counselor, United States Embassy, New Delhi Private Sector Advisers Adel Boutros, Director of Middle East Sales, Calcot, Inc., Bakersfield, California Donald B. Conlin, Chairman Emeritus, New York Cotton Exchange, New York, New York Neal P. Gillen, Executive Vice President and General Counsel, American Cotton Shippers Association, Washington, District of Columbia Allen A. Terhaar, Director of Foreign Operations, National Cotton Council of America, Washington, District of Columbia United States Delegation to the First Meeting of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Convention on Biological Diversity (ICCBD), United Nations Environment Program Geneva, October 11&hyph;15, 1993 Representative Rafe Pomerance, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Alternate Representative Brooks Yeager, Director, Office of Policy Analysis, Department of the Interior Advisers Melinda P. Chandler, Oceans, International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Office of the Legal Adviser, Department of State Harlan Cohen, Office of Environment, Science and Technology, United States Mission to the United Nations, Geneva Luther V. Giddings, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture Francesca Grifo, International Cooperative Biodiversity Groups Program, Fogarty International Center, National Institutes of Health Thomas Hourigan, Office of International Donor Programs, Agency for International Development Marshall Jones, Chief, Office of Management Authority, United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior Jeffrey P. Kushan, United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce Franklin Moore, Office of International Activities, Environmental Protection Agency Authur Paterson, International Liaison Staff, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Peter O. Thomas, Office of Ecology and Terrestrial Conservation, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Robert Ward, Office of the General Counsel, International Activities Division, Environmental Protection Agency Private Sector Advisers John M. Fitzgerald, Director of Wildlife Law, Defenders of Wildlife, Washington, DC Edward T. Lentz, Vice President, Director, Corporate Intellectual Property, SmithKline Beacham, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Donald Maclauchlen, International Resource Director, International Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, Washington, DC
