FR940304-1-00172 FR940304-1-00014 Lastly, all of these alternatives must be gauged against the performance standards that are being proposed in this notice. Such performance standards would result in energy consumption of the eight appliances to total an estimated 379.4 quads of primary energy over the 1996&hyph;2030 time period. Savings would be 64.1 quads, and the net present value would be an expected $108.7 billion. As noted at the beginning of this section, none of the alternatives that were considered for these products would save as much energy as the proposed rule. c. ``Takings'' Assessment Review Executive Order 12630 (53 FR 8859, March 18, 1988) directs that, in proposing a regulation, an agency conduct a ``takings'' review. Such a review is intended to assist agencies in avoiding unnecessary takings and help such agencies account for those takings that are necessitated by statutory mandate. For purposes of the Order: ``Policies that have takings implications'' refers to Federal regulations, proposed Federal regulations, proposed Federal legislation, comments on proposed Federal legislation, or other Federal policy statements that, if implemented or enacted, could effect a taking, such as rules and regulations that propose or implement licensing, permitting, or other condition requirements or limitations on private property use, or that require dedications or exactions from owners of private property. 48 48 Executive Order 12630, March 15, 1988, Sec. 2. There are three parts of the appliance standards program that conceivably could be viewed as having ``takings implications.'' These are testing and certification requirements, the impacts of standard levels, and possible DOE testing of products for validation. With regard to the first part, namely, testing and certification, the Department believes that such a requirement, implementing a long-established statutory mandate in a manner calculated to minimize adverse economic impacts, does not constitute a ``taking'' of private property. Similarly, the Department's possible validation testing does not constitute a ``taking'' within limitations described above. Lastly, the impact of standards could be viewed by some as a ``taking.'' Nevertheless, the Department believes that while an energy conservation standard may limit some manufacturers in the range of appliance efficiencies they can produce, such narrowing of the energy efficiency range does not constitute a ``taking'' in the sense described above. In short, in none of the three parts of the appliance standards program does the Department believe that the provisions of Executive Order 12630 pertain. d. Federalism Review Executive Order 12612 (52 FR 41685, October 30, 1987) requires that regulations or rules be reviewed for any substantial direct effects on States, on the relationship between the Federal Government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among various levels of government. If there are sufficient substantial direct effects, then Executive Order 12612 requires preparation of a federalism assessment to be used in all decisions involved in promulgating and implementing a regulation or a rule. The Department finds that today's proposed rule, if finalized, will not have a substantial direct effect on State governments. State regulations that may have existed on these eight products were preempted by the Federal standards established in the National Appliance Energy Conservation Act. States could petition the Department for exemption from such preemption, and none has done so. Today's Final Rule has no added effect on States. Thus, based on the foregoing, the Department finds that the preparation of a Federalism assessment for this rulemaking is not warranted.
