FR940805-1-00079 FR940805-1-00013 (ii) a minimum of fifty square feet of floor space per occupant in the sleeping area and a clear floor-to-ceiling height of not less than eight feet; (iii) natural light; (iv) a toilet(s), with some degree of privacy; (v) an operable wash basin(s) with hot and cold running water; (vi) access to showers; and (vii) beds above floor level and a locker or container for each occupant's belongings. (4) Space, furnishings and conditions for dayrooms . The facility shall provide separate dayroom space for each cellblock or detention room cluster. The dayroom shall provide: (i) natural light; (ii) a minimum of thirty-five square feet of space per juvenile exclusive of lavatories; (iii) showers and toilets with some degree of privacy; and (iv) seating and writing surfaces, appropriate to the classification which uses this space, sufficient for the number of juveniles who use the dayroom at one time. (5) Toilets . The facility shall provide operable toilets at a minimum ratio of one for every twelve juveniles in male facilities and one for every eight juveniles in female facilities. Urinals may be substituted for up to one-half of the toilets in male facilities. All housing units with three or more juveniles shall have two toilets. (6) Wash basins . Juveniles shall have access to operable wash basins with hot and cold running water in the housing units at a minimum ratio of one basin for every twelve occupants. (7) Showers . Juveniles shall have access to operable showers with temperature-controlled hot and cold running water at a minimum of one shower for every eight juveniles. Water for showers shall be thermostatically controlled to temperatures ranging from one hundred degrees to one hundred-twenty degrees Fahrenheit. (8) Housing for the disabled . Disabled juveniles shall be housed in a manner that provides for their safety in compliance with 25 U.S.C. 794 (the Rehabilitation Act of 1973) as amended, 41 CFR 101&hyph;19.6 (Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards), and 43 CFR Part 17, yet prevents their being discriminated against in their use of the facility. (9) Work or education release housing . Juveniles who participate in work or education release programs shall be housed separately from juveniles in the general population. (10) Program space requirements . The total indoor activity area, which includes all activity areas outside of the living unit, shall provide space equivalent to a minimum of one hundred square feet per juvenile. If the facility houses both male and female juveniles, the facility shall provide space for coeducational activities. (11) Exercise and recreation areas . The facility shall provide secure outdoor, covered or enclosed exercise areas. Outdoor exercise areas shall be a minimum of one thousand five hundred square feet of unencumbered space; covered and enclosed exercise areas shall provide a minimum of one thousand square feet of unencumbered space. Exercise areas shall be adequate in size and type to ensure that each juvenile shall be offered at least one hour of access daily regardless of climatic conditions. (12) Multi-purpose and interview rooms . The facility shall provide a minimum of one accessible multi-purpose room and one accessible interview room. (13) Program area toilets . The facility shall provide toilets with some degree of privacy and wash basins, which are accessible to juveniles, in or adjacent to activity areas. (14) Visiting spaces . The facility shall provide space in which contact visiting can occur. The space shall facilitate staff observation of visiting. The facility shall provide secure space outside the security perimeter for the storage of visitors' personal items. (15) Classroom . Classrooms shall be designed in conformity with BIA or state education requirements. (16) Food service spaces . When the facility provides for food preparation, it shall have adequate space for food processing, storage, refrigeration and sanitation. Toilet and wash basin facilities shall be available to food service personnel and juveniles in the vicinity of the food preparation area. The square footage of the kitchen shall be appropriate to the needs of the facility. If dining occurs outside the dayroom, the facility shall provide a minimum of fifteen square feet per occupant. The facility shall provide space for group dining except where security or safety considerations justify otherwise. (17) Storage spaces . The facility shall provide the following storage space: (i) a secure, well-ventilated janitor closet, which includes sink and adequate space for the storage of cleaning implements and supplies; (ii) secure storage, located outside the secure area, for flammable, toxic and caustic items; and (iii) storage for juvenile clothing, bedding, mattresses, personal hygiene items and facility supplies. (18) Laundry . The facility shall provide access to laundry services or laundry space and equipment. (19) Admission . The facility shall provide an admitting and release area which shall be located inside the security perimeter, but outside juvenile living quarters. The booking area shall include: (i) an admitting work area; (ii) sallyport; (iii) access to operable toilets, with some degree of privacy, wash basins, drinking water and showers; (iv) space for alcohol and drug testing equipment; (v) a secure, well-ventilated storage room for juveniles' personal property; (vi) telephone(s), which can be used by juveniles; (vii) private interview spaces; (viii) temporary holding rooms or waiting spaces with sufficient fixed seating for all juveniles at their rated capacities; and (ix) access to continuously observable protective holding cells for the safe holding of intoxicated individuals.
