FR940106-0-00072 FR940106-0-00018 IV. Recreational Fishing (1) California. The bag limit for each person engaged in recreational fishing seaward of the State of California is 5 lingcod which may be no smaller than 22 inches (56 cm) (total length) and 15 rockfish per day. Multi-day limits are authorized by a valid permit issued by the State of California and must not exceed the daily limit multiplied by the number of days in the fishing trip. (2) Oregon. The bag limit for each person engaged in recreational fishing seaward of the State of Oregon is 3 lingcod per day and 15 rockfish per day, of which no more than 10 may be black rockfish ( Sebastes melanops ). (3) Washington (South of Leadbetter Point). The bag limit for each person engaged in recreational fishing seaward of the States of Washington south of Leadbetter Point (46 ○38 ’10 ’ ’ N. latitude) and Oregon is 3 lingcod per day and 15 rockfish per day. (4) Washington (North of Leadbetter Point) . The bag limit for each person engaged in recreational fishing seaward of the State of Washington north of Leadbetter Point (46 ○38 ’10 ’ ’ N. latitude) is 3 lingcod per day and 12 rockfish per day. V. Inseason Adjustments At subsequent meetings, the Council will review the best data available and recommend modifications to these management measures if appropriate. The Council intends to examine the progress of these fisheries during the year in order to avoid overfishing and to achieve the goals and objectives of the FMP and its implementing regulations. VI. Experimental Fisheries U.S. vessels operating under an experimental fishing permit issued under 50 CFR 663.10 also are subject to these restrictions unless otherwise provided in the permit. Classification The final specifications and management measures for 1994 are issued under the authority of and in accordance with the regulations implementing the FMP at 50 CFR parts 611 and 663. Much of the data necessary for these specifications and management measures comes from the current fishing season. Because of the timing of the receipt, development, review, and analysis of the fishery information necessary for setting the initial specifications and management measures, and the need to have these specifications and management measures in effect at the beginning of the fishing year, there is good cause to waive the publication of proposed specifications in the Federal Register and 30-day comment period on the proposed specifications. Amendment 4 to the FMP, implemented on January 1, 1991, recognized these timeliness considerations, and set up a system by which the interested public was notified, through Federal Register notice and Council mailings of meetings, and of the development of these measures, and was provided the opportunity to comment during the Council process. The public participated in GMT, Groundfish Advisory Subpanel, Scientific and Statistical Committee, and Council meetings in August, September, October, and November 1993 that resulted in these recommendations from the Council. Additional public comments will be accepted for 30 days after publication of this notice in the Federal Register . The Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, NOAA will consider all comments made during the public comment period and may propose modifications as appropriate. Because the rule is being issued without prior notice and opportunity for public comment, preparation of a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required and none has been prepared. The Administrative Procedure Act requires that publication of an action be made not less than 30 days before its effective date unless the Secretary finds and publishes with the rule good cause for an earlier effective date. Good cause for waiving the delay in effectiveness is found if the delay is impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest. These specifications announce the harvest goals and the management measures designed to achieve those harvest goals in 1994. A delay in implementation could compromise the management strategies that are based on the projected landings from these trip limits. Therefore, a delay in effectiveness is contrary to the public interest and these actions are effective on January 1, 1994. List of Subjects 50 CFR Part 611 Fisheries, Foreign relations, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 50 CFR Part 663 Administrative practice and procedure, Fisheries, Fishing, Reporting and Recordkeeping requirements. Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq. Dated: December 30, 1993. Samuel W. McKeen, Acting Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, National Marine Fisheries Service. [FR Doc. 93&hyph;32118 Filed 12&hyph;30&hyph;93; 5 pm] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;M
