FR940920-1-00106 FR940920-1-00008 The State of New Jersey will be proposing an Hg standard for MWC's of 0.028 mg/dscm (corrected to 7 percent O 2 ), which would be effective as of January 1, 2000, and an interim standard of 0.065 mg/dscm or an 80-percent reduction, which would be effective as of December 31, 1995. The 0.028 mg/dscm limit is based on reducing the uncontrolled Hg emission level (assumed to be 0.70 mg/dscm) by 80 percent through reduction of Hg in the waste burned, and another 80-percent reduction from Hg in the flue gas. These limits are annual averages based on quarterly 3-run testing (i.e., a total of 12 runs), using EPA Reference Method 29. VIII. Miscellaneous This section addresses the four following issues: (1) The selection of a ``no control'' limit for NO X for MWC's at small MWC plants, (2) the July 14, 1992 remand of the issue of lead-acid vehicle battery combustion, (3) request for comments about requiring a materials separation plan for existing MWC plants, and (4) general request for comment on the proposal. Regarding the first issue, section 129 of the Act specifies that standards and guidelines for MWC's must include emission limits for PM, opacity, SO 2 , HCl, NO X , CO, Pb, Cd, Hg, and dioxins/furans. This means that emission limits for these pollutants must be specified even if the MACT selected for a subcategory of facilities does not control that particular pollutant. In particular, MACT requirements for small MWC plants are based on usage of GCP, DSI/ESP, and activated carbon injection, but NO X control is not required. Also, MACT requirements for mass burn/refractory MWC's at large MWC plants are based on usage of GCP, SD/ESP, and activated carbon injection, but NO X control is not required under today's proposal (see section IV.F.1.c for additional discussion). Therefore, a ``no control'' NO X limit is proposed for MWC's at small MWC plants and for mass burn/refractory MWC's at large MWC plants. The proposed ``no control'' limit for NO X for these MWC's is 500 ppmv. The proposed guidelines do not include any testing, reporting, or recordkeeping associated with the ``no control'' emission limit. The 500 ppmv limit represents an emission level higher than any of the test data and allows an adequate margin to accommodate the variability in NO X emission levels. The EPA expects that this ``no control'' limit will not be exceeded. The EPA requests public comments on whether it is appropriate to include such a ``no control'' emission limit in the final emission guidelines or whether such a limit is not necessary. Regarding the second issue, on December 20, 1989, the EPA proposed NSPS and emission guidelines for new and existing MWC's under section 111 of the Act. The proposed NSPS and emission guidelines included a prohibition on the combustion of lead-acid vehicle batteries in MWC's. On February 11, 1991, the EPA promulgated standards and guidelines for new and existing MWC that did not prohibit the combustion of lead-acid vehicle batteries. The decision not to prohibit the combustion of lead-acid vehicle batteries was challenged in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit by NRDC, the State of New York, and the State of Florida. In 1992, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit concluded that the EPA had not adequately explained its decision not to require a lead acid battery separation as part of the 1991 NSPS and emission guidelines, when it had included such a requirement in its proposed rule ( State of New York v. Reilly, 969 F.2d 1147, 1153 (D.C.Cir. 1992)). The EPA is not addressing the lead acid battery issue in this notice, but will publish a separate notice in the Federal Register in the near future. Regarding the third issue, unlike the NSPS for new MWC's proposed in a separate part of today's Federal Register , the proposed emission guidelines do not include any requirement for existing MWC's to prepare a materials separation plan. However, the EPA is considering the option of adding this type of requirement to the emission guidelines at promulgation. As defined in section 69.51b of the proposed NSPS (subpart Eb) included in a separate part of today's Federal Register , a materials separation plan would be a plan that identifies both a goal and an approach for a given MWC to separate certain components of MSW for its service area in order to make the separated materials available for recycling. While the current NSPS proposal does not require the adoption of any particular approach, various types of approaches that the owner or operator of an MWC may choose to include in their materials separation plan are drop-off facilities, buy-back or deposit-return incentives, curbside pick-up programs, or centralized mechanical separation. Refer to the proposed NSPS in a separate part of today's Federal Register for further discussion of the proposed material separation plan for new MWC's. As part of development of a materials separation plan, the owner or operator of an existing MWC would be required to hold two public hearings for presentation of preliminary and final draft materials separation plans. The first public meeting would present the opportunity for the existing facility and interested public from the service area to discuss, among other issues, the types of materials separation approaches suited to the service area of the MWC. The second public meeting would present the opportunity for the existing facility to present a plan to integrate approaches discussed at the initial public meeting into the operation of the MWC (i.e., to discuss the effects of different types of materials separation on the performance of the combustor). After each public meeting, the owner or operator would be required to prepare and distribute documents responding to the public comments received at the public meetings. The final materials separation plan would be submitted along with the report documenting the results of the initial compliance test. Additionally, the owner or operator may be required to submit some form of annual report summarizing the effectiveness of the materials separation plan and identifying any modifications made to the plan after implementation. This last requirement has not yet been incorporated into the proposed NSPS materials separation requirements included in a separate part of today's Federal Register ; however, the EPA has specifically requested comment in that notice on the usefulness of this type of subsequent reporting for assuring efficient application of the plan. The EPA requests comments on the appropriateness of including materials separation plan requirements in the emission guidelines for existing MWC's. Regarding the fourth issue, the MWC regulations are complex, and the EPA expects to receive numerous comments on this proposal. The EPA has specifically requested comments on items fundamental to the proposal, including but not limited to the MACT floor, MACT performance levels, and a consideration of materials separation requirements for existing MWC's. IX. Administrative Requirements This section addresses the following administrative requirements: Public hearing, docket, procedural requirements of the Act, Executive Order 12866 review, and Regulatory Flexibility Act compliance.
