FR940930-0-00054 FR940930-0-00009 C. Alternative Standards FDA recognizes that there may be alternative standards to the standards issued in ยง900.12 (21 CFR 900.12) of the Federal Register of December 12, 1993 (58 FR 67565), that are at least as effective in delivering high quality mammography services to women. In the interest of improving the overall quality of mammography, FDA wants to provide an avenue by which safe and effective alternative standards may be implemented. Accordingly, the agency has created a mechanism for qualified applicants to request permission to meet an alternative standard rather than an existing quality standard. The request must be supported by such evidence as required by the agency to render a determination that the suggested alternative is at least as effective as the agency mandated standard in helping to achieve high quality mammography. If the agency determines that the proposed alternative is acceptable, the agency will grant the request. The applicant will receive written notice of the approval of the alternative standard, including any limitations on use of the alternative, and the period of time that the alternative may be employed. The decision will be placed in the public docket file in the Dockets Management Branch (address above), after deletion of any patient identifiers or confidential commercial information, and may also be published in the form of a notice in the Federal Register . Other entities that desire to use the alternative standard must also submit an application and receive approval by the agency before they may substitute the alternative for the agency mandated standard. FDA anticipates that ``me-too'' entities filing an application in accordance with the regulations typically would receive a prompt response to the request. This process is necessary to ensure that those other entities wishing to avail themselves of the alternative fully understand and appreciate the alternative procedure and its applicability so that the overall quality of mammography services is maintained. However, if a manufacturer of mammography equipment applies to the agency for approval of an alternative standard based on particular characteristics of that manufacturers's equipment, FDA approval of that alternative standard would apply to all facilities using that manufacturer's equipment. VI. Quality Assurance Standards: Screen-Film FDA is amending the quality assurance (QA) standard for screen-film systems. Section 900.12(d)(1)(i) (58 FR 67565 at 67572) requires the screen-film QA program for a mammography facility to be substantially the same as that described in the 1992 edition of ``Mammography Quality Control: Radiologist's Manual, Radiologic Technologists Manual and Medical Physicist's Manual.'' Recently, the 1994 edition of the manual has been published. FDA has evaluated the revised QA screen-film program in this latest edition and determined that either the 1992 version or the 1994 version of the program can serve as the basis for a facility's screen-film QA program. FDA is amending ยง900.12(d)(1)(i) to reflect this change.
