FR941216-1-00088 FR941216-1-00012 (10) Group K. Ammunition containing both explosives and toxic chemical agents. Ammunition in this group contains chemicals specifically designed for incapacitating effects more severe than lachrymation. Examples are artillery or mortar ammunition, fuzed or unfuzed, grenades, and rockets or bombs filled with a lethal or incapacitating chemical agent (see note 8, Appendix A to this subpart). (11) Group L. Ammunition not included in other compatibility groups, having characteristics that do not permit storage with other types of ammunition or kinds of explosives. Examples are water-activated devices; prepackaged, hypergolic liquid-fueled rocket engines; TPA (thickened TEA); and damaged or suspect ammunition of any group. Types presenting similar hazards (that is, oxidizers with oxidizers, fuels with fuels, etc.) may be stored together but not mixed with other groups. (12) Group N. Ammunition containing only extremely insensitive detonating substance (EIDS); examples are bombs and warheads. (13) Group S. Ammunition presenting no significant hazard. All hazardous explosive effects are confined and self-contained within the item or package. An incident may destroy all items in a single pack but must not communicate to other packs. Examples are thermal batteries, explosive switches or valves, and other ammunition items packaged to meet this criterion. (e) Mixed storage. (1) Mixing of SCG's is permitted as indicated in Appendix A of this subpart. For purposes of mixing, all items shall be packaged in approved storage containers. (2) Items from SCG's C, D, E, F, G, J, and S may be combined in storage, provided the net quantity of explosives in the items or in bulk does not exceed 1000 pounds per storage site. (3) In addition to paragraph (e)(2) of this section, items assigned to Hazard Division 1.4, SCG C, G, or S, may be combined in storage without regard to explosives quantity limitations. ยง184.49 Explosives hazard classification procedures. TB 700&hyph;2/NAVSEAINST 8020.8/TO IIA&hyph;1&hyph;47/DLAR 8220, DoD Explosives Hazard Classification Procedures, shall be used as a basis for assignment of hazard class/division to all ammunition and explosives.
