FR940429-0-00088 FR940429-0-00011 Sections 668.17 (f) and (h) contain information collection requirements. As required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, the Department of Education will submit a copy of these sections to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for its review. These regulations affect institutions of higher education and guaranty agencies that participate in the Federal Family Education Loan Program. The Secretary needs the information to properly administer certain aspects of that program. The collection and reporting burden for the 300 institutions which challenge the calculation of their cohort default rates under these provisions is expected to increase by 15,600 hours. The collection and reporting burden for the 46 guaranty agencies which must respond to the institutions' requests under these regulations is expected to increase by 2,576 hours. Organizations and individuals desiring to submit comments on the information collection requirements should direct them to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, OMB, Room 3002, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503; Attention: Daniel J. Chenok. Comments on the burden estimate must be received on or before May 31, 1994. Invitation to Comment The Secretary recognizes that many participants in the FFEL program have an interest in these procedural rules. In light of that interest, the Secretary is requesting comment on these rules. The Secretary will consider any comments received within the designated comment period in determining whether to make any changes in these rules. After reviewing any comments received during the comment period, the Secretary will publish changes to the regulation or will publish a notice in the Federal Register indicating that no further changes will be made. Waiver of Rulemaking It is the practice of the Secretary to offer interested parties an opportunity to comment on proposed regulations. However, the Secretary has determined that the public interest requires the immediate issuance of this interim final rule. Under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. section 551, et seq., procedural amendments to regulations do not require prior public notice and an opportunity for public comment. The changes being made by this rule do not affect the substantive requirements or the underlying laws or rules; nor do they modify or revoke existing rights or obligations, or create new ones. These regulations merely establish procedures to implement the requirements of sections 435(a)(3) and 435(m)(1)(B) of the HEA. Therefore, public comment is not required under 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(A). In addition, the Secretary has determined that notice and comment is impracticable, unnecessary and contrary to the public interest. The procedures included in these rules are needed to adjudicate appeals from the initial determinations of cohort default rates for institutions. The Secretary is required by section 435(m)(4) of the HEA to publish cohort default rates for each institution for which a rate is calculated at least every fiscal year. The cohort default rates to be released for the current fiscal year are currently scheduled to be released during the summer of 1994. For the appeal procedures to be in place prior to the release of the default rates, the procedures must be published by May 1, 1994. Moreover, the Secretary invited public comment on what the procedures should be and received and considered the comments received in preparing this interim final rule. Accordingly, the Secretary has determined that public comment on this interim final rule is not required under 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(B). List of Subjects in 34 CFR Part 668 Administrative practice and procedure, Colleges and universities, Consumer protection, Education, Grant programs-education, Loan programs-education, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Student aid. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.032, Federal Family Education Loan Program.) Dated: April 21, 1994. Richard W. Riley, Secretary of Education.
