FR940527-1-00250 FR940527-1-00014 ProPAC agrees that changes are needed in the way that graduate medical education and other health care training activities are structured and financed. While others have devoted substantial attention to issues related to the supply and distribution of health care personnel, the Commission's focus is on payment policies, particularly as they affect facility-based care provided to the Medicare population and other groups. Consistent with this focus, ProPAC has identified several principles that should be used in determining the level of funding and the distribution of payments to support the training of health care professionals. These principles should be used to guide policies relating to the funding of graduate medical education whether comprehensive health reform is enacted or not. All-Payer Funding Mechanism._ The Commission believes it is appropriate to include all payers in a mechanism for funding graduate medical education that sets a nationwide level for such funding. Moreover, this mechanism should be separate from the payment received for patient care services. Currently, payers other than Medicare contribute only implicitly to the support of graduate medical education; Medicare's GME payment is based on each hospital's own historical costs. Consequently, there are unclear and inconsistent incentives related to the total number of residents and their distribution across geographic areas, programs, and institutions, as well as to costs per resident. An all-payer funding mechanism for graduate medical education would base the level and distribution of payments on a consistent set of criteria. This would provide appropriate incentives for the allocation of resources. It would also ensure that the costs of training physicians would be borne by both the Medicare and the non-Medicare populations. Further, a funding mechanism that recognizes the costs of teaching activities regardless of setting would improve the effectiveness of medical education as well as the equity of payments. Consistency with National Work Force Goals._ Both the current Council on Graduate Medical Education (COGME) and the Physician Payment Review Commission (PPRC) have extensively examined physician supply and specialty distribution issues. Each of these groups has recommended limiting the number of residents entering training to 110 percent of the number of graduates from U.S. medical schools. ProPAC supports limiting the number of resident positions. COGME and PPRC differ, however, on how they would approach the issue of specialty distribution. COGME advocates increasing to 50 percent the proportion of primary care residents, which it defines as family practice, general internal medicine, and general pediatrics. PPRC does not recommend a specific percentage for primary care, but endorses the designation of a national body to determine the most appropriate specialty distribution of residents. ProPAC supports proposals that would lead to a more appropriate specialty mix of physicians, including those who serve the special needs of the Medicare population. These issues, however, need to be reexamined periodically, and an independent group should be created to monitor and set future work force goals. The Commission believes graduate medical education funding should be tied to these work force decisions. Training for Other Categories of Health Care Professionals._ National work force goals should include the appropriate use of both physicians and other categories of health care professionals. The determination of the appropriate roles for specific categories of medical personnel is beyond ProPAC's mandate, however. In any event, the availability and distribution of funding should be consistent with national work force goals. Payments to Training Programs._ Currently, Medicare pays the hospital for the direct costs of approved graduate medical education programs and direct medical education costs for the training of nurses and allied health personnel. This provides a strong incentive in support of hospital-based training and discourages the use of alternative sites, such as physician offices and other ambulatory settings. The Commission believes GME payments should be made to the training program, rather than to the hospital. This would allow greater flexibility concerning where and how the residents are trained and would simplify fundings for residencies that are provided in several settings. Although ProPAC favors payment to the program rather than to the hospital, questions arise about the appropriate designation of the entity that would actually receive the payment. These questions need to be addressed before final determination is made concerning the method for allocating and distributing GME payments. Per Resident Payment Amount._ The Commission believes GME payments should be based on a national per resident payment amount, adjusted for appropriate differences in costs across institutions. The current Medicare per resident payment amounts, which are based on each hospital's own historical costs, vary substantially. Moreover, this variation in payments does not, as a rule, correspond to observed differences in current costs. ProPAC has examined some of the reasons for the variation in per resident costs, and has found geographic location to be a significant factor. In addition, some hospital and program characteristics are correlated with per resident costs. However, the allocation of overhead also appears to be related to reported costs. Moreover, the results indicate that the PPS hospital wage index, which measures the cost of all hospital labor inputs, may not be an appropriate adjuster for residents' wage differences. The Commission believes further work is necessary to identify appropriate adjustments to a national per resident payment amount. ProPAC will continue to examine this issue over the coming year. Funding for Institutions That Lose Training Positions._ Adequate funding should be available to assist hospitals that lose training positions as a result of the reduction in the total number of positions and the reallocation of these positions across hospitals and other settings. Some of these institutions rely on residents to provide basic patient care, and the loss of these positions should substantially increase their costs. Moreover, many of these facilities are located in areas where it is difficult to recruit other physicians, and many provide care to populations that otherwise might not have access to that care. Recommendation 5: Quality of Care The Commission believes there must be an effective quality assurance program for Medicare enrollees, especially given health reform's emphasis on cost control and proposed cutbacks in Medicare spending. The Peer Review Organization program should be continued but thoroughly evaluated. It should be replaced only by a program that has been determined to be more effective. The Health Security Act eliminates the PRO program and does not replace it with another quality assurance program for Medicare enrollees. The Commission views this as undesirable, especially given that cutbacks in the rate of growth in Medicare spending and cost controls in the private insurance market may adversely affect the quality of care provided to Medicare patients. ProPAC has stressed the importance of a regulatory quality assurance program for Medicare in past recommendations; it believes that both pattern analysis and individual case review should be continued. The PRO program should not be eliminated until another way to assess quality proves to be superior. In addition, it should be evaluated to see what aspects are most effective in improving quality of care. The Health Care Financing Administration should consider implementing additional quality assurance programs and evaluating them simultaneously with the PRO program to determine the best way to ensure that Medicare beneficiaries receive quality care. Dramatic changes in the PRO program have reduced the emphasis on punitive case review and incorporated pattern analysis with educational feedback. These changes are consistent with recommendations made by the Institute of Medicine and others. There are no plans, however, to evaluate this new methodology. The proposed quality assurance program in the Health Security Act depends largely on collecting and disseminating information to purchasers, consumers, and providers on quality of care, access to care, and patient satisfaction. This method of quality assurance is largely untested. Further, under the Act it would not apply to most Medicare enrollees. The Commission recommends that any quality assurance methodology enacted as part of health reform should be evaluated. In addition, the methodology should be appropriate for a Medicare-enrolled population. Recommendation 6: Improvements in Premium Risk Adjustment Methods The Commission recommends that the Secretary undertake the research necessary to substantially improve current risk adjustment methods. Risk adjustment will be needed under many health reform proposals to ensure that the premiums paid to competing health plans accurately reflect the risk composition of their enrollees. Until major improvements can be made, some other mechanism may be needed to limit the potential impact of enrolling individuals whose care proves to be exceptionally costly.
