FR941003-2-00094 FR941003-2-00049 (6) Professional and clerical positions in the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands when occupied by indigenous residents of the Territory to provide financial assistance pursuant to current authorizing statutes. (f) Agricultural Marketing Service . (1) Positions of: Agricultural Commodity Graders, Agricultural Commodity Technicians, and Agricultural Commodity Aids at grades GS&hyph;9 and below in the tobacco, dairy, and poultry commodities; Meat Acceptance Specialists, GS&hyph;11 and below; Clerks, Office Automation Clerks, and Computer Clerks at GS&hyph;5 and below; Clerk-Typists at grades GS&hyph;4 and below; and Laborers under the Wage System. Employment under this authority is limited to either 1,280 hours or 180 days in a service year. (2) Positions of: Agricultural Commodity Graders, Agricultural Commodity Technicians, and Agricultural Commodity Aids at grades GS&hyph;11 and below in the cotton, raisin, and processed fruit and vegetable commodities and the following positions in support of these commodities: Clerks, Office Automation Clerks, and Computer Clerks and Operators at GS&hyph;5 and below; Clerk-Typists at grades GS&hyph;4 and below; and, under the Federal Wage System, High Volume Instrumentation (HVI) Operators and HVI Operator Leaders at WG/WL&hyph;2 and below, respectively, Instrument Mechanics/Workers/Helpers at WG&hyph;10 and below, and Laborers. Employment under this authority may not exceed 180 days in a service year. In unforeseen situations such as bad weather or crop conditions, unanticipated plant demands, or increased imports, employees may work up to 240 days in a service year. Cotton Agricultural Commodity Graders, GS&hyph;5, may be employed as trainees for the first appointment for an initial period of 6 months for training without regard to the service year limitation. (3) Milk Market Administrators. (4) All positions on the staffs of the Milk Market Administrators. (g)&hyph;(i) (Reserved). (j) Food and Nutrition Service . (1)-(2) (Reserved). (3) Positions of meat and poultry inspectors (veterinarians at GS&hyph;11 and below and nonveterinarians at appropriate grades below GS&hyph;11) for employment on a temporary, intermittent, or seasonal basis, not to exceed 1,280 hours a year. (k)&hyph;(l) (Reserved). (m) Federal Grain Inspection Service . (1) One hundred and fifty positions of Agricultural Commodity Aid (Grain), GS&hyph;2/4; 100 positions of Agricultural Commodity Technician (Grain), GS&hyph;4/7; and 60 positions of Agricultural Commodity Grader (Grain), GS&hyph;5/9, for temporary employment on a part-time, intermittent, or seasonal basis not to exceed 1,280 hours in a service year. Section 213.3114␣Department of Commerce (a) General . (1)-(2) (Reserved). (3) Not to exceed 50 scientific and technical positions whose duties are performed primarily in the Antarctic. Incumbents of these positions may be stationed in the continental United States for periods of orientation, training, analysis of data, and report writing. (b) Office of the Secretary . (1) One position of Administrative Assistant, GS&hyph;301&hyph;8, in the Office of Economic Affairs. New appointments may not be made after March 30, 1979. (c) (Reserved). (d) Bureau of the Census . (1) Managers, supervisors, technicians, clerks, interviewers, and enumerators in the field service, for (1) temporary, part-time, or intermittent employment in connection with major economic and demographic censuses or with surveys of a nonrecurring or noncyclical nature; and (2) indefinite employment for the duration of each decennial census for key employees located at the Master District Offices (MDO) and Processing Offices (PO): Provided , that temporary, part-time employment of the nature described in (1) above will be for periods not to exceed 1 year; and that such appointments may be extended for additional periods of not to exceed 1 year each; but that prior Office approval is required for extension of total service beyond 2 years. (2) Current Program Interviewers employed on an intermittent or part-time basis in the field service. (3) Not to exceed 20 professional and scientific positions at grades GS&hyph;9 through GS&hyph;12 filled by participants in the ASA research trainee program. Employment of any individual under this authority may not exceed 2 years.
