FR940620-0-00144 FR940620-0-00029 Comment. Several commenters noted that the NPRM did not include a provision requiring edge protection where the back-of-sidewalk edge may be raised above adjacent grade, forming a drop-off. Response. Edge protection should be provided in such circumstances. A note recommending such practice has been added to the appendix. Codes and standards affecting the design and construction of public sidewalks will generally require a barrier at substantial drop-offs, such as when a public sidewalk crosses a bridge or culvert. For example, the California Accessibility Regulations (title 24 part 2 (1993)) require back-of-sidewalk protection where there is a differential of more than four inches in level. 14.2.1(4)␣Separation Paragraph (4) requires that new public sidewalks be raised to curb height or separated horizontally by a parkway or similar setback from an adjacent roadway. An exception permits unseparated public sidewalks along undeveloped frontages of rural roadways. Comment. The NPRM proposed that all public sidewalks be separated horizontally or vertically from the adjacent roadway with continuous curbing, planted parkways, or other barriers to distinguish streets from public sidewalks. Many suburban and rural jurisdictions were concerned that public sidewalk provisions might be construed to require separation in roadway shoulders, bikeways, and similar surfaces sometimes used by pedestrians. Several commenters asked for clarification of the meaning of ``other barrier'' and noted that some types of barriers (e.g., guardrails) would make these routes more dangerous for bicyclists and would preclude vehicular use of the shoulder, a common practice in rural communities where oversize equipment or slow moving farm vehicles commonly travel in this area. A few commenters noted that non-pedestrian uses predominated along routes of this type. However, a traffic engineer submitted photographs of public sidewalks without separation at street grade along well-developed commercial strips in Florida and indicated that public sidewalks were still commonly constructed in this way even where pedestrian use is substantial. Response. This section considers all walkways established for pedestrian use in the public right-of-way to be public sidewalks, including those on roadway shoulders where pedestrian use is intended. Many rural areas, where destinations are widely separated and pedestrian use is low, simply pave a public right-of-way to include an improved shoulder of six to eight feet in width for the use of cyclists and pedestrians. There may be an intervening gutter that makes continuous travel across intersections difficult for persons using wheelchairs or walking aids. Cross slope may be fairly severe where the roadway and shoulder cross-section is designed to drain to a swale or ditch along the back of the public sidewalk. Differentiation between vehicular and pedestrian areas is often no more than a painted line or drainage ditch. An exception to the requirement for separation has been added for rural areas where roadway frontages are not developed. In other areas, public sidewalks must be separated. The use of unseparated routes is not safe for any pedestrian. Furthermore, curbs and changes in surface material provide cues for pedestrians to distinguish between pedestrian and vehicular areas. Good practice includes the construction of raised or horizontally separated public sidewalks in all commercial areas and along other routes when pedestrian volume is more than incidental. The term ``other barriers'' includes material and texture changes, physical barriers, such as planters or guardrails, or distinguishable edges, such as wheelstops or guidestrips. 14.2.2␣Historic and Special Use Sidewalks [Removed] Comment. The NPRM reserved a section on historic and special use sidewalks and sought comment on how the requirements for historic preservation could be reconciled with provisions for new construction. Organizations representing historic preservation interests generally favored covering public sidewalks in historic neighborhoods and districts in the same way as ADAAG currently covers historic buildings and facilities, noting however that there is no designation for ``historic'' public sidewalks alone. Other commenters supported a provision for an alternative route, although little information was submitted on how such a route might be provided. Many commenters requested clarification on whether walkways in historic landscapes were covered by this section. Response. No commenters made specific recommendations on accessibility criteria appropriate to public sidewalks of historic construction. Historic landscapes, parks, and gardens are covered under ADAAG 4 as sites. Existing requirements that public sidewalk surfaces be stable, firm, and slip-resistant are achievable in alterations to public sidewalks of historic interest. Therefore, this section has been removed.
