FR941116-0-00077 FR941116-0-00012 Total supports the collection of delivery data in order to calculate market shares. It further maintains that the delivery information should be aggregated in order to calculate delivery-based HHIs to provide the Commission with a picture of how the market is actually behaving inasmuch as this understanding is essential to analyzing the rule of potential competition. As discussed above, the Commission considers it appropriate to include origin markets in a determination of market power because it is not ready to exclude the possibility of oil pipeline monopsony power. The Commission is permitting oil pipelines to submit HHIs based on capacity rather than on deliveries. They need submit delivery based data only for market share as another factor to consider in making the determination whether or not an oil pipeline possesses significant market power. At this time, the Commission is not going to aggregate data, but may do so at a later time. H. Statement H_Other Factors In Statement H, the oil pipeline would describe any other factors that bear on the issue of whether it lacks significant market power in the relevant markets. The oil pipeline must explain why those other factors are pertinent. Possible other factors are: Exchanges, Excess Capacity, Competition with vertically integrated companies, buyer power, and profitability. The Commission is not excluding any factor and is not limiting the factors to those listed in the NOI. For example, an oil pipeline might want to show that it has been losing markets over a period of years or that the relevant market is expanding. The burden is on the oil pipeline to show the relevance of any factor to showing its lack of significant market power. No commenter opposed Statement H. I. Statement I_Proposed Testimony In Statement I, the Commission is requiring the oil pipeline to present proposed testimony in support of its application. This will serve as its case-in-chief if the Commission sets the application for hearing. The proposed witness must subscribe to the testimony and swear that all statement of facts in the proposed testimony are true and correct to the best of his or her knowledge, information, and belief. The AOPL opposes Statement I because it does not believe it should present a case-in-chief prior to the filing of a protest as discussed above. In addition, it argues that the filing of a case-in-chief at this stage raises significant due process concerns because it cannot conduct discovery, as it can now, of other shippers prior to submitting its case. It points out that all participants except the oil pipeline will be able to conduct discovery before first filing prepared testimony. It asks, at a minimum, that an oil pipeline should receive a 15-day period after its initial filing to submit proposed testimony. There is no entitlement to discovery before an applicant files a case-in-chief. In addition, the Commission has not ruled that a participant is entitled to discovery from the oil pipeline or any one else before it files a protest and its responsive case. 53 Last, the AOPL has provided no justification for a 15-day delay in filing its proposed testimony. 53 See infra. The Commission expects the oil pipeline to file a complete application which should contain sufficient information upon which the Commission could grant the application after expiration of the protest period. However, in the event the Commission finds it necessary to establish a hearing, that process would be greatly expedited because the applicant's testimony is part of the record already. Thus, this requirement is intended to expedite the hearing process. The Commission's experience with gas pipelines, for example, has been that the proposed testimony often provides essential justification for the applicant's proposal which is not provided elsewhere in the filing. It has been the Commission's experience that the process of proposing sworn testimony often causes an applicant to organize its arguments and facts in a manner that is easier to understand. This also aids the protestants in their framing of the issues to pursue. IX. Procedural Requirements In new section 348.2 the Commission is adopting several procedural requirements in connection with applications for a market power determination. First, an oil pipeline must file an original and 14 copies of its complete application with the Commission but would only have to provide its letter of transmittal to its shippers and subscribers. As discussed above, some of the supporting information may be prohibited from disclosure under Section 15(13) of the ICA. Hence, the oil pipeline must submit with its application any request for privileged treatment of documents and information under Section 388.112 of the Commission's regulations and a proposed form of protective agreement. In the event the oil pipeline requests privileged treatment under ยง388.112, it must file the original and three copies of its application with the information for which privileged treatment is sought and 11 copies of the application without that information. The letter of transmittal must describe the application for a market power determination and identify each rate that would be market-based, if the oil pipeline shows that it lacks significant market power in the relevant market. The pipeline must include a copy of its proposed form of protective agreement with its letter of transmittal. Under the regulations, a person must make a written request to the pipeline for a copy of the complete application within 20 days after the filing of the application with the Commission. The requesting person must include an executed copy of the protective agreement. Any person objecting to a proposed form of protective agreement must file a motion under Section 385.212 of the Commission's regulations. 54 The oil pipeline must provide a person with a copy of its complete application within seven days after receipt of the written request and an executed copy of the protective agreement. A protestant must file its protest to the application within 60 days after the filing of the application. At that time, the protestant must set forth in detail its grounds for opposing the oil pipeline's application, including responding to its statement of position and information, and, if the protestant desires, presenting information of its own pursuant to Statements A-I. 54 The Commission will act expeditiously to resolve any controversies about protective agreements. The Commission, after examination of the oil pipeline's application and any protests, will issue an order in which it will rule summarily on the application or, if appropriate, establish additional procedures and the scope of the investigation. Additional procedures may or may not involve a hearing before an administrative law judge. The Commission is requiring the oil pipelines to file their applications with the Commission on an electronic medium in addition to the paper filing. The formats for the electronic filing and the paper copy will be obtainable at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Public Reference and Files Maintenance Branch, 941 North Capitol Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20426. The Commission intends to establish the formats in cooperation with the oil pipeline industry. The Commission believes that it is sufficient to adopt procedures only for the submission of applications and responses thereto. Hence, the Commission is not adopting any regulations with respect to protests or complaints against existing market-based rates under Sections 15(7) and 13(1) of the ICA. However, the Commission expects a protestant or complainant to allege and to present evidence that the pipeline has developed significant market power. In particular, the Commission would expect a protestant or complainant to describe any circumstances that have changed since the Commission made the determination that the oil pipeline lacks significant market power and could charge market-based rates.
