FR940617-2-00231 FR940617-2-00118 B. Deadline for Submittal of Applications The closing date for submittal of applications under this program announcement is found at the beginning of this program announcement under DATES. Applications shall be considered as meeting the announced deadline if they are either: 1. Received on or before the deadline date at: Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 6th Floor, OFM/DDG, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW, Washington, DC 20447, or 2. Sent on or before the deadline date and received by ACF in time for the independent review under DHHS GAM Chapter 1 62. (Applicants are cautioned to request a legibly dated U.S. Postal Service postmark or to obtain a legibly dated receipt from a commercial carrier or U.S. Postal Service. Private metered postmarks shall not be acceptable as proof of timely mailing.) Late applications: Applications which do not meet the criteria stated above are considered late applications. The ACF shall notify each late applicant that its application will not be considered in the current competition. Extension of deadlines: The ACF may extend the deadline for all applicants due to acts of God, such as floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, etc., or when there is widespread disruption of the mail. However, if ACF does not extend the deadline for all applicants, it may not waive or extend the deadline for any applicant. C. Instructions for Preparing the Application and Completing Application Forms The SF 424, SF 424A, Page 2 and certifications have been reprinted for your convenience in preparing the application. You should reproduce single-sided copies of these forms from the reprinted forms in the announcement, typing your information onto the copies. Please do not use forms directly from the Federal Register announcement, as they are printed on both sides of the page. In order to assist applicants in correctly completing the SF 424 and SF 424A, instructions for these forms have been included at the end of Part IV of this announcement. Where specific information is not required under this program, NA (not applicable) has been preprinted on the form. Please prepare your application in accordance with the following instructions: 1. SF 424 Page 1, Application Cover Sheet Please read the following instructions before completing the application cover sheet. An explanation of each item is included. Complete only the items specified. Top of Page. Enter the single priority area number under which the application is being submitted. An application should be submitted under only one priority area. Item 1. ``Type of Submission''_Preprinted on the form. Item 2. ``Date Submitted'' and ``Applicant Identifier''_Date application is submitted to ACF and applicant's own internal control number, if applicable. Item 3. ``Date Received By State''_State use only (if applicable). Item 4. ``Date Received by Federal Agency''_Leave blank. Item 5. ``Applicant Information'' ``Legal Name''_Enter the legal name of applicant organization. For applications developed jointly, enter the name of the lead organization only. There must be a single applicant for each application. ``Organizational Unit''_Enter the name of the primary unit within the applicant organization which will actually carry out the project activity. Do not use the name of an individual as the applicant. If this is the same as the applicant organization, leave the organizational unit blank. ``Address''_Enter the complete address that the organization actually uses to receive mail, since this is the address to which all correspondence will be sent. Do not include both street address and P.O. box number unless both must be used in mailing. ``Name and telephone number of the person to be contacted on matters involving this application (give area code)''_Enter the full name (including academic degree, if applicable) and telephone number of a person who can respond to questions about the application. This person should be accessible at the address given here and will receive all correspondence regarding the application.
