FR940713-2-00157 FR940713-2-00095 Wednesday July 13, 1994 Part II Department of Education Cooperative Demonstration Program (Correctional Education); Notices Federal Register␣ /␣Vol. 59, No. 133␣/␣Wednesday, July 13, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Cooperative Demonstration Program (Correctional Education) AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of final priorities, required activities, selection criteria, and other requirements for grants to be made in fiscal year 1995. SUMMARY: The Secretary announces priorities for awards to be made in fiscal year (FY) 1995 using funds appropriated in FY 1994 under the Cooperative Demonstration Program, which is authorized by the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act (Perkins Act). Under the absolute priority, funds under this competition would be reserved for applications proposing to demonstrate successful cooperation between the private sector and public agencies in vocational education programs that serve criminal offenders under the supervision of the justice system. In addition, the Secretary particularly invites applications that, within the absolute priority on correctional education, incorporate one or more of the following invitational priorities: (1) advanced technologies; (2) community-based correctional education; and (3) juvenile justice education. The Secretary also imposes requirements related to the priorities and other matters, and will use new selection criteria in evaluating applications submitted for this competition only. EFFECTIVE DATE: The provisions in this notice take effect either 45 days after publication in the Federal Register or later if Congress takes certain adjournments. If you wish to know the effective date, call or write the Department of Education contact person. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gail M. Schwartz or Christopher Koch, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, SW., room 4529, Switzer Building, Washington, DC. 20202&hyph;7242. Telephone: (202)&hyph;205&hyph;5621. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Cooperative Demonstration Program provides financial assistance for, among other things, model projects that demonstrate successful cooperation between the private sector (including employers, consortia of employers, labor organizations, building trade councils, and private agencies, organizations, and institutions) and public agencies in vocational education (including State boards for vocational education, State or local corrections or correctional education agencies, or eligible recipients as defined in 34 CFR 400.4). This program can help further the purposes of the National Education Goals; specifically, the correctional education priority directly supports the Goal that, by the year 2000, every adult American will be literate and will possess the knowledge and skills necessary to compete in a global economy and exercise the rights and responsibilities of citizenship. The designation of correctional education as a priority under the Cooperative Demonstration program is based on the critical problems of illiteracy and recidivism pervading our Nation's adult and juvenile corrections population. The U.S. Department of Education's National Adult Literacy Survey Report, ``Literacy Behind Prison Walls'' described a 70 percent illiteracy rate among a sample of prisoners as follows: About seven in ten prisoners␣*␣*␣*␣are apt to experience difficulty in performing tasks that require them to integrate or synthesize information from complex or lengthy texts or to perform quantitative tasks that involve two or more sequential operations and that require the individual to set up the problem (1993, p. vi). Additionally, a recent study, ``Vocational and Academic Indicators of Parole Success,'' published in the Journal of Correctional Education , found that inmates who had received academic and vocational training while in prison were more likely to be employed and less likely to commit crimes after their release than other inmates (Schumacker, et al., 1990). Academic and vocational training is also critical for probationers and parolees, since the majority of the Nation's criminal offenders are serving sentences within community corrections settings. According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics, there were about 3.5 million adults under correctional supervision in the United States at the beginning of 1993. Of these, 2.6 million, or 74 percent, were under active probation or parole supervision within the community. Educational programs for criminal offenders that use applied learning strategies to teach life skills, job skills, and literacy can reduce the likelihood that the offenders will return to the criminal justice system. After completing their sentences, ex-offenders often have limited opportunities for meaningful employment and lack necessary basic life skills, including the job-seeking and job-retention skills needed to obtain and maintain employment. Without basic literacy and job skills, it is unlikely that these persons will become fully productive members of society. On April 6, 1994, the Secretary published a notice of proposed priorities, required activities, selection criteria, and other requirements for the Cooperative Demonstration Program (Correctional Education) in the Federal Register (59 FR 16192). Note: This notice of final priorities does not solicit applications. A notice inviting applications under this competition is published in a separate notice in this issue of the Federal Register . Analysis of Comments and Changes In response to the Secretary's invitation in the notice of proposed priority, 18 parties submitted comments. An analysis of the specific comments follows: Absolute and Invitational Priorities Comments: One commenter recommended that priority be given to programs that build on correctional education projects previously funded under the Cooperative Demonstration Program. Discussion: The Secretary intended that previously funded correctional education demonstration grants, awarded in September 1992, include plans for continuing after Federal funding ends, as demonstrated by the selection criteria used in the earlier competition. The Secretary believes that while expanding previously funded programs may indeed be worthwhile, other projects should be afforded the opportunity to compete for these limited Federal funds. Nevertheless, previously funded projects are eligible to apply for funds under this competition on the same basis as other projects. Changes: None. Comments: Several commenters made suggestions for more comprehensive services to be identified under the proposed priorities, including: pre-vocational assessment, individual training plans for students, case management as an approach to providing social services for released offenders, student retention as an outcome measure, use of support systems in the community, and the availability of non-traditional vocational training programs for female offenders. One commenter recommended that invitational priorities be created for offenders with special learning needs and histories of substance abuse. One commenter also recommended that the coordination of the academic, vocational, and substance abuse treatment components be an integral feature of the funded projects.
