FR940919-2-00144 FR940919-2-00059 (q) The term ``Threshold Amount'' means with respect to any Arrangement an amount which equals one hundred percent of the AT&T Investment Fund's capital invested in the Assets plus a pre-specified annual compounded cumulative rate or rates of return, each of which is at least a minimum rate of return determined as follows: (1) A non-fixed rate which is a least equal to the rate of change in the consumer price index (CPI) during the period from the time the Assets become subject to the Arrangement until Net Proceeds equal or exceed the applicable Threshold Amount; or (2) a fixed rate which is at least equal to the average rate of change in the CPI over some period of time specified in the Agreement, which shall not exceed ten years. EFFECTIVE DATE: This exemption, if granted, will be effective as of the date this notice of proposed exemption is published in the Federal Register . Summary of Facts and Representations 1. AT&T is a New York corporation which provides a wide variety of national and international telecommunications services. ATTIMCO is a wholly-owned subsidiary of AT&T which performs investment management functions. ATTIMCO is a registered investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended. AT&T is the sponsor of the AT&T Master Pension Trust (AT&T MPT), a qualified trust holding assets of certain employee benefit plans maintained by AT&T. The bulk of the real estate assets of the AT&T MPT is held through the Telephone Real Estate Equity Trust (TREET), a group trust established in connection with AT&T's divestiture in 1984 of the regional telephone holding companies, including BellSouth Corporation (BellSouth). The beneficial interests in TREET currently are held by the AT&T MPT and the BellSouth Master Pension Trust, a qualified trust holding the assets of employee benefit plans maintained by BellSouth. As of January 1, 1994, the Assets of the AT&T MPT (including its interest in TREET) exceeded $38 billion. 2. AT&T is the named fiduciary of both the AT&T MPT and TREET with the power to manage and control the assets of such trusts and to appoint investment managers of such assets. In order to facilitate investment of these and other such funds in potentially beneficial transactions and to encourage asset managers to maximize the value of assets under management, AT&T seeks the flexibility to enter into arrangements described below (the Arrangements) involving the payment of performance fees to independent asset managers, pursuant to formal agreements with current and future asset managers (the Agreements). AT&T is requesting an exemption to permit its payment of performance fees to asset managers for services rendered to the funds pursuant to Arrangements established by the Agreements, subject to the conditions in the proposed exemption, as described herein. 3. The proposed exemption will be available for Arrangements involving any AT&T Investment Fund (collectively, the Funds), a term which is defined as (1) the AT&T MPT or any other trust of which one hundred percent of the assets are assets of employee benefit plans maintained by AT&T, and (2) any group trust, partnership or other entity (including without limitation the Telephone Real Estate Equity Trust), the assets of which are deemed to be ``plan assets'' by reason of the application of 29 C.F.R. 2510.3&hyph;101, but only if (1) fifty percent or more of the interests in such entity are held by one or more AT&T Trusts, and (2) AT&T is the named fiduciary or manager of the assets of such entity. Under the Arrangements proposed, an asset manager would provide, or continue to provide, real estate management or advisory services to one or more Funds. Depending on the terms of the particular Agreement, an asset manager may have complete discretion with respect to assets of the Fund allocated to its account, including discretion to identify appropriate investments, make investment decisions, and manage and dispose of investments, or may be limited to making investment recommendations subject to the ultimate approval of AT&T. Alternatively, the asset manager may be given limited discretion with respect to some, but not all, aspects of the management of the assets allocated to its account. For example, the asset manager may have discretion with respect to all aspects of managing such assets except for specific major decisions such as acquisition and disposition.
