FR941110-0-00096 FR941110-0-00016 Response: HCFA monitors the accuracy of a State survey agency's findings by performing validation surveys and reviews. Accuracy means not only that the State team has appropriately cited all the deficiencies that existed, but also that it has not cited a deficiency when no violation of a requirement has occurred. HCFA conducts random surveys concurrently with the State surveys as well as independent surveys within 2 months of the States' surveys, and also conducts indepth reviews of selected State survey documentation. If HCFA discovers that a State is systematically citing unfounded deficiencies, HCFA will consider there to be inadequate survey performance and may apply any of the sanctions provided for at §488.320(b)(2) of the proposed rule, Sanctions for Inadequate Survey Performance, in the case of Medicare facilities. In the case of Medicaid facilities, HCFA cannot reduce FFP as specified at §488.170(b)(1)(i) of the proposed rule because we have concluded that section 1919(g)(3)(C) of the Act does not accommodate such action under this scenario. The two terms of the FFP reduction formula at section 1919(g)(3)(C) of the Act are: the total number of residents in nursing facilities surveyed by HCFA during a quarter; and, the total number of residents in nursing facilities found pursuant to HCFA surveys to be noncompliant. The number of residents in nursing facilities which HCFA found to be compliant but which the State determined were noncompliant does not figure into the calculation; therefore, no FFP reduction can be taken when the form of the State survey inadequacy is the citation of unfounded deficiencies, or indeed when the inadequacy is anything other than the State's failure to identify deficiencies. However, the Act does allow the Secretary to impose another sanction for the citation of unfounded deficiencies in Medicaid facilities. Section 1919(g)(3) of the Act states that the Secretary may also respond to inadequate State survey performance in Medicaid facilities by providing for the training of the State's survey teams. We are amending §488.320 of the regulation to indicate this and to clarify that the citation of unfounded deficiencies will be considered inadequate survey performance. An additional safeguard against the citation of unfounded deficiencies will be afforded to facilities by their opportunity to engage in informal dispute resolution, as described in §488.331. Comment: Some commenters said that §488.318 precluded facilities from informally challenging or expressing disagreement with survey findings. Response: All States currently offer some opportunity for providers to refute survey findings. In one State, the process is required by State law. It is State policy in the rest. Although these policies vary among States, they all apply to State surveys of Medicare and Medicaid providers. In addition, HCFA's State Operations Manual requires that States allow facilities to interact with the survey team during the survey, to discuss findings at an exit conference, to raise unresolved issues to the State survey agency or the HCFA regional office, or both, and to record their disagreement on the HCFA&hyph;2567. If none of these courses of action satisfy the provider, there are appeal mechanisms available. However, whenever possible, we want to provide every opportunity to settle disagreements at the earliest stage, before much time and money are spent by the provider, the State agency, and HCFA. Therefore, we are requiring, at §488.331, that States offer an opportunity for informal dispute resolution beginning with the provider's receipt of the official statement of deficiencies. Although inadequate survey performance will not invalidate adequately documented deficiencies, neither the State's inadequate performance nor a resulting HCFA sanction imposed on the State will prevent the facility from formally or informally challenging or expressing disagreement with survey findings. Comment: One State was concerned that any disagreement between the Federal and State agencies will equate to inadequate survey performance on the part of the State.
