FR940912-2-00067 FR940912-2-00055 2. Proposed Respondent admits all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the draft of complaint here attached. 3. Proposed Respondent waives: a. any further procedural steps; b. the requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; c. all rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the order entered pursuant to this agreement; and d. any claim under the Equal Access to Justice Act. 4. This Agreement shall not become part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this Agreement is accepted by the Commission it, together with the draft of complaint contemplated thereby, will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify the Proposed Respondent, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its complaint (in such form as the circumstances may require) and decision, in disposition of the proceeding. 5. This Agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by Proposed Respondent that the law has been violated as alleged in the draft of complaint here attached, or that the facts as alleged in the draft complaint, other than the jurisdictional facts, are true. 6. This Agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, and if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of ยง2.34 of the Commission's Rules, the Commission may, without further notice to the Proposed Respondent, (1) issue its complaint corresponding in form and substance with the draft of complaint here attached and its decision containing the following Order to divest and to cease and desist in disposition of the proceeding, and (2) make information public with respect thereto. When so entered, the Order shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified, or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The Order shall become final upon service. Delivery by the United States Postal Service of the complaint and decision containing the agreed-to Order to Proposed Respondent's address as stated in this Agreement shall constitute service. Proposed Respondent waives any right it may have to any other manner of service. The complaint may be used in construing the terms of the Order, and no agreement, understanding, representation, or interpretation not contained in the Order or the agreement may be used to vary or contradict the terms of the Order. 7. Proposed Respondent has read the proposed Complaint and Order contemplated hereby. Proposed Respondent understands that once the Order has been issued, it will be required to file one or more compliance reports showing that it has fully complied with the Order. Proposed Respondent further understands that it may be liable for civil penalties in the amount provided by law for each violation of the Order after it becomes final. Order I It is ordered that, as used in this Order, the following definitions shall apply: A. ``Rite Aid'' means Rite Aid Corporation, its predecessors, subsidiaries, divisions, groups and affiliates controlled by Rite Aid, and their directors, officers, employees, agents, representatives, and their successors and assigns. B. ``Commission'' means the Federal Trade Commission. C. ``Acquisition'' means the acquisition of all the voting stock of LaVerdiere's Enterprises, Inc. (``LEI'') by Respondent Rite Aid. D. ``Acquirer'' means the party or parties to whom Respondent Rite Aid divests the assets herein ordered to be divested. E. ``Prescription drugs'' means ethical drugs available at retail only by prescription. F. ``LEI Pharmacy Business'' means LEI's business of selling prescription drugs at any of the retail stores listed in Paragraph I.(J). of this Order, but does not include LEI's business of selling other products in those retail stores. G. ``LEI Pharmacy Assets'' means all assets constituting the LEI Pharmacy Business, excluding those assets pertaining to the LEI trade names, trade dress, trade marks and service marks, and including but not limited to: 1. Leases, at the Acquirer's option; 2. zoning approvals and registrations, at the Acquirer's option; 3. books, records, manuals, and operations reports relating to the LEI Pharmacy Business, but only if the divestiture is to an Acquirer that does not already operate a pharmacy in any location; 4. inventory instructions, or, at the Acquirer's option, lists of stock keeping units (``SKUs'') i.e., all forms, package sizes and other units in which prescription drugs are sold and which are used in records of sales and inventories; 5. lists of all prescription drug customers, including but not limited to third party insurers, including all files of names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the individual customer contacts, the unit and dollar amounts of sales, by product, to each customer, and store profit and loss statement(s);
