FR941019-0-00031 FR941019-0-00004 (3) Offer and sale . The RTC may sell eligible single family property to qualifying households, nonprofit organizations, and public agencies without regard to any minimum sale price. The RTC may, before the end of the marketing period, accept purchase offers on eligible single family property from qualifying single family purchasers. (4) Preference for sales that benefit lower income groups _(i) Purchase offers from qualifying households . In choosing among equal purchase offers from qualifying households for eligible single family property, the RTC will give preference to bids from households in the lower or lowest income group (e.g. very low-income over lower-income);. (ii) Purchase offers from nonprofit organizations and public agencies . In choosing among bulk purchase offers from nonprofit organizations and public agencies, the RTC will give preference to the offer that would reserve the highest percentage of single family properties for occupancy or purchase by very low-income families and would retain such affordability for the longest term (not exceeding the term of the applicable LURA). The preference will be calculated in accordance with the following formula: Add to the cash equivalent offer, 0.25% of that cash equivalent offer for each 1% of the properties set aside for occupancy or purchase by very low-income families. Example: Nonprofit organization X offers to purchase 10 eligible single family properties for $300,000 and agrees to reserve 5 of those properties for occupancy or purchase by very low-income families. Nonprofit organization Y offers to purchase the same 10 eligible single family properties for $325,000 and intends to reserve all of the properties for occupancy and purchase by lower-income families (but not very low-income families). Although Y has offered more for the properties, the properties should be sold to nonprofit organization X for $300,000. X's offer=$300,000. X's preference price=$300,000+ ␣␣($300,000×50×0.0025)=$300,000+ ␣␣$37,500=$337,500 Y's offer=$325,000. Y does not receive a preference because Y did not set aside any of the properties for occupancy or purchase by very low-income families. (5) Deed restrictions _(i) Qualifying households . An eligible single family property purchased by a qualifying household which is subject to recapture pursuant to §1609.8 of this part must be so restricted by a LURA or other recorded instrument for the recapture period. (ii) Nonprofit organizations and public agencies . Eligible single family properties purchased by a public agency or nonprofit organization for rental or resale to lower-income families must be so restricted by a LURA or other recorded instrument which is binding upon successors in interest, with the provision that the property may subsequently be sold to a lower-income family without further deed restrictions (except applicable recapture restrictions). The LURA or other recorded legal instrument shall also require the property owner to rent such properties at affordable rates, to cooperate with periodic compliance reviews and to pay a reasonable fee to cover the cost of the reviews. The LURA or other recorded instrument shall reflect any commitment, made in accordance with a purchase offer pursuant to paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, to reserve a percentage of single family properties for occupancy or purchase by very low-income families and retain such affordability for the longest term. (iii) Lower-income occupancy requirements shall be judicially enforceable against purchasers of eligible single family property or their successors in interest by affected very low- and lower-income families, State housing finance agencies, and any agency, corporation, or authority of the United States Government. (6) Restrictions on the rental of single family properties . (i) In the event that a public agency or nonprofit organization purchases one or more eligible single family properties for rental purposes, the rents charged to very low-income families may not exceed 30 percent of the adjusted income of a family whose income equals 50 percent of area median income, with adjustment for family size; and the rents charged to lower-income families may not exceed 30 percent of the adjusted income of a family whose income equals 65 percent of area median income, with adjustment for family size. Adjustments for family size for purposes of determining the maximum rent that may be charged with respect to a particular eligible single family property shall be calculated on the basis of the size of household anticipated to occupy a unit with the particular number of bedrooms as follows: Unit Size 0&hyph;Bedroom 1&hyph;BR 2&hyph;BR 3&hyph;BR 4&hyph;BR 5&hyph;BR Household Size 1 Person 2 Pers. 3 Pers. 5 Pers. 7 Pers. 8 Pers. Example. Thus, for example, rent for a 3-bedroom unit occupied by a very low-income family will be based upon the HUD-determined income for a household at 50% of area median income which has 5 members. The rent for a 2-bedroom unit occupied by a lower-income household will be based upon the HUD figure for a household at 65% of median income which has 3 members. (ii) Where a property is occupied by a family receiving housing assistance payments, pursuant to section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), as amended, the family's contribution toward rent may not exceed 30 percent of the family's adjusted income. (7) Continued occupancy of current residents . No public agency or nonprofit organization which purchases one or more eligible single family properties may terminate the occupancy of any person residing in the property on the date of purchase for purposes of meeting the lower-income occupancy requirement. The purchaser shall be in compliance with the requirement if each newly vacant dwelling unit in the property is reserved for lower-income occupancy until the lower-income occupancy requirement is met. (8) Property offered for resale . If the RTC receives a purchase offer, but fails to close on an eligible single family property, the RTC may accept an alternative contract offer or notify the appropriate clearinghouses so that the property can be re-offered for sale for an appropriate interval determined by the RTC, provided, however, that the appropriate interval shall not exceed 97 days, or such other period as may be applicable pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
