FR940124-1-00036 FR940124-1-00007 C. Removal of Discretionary Sanctions USEPA is proposing to temporarily lift (i.e., toll) 4 the highway and offset sanctions imposed under section 110(m) upon the passage by the Indiana legislature and signature by the Governor of legislation which USEPA preliminary determines provides legal authority for an enhanced I/M program meeting the requirements of the CAA and the I/M regulations. USEPA proposes to notify the State of this tolling by a letter to the Governor and the public by a notice published in the notice section of the Federal Register . The section 110(m) sanctions would not be completely lifted until the State of Indiana submits a complete enhanced I/M program to USEPA. USEPA will take action to completely lift section 110(m) sanctions upon its determination that the State has submitted a complete enhanced I/M program. 4 As a general rule, an Agency must go through rulemaking to remove or alter a requirement imposed through rulemaking. While U.S. EPA intends to issue a notice tolling the 110(m) sanctions upon the occurrence of the events described, U.S. EPA will use the good cause exception to the otherwise applicable requirement for proposed rulemaking. EPA believes there is good cause to toll the sanctions once the state takes the action which cures the deficiency that resulted in the imposition of sanctions. See 5 U.S.C. ยง553(b)(B). Therefore, no proposed action for removal will be issued. Consistent with U.S. EPA's intent to impose discretionary sanctions only on those areas that lack legislative authority U.S. EPA believes that it is in the public interest to remove, at least temporarily, these discretionary sanctions as expeditiously as possible once the State of Indiana has enacted legislative authority. As an alternative, EPA proposes that the basis for the discretionary sanctions is EPA's disapproval of Indiana's committal SIP. If the EPA's disapproval of the committal SIP is the basis for the discretionary sanctions, such sanctions would be tolled in the same manner as if the finding of failure to submit were the basis; however, if the disapproval is the basis for imposing the sanctions such sanctions would not be completely lifted until EPA formally approves an enhanced I/M program for the State of Indiana. In such a case, EPA would take action to lift the sanctions at the same time as EPA took final action approving the State's I/M program. USEPA's action imposing or tolling the section 110(m) sanctions will in no manner affect EPA's obligation to impose mandatory sanctions under section 179(a). The mandatory sanctions clock for Indiana was triggered on November 29, 1993 by EPA's disapproval of Indiana's committal SIP. Therefore, one mandatory sanction shall apply 18 months after USEPA's final disapproval of the committal SIP and the second mandatory sanction shall apply 6 months later. Sanctions under section 179(a) apply to the areas for which the deficiency exists and until such deficiency has been corrected. Moreover, if the State does not adopt and USEPA does not approve regulations providing for an I/M program within the 18-month and additional 6-month periods following the effective date of EPA's disapproval, the sanctions will automatically apply on those areas of the State that were required to have but do not have such a USEPA-approved I/M program under the amended Act. See 58 FR 51270 (October 1, 1993). IV. Regulatory Requirements A. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866, (58 FR 51735 (October 4, 1993)) the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely effect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. Pursuant to the terms of Executive Order 12866, it has been determined that this rule is a ``significant regulatory action.'' Nevertheless, this action has been informally submitted to OMB for review. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq., USEPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. 5 U.S.C. 603 and 604. Alternatively, USEPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. For reasons cited below, USEPA has not completed a regulatory flexibility analysis for this rule. The USEPA cannot reliably predict the impact of these restrictions because of the exemptions authorized for certain highway projects related to mass transit, public safety, and those that have beneficial air quality impacts. Careful review and evaluation of each project is necessary to determine whether or not a project is exempt. Major stationary sources of VOC and NO X with emissions are generally not small entities. Also, the 2:1 emission offset requirement does not prevent growth and modification but sets a higher offset standard than the current offset required. It is not expected that a large number of small entities will be affected by the emission offset requirement. In the past, when USEPA has made efforts to quantify the impact of the Act's rules on the construction and modification of sources, USEPA has been unable to do so due, in part, to the need to obtain information on future plans for business growth. This information is difficult to obtain, as businesses are understandably reluctant to make their plans public. The USEPA is also proposing to impose Federal highway funding assistance limitations statewide. This limitation could affect a number of government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000 since government entities often apply for and receive federal funding under Title 23, United States Code, for road improvement projects. Although a great many projects are exempted under section 179(b)(1)(B), a number of projects are expected to be affected if the USEPA takes final action.
