FR940204-1-00045 FR940204-1-00003 (ix) Endurance tests; one-engine-out application. A total of 160 full differential power applications must be made at takeoff torque and RPM. If, during these tests, it is found that a critical dynamic condition exists, an investigative assessment to determine the cause shall be performed throughout the torque/speed range. In each of the 160 engine power setting cycles (160 per engine drive branch) a full differential power application must be performed. In each cycle, the transition from clutch engagement to disengagement must occur at the critical condition for clutch and shaft wear. (5) Additional Propulsion Drive System Tests. Additional dynamic, endurance, and operational test and vibratory investigations must be performed to determine that the drive mechanism is safe. The following additional tests and conditions apply: (i) If the torque output of all engines to the transmission can exceed the highest engine or transmission torque limit, the following tests must be conducted. Under conditions associated with all engines operating, apply 200 cycles to the drive system for 10 seconds each of a torque that is at least equal to the lesser of_ (A) The maximum torque used in complying with paragraph (4)(ii) plus 10 percent; or (B) The maximum torque attainable under normal operating conditions, assuming that any torque limiting devices function properly. (ii) With each engine alternately inoperative, apply to the remaining transmission inputs the maximum transient torque attainable under normal operating condition, assuming that any torque limiting devices function properly. Each transmission input must be tested at this maximum torque for at least 15 minutes. (iii) After completion of the 200 hour endurance test and without intervening major disassembly, the drive system must be subjected to 50 overspeed runs, each 30 # 3 seconds in duration, at a speed of at least 120 percent of maximum continuous speed, or other maximum overspeed that is likely to occur, plus a margin of speed approved by the Administrator for that overspeed condition. These runs must be conducted as follows: (A) Overspeed runs must be alternated with stabilizing runs from 1 to 5 minutes duration, each 60 to 80 percent of maximum continuous speed. (B) Acceleration and deceleration must be accomplished in a period no longer than 10 seconds, and the time for changing speeds may not be deducted from the specified time for the overspeed runs. (iv) Each part tested, as prescribed in this section, must be in serviceable condition at the end of the tests. No intervening disassembly that might affect test results may be conducted. (v) If drive shaft couplings are used and shaft misalignment or deflections are probable, loads must be determined in establishing the installation limits affecting misalignment. These loads must be combined to show adequate fatigue life. (vi) The vibration test specified in 33.83 must be applied to engine-furnished components of the propulsion drive system. The test must include the gear case and each component in the combining gear box whose failure due to vibration could cause unsafe operation of the engine. (6) Propulsion Drive System Shafting Critical Speed. The critical speeds of any shafting must be determined by test, except that analytical methods may be used if reliable methods of analysis are available for the particular design. (i) If any critical speed lies within, or close to, the operating ranges for idling and power on conditions, the stresses occurring at that speed must be within design limits. This must be shown by tests. (ii) If analytical methods are used and show that no critical speed lies within the permissible operating ranges, the margins between the calculated critical speeds and the limits of the allowable operating ranges must be adequate to allow for possible variations between the computed and actual values. Issued in Burlington, Massachusetts, on January 26, 1994. Jay J. Pardee, Acting Manager, Engine and Propeller Directorate, Aircraft Certification Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2561 Filed 2&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
