FR940524-2-00089 FR940524-2-00052 •Discussion of Section 17(d) of the Act Both the PHLX and the CSE argue that the NYSE misapprehends the principal purpose of section 17(d) of the Act, which is to avoid unnecessary regulatory duplication and, secondarily, to assure that violations are not missed because they fall between the responsibilities of different SROs. They state that submission of extension requests by a broker-dealer to an SRO other than its DEA results in no duplicative regulation or burdens on broker-dealers. The PHLX states that, to the extent that processing of extension request by multiple SROs could cause any one SRO's financial or regulatory oversight to be incomplete, this can be addressed through the coordination between SROs. 45 45 The PHLX believes that extension requests are far less useful indicators of potential broker-dealer financial or regulatory concerns than other indicia such as an increased number of uncompared or adjusted trades, net capital deficiencies or intra-day monitoring of large trades or positions in active markets. The CSE asserts that the existence of a Rule 17d&hyph;2 agreement between the CSE and the NYSE does not mean that the CSE has abrogated its SRO authority to the NYSE. It asserts that under its Rule 17d&hyph;2 agreement with the NYSE, the CSE retains responsibility to enforce compliance with the CSE's extension rule, and the NYSE is only allocated the responsibility to conduct regular on-site examinations to ensure compliance with this rule. The CSE further asserts that the concept of sharing extension request data between SROs and the DEA is not, as the NYSE claims, inconsistent with the intent of SEC Rules 17d&hyph;1 and 17d&hyph;2. The CSE states that, as an SRO, it could conduct its own special examinations of, or participate in a joint regulatory effort with respect to firms who file extensions with the Exchange. The CSE asserts that it has the necessary examination responsibilities and ongoing regulatory relationship with its extension firms to justify the continued processing of extension requests. The CSE concludes that as a non-DEA SRO, it is in a position to make a good faith and informed judgment whether ``exceptional circumstances'' warrant the granting of extensions. G. Comments In Support of the Proposal Two commenters express support for the proposal. Financial Clearing and Services Corporation (``FCSC'') 46 states that it agrees that the NYSE proposal serves a valid regulatory purpose. FCSC notes, however, that the Commission should remain cognizant of the fact that new rules must not lessen competition nor should they adversely affect technical innovation. 47 46 FCSC carries accounts on a fully disclosed basis on behalf of other introducing broker-dealers. 47 See Financial Clearing Letter, supra , note 9. The FRB staff expresses support for the purposes behind the NYSE's proposal. The FRB staff notes that the DEA is ultimately responsible for monitoring those firms that it examines in other areas of the securities business where credit may be a significant factor, such as sales practices. The FRB staff further states that it questions the propriety of an SRO with virtually no general examination responsibility passing on extensions of time since such SROs may lack the requisite experience in correlating credit extensions with other areas of regulatory concern. 48 The FRB staff believes that only SROs with examination responsibilities of some kind should grant extensions of time. In this regard, the FRB specifies that, 48 See FRB Letter, supra note 9. ``In our view, it would be difficult, if not impossible, for an SRO to meet the requirements of the present rule (12 CFR 220.4(c)(3)(ii)) unless the SRO has some ongoing regulatory relationship with the applicant to support a belief as to the good faith of the applicant or the sufficiency of the determination that ``exceptional circumstances'' warrant the extension.'' 49 49 See id at 3. The FRB Letter asserts that the FRB anticipated that the exceptions to the Regulation T requirements governing payment for securities would be minimal, and that, ``[n]o one ever perceived the granting of extensions of time as a profit-making endeavor.'' 50 The FRB Letter also states that, for the extension request process to be effective, cooperation, and not competition, among SROs is essential. In this regard, the FRB Letter states that it appears that the change in the rule to allow any SRO to grant extension requests ``may have inadvertently permitted regulatory concerns to be subordinated to the profit motive.'' 51 The FRB staff also expresses the view that if the extension-granting service is viewed as a profit center, it can only encourage more extensions of time. 52 50 See FRB Letter, supra note 9 at 1. 51 FRB Letter, supra note 9 at 2. In 1980, the FRB revised Reg T in its entirety. The Board broadened the scope of Reg T by authorizing a self-regulatory organization or association to grant extensions to any creditor regardless of membership affiliation. SEC Rule 15c3&hyph;3(n) is similarly worded. 52 See FRB Letter, supra note 9 at 2. IV. The NYSE's Responses In May 1989, the NYSE submitted a letter to the Commission responding to negative comments by the CSE, CHX, PHLX, PSE, Bartlett & Company, Gradison & Company, and the Securities Settlement Corporation with respect to the Exchange's proposed Rule 434. In January, 1994, the NYSE submitted another letter responding to comments sent to the Commission by the CSE, PSE, Bear Stearns Securities Corp, A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc. and Lehman Brothers after the Commission republished notice of this proposal. The NYSE's responses to the commenters are summarized below.
