FR941205-2-00134 FR941205-2-00073 (1) Disclosures. The units of general local government receiving assistance under this NOFA must make all applicant disclosure reports available to the public for three years. Required update reports must be made available along with the applicant disclosure reports, but in no case for a period less than three years. Each unit of general local government may use HUD Form 2880 to collect the disclosures, or may develop its own form. (See 24 CFR 12 subpart C, and the notice published in the Federal Register on January 16, 1992 (57 FR 1942) for further information on these disclosure requirements.) (2) Documentation and Public Access. The recipient unit of general local government must ensure that documentation and other information regarding each application submitted to the recipient by a subrecipient applicant are adequate to indicate the basis upon which assistance was provided or denied. The unit of general local government must make this material, including any letters of support, available for public inspection for a five-year period beginning not less than 30 days after the award of the assistance. Unit of general local government recipients must also notify the public of the subrecipients of the assistance. Each recipient will develop documentation, public access, and notification procedures for its programs. (See 24 CFR 12.14(b) and 12.16(c), and the notice published in the Federal Register on January 16, 1992 (57 FR 1942) for more information on these documentation and public access requirements.) (3) Disclosures. Units of general local government receiving assistance under this NOFA must make all applicant disclosure reports available to the public for five years. Required update reports must be made available along with the applicant disclosure reports, but in no case for a period less than three years. Each unit of general local government may use HUD Form 2880 to collect the disclosures, or may develop its own form. (See 24 CFR subpart C, and the notice published in the Federal Register on January 16, 1992 (57 FR 1942) for further information on these disclosure requirements.) B. Allocation Amounts 1. Total Available Funding The nonentitlement CDBG funds for New York State for FY 1995 total approximately $50,616,000. $44,438,000 is allocated for distribution to eligible units of general local government within the jurisdiction of HUD's Buffalo Office. $6,178,000 is allocated for distribution to eligible units of general local government within the jurisdiction of HUD's New York Office. HUD has the option to revise these allocations in order to assure a competitive distribution of funds. 2. Imminent Threats All imminent threat projects must meet the national objective of benefitting low-and moderate-income persons. The Department may elect to set aside up to 15% of the Fiscal Year 1995 allocation for imminent threat projects. These funds will be available until the rating and ranking process for funds distributed under this NOFA is completed. C. Eligibility 1. Eligible Applicants Eligible applicants are units of general local government in New York State, excluding: metropolitan cities, urban counties, units of government which are participating in urban counties or metropolitan cities even if only part of the participating unit of government is located in the urban county or metropolitan city, and Indian tribes eligible for assistance under section 106 of the HCD Act. Applications may be submitted individually or jointly. 2. Previous grantees Eligible applicants, which previously have been awarded Small Cities Program CDBG grants, are also subject to an evaluation of capacity and performance. Numerical thresholds for drawdown of funds have been established to assist HUD in evaluating a grantee's progress in implementing its program activities. (These standards apply to all CDBG Program grants received by the community.) An additional threshold established this year relates to the submission of annual Performance Assessment Reports (PARs) which are due annually for each grant which a local government has received. Failure to submit a PAR is not a curable technical deficiency. Applicants generally will be determined to have performed adequately in the area(s) where the thresholds are met. Where a threshold has not been met, HUD will evaluate the documentation of any mitigating factors, particularly with respect to actions taken by the applicant to accelerate the implementation of its program activities.
