FR940603-1-00169 FR940603-1-00009 d. Guys. All guys regardless of length, type of attachment, or size of guy strand are specified by the same unit; thus an I&hyph;E signifies the removal of any guy. e. Anchors. Only anchor rods are to be removed by the Contractor in anchor removal units. The anchors will be left in the ground; thus an I&hyph;F signifies the removal of any anchor rod. If the rod cannot be unscrewed, the end of the rod shall either be cut off or bent down so that the rod will be at least 18 inches below ground. f. Transformers. The unit for removal of transformer assembly units is divided into two sections, (1) Conventional Transformer Assembly, and (2) Self-protected Transformer Assembly. Only one unit is specified for each type, and all sizes of transformers from 1 to 15 kVA within each group will be covered by the same unit. ``Self-protected'' refers to transformers where all protective equipment is mounted on or within the transformer. ``Conventional'' refers to transformers where protective equipment is mounted separately from the transformer. The unit is designated by the prefix I followed by the description of the unit to be removed; thus, I&hyph;G Conventional signifies the removal of a conventional transformer assembly for any size transformer from 1 to 15 kVA. g. Secondary units. The unit for removal of secondary assemblies includes, in addition to the removal of the assembly itself, all necessary handling such as untying, resagging, and retying of secondary conductor or cables where existing secondary conductor or cable is to be reused. In addition, the unit for removal of the secondary assembly includes the handling or holding of any conductor at tap lines where such is involved, and the reinstalling of such tap conductor in accordance with the Specifications. h. Service unit. The unit for removal of service assemblies includes, in addition to the removal of the assembly itself, all necessary handling such as untying, resagging, and retying of service conductor or cable where existing service conductor or cable is to be reused. The following descriptions apply only to those removal units not sufficiently explicit: ␣ 1Unit 1Description ␣ l ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit labor price ␣ l SECTION N_NEW ASSEMBLY UNITS The purpose of this section is to list complete new units of construction where such units are to be added to existing lines or installed in replacing lines. The units as covered by this section are the same as the units described in Construction Units_New Construction, except that these units are prefixed by the letter N. For example, an N40&hyph;6 unit covers the furnishing of all labor for the installation of a 40&hyph;6 pole either in an existing distribution line being operated by the Owner or in a new line being constructed to replace an existing distribution line being operated by the Owner. The following descriptions apply only to those new units not sufficiently explicit: ␣ 1Unit 1Description ␣ l ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit labor price ␣ l Acceptance The undersigned hereby accepts the foregoing Proposal of XX , dated XX , to construct the rural electric Project XX 19 XX Line Extensions. XX (Owner) By XX President XX Secretary XX Date of Contract [End of clause] §1726.344 [Reserved]. §1726.345 Certificate of contractor and indemnity agreement (line extensions), REA Form 792b. The closeout form in this section shall be used when required by this part.
