FR940819-0-00081 FR940819-0-00018 As used in this part_ Disabled tanker means a tanker experiencing a loss of propulsion or steering control. Escort transit means that portion of the tanker's voyage through waters where escort vessels are required. Escort vessel means any vessel that is assigned and dedicated to a tanker during the escort transit, and that is fendered and outfitted with towing gear as appropriate for its role in an emergency response to a disabled tanker. Laden means transporting in bulk any quantity of applicable cargo, except for clingage and residue in otherwise empty cargo tanks. Single hull tanker means any self-propelled tank vessel that is not constructed with both double bottom and double sides in accordance with the provisions of 33 CFR 157.10d. Tanker master means the licensed onboard person in charge of the tanker. Tanker owner or operator means the owner or shoreside organization (individual, corporation, partnership, or association), including a demise charterer, responsible for the overall management and operation of the tanker. §168.10 Responsibilities. (a) The tanker owner or operator shall: (1) select escort vessels that can meet the performance requirements of this part; and (2) inform the tanker master of the performance capabilities of the selected escort vessels. This information must be provided to the master before beginning the escort transit. (b) The tanker master shall operate the tanker within the performance capabilities of the escort vessels, taking into account speed, sea and weather conditions, navigational considerations, and other factors that may change or arise during the escort transit. (c) In an emergency, the tanker master may deviate from the requirements of this part to the extent necessary to avoid endangering persons, property, or the environment, but shall immediately report the deviation to the cognizant Coast Guard Captain of the Port (COTP). §168.20 Applicable vessels. The requirements of this part apply to laden, single hull tankers of 5,000 gross tons or more. §168.30 Applicable cargoes. The requirements of this part apply to any petroleum oil listed in 46 CFR Table 30.25&hyph;1 as a pollution category I cargo. §168.40 Applicable waters and number of escort vessels. The requirements of this part apply to the following waters: (a) Prince William Sound: Each tanker to which this part applies must be escorted by at least two escort vessels in those navigable waters of the United States within Prince William Sound, Alaska, and the adjoining tributaries, bays, harbors, and ports, including the navigable waters of the United States within a line drawn from Cape Hinchinbrook Light, to Seal Rocks Light, to a point on Montague Island at 60 ○14.6 ’ North, 146 ○59 ’ West, and the waters of Montague Strait east of a line between Cape Puget and Cape Cleare. (b) Puget Sound and certain associated waters: Each tanker to which this part applies must be escorted by at least two escort vessels in those navigable waters of the United States and Washington State east of a line connecting New Dungeness Light with Discovery Island Light and all points in the Puget Sound area north and south of these lights. This area includes all the navigable waters of the United States within Haro Strait, Rosario Strait, the Strait of Georgia, Puget Sound, and Hood Canal, as well as those portions of the Strait of Juan de Fuca east of the New Dungeness-Discovery Island line. §168.50 Performance and operational requirements. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of §168.10, at all times during the escort transit each tanker to which this part applies: (1) Must be accompanied by escort vessels that meet the performance requirements of paragraph (b) of this section (but not less than the number of escorts required by §168.40). (2) Must have the escort vessels positioned relative to the tanker such that timely response to a propulsion or steering failure can be effected. (3) Must not exceed a speed beyond which the escort vessels can reasonably be expected to safely bring the tanker under control within the navigational limits of the waterway, taking into consideration ambient sea and weather conditions, surrounding vessel traffic, hazards, and other factors that may reduce the available sea room. (b) The escort vessels, acting singly or jointly in any combination as needed, and considering their applied force vectors on the tanker's hull, must be capable of_ (1) Towing the tanker at 4 knots in calm conditions, and holding it in steady position against a 45-knot headwind;
