FR941017-1-00040 FR941017-1-00009 E. Retroactive Benefits The law requires incremental payment, on a prorated basis, of retroactive Social Security and SSI benefits to individuals disabled based on DA&A, with a limited exception for those who have outstanding debts related to housing and are at high risk of homelessness. Retroactive benefits due an individual whose entitlement terminates will continue in prorated amounts until they are fully paid. No retroactive payments will be made in periods of suspension for noncompliance with treatment requirements. In addition, if a beneficiary dies without having received all retroactive benefits, the unpaid amount is treated like any other underpayment. IV. Policy Questions The statutory provisions regarding nonpayment and termination of benefits present many novel policy issues. SSA has made separate contacts with DA&A treatment professionals to obtain views on issues of treatment, compliance and monitoring. In addition, SSA is facing many operational issues in terms of putting the processes and systems in place to implement these provisions. This request for public comments is focused on the policy issues which, in our opinion, have a broad public import, and on which SSA will benefit from receiving a wide range of public views. The questions which follow may necessitate different responses depending on whether the answer relates to alcoholism or to different types of drug addiction. SSA requests that commenters identify to which type(s) of addiction a particular response applies. Public comments are requested on the following policy issues: A. Defining Appropriate Treatment The new legislation requires that individuals disabled based on DA&A undergo appropriate substance abuse treatment. Currently, there are no specific guidelines in the regulations which define ``appropriate treatment.'' HHS defines ``appropriate treatment'' at ยง416.937 for SSI cases as ``recognized medical or other professional procedures for treatment of drug addiction or alcoholism which is carried out at or under the supervision of, an approved institution or facility (or facilities). This treatment may include_ (a) Medical examination and treatment; (b) Psychiatric, psychological and vocational counselling; or (c) Other appropriate services for drug addiction or alcoholism.'' Instead of requiring the use of specific regulatory guidelines, SSA has directed employees of treatment facilities or of RMAs under contract with SSA to make judgments in determining appropriate treatment. SSA is considering adopting a policy defining ``appropriate substance abuse treatment'' for individuals disabled based on DA&A in general terms under which SSA would continue to rely on the judgments of treatment professionals. For example, a general definition of appropriate treatment could refer to substance abuse treatment which serves the need of the individuals in the least restrictive setting. Accordingly, appropriate treatment would be determined on the basis of a comprehensive assessment in which each individual's needs are defined and compliance with such individualized treatment would be overseen by an approved institution or facility as defined in regulations. SSA may also incorporate the examples from our current regulations cited above. Questions: What is considered ``appropriate'' substance abuse treatment? What factors should be considered in placing an individual in treatment? What ranges of treatment modalities fall within an appropriate treatment spectrum for the most common types of substance abuse problems? Recognizing that some individuals may abuse more than one substance, how should ``appropriate treatment'' be defined when there is more than one substance involved? With the objective of placing as many clients as possible in appropriate treatment, how should the parameters of appropriate treatment be defined, i.e., what would be the circumstances under which the client would not benefit from treatment? Should the regulations refer generally to individual assessments being made by professionals or should specific treatment guidelines be included? B. Availability of Treatment The legislation requires the disabled individual to undergo treatment which is ``available'' but does not define the term. The current substance abuse treatment requirements are applicable only to title XVI beneficiaries, and not to title II beneficiaries. The current regulations at ยง416.939 provide guidance on when treatment for DA&A is considered available for title XVI beneficiaries. Generally, SSA determines whether treatment is available based on: obtaining a treatment vacancy at no cost to the individual; the location of the facility; availability and cost of transportation to the individual; the individual's general health; the individual's particular condition and circumstances; and, the treatment that is required.
