FR940822-0-00026 FR940822-0-00009 (ii) Brother-sister group under common control means two or more organizations if_ (A) The same five or fewer persons who are individuals, estates, or trusts own (directly and with the application of §1.414(c)&hyph;4 of this chapter) a controlling interest of each organization; (B) Taking into account the ownership of each person only to the extent that person's ownership is identical with respect to each organization, such persons are in effective control of each organization; and (C) The five or fewer persons whose ownership is considered for purposes of the controlling interest requirement for each organization are the same persons whose ownership is considered for purposes of the effective control requirement. (iii) Controlling interest means_ (A) In the case of a corporation, ownership of stock possessing at least 50 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote or at least 50 percent of the total value of the shares of all classes of stock of the corporation; (B) In the case of a trust or estate, ownership of an actuarial interest (determined under §1.52&hyph;1(f) of this chapter) of at least 50 percent of the trust or estate; (C) In the case of a partnership, ownership of at least 50 percent of the profit interest or capital interest of the partnership; and (D) In the case of a sole proprietorship, ownership of the sole proprietorship. (iv) Effective control has the meaning given that term in §1.52&hyph;1(d)(3) of this chapter. (v) Combined group under common control has the meaning given that term in §1.52&hyph;1(e) of this chapter. §47.2&hyph;3 Imposition of vaccine floor stocks tax. (a) Vaccines subject to tax. Section 13421(c) of the Act imposes a floor stocks tax on any taxable vaccine (as defined in section 4132(a)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code)_ (1) Which was sold by the manufacturer, producer, or importer on or before August 10, 1993; (2) On which no tax was imposed under section 4131 (or on which such tax was imposed and subsequently credited or refunded); and (3) Which is held at the last moment of August 10, 1993, by any person for sale or use. (b) Rates of tax. The rate of floor stocks tax on each taxable vaccine is the rate of tax specified in section 4131(b)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code. (c) Person liable for tax. The person liable for the floor stocks tax on any vaccine subject to tax is the person that holds the vaccine at the last moment of August 10, 1993. For purposes of the floor stocks tax, a vaccine is held at the last moment of August 10, 1993, by the person that has title to the vaccine (whether or not delivery to that person has been made) at such time, as determined under applicable local law. There is no exemption from the floor stocks tax for the United States or for State or local governments. Each business unit that has, or is required to have, its own employer identification number is treated as a separate person for purposes of the floor stocks tax. §47.2&hyph;4 De minimis exception to vaccine floor stocks tax. (a) De minimis exception_ (1) In general. Except as otherwise provided in this section, if the aggregate amount of floor stocks tax payable by a person does not exceed $1,000, that person is not required to report or pay the tax. (2) All amounts held subject to tax if threshold exceeded. If the aggregate amount of floor stocks tax payable by a person exceeds $1,000, that person is required to report and pay the total amount of tax as determined without regard to this section. (3) Controlled groups. A member of a controlled group (as defined in §47.2&hyph;2) is not excepted from reporting and paying floor stocks tax under this section if the aggregate amount of floor stocks tax payable by all members of the controlled group exceeds $1,000.
