FR940919-2-00093 FR940919-2-00046 Although the disability claim manager will be responsible for the adjudication of an initial claim, the disability claim manager will call in other staff resources, as necessary. With respect to disability decisionmaking, the disability claim manager will, in appropriate circumstances, refer claims to medical consultants to obtain expert advice and opinion. SSA will develop guidelines to assist the disability claim manager in determining when expert medical advice is appropriate. Similarly, other staff resources will be called upon for technical support in terms of certain claimant contacts and status reports; development of nondisability issues including auxiliary claims or representative payee issues; and payment effectuation. However, the disability claim manager will make final decisions on both the medical and nonmedical aspects of the disability claim. Claimant Partnership Throughout the disability claim process, SSA will encourage claimants to be full partners in the processing of their claims. Many claimants are able to obtain the documentation necessary to develop their record, either on their own or with the assistance of a third party. Others have substantial difficulty doing so, and may have no third party to assist them. Given the range of claimant capabilities, SSA will retain ultimate responsibility for development of claims when claimants are not formally represented. To the extent that they are able, claimants and their families and other personal support networks will actively participate in the development of evidence to substantiate their claim for disability benefits. SSA will provide assistance and/or engage third-party resources, when necessary and appropriate. SSA will keep claimants informed of the status of their claims, advise claimants regarding what additional evidence may be necessary, and inform claimants what, if anything, they can do to facilitate the process. At the completion of the claim intake interview, the disability claim manager will issue a receipt to the claimant that will identify what to expect from SSA and the anticipated timeframes. It will also identify what further evidence or information the claimant has agreed to obtain. Finally, it will provide the name and telephone number of the disability claim manager for any questions or comments which the claimant may have, including any difficulty in obtaining the information the claimant agreed to obtain. Third Parties Certain third-party organizations may be willing to provide a complete disability application package to SSA. Based on local management s assessment of service area needs and the availability of qualified organizations, SSA will recognize third-party organizations who are capable of providing a complete application package, including appropriate application forms and medical evidence necessary to adjudicate a disability claim. In such claims, SSA will permit the third party to identify potential claimants, screen for medical and nonmedical criteria, and contact SSA to protect the filing date. The third party will interview the claimant; complete all applications and related forms; obtain completed treating source statements; and obtain additional medical evaluations, when appropriate. Using procedures agreed on with local management, the third party will submit claims for adjudication by a disability claim manager. SSA will monitor such third parties to ensure that quality service is provided to claimants and to prevent fraud. SSA may establish rules, standards, and procedures for third-party interaction with claimants and SSA. Third parties may be required to undergo periodic program, procedural or software training, and may be required to meet standards for staffing and automation support. In individual cases, disability claim managers may elect to contact the claimant for the purpose of verifying identity or other claim-related issues, as appropriate. SSA will also perform ongoing document verification on a sample basis to assure the integrity of claims submitted by third parties. The automated claim processing system will facilitate effective monitoring of the claim-taking and evidence submission practices of third parties by permitting random and/or targeted selection of claim files involving specific third parties or specific types of evidence. Personal Interview With Claimant When the evidence does not support an allowance, the disability claim manager will issue a predecision notice advising the claimant of what evidence has been considered and providing the opportunity to submit further evidence, if any, and/or the opportunity for a personal interview within 10 calendar days. The predecision notice will further advise the claimant that if he or she does not submit evidence or request a personal interview within the 10 days, the claim will be decided based on the evidence of record. If the claimant requests a personal interview, the disability claim manager will conduct the interview in person, by videoconference, or by telephone, as the disability claim manager determines is appropriate under the circumstances. In appropriate circumstances, this predecision interview may be held concurrently with the initial intake interview. If the claimant identifies further available evidence, the disability claim manager will advise the claimant to obtain the evidence if the claimant is able to do so or, as necessary, assist the claimant in obtaining it. The claimant will be advised of the specified timeframes for submitting additional evidence. In preparing the predecision notice, the disability claim manager will rely on existing information available on-line as part of the automated claim processing and decision support system. As part of the evidence gathering process, the disability claim manager will have previously analyzed all the medical and non-medical information gathered, and entered the pertinent data into the electronic claim record. The decision support system will use the accumulated data in the electronic record to assist the disability claim manager in producing the predecision notice. ``Statement of the Claim'' The initial disability determination will use a statement of the claim'' approach. The statement of the claim will set forth the issues in the claim, the relevant facts, the evidence considered, including any evidence or information obtained as a result of the predecision notice, and the rationale in support of the determination. The statement of the claim not only reflects SSA s commitment to fully explaining the basis for its action but also recognizes that claimants need clear information about the basis for the determination to make an informed decision regarding further appeal. As with the predecision notice, much of the information that will provide the basis for the statement of the claim will be available on-line as part of the automated claim processing and decision support system. Adjudicators will create the statement of the claim and whatever supplementary information is necessary for a legally sufficient notice to the claimant based on the information in the decision support system. For allowance decisions, the statement of the claim will be more abbreviated than for denial decisions; however, it will contain sufficient information to facilitate quality assurance reviews and/or continuing disability reviews. The statement of the claim will be part of the on-line claim record and will be available to other adjudicators as the basis and rationale for the Agency s action, if the claimant seeks further administrative review. In making initial disability determinations, disability claim managers will rely on standards for decisionmaking that are used at all levels of the process. SSA will develop a single presentation of all substantive policies used in the determination of eligibility for benefits and all decisionmakers will be bound by these same policies. These policies will be published in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act. Expert systems will be developed to facilitate the development and delivery of disability policy as an integrated part of the automated claim processing system. Disability Decision Methodology Promoting Consistent, Equitable, and Timely Decisions
