FR940404-2-00153 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the Additional Plenipotentiary Conference of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Geneva, Switzerland, December 7&hyph;22, 1992 Representative The Honorable Bradley P. Holmes, Ambassador, United States Coordinator and Director, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Alternate Representatives Richard C. Beaird, Senior Deputy Coordinator and Director, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Michael T. N. Fitch, Deputy Coordinator and Director, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Jean M. Prewitt, Associate Administrator, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Douglas V. Davis, Senior Attorney Advisor, Federal Communications Commission Francis S. Urbany, Director, International and Agency Relations, BELLSOUTH, Washington, DC Congressional Staff Adviser Donald McClellan, Subcommittee on Communications, Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, Senate, United States Congress Executive Director William H. John, Bureau of Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Advisers Dexter A. Anderson, Telecommunications Manager, United States Information Agency Robin J. Frank, Office of the Legal Advisor, Department of State Harold G. Kimball, Director of International Regulation, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Robert Konrath, Economic Officer, United States Mission, Geneva Reynold L. Rose, Assistant to the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense/Defense Wide Command Control Communication, Office of the Secretary of Defense, Department of Defense Clayton Rubensaal, International Resources Management Officer, United States Mission, Geneva Thomas M. Walsh, Spectrum Engineer, Federal Communications Commission Private Sector Advisors William M. Borman, Vice President and Director, Global Spectrum, Motorola, Inc., Washington, DC Jodi L. Cooper, Senior Attorney, International Regulatory Affairs, MCI Telecommunications Corporation, Washington, DC Raymond B. Crowell Director, Industry and Government Planning, COMSAT World Systems, Washington, DC David Fine, Assistant Vice President, Government & International Relations, Southwestern Bell Corporation, Washington, DC Ben C. Fisher, Partner, Fisher, Wayland, Cooper & Leader, Washington, DC William D. Horne, Senior Engineer, Stanford Telecommunications, Seabrook, Maryland Lon C. Levin, Vice President, Regulatory Counsel, American Mobile Satellite Corporation, Washington, DC Daniel C. Michaelis, Director, International Standards, Bell Atlantic Corporation, Arlington, Virginia Philip C. Onstad, Director, Telecommunications Public Policy, International Communications Association, Edison, New Jersey Leonard R. Raish, Partner, Fletcher, Heald & Hildreth, Washington, DC Robert J. Smith, Director, NYNEX Science & Technology Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts Dennis K. Thovson, Vice President Corporate Standards, AT&T Communications, Bedminster, New Jersey Richard J. Wright, Associate Program Manager, Atlantic Research Corporation, Sterling, Virginia
