FR940713-2-00095 FR940713-2-00061 United States and State of Florida v. Morton Plant Health System, Inc. and Trustees of Mease Hospital, Inc., No. 94&hyph;748&hyph;CIV&hyph;T&hyph;23E (M.D. Fla., Filed May 5, 1994) Notice is hereby given pursuant to the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. 16(b)&hyph;(h), that a proposed Final Consent Judgment, Stipulation, and Competitive Impact Statement have been filed with the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida in the above-captioned case. On May 5, 1994, the United States and State of Florida filed a complaint to block the proposed combination of the two largest general acute care hospitals in North Pinellas County, Florida. Morton Plant Health System, Inc. (``MPHS'') owns and operates Morton Plant Hospital (``Morton Plant'') in Clearwater, and Trustees of Mease Hospital, Inc. (``TMH'') owns and operates the Mease hospitals in Dunedin and Safety Harbor (``Mease''). The Complaint alleges that the combination of Morton Plant and Mease may substantially lessen competition in the provision of acute inpatient hospital services in North Pinellas County, in violation of Section 7 of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. 18. The proposed Final Consent Judgment prohibits the consolidation of Morton Plant and Mease and requires that they remain as independent, competing hospitals. It also, however, permits MPHS and TMH to form a partnership in which they may jointly own and operate certain acute care and administrative services. The partnership would sell its services at cost to each hospital, which would market and price all of its services_both those owned separately and those jointly owned and operated through the partnership_independently and in competition with the other. The proposed Judgment permits MPHS and TMH to achieve substantial efficiencies while preserving the vigorous competition between them that has restrained their prices to managed care and other health insurance plans. Public comment is invited within the statutory 60-day period. Such comments will be published in the Federal Register and filed with the Court. Comments should be addressed to Gail Kursh, Chief, Professions and Intellectual Property Section, U.S. Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, 555 4th Street, NW., Room 9903, Washington, DC 20001 (phone 202/307&hyph;5799). Constance K. Robinson, Director of Operations, Antitrust Division.
