FR941206-2-00102 FR941206-2-00073 [Release No. 34&hyph;35024; File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;13, Amendment No. 3] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Proposed Rule Change by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Relating to Amendments to the NASD's Proposed NPROVE System for Price Improvement and Execution of Small Orders November 29, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on November 21, 1994, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'' or ``Association'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC'') an amendment to a proposed rule change previously published for comment. 2 The amendment is described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the NASD. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change, as amended, from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1). 2 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34145 (June 1, 1994), 59 FR 29649 (June 8, 1994) (notice of filing, incorporating Amendment No. 1) and Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34453 (July 28, 1994), 59 FR 39808 (Aug. 4, 1994) (notice of Amendment No. 2). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The NASD is amending its proposed rules governing the operation of The Nasdaq Primary Retail Order View and Execution System (``NPROVE''), a new system developed by The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. (Nasdaq) for the execution of small-sized customer orders that provides individual investors enhanced limit order protection and important price improvement opportunities through an enhanced automated system. Specifically, the NASD is proposing a variety of amendments to NPROVE designed to: (1) Enhance the operational efficiency of the system; (2) increase the breadth of exposure of limit orders entered into the system priced between the inside bid or offer, which increased limit order exposure will facilitate greater opportunities for order interaction within the inside market on Nasdaq; (3) further improve the opportunities for price improvement available through NPROVE; (4) expand the types of orders ( i.e. , short sales) that may be entered into NPROVE, and, thereby, afford a broader spectrum of retail orders in Nasdaq an opportunity to take advantage of NPROVE's price improvement and limit order protection features; and (5) facilitate the efforts of NASD members to provide their customers with the same quality of order execution that they would have received had their orders been entered into NPROVE. Following is the text of the proposed rule change. (Additions are italicized; deletions are bracketed.) Rules of Operation and Procedures for the NPROVE System (1) Definitions a.&hyph;g. No change. h. The term ``preferenced order'' shall mean an order entered into NPROVE and directed to a particular market maker or an order entered by a market maker that is self-preferenced. Each market maker has the ability to select order entry firms from which it will accept preferenced orders. (2)&hyph;(3) No Change (4) Participant Obligations in N PROVE a. Market Makers 1. No change. 2. Participation as an NPROVE market maker obligates the firm, upon presentation of [preferenced or] a designated , unpreferenced market order or marketable limit order[s] (as that term is defined in subsection (5)c. below) through the service, to execute [those] such order[s]; provided, however, that for a designated, unpreferenced order[s], the NPROVE market maker shall have an opportunity, a consistent with Rule 11Ac1&hyph;1 promulgated under the Act to decline the order[; if no action is taken the order will be automatically executed against the market maker]. The market maker may decline to execute the designated, unpreferenced NPROVE order only if the market maker has executed an order (or is in the process of executing an order) in the security and has updated its quotation (or is in the process of updating its quotation) for the security. An N PROVE market maker that receives an undesignated, unpreferenced market order or marketable limit order (as that term is defined in subsection (5)c. below) through N PROVE also may decline such order consistent with Rule 11Ac1&hyph;1 promulgated under the Act. If a market maker rejects a designated, unpreferenced N PROVE order and no other market maker accepts the order within the 15-second period, upon expiration of the 15-second period, the system will automatically execute the order against the market maker next in rotation who received the order on an undesignated basis that has not rejected the order. [If a market maker rejects the NPROVE order, it will be displayed to all other market makers at the inside quotation simultaneously and executed against the market maker that accepts the order, or if no market maker accepts the order, the next market maker in rotation that has not rejected the order will receive the execution.] If all market makers reject an unpreferenced [the] order because they have had an execution (or are in the process of effecting a trade) and have updated their quotations (or are in the process of updating their quotations), the order will be automatically executed against the market maker next in rotation at the new inside quotation . [delivered to the first market maker at the new inside quote on Nasdaq and that market maker will not be able to reject that order]. a This period of time shall initially be established as 15 seconds, but may be modified upon appropriate notification to NPROVE participants. With the exception of those instances where a market order or marketable limit order has matched with a limit order and is processed according to the procedures contained in subsection (5)c. below, participation as an N PROVE market maker obligates the firm, upon presentation of a preferenced market order or marketable limit order through the service, to automatically execute such order at the inside bid or offer displayed by Nasdaq when the order is processed through N PROVE . NPROVE market makers are [will also] not [be] permitted to reject orders preferenced to the firm pursuant to a preferencing arrangement acknowledged by the market maker. The system will transmit to the market maker on the Nasdaq Workstation screen and printer, if requested, or through a computer interface, as applicable, an execution report generated following each execution. 3. Notwithstanding subsection (5)c. below, a [A]n NPROVE market maker that improves the best bid or offer in Nasdaq is eligible to receive all unpreferenced orders entered into NPROVE on an exclusive basis (for a specific period of time or number of executions as established by the NASD b ) so long as the market maker manually accepts the orders prior to automatic execution of the orders. b The parameters for market makers receiving priority in the rotation when they have created an improved inside market have been initially established as five minutes or five executions (whichever occurs first) after one or more market makers have changed their quote to equal the improved price. The NASD may modify these parameters upon notification to members. 4.&hyph;6. No change. 7. Aside from market makers entering self-preferenced orders into N PROVE, f [F]or each security in which a market maker is registered, the market maker may not enter orders on an agency basis into NPROVE, unless a locked or crossed market exists for that security. This prohibition against use of NPROVE does not obviate the market maker's duty to give its agency orders best execution in the prevailing market, according to the Board of Governor's Interpretation on Executions of Retail Transactions, Article III, Section 1 of the NASD Rules of Fair Practice.
