FR940711-2-00174 FR940711-2-00073 The HUD State or Area Office/Native American Programs Office will evaluate whether housing need in the primary area specified in the application has been underfunded and will assign one of the three point-values, as follows: •45 Points. Housing need in the primary area specified in the application has been severely underfunded. A primary area with a percentage of need served that is equal to or less than one-third the allocation area's percentage will be determined to be severely underfunded. •30 Points. Housing need in the primary area specified in the application has been moderately underfunded. An application with a percentage of need served that is greater than one-third the allocation area's percentage but equal to or less than two-thirds of the allocation area percentage will be determined to be moderately underfunded. •15 Points. Housing need in the primary area specified in the application has been proportionately funded. An application with a percentage of need served that is greater than two-thirds the allocation area's percentage but equal to or less than the allocation area percentage will be determined to be proportionately funded. •0 Points. Housing need in the primary area specified in the application has been overfunded. A primary area with a percentage of need served that is greater than the allocation area percentage will be determined to have been overfunded. (3) Selection Criterion 3: Local Initiatives (5 points). (a) Description. The application must describe the extent to which HAs demonstrate locally initiated efforts in support of their Rental Voucher and Rental Certificate Programs or comparable tenant-based rental assistance programs. Evaluation of a locality's contribution is measured competitively by the extent to which a locality is able to provide services or cash contributions or demonstrate its intention to provide this kind of support in the future, as compared to services or contributions provided by other localities of like program size. (b) Rating and Assessment. The HUD State or Area Office/Native American Programs Office will assign one of two point-values, as follows: •5 points: The State or locality provides significant local support (e.g., financial, manpower for inspection services) to its Rental Voucher or Rental Certificate Program. •2 points: The State or locality provides minimal local support to its Rental Voucher or Rental Certificate Program. •0 points: The State or locality does not provide support to the HA's Rental Voucher or Rental Certificate Program. (4) Selection Criterion 4: Efforts of HAs to Establish a Family Self-Sufficiency Program (10 points Deduction). (a) Description: The application must describe the efforts undertaken by the PHA to establish a Section 8 Family Self-Sufficiency (FSS) program including (1) submission to HUD of an Action Plan, and (2) creation of a Program Coordinating Committee. If a PHA is not administering a Rental Voucher or Rental Certificate Program, the HUD State or Area Office will rate HA administration of the Public Housing FSS program, if applicable. All activities rated under this criterion must have been completed prior to the submission of an application under this NOFA. The score of the PHA application must be reduced if the PHA received an FSS Incentive award of Section 8 funding in FY 1992 and the PHA has failed to complete the required implementation steps as described below. Also, the score of a PHA application must be reduced if the PHA received funding in FY 1993 (unless the HUD State or Area Office granted a total exception to the FSS program requirement) and the PHA has failed to complete the required implementation steps as described below. (b) Rating and Assessment: The HUD State or Area Office must deduct point values as shown below: •10 point Deduction_Deduct 10 points if (1) the HA has failed to establish a Program Coordinating Committee and provide the names, duties and experience of all members (24 CFR 984.202(a) & (b)) to HUD, and (2) the HA has failed to submit an Action Plan to HUD within 90 days of notification by HUD of approval of the PHA's application for units under the FY 91/92 FSS incentive award competition or HUD approval of the HA's first application, commencing in FY 93, for rental certificates or rental vouchers (24 CFR 984.201(c)(1)). •5 point Deduction_Deduct 5 points if (1) the HA has failed to establish a Program Coordinating Committee and provide the names, duties and experience of all members or (2) the HA has failed to submit an Action Plan in accordance with 24 CFR 984.201(c)(1). (5) Selection Criterion 5: Efforts of HA to Provide Area-Wide Housing Opportunities for Families (5 points). (a) Description: Many HAs have undertaken voluntary efforts to provide area-wide housing opportunities for families. HAs in metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas are eligible for points under this criterion. These HAs have established cooperative agreements with other HAs or created a consortium of HAs in order to facilitate the transfer of families and their rental assistance between HAs. In addition, HAs have established relationships with non-profit groups to provide families with additional counseling to increase the likelihood of a successful move by the families to low-poverty areas. (b) Rating and Assessment: The HUD State or Area Office/Native American Programs Office will assign point values as shown below: •5 points_Assign 5 points if the HA documents that it has taken steps to increase area-wide housing opportunities for families such as being a member of an established consortium of HAs including at least 50 percent of the HAs in its housing market, providing extra counseling to families, establishing a relationship with other groups including non-profit agencies, or participating in other activities that facilitate area-wide housing opportunities for families. •0 Points_Assign 0 points if the HA is unable to document area-wide efforts as shown in this criterion.
