FR940919-0-00087 FR940919-0-00016 B. Request for Comment on Petition From Chemical Manufacturer's Association Regarding Deep Well Injection of Ignitable and Corrosive Characteristic Wastes The proposed rule solicited comments on a request from the Chemical Manufacturer's Association (CMA) that EPA develop separate treatment standards intended for those wastes disposed in Class I deep injection wells. CMA requested a separate set of treatment standards for ignitable and corrosive wastes managed by deep well injection that, in view of the unique circumstances of deep well injection, meet the statutory ``minimize threats'' standard. Many comments received by EPA urged the Agency to develop so-called UIC-specific treatment standards in light of this petition. However, EPA received virtually no technical information to support these comments. Therefore, the Agency is not issuing a final response to CMA's request in today's rule. EPA continues to solicit information necessary to enable EPA to act on this petition in the future. These requests are documented in the rulemaking docket for today's rule. In particular, the Agency particularly requests data concerning waste volumes, waste transport, injection system integrity or the fate of disposed pollutants throughout the course of the injection procedure. IX. Modifications to Hazardous Waste Recycling Regulations A. Introduction Today's rulemaking finalizes the proposed changes to the hazardous waste recycling regulations, thus slightly broadening the scope of an existing exclusion (and related variance). This modification of the regulatory framework will allow for environmentally beneficial recycling to occur without unnecessary regulatory consequences. EPA wishes to note that the changes to the definition of solid waste being promulgated today are narrow in scope and will have minor impact. A more broad-ranged evaluation of the regulations applicable to the recycling of hazardous waste is being conducted by EPA's Definition of Solid Waste Task Force. This Task Force has been administering a public dialogue process to examine the overall impacts of the RCRA program on recycling, and will consider broader changes to the definition of solid waste as part of that process. B. Modification of the Existing ``Closed-loop'' Recycling Exclusion and Related Case-specific Variance 1. ``Closed-loop'' Recycling Exclusion and Related Variance In the January 4, 1985 final rule, the Agency promulgated an exclusion from the definition of solid waste at ยง 261.2(e)(1)(iii) for secondary materials that are recycled in a ``closed-loop,'' (i.e., returned to the original production process in which the material was generated (see preamble discussion at 50 FR 639)). To be considered such a ``closed-loop'' process, three conditions must be met. First, the secondary material must be returned to the original process without undergoing significant alteration or reprocessing (i.e., it must be returned without first being reclaimed. See 261.2(e)(3) and Table 1). Second, the production process to which the unreclaimed materials is returned must be a primary production process (i.e., a process that uses raw materials as the majority of its feedstock, as opposed to a secondary process that uses spent materials or scrap metal as the majority of its feedstock). And third, the secondary material must be returned as a feedstock to the original production process and must be recycled as part of that process (as opposed to an ancillary process such as degreasing). EPA believes that these conditions characterize a material that is part of an on-going production process, and as such, the management of the material should not be characterized as waste management (i.e., the material is not part of the waste management problem). Today's action addresses the second condition_that the production process to which a secondary material is returned be a primary process. This condition was part of the original exclusion due to considerations regarding jurisdiction, as it was understood in 1985, rather than to an evaluation of the potential impacts on the environment from such ``closed-loop'' recycling involving secondary processes. This condition thus was established without a consideration of whether such secondary materials would be part of the waste management problem. By definition, a secondary process uses waste materials as its principal feedstock. The Agency therefore concluded that the process residue, which is returned to the original process as a substitute for feedstock that is itself waste, is no less a waste than the waste material originally introduced (see 50 FR 639). (The Agency notes that with few exceptions, this condition has no actual impact on the recycling of residues from secondary processes because such residues that exhibit a characteristic of hazardous waste (i.e., characteristic by-products and sludges) are likewise excluded from the definition of solid waste if reclaimed.) Although the Agency continues to believe that the jurisdictional logic behind this condition is sound, the judicial opinions regarding RCRA jurisdiction allow more weight to be given to environmental considerations. API v. EPA (API), 906 F.2d at 740&hyph;41; AMC v. EPA (AMC II), 907 F.2d 1179, 1186 (D.C. Cir. 1990). Thus, EPA has reevaluated this condition of the exclusion from the definition of solid waste due to its impact on the recycling of residues from secondary processes, in particular secondary lead smelters, and has determined that the condition of a closed-loop involving only primary processes is not legally compelled, and that this condition is less relevant as an environmental consideration, assuming that the secondary material is well-managed prior to reprocessing in the primary or secondary process that generated it.
