FR940513-1-00084 FR940513-1-00017 Section 183(f) requires the application of RACT considering ``costs, any non-air quality benefits, environmental impacts, energy requirements and safety factors associated with alternative control techniques.'' Section 112(d) requires the application of MACT considering the ``cost of achieving such emission reduction, and any non-air quality health and environmental impacts and energy requirements.'' (In addition, as described previously, a minimum control level is specified, referred to as the floor.) Section 112(c) requires the EPA to establish categories and subcategories of sources for regulation under section 112(d). In the EPA's notice of initial list of categories, the EPA stated that ``a category of sources is a group of sources having some common features suggesting that they should be regulated in the same way and on the same schedule.'' (57 FR 31578, July 16, 1992). The EPA also noted that ``criteria that may need to be considered in defining categories of similar sources include similarities in: process operations (including differences between batch and continuous operations), emissions characteristics, control device applicability and costs, safety and opportunities for pollution prevention'' (57 FR 31580). To justify VMT being placed in a separate category or subcategory, it needs to be shown that VMT has distinctions that are relevant from a regulatory standpoint (given the restrictions of section 112), in determining whether the VMT can be regulated in a similar manner as other terminals. The VMT is the largest crude oil loading facility in the U.S. with hourly crude loading rates more than 15 times that of any other marine terminal. The VMT is one of only a few terminals which are exclusively used for crude oil loading. Alyeska has acknowledged that it could use a combustion device at VMT to achieve a 98 percent reduction in emissions. However, Alyeska has raised concerns about the feasibility of recovering crude oil vapors with a 95 percent efficiency using conventional recovery devices such as carbon adsorbers. According to Alyeska the design and construction of a vapor recovery system for the VMT would be technically more complicated than for any other marine terminal. This is because no existing vapor recovery system is currently operating on as large a vapor stream as the VMT terminal, there is great complexity in recovering crude oil vapor (as opposed to petroleum product vapor), and for reasons discussed in the following paragraph, a VMT recovery system would have to be designed to operate efficiently over a broad range of declining input volumes. In addition, the sub-Arctic climate of the region presents unique problems with regard to handling water vapor in terms of both complications on the technical processes by which crude oil vapors can be recovered and in terms of monitoring accuracy. Different and more complex operating parameters must be considered in the design and construction of a vapor recovery system that will operate effectively on the VMT crude oil stream because the number and range of volatility of the hydrocarbon components are greater in a crude oil stream than in a product stream. Alyeska believes that it may not be possible to achieve as high a recovery from a crude oil vapor stream as is achievable from a product vapor stream because of this difference in the number and range of volatility of the hydrocarbon components. The throughput in the Trans-Alaskan Pipeline (TAP), which supplies the crude for loading at the VMT, is expected to decline such that the volume of vapors that must be handled by the VMT recovery system will decrease with time. In 1988 annual TAP throughput reached a peak of 2.14 million barrels per day. Throughput subsequently has declined to a current level of 1.62 million barrels per day (average year to date for 1993) and estimates indicate that production will continue to decline over the life of the now declining North Slope oil fields. An emission control system designed for the VMT needs to be able to operate efficiently over a broad range of declining input volumes. When considering declining throughput, a recovery system enables more design flexibility than an incineration system because recovery systems require enough contact with either surface area or scrubbing liquid to ensure high recovery; as flow decreases contact increases which marginally increases recovery. Therefore, a facility may design very large control units or smaller parallel units, both of which will function at design efficiency. An incinerator is not as flexible in operation as a recovery system. An incinerator requires proper mixing of the waste stream and the flame and mixing becomes poorer as flow rates decline. Large incinerators cannot be run at flow rates much lower than one half design rates without affecting mixing and corresponding combustion efficiency. In addition the VMT will require the use of ``active'' detonation arrestors instead of ``passive'' detonation arrestors used at other marine terminals, due to the amount of vapors that must be collected and the distance between the vessel loading berths and vapor recovery facilities. Alyeska has developed active detonator arrestors that have been approved by the Coast Guard, because passive detonation arrestors would not protect a VMT type system from explosion.
