FR940822-2-00149 FR940822-2-00061 2. Responsibilities of State Supreme Court Each application for funding from a State or local court must be approved, consistent with State law, by the State's Supreme Court, or its designated agency or council. The State Supreme Court shall receive all Institute funds awarded to such courts and shall be responsible for assuring proper administration of Institute funds. The State Supreme Court is responsible for all aspects of the project, including proper accounting and financial recordkeeping by the subgrantee. The responsibilities include: a. Reviewing Financial Operations. The State Supreme Court should be familiar with, and periodically monitor, its subgrantees' financial operations, records system and procedures. Particular attention should be directed to the maintenance of current financial data. b. Recording Financial Activities. The subgrantee's grant award or contract obligation, as well as cash advances and other financial activities, should be recorded in the financial records of the State Supreme Court in summary form. Subgrantee expenditures should be recorded on the books of the State Supreme Court OR evidenced by report forms duly filed by the subgrantee. Non-Institute contributions applied to projects by subgrantees should likewise be recorded, as should any project income resulting from program operations. c. Budgeting and Budget Review. The State Supreme Court should ensure that each subgrantee prepares an adequate budget as the basis for its award commitment. The detail of each project budget should be maintained on file by the State Supreme Court. d. Accounting for Non-Institute Contributions. The State Supreme Court will ensure, in those instances where subgrantees are required to furnish non-Institute matching funds, that the requirements and limitations of this guideline are applied to such funds. e. Audit Requirement. The State Supreme Court is required to ensure that subgrantees have met the necessary audit requirements as set forth by the Institute (see sections X.M. and XI.J). f. Reporting Irregularities. The State Supreme Court and its subgrantees are responsible for promptly reporting to the Institute the nature and circumstances surrounding any financial irregularities discovered. C. Accounting System The grantee is responsible for establishing and maintaining an adequate system of accounting and internal controls for itself and for ensuring that an adequate system exists for each of its subgrantees and contractors. An acceptable and adequate accounting system is considered to be one which: 1. Properly accounts for receipt of funds under each grant awarded and the expenditure of funds for each grant by category of expenditure (including matching contributions and project income); 2. Assures that expended funds are applied to the appropriate budget category included within the approved grant; 3. Presents and classifies historical costs of the grant as required for budgetary and evaluation purposes; 4. Provides cost and property controls to assure optimal use of grant funds; 5. Is integrated with a system of internal controls adequate to safeguard the funds and assets covered, check the accuracy and reliability of the accounting data, promote operational efficiency, and assure conformance with any general or special conditions of the grant; 6. Meets the prescribed requirements for periodic financial reporting of operations; and 7. Provides financial data for planning, control, measurement, and evaluation of direct and indirect costs. D. Total Cost Budgeting and Accounting Accounting for all funds awarded by the Institute shall be structured and executed on a ``total project cost'' basis. That is, total project costs, including Institute funds, State and local matching shares, and any other fund sources included in the approved project budget shall be the foundation for fiscal administration and accounting. Grant applications and financial reports require budget and cost estimates on the basis of total costs.
