FR940428-2-00101 FR940428-2-00052 Attorney for Licensee: Jay Silberg, Esq., Shaw, Pittman, Potts & Trowbridge, 2300 N Street, NW., Washington, DC 20037. NRC Project Director: John N. Hannon. Toledo Edison Company, Centerior Service Company, and The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company, Docket No. 50&hyph;346, Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station, Unit No. 1, Ottawa County, Ohio Date of Amendment Request: March 18, 1994. Description of Amendment Request: The proposed amendment would revise TS 2.1.2 (Reactor Core), TS 2.2.1 (Reactor Protection System Setpoints), Bases 2.1.1 and 2.1.2 (Reactor Core), Bases 2.2.1 (Reactor Protection System Instrumentation Setpoints), TS 3.2.2 and 3.2.3 (Power Distribution Limits), Bases 3/4.2 (Power Distribution Limits), and TS 6.9.1.7 (Administrative Controls, Core Operating Limits Report). This amendment would remove cycle-specific limits from TS and relocate them in the Core Operating Limits Report. Basis for Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below, indicating that the proposed changes would: 1a. Not involve a significant increase in the probability of an accident previously evaluated because no accident initiators, assumptions or probabilities are affected by the proposed relocation of cycle-specific core operating limits to the Core Operating Limits Report. 1b. Not involve a significant increase in the consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The proposed changes do not affect any equipment, accident conditions, or assumptions which could lead to a significant increase in radiological consequences. 2a. Not create the possibility of a new kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated because no new accident initiators are introduced by these proposed changes. 2b. Not create the possibility of a different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated because no different accident initiators are introduced by these proposed changes. 3. Not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety because the proposed changes only relocate cycle-specific core operating limits to the Core Operating Limits Report; they do not allow less conservative operating limits. The analytical methods to be used in the determination of cycle-specific core operating limits are previously approved by the NRC. The same margin of safety provided in the current Technical Specifications will continue to be maintained. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room Location: University of Toledo Library, Documents Department, 2801 Bancroft Avenue, Toledo, Ohio 43606. Attorney for Licensee: Jay E. Silberg, Esquire, Shaw, Pittman, Potts and Trowbridge, 2300 N Street, NW., Washington, DC 20037. NRC Project Director: John N. Hannon. Toledo Edison Company, Centerior Service Company, and The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company, Docket No. 50&hyph;346, Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station, Unit No. 1, Ottawa County, Ohio Date of Amendment Request: March 30, 1994. Description of Amendment Request: The proposed amendment would add a new TS Limiting Condition for Operation 3/4.4.12, Pilot Operated Relief Valve and Block Valve, and would include associated Bases and Surveillance Requirements. Basis for Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below, indicating that the proposed additions and changes would:
