FR941020-1-00018 FR941020-1-00003 §782.3 Administration. (a) The end-use certificate program will be administered under the general supervision and direction of the Administrator, Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS), U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), through the Office of the Deputy Administrator, Commodity Operations (DACO), ASCS, Washington, D.C., and the Kansas City Commodity Office (KCCO), ASCS, Kansas City, MO, in coordination with the Commissioner of Customs. (b) DACO, or a designee, may waive or modify deadlines and other program requirements in cases where failure to meet requirements does not adversely affect the enforcement of the end-use certificate program. §782.4 OMB control numbers assigned pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act. The information collection requirements contained in these regulations (7 CFR part 782) have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in accordance with the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 35 and will be assigned an OMB control number. Subpart B_Implementation of the End-Use Certificate Program §782.10 Identification of commodities subject to end-use certificate regulations. (a) These regulations are applicable to wheat and barley, respectively, imported into the U.S. from any foreign country or instrumentality that as of April 8, 1994, requires end-use certificates for imports of U.S.-produced wheat or barley. (b) The following foreign countries, instrumentalities, and commodities are affected by these regulations: (1) Wheat originating in Canada. (2) Barley originating in Canada. (c) The commodities specified in paragraph (b) of this section are ineligible for use under Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) and USDA-assisted export programs. §782.11 Extent to which commodities are subject to end-use certificate regulations. (a) The provisions of these regulations apply to all commodities specified in §782.10(b). (b) To the extent that the foreign countries or instrumentalities specified in §782.10(b) eliminate the requirement for end-use certificates on imports from the U.S., the provisions of these regulations shall be suspended 30 calendar days following the date the foreign country or instrumentality eliminates its end-use certificate requirement. §782.12 Filing ASCS&hyph;750, End-Use Certificate for Grain. (a) Each entity which imports any of the commodities specified in §782.10(b) shall, for each entry, obtain form ASCS&hyph;750, End-Use Certificate for Grain, from KCCO, P.O. Box 419205, Kansas City, MO 64141&hyph;6205, and submit the original form ASCS&hyph;750 to KCCO within 10 days from the date of entry. Each form ASCS&hyph;750 shall set forth, among other things, the: (1) Name, address, and telephone number of the importer, (2) Commodity and class of such commodity that is being imported, (3) Intended use of the commodity, including resale, (4) Quantity imported, in net metric tons, rounded to the nearest hundredth of a metric ton, (5) Storage location of the commodity, (6) Name, address, and telephone number of the end-user, if known, (7) Mode of transportation and the name of the transportation company used to import the commodity, and (8) A certification. (b) The original form ASCS&hyph;750 and one copy of form ASCS&hyph;750 shall be signed and dated by the importer. (c) Distribution of form ASCS&hyph;750 will be as follows: (1) The original shall be forwarded to KCCO, P.O. Box 419205, Kansas City, MO 64141&hyph;6205, by the importer, (2) One copy shall be retained by the importer, (3) The importer shall provide a photocopy to the end-user, or if the commodity is purchased for purposes of resale, the subsequent buyer(s). (d) The completion and filing of an end-use certificate does not relieve the importer of other legal requirements pertaining to the importation, such as those imposed by other U.S. agencies. §782.13 Importer responsibilities. The importer shall: (a) Inform the end-user, in writing, that the imported commodity shall not be used for any purpose other than the use specified on the end-use certificate. (b) If the commodity is imported for purposes of resale, incorporate the provisions of §782.17 (b) and (c) into the sales contract entered into between the importer and subsequent buyer, (c) Submit to KCCO, within 10 workdays: (1) After delivery of the commodity to the end-user, a bill of lading acknowledging receipt of the commodity by the end-user and the date the commodity was received at the end-user's facility. (2) If the commodity is imported for purposes of resale, from the date of sale, its subsequent buyer's name, address, and telephone number, and the quantity sold. §782.14 Identity preservation. (a) The importer and all subsequent buyers of the imported commodity shall preserve, on an origin-basis, the identity of the commodities specified in §782.10(b) and may not commingle or blend them with U.S.-produced commodities until such time as the imported commodity is delivered to an end-user.
