FR940419-2-00118 FR940419-2-00067 In this case, the NRC had a very significant regulatory concern as noted in the cover letter to the Notice. There were numerous instances where patient dosages were not measured, numerous instances where patient dosages were not accurately recorded prior to administration, and for an extended period of time, effective corrective actions were not taken. The severity of the violations was exacerbated by the technologist's continual failures to accurately record patient dosages despite repeated counseling, and by the failure on the part of the Chairman of the Radiation Safety Committee to take strong and effective corrective actions in the face of the known repeated violations on the part of the technologist. Given these circumstances and the very significant regulatory concern surrounding this case, a Severity Level II Problem categorization was warranted, in accordance with Section IV of the Enforcement Policy. With reference to the Licensee's performance, the NRC recognizes that inspections of the Licensee during the period of late 1992 and 1993 have not shown the same level of poor performance as identified in 1991 and early 1992. The Enforcement Policy statement regarding improved performance relates to performance during the period of either the last two years prior to the inspection at issue or the period of the last two inspections prior to the inspection at issue, whichever is longer. Thus, any improvement in performance subsequent to the inspection at issue may not be considered as part of any mitigation for the licensee performance factor. NRC Conclusion Based on its evaluation of the Licensee's responses, the NRC concludes that Violations B and C.2 did occur as stated, that all violations delineated in the Notice were properly categorized in aggregate as a Severity Level II problem, and that an adequate basis for mitigation of the proposed civil penalty has not been provided by the Licensee. Accordingly, a civil monetary penalty in the amount of $10,000 should be imposed by order. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9336 Filed 4&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
