FR940106-0-00045 FR940106-0-00016 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Health Care Financing Administration 42 CFR Part 421 [BPO&hyph;083&hyph;F] RIN 0938&hyph;AF84 Medicare Program; Revisions to Criteria and Standards for Evaluating Intermediaries and Carriers AGENCY: Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), HHS. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This rule issues technical amendments to Medicare regulations intended to simplify and improve our system for evaluating the performance of fiscal intermediaries and carriers in the administration of the Medicare program. Currently, we evaluate intermediaries using performance criteria and standards announced in an annual notice in the Federal Register . We are clarifying the methodology for establishing these criteria and standards. For consistency, we establish comparable regulation requirements for the evaluation of carrier performance. These revisions are published in accordance with sections 1816(f) and 1842(b)(2) of the Social Security Act which require us to develop standards, criteria, and procedures to evaluate an intermediary's or carrier's overall performance. EFFECTIVE DATE: This final rule is effective February 7, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Larry Pratt, (410) 966&hyph;7403. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background Under section 1816(a) of the Social Security Act (the Act), public or private organizations and agencies participate in the administration of Part A (Hospital Insurance) of the Medicare program under agreements with the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS). These agencies or organizations are known as fiscal intermediaries, and they perform bill processing and benefit payment functions for the Medicare program. Under section 1842(a) of the Act, the Secretary is authorized to enter into contracts with carriers to fulfill various functions in the administration of Part B (Supplementary Medical Insurance) of the Medicare program. Beneficiaries, physicians and suppliers of the services submit claims to these carriers that, in turn, make appropriate payments. Beginning in 1980 for intermediaries and in 1981 for carriers, we have been evaluating the effectiveness and efficiency of contractor operations through a system of criteria and standards called the Contractor Performance Evaluation Program (CPEP).
