FR941021-1-00067 FR941021-1-00009 (a) Distant visual acuity of 20/40 or better in each eye separately with or without corrective lenses. If corrective lenses (spectacles or contact lenses) are necessary for 20/40 vision, the person may be eligible only on the condition that corrective lenses are worn while exercising the privileges of an airman certificate. (b) Near vision of 20/40, Snellen equivalent, at 16 inches in each eye separately, with or without corrective lenses. (c) Ability to perceive those colors necessary for the safe performance of airman duties. (d) No acute or chronic pathological condition of either eye or adnexa that interferes with the proper function of an eye, that may reasonably be expected to progress to that degree, or that may reasonably be expected to be aggravated by flying. §67.305 Ear, nose, throat, and equilibrium. Ear, nose, throat, and equilibrium standards for a third-class airman medical certificate include, but are not limited to: (a) The person shall_ (1) Demonstrate an ability to hear an average conversational voice in a quiet room, using both ears, at a distance of 6 feet from the examiner, with the back turned to the examiner; (2) Demonstrate an acceptable understanding of speech as determined by audiometric speech discrimination testing to a score of at least 70 percent obtained in one ear or in a sound field environment; or (3) Provide acceptable results of pure tone audiometric testing of unaided hearing acuity according to the following table of worst acceptable thresholds, using the calibration standards of the American National Standards Institute, 1969: ␣ 1 Frequency (Hz) 1500 Hz 11000 Hz 12000 Hz 13000 Hz Better ear (Db) 35 30 30 40 Poorer ear (Db) 35 50 50 60 (b) No disease or condition of the middle or internal ear, nose, oral cavity, pharynx, or larynx that_ (1) Interferes with, or is aggravated by, flying or may reasonably be expected to do so or (2) Interferes with clear and effective speech communication. (c) No disease or condition manifested by, or may reasonably be expected to be manifested by, vertigo or a disturbance of equilibrium. § 67.307 Mental. Mental standards for a third-class airman medical certificate include, but are not limited to: (a) No established medical history or clinical diagnosis of any of the following: (1) A personality disorder that is severe enough to have repeatedly manifested itself by overt acts; (2) A psychosis. As used in this section, ``psychosis'' refers to a mental disorder in which the individual has manifested psychotic symptoms or to a mental disorder in which an individual may reasonably be expected to manifest psychotic symptoms; (3) A bipolar disorder; or (4) Substance dependence, except where there is established clinical evidence, satisfactory to the Federal Air Surgeon, of recovery, including sustained total abstinence from alcohol for not less than the preceding 2 years in the case of alcohol dependence. In the case of other substance dependence, recovery must include sustained total abstinence from that substance for not less than the preceding 5 years. As used in this section_ (i) ``Substance'' includes: alcohol; other sedatives and hypnotics; muscle relaxants; anxiolytics; opioids; central nervous system stimulants such as cocaine, amphetamines, and similarly acting sympathomimetics; hallucinogens; phencyclidine or similarly acting arylcyclohexylamines; cannabis; volatile solvents and gases; and other psychoactive drugs and chemicals and (ii) ``Substance dependence'' means a condition in which a person is dependent on a substance, other than tobacco or ordinary xanthine-containing (e.g., caffeine) beverages, as evidenced by_ (A) Increased tolerance;
