FR940214-1-00041 FR940214-1-00009 VIII. Regulatory Impact Statement A. Introduction We generally prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis that is consistent with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) (5 U.S.C. 601 through 612) unless the Secretary certifies that a proposed rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. For purposes of the RFA, all ESRD facilities are considered to be small entities. Also, section 1102(b) of the Act requires the Secretary to prepare a regulatory impact analysis if a proposed rule may have a significant impact on the operations of a substantial number of small rural hospitals. This analysis must conform to the provisions of section 603 of the RFA. For purposes of section 1102(b) of the Act, we define a small rural hospital as a hospital that is located outside of a Metropolitan Statistical Area and has fewer than 50 beds. In accordance with the provisions of Executive Order 12866 this proposed rule was reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. B. Water Quality Standards The proposed rule would incorporate into regulations existing industry standards on the quality of water used in dialysis to enable surveyors to accurately assess a facility's compliance with the standard on water quality. The AAMI standards are the result of a collaborative effort by health professionals and industry representatives to respond to clinical needs and to help ensure patient health and safety. It is our understanding that AAMI's recommended maximum levels for water contaminants have been clearly defined and supported by scientific literature and developed through industry consensus. Under the AAMI water standard, the supplier/manufacturer of dialysis water treatment equipment is responsible for assuring that the water produced by the system routinely does not exceed the maximum allowable chemical contaminant levels. Because AAMI's acceptable contamination levels have been in effect since 1982 and are recognized as medically acceptable standards, we believe that manufacturers have been producing, and facilities purchasing, equipment capable of meeting these requirements. We understand that technology is in place for all facilities to meet the AAMI water standard and solicit comments on this understanding. While variations in water quality do typically occur, any changes that occur will be handled through consultation with State and local water authorities and safe purity levels ensured through continued monitoring by the physician in charge of dialysis. Although contaminants in water used in dialysate may cause adverse patient reactions, actual documented adverse incidents are rare when water is monitored properly. Because the AAMI water quality standard represents long-standing acceptable medical practice, we believe the vast majority of facilities already comply with this standard. Incorporation of the AAMI standard into regulations will help ensure patient health and safety by providing surveyors with a measurable standard with which they may assess facility compliance, especially in the few facilities that do not voluntarily conform to the water quality guidelines adopted by the industry. C. Reuse of Hemodialyzers The AAMI ``Recommended Practice on Reuse'' does not promote either single use or reuse of dialyzers. The guidelines were developed to acknowledge the widespread practice of reprocessing and provide recommendations for optimal hemodialyzer reprocessing. In January 1993, HCFA's Health Standard and Quality Bureau canvassed the 2,345 Medicare certified ESRD facilities to determine if they practiced reuse, and if so, the disinfecting protocols used. Sixty-five percent (1,532) of the facilities reported practicing reuse. Of these facilities, approximately 51 percent use renalin as the germicide, with two-thirds of these facilities using an automated disinfecting system. Approximately 40 percent of the facilities reported using formalin/formaldehyde as the germicide, with manual and automated systems receiving equal use. Approximately 9 percent of the facilities practicing reuse reported using glutaraldehyde as the germicide, with the majority of these facilities using an automated disinfecting system. Less than 1 percent of the facilities use other disinfecting methods. Because the 1993 AAMI guidelines do not differ significantly from the 1986 guidelines (which all Medicare participating facilities practicing reuse already must meet), we believe that the great majority of the facilities practicing reuse would be in compliance with the new standards proposed in this regulation. The 1993 AAMI standards were developed through a public forum and their adoption was well publicized. They reflect the most up-to-date reuse procedures already practiced by many of the facilities, and we do not believe that incorporating the 1993 guidelines into our regulations, in and of itself, would prompt any facility to begin or discontinue reuse. We expect that each facility would respond to these new standards based on the relationship of these standards to its current reuse practices and to factors such as whether or not a facility presently meets the standards or can meet them without extensive changes, and whether or not the facility can buy new filters in quantity less expensively than it can upgrade its reuse practices. As we said above, 65 percent of the facilities are already reusing dialyzers. The major effect of this proposed rule would be to assure that Medicare standards for reuse reflect safe and effective practices. D. Conclusion Because we are unable to predict the decisions facilities would make in response to this regulation, we are unable to quantify the potential effect it would have. Some beneficiaries may be reassured that HCFA has adopted specific water quality standards and updated its standards for reuse of hemodialyzers to ensure their health and safety. However, we expect that there would be a negligible effect on most beneficiaries and facilities since we believe these revisions would make no major changes in current facility operation or patient experience. This proposed rule is not expected to result directly in any increases or reductions in Medicare program expenditures. For these reasons, we have determined, and the Secretary certifies that this proposed rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities and would not have a significant economic impact on the operations of a substantial number of small rural hospitals. Therefore, we are not preparing analyses for either the RFA or section 1102(b) of the Act.
