FR940429-0-00055 FR940429-0-00010 An accrediting agency may appeal the Secretary's final decision under this part regarding the agency's recognition to the Federal courts as a final decision in accordance with applicable Federal law. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099b) §602.16 Publication of list of recognized agencies. (a) The Secretary periodically publishes in the Federal Register a list of recognized accrediting agencies and each agency's scope of recognition. (b) If the Secretary denies recognition to a previously recognized accrediting agency, or limits, suspends, or terminates its recognition during a previously granted recognition period, the Secretary publishes a notice of that action in the Federal Register and makes available to the public, upon request, the Secretary's determination. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099b) Subpart C_Criteria for Secretarial Recognition §602.20 Geographic scope of accrediting activities. To be listed by the Secretary as a nationally recognized accrediting agency, an accrediting agency must demonstrate to the Secretary that the geographical scope of its accrediting activities covers_ (a) A State, if the agency is a component of a State government; (b) A region of the United States that includes at least three States that are contiguous or in close geographical proximity to one another; or (c) The United States. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099b) §602.21 Administrative and fiscal responsibility. (a) To be listed by the Secretary as a nationally recognized accrediting agency, an accrediting agency must demonstrate to the Secretary that it has the administrative and fiscal capability to carry out its accreditation activities in light of its requested scope of recognition. (b) The Secretary considers that an accrediting agency meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if it has, and will likely continue to have_ (1) Adequate administrative staff to_ (i) Carry out its accrediting responsibilities effectively; and (ii) Manage its finances effectively; (2) Competent and knowledgeable individuals, qualified by experience and training, responsible for on-site evaluation, policy-making, and decision-making regarding accreditation and preaccreditation status; (3) Representation on its evaluation, policy, and decision-making bodies of_ (i) For an institutional accrediting agency, both academic and administrative personnel; and (ii) For a programmatic accrediting agency, both educators and practitioners; (4) Representation of the public on all decision-making bodies; (5) Clear and effective controls against conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest by the agency's board members, commissioners, evaluation team members, consultants, administrative staff, and other agency representatives; (6) Adequate financial resources to carry out its accrediting responsibilities, taking into account the funds required to conduct the range of accrediting activities specified in the requested scope of recognition and the income necessary to meet the anticipated costs of its activities in the future; and (7) Complete and accurate records of_ (i) Its last two full accreditation or preaccreditation reviews of each institution or program, including on-site evaluation team reports, institution or program responses to on-site reports, periodic review reports, any reports of special reviews conducted by the agency between regular reviews, and the institution's or program's most recent self-study report; and (ii) All preaccreditation and accreditation decisions, including all adverse actions. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099b) §602.22 Accreditation experience. (a) To be listed by the Secretary as a nationally recognized accrediting agency, an accrediting agency must demonstrate to the Secretary that it has adequate experience in accrediting institutions, programs, or both. (b) The Secretary considers that an accrediting agency satisfies the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if it has_ (1) Granted accreditation or preaccreditation status to institutions or programs in the geographical area for which it seeks recognition; (2) Conducted accreditation activities covering the range of the specific degrees, certificates, and programs for which it seeks recognition, including_ (i) Granting accreditation or preaccreditation status; and (ii) Providing technical assistance related to accreditation to institutions, programs, or both; and (3) Established policies, evaluative criteria, and procedures, and made evaluative decisions, that are accepted throughout the United States by_ (i) Educators and educational institutions; and (ii) Licensing bodies, practitioners, and employers in the professional or vocational fields for which the educational institutions or programs within the agency's jurisdiction prepare their students. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099b) §602.23 Application of standards. (a) To be listed by the Secretary as a nationally recognized accrediting agency, an accrediting agency must demonstrate to the Secretary that it consistently applies and enforces written standards that ensure that the education or training offered by an institution or program is of sufficient quality to achieve, for the duration of any accreditation period granted by the agency, the stated objective for which it is offered.
