FR941222-2-00121 FR941222-2-00096 National banks filing appeals with the Ombudsman must submit information in writing fully describing the matter in dispute. After receipt of an appeal, the Ombudsman shall contact the OCC management official involved in the dispute. That management official shall submit written materials and relevant OCC documents pertaining to the bases of the appeal within 10 calendar days of the notice from the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman shall contact the national bank to ensure that the OCC is in possession of all relevant materials. If requested by either OCC management involved in the dispute or a senior official of the national bank filing the appeal, the Ombudsman shall arrange a meeting or a telephone call to more fully discuss the appeal and related issues. In the absence of any extenuating circumstances, the Ombudsman shall issue a written response to the appeal within 45 calendar days of the filing of the appeal by a national bank. B. Follow-up by Ombudsman After the Ombudsman receives a decision on an appeal, the Ombudsman shall contact every appellant bank to inquire whether the bank believes OCC examiners have taken actions against the bank in retaliation for its appeal. The Ombudsman shall make these contacts (1) six months after the date the Ombudsman, Deputy Administrator or Deputy Comptroller issues a final written response to an appeal, and (2) six months after the date of completion of the first examination of the appellant bank following its appeal. A national bank may, of course, contact the Ombudsman at any time during or after the appeal if the bank reasonably believes that an OCC examiner is taking action against it in retaliation for its appeal. Upon identifying or learning of any possible retaliatory actions, the Ombudsman shall investigate the complaint; such investigations must be completed within 30 days. If the Ombudsman determines that retaliation has occurred, the Ombudsman shall forward the complaint to the District Administrator, Deputy Comptroller, or Inspector General for appropriate action. C. Appealable Matters Except as otherwise provided, a national bank may seek a review of any agency decision or action, including a material supervisory determination. A material supervisory determination includes a determination relating to: •Examination ratings; •The adequacy of loan loss reserve provisions; and •Loan classifications on loans that are significant to an institution. A national bank may not appeal: •Appointments of receivers and conservators; •Preliminary examination conclusions communicated to the national bank prior to the issuance of either a final Report of Examination or other written communication from the OCC; and •Enforcement-related actions or decisions, including decisions to take prompt corrective action pursuant to section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. §1831o). An enforcement-related action or decision commences, and therefore becomes unappealable, when the national bank receives notice from the OCC indicating its intention to pursue available remedies under applicable statutes or published enforcement-related policies of the OCC. Such policies include OCC's Policy for Corrective Action (PPM 5310&hyph;3)(REV), Civil Money Penalty Policy (PPM 5000&hyph;7)(REV), and Securities Enforcement Policy (PPM 5310&hyph;5). These policies are available on request from the OCC's Communications Division, 250 E. Street, SW., Washington DC 20219&hyph;0001, 202&hyph;874&hyph;4700. For purposes of these guidelines only, remarks in a Report of Examination do not constitute notice of intent to pursue enforcement remedies. The appeals process established by these guidelines does not supersede any existing appeals procedures available under current law. Matters which are subject to an existing appeals process designed specifically for the issue in dispute, such as re-review of Shared National Credit findings (Banking Circular 189), and reconsideration of decisions on corporate applications (12 CFR 5.13(d)), are appealable to the Ombudsman when the agency decision is final under the specifically designed procedures. III. Effect of Filing An Appeal As a general rule, the filing of an appeal with either the national bank's immediate supervisory office or with the Ombudsman serves to stay all agency decisions and actions until the appeal is resolved. In the appropriate circumstances, however, the Ombudsman may put the disputed agency decision or action into effect while the appeal is still pending. Dated: December 19, 1994. Eugene A. Ludwig Comptroller of the Currency. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31545 Filed 12&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4810&hyph;33&hyph;P
