FR940128-1-00053 FR940128-1-00006 FDA recognizes that all shellfish-producing States have laws that require the tagging of shellfish. This proposal is intended to support those laws, not supersede them. The proposed tagging requirement is necessary for two reasons. First, there is no assurance that untagged shellfish come from safe waters. Illegal harvesting of molluscan shellfish from contaminated or unclassified waters is known to occur (Ref. 7, p. 331). It is also known that illegally harvested shellfish find their way into commercial channels. States and FDA find untagged or improperly tagged shellfish during their inspections of shellfish processors under the cooperative program (Refs. 101 through 109). FDA frequently lacks a basis for taking action against untagged shellfish (Ref. 110). Proposed §1240.60 will provide a basis. Second, State tagging requirements and sanctions are not uniform, and the sanctions provided under some State laws have little deterrent effect (Refs. 102, 103, and 109). The establishment of a Federal sanction will provide illegal harvesters with sure knowledge that if their catch enters interstate commerce and comes to the attention of FDA, it will be destroyed. If §1240.60(b) is adopted, as a practical matter, product identification will begin at the harvesting site. FDA is proposing to amend §1240.60 to require that the first handler of live molluscan shellfish, be it the licensed harvester, licensed aquaculturist, or certified shellfish shipper, affix a tag to each container of shellfish. The tag will then provide the means for processors to ensure that the shellfish that they buy is from properly classified water. Moreover, the tag will provide all information that is necessary to trace the product to its source, e.g., date of harvest, location of harvest, quantity and type of shellfish, and the harvester's name and identification number assigned by the shellfish control authority. The product traceability that results will enhance epidemiological investigations in the event of shellfish-borne illness. It will also facilitate prompt remedial actions necessary to reestablish public health controls. The safety concerns about shucked molluscan shellfish are substantially the same as those discussed above for in-shell molluscan shellfish. Because shucked shellfish are packaged in a container that can be labeled, the agency is proposing to require in §1240.60(c) that for these shellfish, a label may be substituted that bears information equivalent to that found on the tag. Another reason for allowing labeling in lieu of a tag is the fact that one bag of unshucked molluscan shellfish bearing a single tag can typically be processed into more than one container of shucked molluscan shellfish. The second measure that FDA is proposing is based on its experience with the NSSP and the ISSC. FDA has tentatively concluded that the system for protecting the safety of shellfish can be significantly strengthened if the agency were to require that certain limited steps be taken as part of the processing of shellfish that are intended for interstate commerce. FDA believes that these measures, like the proposed tagging requirement, will serve to strengthen the Federal-State cooperative program as well as the shellfish safety programs of each of the States and countries that participate in NSSP. Many of the pathogens in shellfish, such as the Norwalk virus, are virtually undetectable. Moreover, from a technical and practical perspective, end product testing cannot be used in the processing of shellfish to ensure that they are not contaminated with one of the myriad of possible domestic, industrial, and agricultural contaminants that have been found in shellfish harvesting areas. Therefore, State classification of growing waters is a necessary first step to ensure the safety of shellfish. These classifications, as detailed in NSSP, address all actual and potential pollutants in deciding whether an area is suitable for harvesting (Ref. 90, pp. c&hyph;5 and c&hyph;6). FDA is proposing in §123.28(a) that each processor of shellfish have an HACCP plan that ensures that the molluscan shellfish that it processes come only from areas that have been classified by a shellfish control authority as satisfactory for harvesting. As noted above, the safety of molluscan shellfish consumed raw or partly cooked is predicated on the cleanliness of the growing area waters from which they are obtained. Ensuring that shellfish come from properly classified growing areas is where shellfish safety begins. Under proposed §123.28(b), processors are to process only shellfish that originate from growing waters that have been approved for harvesting by a shellfish control authority as shown by product tags or labels with specific information that establishes that they were harvested from appropriate waters. FDA is proposing this requirement under both section 361 of the PHS Act, to prevent the spread of communicable disease, and sections 402(a)(1), 402(a)(4), and 701(a) of the act to ensure that the food does not contain any added substances that may render it injurious to health and is not prepared, packed, or held under insanitary conditions whereby it may be rendered injurious to health.
