FR940314-1-00048 FR940314-1-00012 c. Person. The agency is proposing to define in §§101.9(j)(18)(vi)(C) and 101.36(f)(2)(vi)(C) the term ``person'' to mean ``all domestic and foreign affiliates of the corporation, in the case of a corporation.'' This aspect of the definition reflects section 403(q)(5)(E)(vi)(III) of the act. FDA is also proposing to include within the coverage of this term companies that are not corporations by including the following language in these regulations: ``*␣*␣* and all affiliates of that firm or other entity, when referring to a firm or other entity that is not a corporation.'' Section 201(e) of the act (21 U.S.C. 321(e)) defines ``person'' as including an individual, partnership, corporation, and association. In the 1993 amendments, Congress clarified the definition of ``person'' to remove any ambiguity as to the entities that a corporation should include in determining the average number of its full-time equivalent employees. Congress said the employees of each of its affiliates should be counted by a corporation. The agency is proposing to include the sentence noted above in its regulation to provide parallel coverage of persons that are not corporations. d. Full-time equivalent employee. The agency is proposing in §§101.9(j)(18)(vi)(D) and 101.36(f)(2)(vi)(D) to define the term ``full-time equivalent employee'' to mean all individuals employed by the person claiming the exemption and to establish a formula for use by a person to calculate the average number of its full-time equivalent employees. The agency is proposing that the average number of full-time equivalent employees of a company be determined by dividing the total number of hours of salary or wages paid to individuals that render services to a company by the number of hours of work in a year, 2,080 hours (i.e., 40 hours × 52 weeks). Under this formula, a person would base the average number of full-time equivalent employees on a typical work-year and on the total hours worked by individuals employed by the firm and, as noted above, by all of its affiliates. The average number of full-time equivalent employees would be calculated based on all employees of a firm, including production workers, office staff, salesmen, and distribution staff, including any contract personnel. Under the proposed formula, a foreign firm, as well as a domestic firm, will have to calculate the average number of its full-time equivalent employees based on the total numbers of individuals employed by that firm and its affiliates, regardless of whether their operations are related to sales of food products in the United States. 2. Small Business Food Labeling Exemption Notice The 1993 amendments provide that the exemption contained in section 403(q)(5)(E) of the act shall only be available to a person that files a notice with FDA to claim the exemption for one or more of its low-volume food products before the beginning of the 12-month period during which the exemption is to be in effect. The agency is proposing requirements concerning the filing of this notice in §§101.9(j)(18)(iv) and 101.36(f)(2)(iv). In addition to the name and address of the firm claiming exemption for certain of its food products, under the proposed regulations, the notice must include the average number of full-time equivalent employees of the firm, and, for each food product for which an exemption is claimed, the approximate number of units sold by the firm over the 12-month period preceding the period for which the exemption is claimed. FDA intends to treat all information received in such notices in accordance with its public information regulations, 21 CFR part 20, particularly §20.61 Trade secrets and commercial or financial information which is privileged or confidential. Upon the filing of the notice establishing that a product meets the requirements for an exemption, the food product will be exempt from the requirements for nutrition labeling specified in §101.9 or §101.36 during the 12-month period for which the exemption is claimed. There is no requirement for agency action, review, or approval before the exemption is effective.
