FR940606-0-00047 FR940606-0-00019 (3) The Owner shall maintain records in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance with these provisions. The Owner shall maintain data on the race, ethnic, gender, and disability status of displaced persons. (g) Definition of displaced person. (1) For purposes of this section, the term displaced person means a person (household, business, nonprofit organization, or farm) that moves from real property, or moves personal property from real property, permanently, as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for a project assisted under this part. The term ``displaced person'' includes, but may not be limited to: (i) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling unit who moves from the building/complex, permanently, after the Owner executes the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition, if the move occurs before the tenant is provided written notice offering him or her the opportunity to lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the same building/complex, under reasonable terms and conditions, upon completion of the project. Such reasonable terms and conditions include a monthly rent and estimated average monthly utility costs that do not exceed the amount approved by HUD; (ii) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who is required to relocate temporarily, but does not return to the building/complex, if either: (A) The tenant is not offered payment for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporarily occupied unit, any increased housing costs and incidental expenses; or (B) Other conditions of the temporary relocation are not reasonable; or (iii) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who moves from the building/complex, permanently, after he or she has been required to move to another dwelling unit in the same building/complex in order to carry out the project, if either: (A) The tenant is not offered reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the move; or (B) Other conditions of the move are not reasonable; or (iv) Any person, including a person who moves before the Owner's execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition, or acquisition, if the Owner or HUD determines that the displacement resulted directly from rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition for the assisted project. (2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (g)(1) of this section, a person does not qualify as a ``displaced person'' (and is not eligible for relocation assistance under the URA or this section), if: (i) The person has been evicted for serious or repeated violation of the terms and conditions of the lease or occupancy agreement, violation of applicable Federal, State or local law, or other good cause, and HUD determines that the eviction was not undertaken for the purpose of evading the obligation to provide relocation assistance; (ii) The person moved into the property after the execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition and, before signing a lease and commencing occupancy, received written notice of the project, its possible impact on the person (e.g., the person may be displaced, temporarily relocated or suffer a rent increase) and the fact that he or she would not qualify as a ``displaced person'' (or for any assistance provided under this section) as a result of the project; (iii) The person is ineligible under 49 CFR 24.2(g)(2); or (iv) HUD determines that the person was not displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the project. (3) The Owner may ask HUD, at any time, to determine whether a displacement is or would be covered by this section. (h) Definition of initiation of negotiations. For purposes of determining the formula for computing the replacement housing assistance to be provided to a residential tenant displaced as a direct result of privately undertaken rehabilitation, demolition, or acquisition of the real property, the term initiation of negotiations means the Owner's execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition, or acquisition. (Approved by Office of Management and Budget under OMB Control Number 2506&hyph;0121) PART 236_MORTGAGE INSURANCE AND INTEREST REDUCTION PAYMENTS FOR RENTAL PROJECTS 7. The authority citation for part 236 continues to read as follows; Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1715b and 1715z&hyph;1; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d). 8. A new subpart F consisting of ยง236.1001 is added, to read as follows: Subpart F_Uniform Relocation Assistance ยง236.1001 Displacement, relocation, and acquisition. (a) Minimizing displacement. Consistent with the other goals and objectives of this part, mortgagors shall assure that they have taken all reasonable steps to minimize the displacement of persons (households, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms) as a result of a project assisted under this part. (b) Temporary relocation. The following policies cover residential tenants who will not be required to move permanently but who must relocate temporarily to permit rehabilitation or other work for the assisted project. Such tenants must be provided: (1) Reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporary housing, any increase in monthly rent/utility costs, and any incidental expenses.
