FR940325-2-00191 FR940325-2-00091 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20149; 812&hyph;8664] Aetna Series Fund Inc., et al.; Application March 18, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANTS: Aetna Series Fund, Inc. (the ``Company''), Aetna Capital Management, Inc. (the ``Underwriter'') and Aetna Life Insurance and Annuity Company (the ``Adviser''). RELEVANT ACT SECTION: Order requested under section 6(c) of the Act for an exemption from sections 2(a)(32), 2(a)(35), 18(f)(1), 18(g), 18(i), 22(c), and 22(d) of the Act and rule 22c&hyph;1 thereunder. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants request an order that would permit certain investment companies to issue multiple classes of securities representing interests in the same portfolio and assess and, under certain circumstances, waive a contingent deferred sales charge (``CDSC'') on certain redemptions of shares. FILING DATES: The application was filed on November 2, 1993, and amended on January 12, 1994. Applicants have agreed to file an additional amendment, the substance of which is incorporated herein, during the notice period. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on April 12, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 5th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, Aetna Life Insurance and Annuity Company, 151 Farmington Avenue, Hartford, Connecticut 06830. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Deepak T. Pai, Staff Attorney, at (202) 272&hyph;3809, or Robert A. Robertson, Branch Chief, at (202) 272&hyph;3030 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. The Company is an open-end management investment company registered under the Act and organized as a Maryland corporation. The Company's existing and future series are referred to as the ``Funds.'' The Adviser provides investment advisory and administrative services to each of the Funds. 1 The Underwriter acts as a principal underwriter of the Funds' shares. Each of the Funds has a single class of shares that is currently offered to investors at net asset value without a sales load. 1 In the case of Aetna International Growth Fund, the Adviser has entered into a subadvisory arrangement with the Underwriter. Applicants contemplate that certain of the five new series of the Funds may enter into sub-advisory arrangements with advisory entities affiliated with the Adviser. A. Multi Class System 1. Applicants request relief, on behalf of themselves, any entity controlling, under common control with or controlled by the Underwriter or the Adviser that may in the future serve as a Fund's underwriter or investment adviser, and any registered investment companies that may in the future be advised or distributed by the Adviser or Underwriter. Applicants propose to establish a multiple class distribution system to enable each of the Funds to offer investors the option of purchasing classes of shares that would either be subject to: (a) A conventional front-end sales load, (b) a non-rule 12b&hyph;1 service fee, (c) a rule 12b&hyph;1 distribution fee, (d) a CDSC, (e) a combination of front-end sales load, service fee, distribution fee and/or CDSC, or (f) no sales charge. Applicants currently contemplate offering only two classes of shares. 2. Under the proposed multi-class distribution system, the Funds would continue to offer the current shares as ``Class A shares.'' Class A shares would be distributed with no sales charge, distribution fee, or service fee to: (i) Certain corporate retirement plans as determined by the board of directors, (ii) salaried employees and persons retired from salaried positions with the Adviser and its affiliates, (iii) insurance companies (including separate accounts), registered investment companies, investment advisers and broker-dealers acting for their own account and other institutions as determined by the board of directors, (iv) current shareholders at the time of first offering of Class B shares as long as they maintain a shareholder account ( i.e. current shareholders would be eligible to make future purchases of Class A shares upon the commencement of the Multi-Class Distribution System); and (v) any other persons, organization, or affinity groups identified by the board of directors, eligible to acquire shares, pursuant to which the sale of shares involves minimal sales expense to the Company.
