FR940803-1-00041 FR940803-1-00010 Congressional Mandate Under sections 106 and 205 of the Pipeline Safety Act of 1992 (Pub. L. No. 102&hyph;508; October 24, 1992), 49 U.S.C. ยง60102, Congress mandated that DOT require ``all individuals responsible for the operation and maintenance of pipeline facilities be tested for qualifications and certified to perform such functions''. In complying with the congressional mandate, DOT is required to ``address the ability to recognize and appropriately react to abnormal operating conditions which may indicate a dangerous situation or a condition exceeding design limits.'' Furthermore, Congress provided that certification may, ``as the Secretary considers appropriate, be performed by the operator.'' Qualification and Certification RSPA is proposing that regulated pipeline operators implement requirements for the qualification of operation, maintenance and emergency-response personnel (including contractor personnel) and for the qualification of certain supervisory personnel. These requirements would be based on the continuing training program applicable to hazardous liquid and carbon dioxide pipeline operators. Operators would be required to certify the qualification of personnel for the performance of covered functions. However, RSPA is not proposing to establish an industry-wide personnel licensing program. This decision was made because the severity and extent of the personnel qualification problem does not currently warrant such an ambitious undertaking. In addition, there is no private or governmental apparatus currently in place to conduct such extensive licensing. This decision is consistent with the regulatory authority provided by 49 U.S.C. ยง60102, which requires qualification and certification of those individuals performing functions related to the operation and maintenance of pipeline facilities. Of course, where local conditions warrant more rigorous action, state agencies are not precluded from starting a licensing or certification program for intrastate pipeline operators under their regulatory jurisdiction. It is difficult to assess how detailed and extensive the new Federal personnel qualification regulations should be, because many pipelines have unique operating and maintenance requirements. Therefore, RSPA is proposing a more general performance-oriented regulatory approach based on an expansion of the continuing training program hazardous liquid operators must now provide under ยง195.403. Available Training Several states are working to improve the knowledge and skills of operator personnel in small gas distribution systems, including master meter systems, by state-sponsored educational programs. Currently, states with notable training programs include Alabama, Arizona, California, Kentucky, and Texas. In addition, some gas operators have established statewide and regional gas associations for the purpose of improving technical skills and the understanding of the gas pipeline safety regulations. These associations often encourage gas equipment suppliers to exhibit and instruct gas distribution and transmission personnel in the proper use of special tools and equipment. Similarly, state regulatory agencies are often encouraged to participate by teaching or clarifying the applicable Federal/state pipeline safety regulations to personnel working on small gas distribution systems. At the Federal level, RSPA provides pipeline safety training through its Transportation Safety Institute (TSI) in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. In 1992 and 1993 gas pipeline safety seminars taught by instructors from the TSI were held in 20 and 21 states, respectively. These one, two, three, and four-day seminars teach various aspects of pipeline safety regulations and include instructional material oriented toward the operator personnel working on small gas distribution systems. The gas pipeline safety seminars will also be held in 26 states during 1994. Attendance at these instructive seminars requires advance registration and payment of a modest registration fee. Additionally, other hazardous liquid and gas pipeline safety courses planned by TSI for presentation in 1994 include regulation compliance, corrosion control and computer simulator dispatching. Pipeline operators interested in further information on TSI training courses should contact their state pipeline safety regulatory office or phone the Pipeline Safety Division of the Transportation Safety Institute at (405) 954&hyph;7219.
