FR940127-2-00104 FR940127-2-00070 (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The CBOE proposes to amend Exchange Rule 6.2, Interpretation and Policy .01 to allow opening rotations in Exchange-listed options to commence upon the earlier of the following events: (i) the report of an opening transaction in the underlying security on the primary market, or (ii) the dissemination of opening quotations by such market. In addition, the CBOE proposes to amend Interpretation and Policy .01 to provide specifically that a DPM shall participate in opening rotations to the same extent as an OBO. Currently, CBOE Rule 6.62, Interpretation and Policy .01 provides that the opening rotation in each class of option contracts traded on the CBOE will commence promptly following the opening transaction in the underlying security. The rules of the other options exchanges provide that opening rotations will commence following the opening of the underlying security. 2 The CBOE states that the other options exchanges interpret their rules to permit the commencement of opening rotations upon the earlier of either a reported transaction in the underlying security or a reported market quote for the security, provided that the primary market has not given any indication of a delayed opening. The CBOE's proposal is designed to conform the commencement of opening rotations at the CBOE to that of the other options exchanges, thereby alleviating the risk of inter-market pricing disparities. 2 See note 1, supra. In addition, the proposal modifies Interpretation and Policy .01 to provide specifically that any member appointed as a DPM shall participate in opening rotations to the same extent as an OBO. The CBOE believes that this amendment states expressly what is implied by paragraph (c) of CBOE Rule 8.80, ``Modified Trading System,'' which provides, in part, that when acting as an OBO in appointed options classes, the DPM shall fulfill all obligations associated with the OBO's functions. The CBOE believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act, in general, and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5), in particular, in that it is designed to clarify the meaning of existing CBOE rules and to conform the CBOE's rules to the rules of the other options exchanges, thereby contributing to a fair and orderly market. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The CBOE does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The CBOE has requested that the proposed rule change be given accelerated effectiveness pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act. The CBOE states that the proposal is intended to minimize the risk of pricing disparities at the opening of trading on the Exchange. With the expansion of multiple trading of options as provided in Rule 19c&hyph;5 of the Act, the CBOE believes it is imperative that the CBOE conform the commencement of its opening rotations to the procedures of the other options exchanges. In addition, the CBOE states that its proposal raises no new regulatory concerns because the Exchange is adopting procedures that have been adopted previously by the other options exchanges. The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of Section 6(b)(5) thereunder 3 in that the proposal is designed to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market by conforming the CBOE's opening procedures to those of the other options exchanges. Specifically, the CBOE's proposal will allow the Exchange to commence opening rotations upon the earlier of either a reported transaction in the underlying security or a reported market quote for the security (provided that the primary market has not indicated a delayed opening), rather than waiting for an opening transaction in the underlying security, as required currently under CBOE Rule 6.2, Interpretation and Policy .01. 4 3 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1982). 4 The CBOE states that only quotations disseminated at the opening on a trading day will be deemed to have opened the market in an underlying security. Stale quotations disseminated on a prior trading day will not be deemed to have opened the market in an underlying security. See Letter from Michael L. Meyer, Schiff Hardin & Waite, to Richard Zack, Branch Chief, Options Branch, Division of Market Regulation, Commission, dated January 14, 1994. The Commission believes that the proposed rule change should help to alleviate the risk of pricing disparities among the options exchanges and should allow the CBOE to compete effectively with the other options exchanges for order flow.
