FR941110-0-00127 FR941110-0-00016 Response: HCFA does make funding available to the States for the required periodic education program through its budget process. Section 488.335␣Action on Complaints of Resident Neglect and Abuse, and Misappropriation of Resident Property Upon further analysis, we revised the title of this section to be more explicit. Comment: Some commenters suggested regulatory language requiring coordination of investigations of complaints of neglect, abuse, or misappropriation of property with the State or local ombudsman program. Response: The Act does not require the State to coordinate complaint investigations with the State long term care ombudsman. However, under the Act, each State is required to notify the State long term care ombudsman of its findings of noncompliance with any of the requirements pertaining to provision of services, resident rights, or administration and other matters. The State also provides the State long term care ombudsman with any report of adverse action (specified at §488.406 of this rule) imposed on a facility. We have included the requirement for disclosing such information to the long term care ombudsman at §488.325. Comment: Some commenters felt procedures for investigating complaints of neglect, abuse, or misappropriation of property should be included in the final rule. Response: As stated in the proposed rule, we believe such an approach is inconsistent with our view that States should have the flexibility to rely on State entities other than the State survey agency to investigate and adjudicate these matters. States will likely use an array of different licensing or investigative bodies to meet their obligations in this area. Comment: Several commenters suggested that investigations of allegations of neglect, abuse, or misappropriation of property be integrated into the comprehensive survey, certification and enforcement process. Further, there were suggestions that investigations of these complaints be conducted solely by the State survey agency. Response: The Act requires that States must provide, through the agency responsible for surveys and certification of nursing facilities, for a process for the receipt and timely review and investigation of allegations of resident neglect or abuse, or misappropriation of resident property. As pointed out in the preamble to the proposed rule, while the State is free to delegate to other State agencies the adjudicatory functions described in sections 1819(g)(1)(C) and 1919(g)(1)(C) of the Act, we fully expect State survey agencies to retain ultimate responsibility for compliance with these statutory requirements. If a State uses an agency which is not part of the State survey agency, the State survey agency cannot be absolved of its responsibility to properly document complaints and take required certification action with respect to a facility's participation in either the Medicaid or Medicare programs. In keeping with this responsibility, we are strengthening the rules under §488.335(a) by cross referencing §488.332, which specifies that the State survey agency retains responsibility for the investigation process and requiring the State survey agency to have a means of communicating information among appropriate entities if other State agencies are involved in the investigation of these complaints.
