FR940407-2-00157 FR940407-2-00081 3. Late Applications. Applications which do not meet one of these criteria are considered late applications. The ACF Division of Discretionary Grants will notify each late applicant that its application will not be considered in this competition. 4. Extension of Deadline. The ACF may extend the deadline for all applicants because of acts of God such as floods, hurricanes, etc. or when there is a disruption of the mails. However, if the granting agency does not extend the deadline for all applicants, it may not waive or extend the deadline for any applicant. Applications once submitted are considered final and no additional materials will be accepted. One signed original application and four copies should be submitted. C. Intergovernmental Review This program is covered under Executive Order 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs,'' and 45 CFR Part 100, ``Intergovernmental Review of Department of Health and Human Services Programs and Activities.'' Under the Order, States may design their own processes for reviewing and commenting on proposed Federal assistance under covered programs. All States and Territories except Alabama, Alaska, Connecticut, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, Pennsylvania, Oklahoma, Oregon, Virginia, Washington, American Samoa and Palau have elected to participate in the Executive Order process and have established Single Points of Contact (SPOCs). Applicants from these seventeen jurisdictions need take no action regarding E.O. 12372. Applicants for projects to be administered by Federally-recognized Indian Tribes are also exempt from the requirements of E.O. 12372. Otherwise, applicants must submit any required material to the SPOCs as soon as possible to alert them of the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions, so that the ACF can obtain and review SPOC comments as part of the award process. It is imperative that the applicant submit all required materials, if any, to the SPOC and indicate the date of this submittal (or the date of contact if no submittal is required) on the Standard Form 424, item 16a. Under 45 CFR 100.8(a)(2), a SPOC has 60 days from the application deadline date to comment on proposed new awards. SPOCs are encouraged to eliminate the submission of routine endorsements as official recommendations. Additionally, SPOCs are requested to clearly differentiate between mere advisory comments and those official State process recommendations which they intend to trigger the ``accommodate or explain'' rule under 45 CFR 100.10. When comments are submitted directly to ACF, they should be addressed to: Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20447. A list of the Single Points of Contact for each State and Territory is included as Attachment E of this announcement. D. Application Consideration of OCS Specific Requirements
