FR941202-2-00036 FR941202-2-00021 Department of the Air Force Privacy Act of 1974; Notice To Add a System of Records AGENCY: Department of the Air Force, DoD. ACTION: Notice to add a system of records. SUMMARY: The Department of the Air Force proposes to add a record system to its inventory of systems of records notices subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended. DATES: This action will be effective without further notice on January 3, 1995, unless comments are received that would result in a contrary determination. ADDRESSES: Send comments to the Assistant Air Force Access Programs Officer, SAF/AAIA, 1610 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330&hyph;1610. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mrs. Anne Rollins at (703) 697&hyph;3491 or DSN 227&hyph;3491. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The complete inventory of Department of Air Force record system notices subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended, have been published in the Federal Register and are available from the address above. The proposed system report, as required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(r) of the Privacy Act was submitted on November 21, 1994, to the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) pursuant to paragraph 4c of Appendix I to OMB Circular No. A&hyph;130, `Federal Agency Responsibilities for Maintaining Records About Individuals,' dated July 15, 1994 (59 FR 37906, July 25, 1994). Dated: November 28, 1994. Patricia L. Toppings, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. F051 AF JA A System name: Judge Advocate General's Professional Conduct Files. System location: Office of the Ethics Administrator, Office of the Air Force Judge Advocate General, 1420 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330&hyph;1420; Army-Air Force Exchange Service Headquarters, General Counsel, P.O. Box 660202, Dallas, TX 75266&hyph;0202; Defense Commissary Agency Headquarters, General Counsel, Building P11200, Fort Lee, VA 23801; and Defense Logistics Agency, Judge Advocate, Alexandria, VA 22310&hyph;6130. The Judge Advocate's office at headquarters of major commands, field operating offices, and unified commands. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Air Force's compilation of systems of records notices. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Judge advocates (active duty, reserve, or guard), civilian attorneys employed by The Judge Advocate General's department and civilian attorneys subject to the disciplinary authority of The Judge Advocate General who have been the subject of a complaint related to their professional conduct. Categories of records in the system: Records include, but are not limited to complaints with substantiating documents; letters/transcriptions of complaints, allegations and queries; letters of appointment; reports of reviews, inquiries, and investigations with supporting attachments, exhibits and photographs; records of interviews; witness statements; recommendations; reports of legal reviews of case files; reports of Advisory Committee reviews; congressional responses; memoranda; letters and reports of findings and actions taken; letters to complainants and subjects of investigations; letters of rebuttal from subjects; financial, personnel, administrative, adverse information, and technical reports. Authority for maintenance of the system: 10 U.S.C. 8037, Judge Advocate General, Deputy Judge Advocate General: Appointment and duties; RCM 109, Manual for Courts- Martial 1984. Purpose(s): To assist The Judge Advocate General in the evaluation, management, administration and regulation of the delivery of legal services by offices and personnel under his jurisdiction. To ensure the proper qualifications for the practice of law are met and maintained by each attorney practicing under the direct or indirect supervision of The Judge Advocate General. To ensure licensing agencies of the individual states (including the District of Columbia) and the various courts that licensed Air Force attorneys are advised of adverse determinations documenting violations of the rules of professional responsibility affecting an attorney's fitness to practice law, this in an effort to protect the Air Force and the general public from substandard legal practitioners. To record the disposition of ethics complaints and to document ethics violations and corrective action taken. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purpose of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records, or information contained therein, may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: To federal and state agencies or bar associations charged with licensing and authorizing attorneys to practice law, and to various courts authorizing attorneys to practice before said courts, in order to protect the public and ensure the proper administration of justice. To current and potential governmental employers during authorized background checks to assist their efforts to protect the public and ensure the proper administration of justice. The Air Force `Blanket Routine Uses' set forth at the beginning of the Air Force's compilation of systems of records notices apply to this system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Maintained in file folders, in computer, and on computer output products. Retrievability: Retrieved by name of individual. Safeguards: Records are accessed by person(s) responsible for servicing the record system in performance of their official duties and by authorized personnel who are properly screened and cleared for need-to-know. Records are stored in locked rooms and cabinets. Those in computer storage devices are protected by computer system software. Computers must be accessed with a password. Retention and disposal: Retained in office files for three (3) years after year in which case is closed. Records are destroyed by tearing into pieces, shredding, pulping, macerating or burning. Computer records are destroyed by erasing, deleting or overwriting. System manager(s) and address: Office of The Judge Advocate General, Ethics Administrator, 1420 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330&hyph;1420. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether this system of records contains information on themselves should address written inquiries to the Office of The Judge Advocate General, Ethics Administrator, 1420 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330&hyph;1420. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to records about themselves contained in this system should address written requests to the Office of The Judge Advocate General, Ethics Administrator, 1420 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330&hyph;1420. Contesting record procedures: The Air Force rules for accessing records and for contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in Air Force Instruction 37&hyph;132; 32 CFR part 806b; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: Information is received from individuals; federal, state and local authorities; other Air Force records; state bar records; law enforcement records; educational records; complainants; inspectors; witnesses and subjects of inquiries. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29682 Filed 12&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;F
