FR940617-1-00108 FR940617-1-00012 (I) Sampling schedule. ( 1 ) For patient preoperative skin preparation antiseptic drug products labeled according to §333.460(b)(1), the treatment is randomly assigned to one contralateral groin site and one contralateral abdominal site on each of the subjects. The assignment is to be balanced such that an equal number of right and left sites in each anatomical area receive treatment. The untreated contralateral sites serve as control sites to establish baseline populations. Collect a baseline bacterial sample from one untreated groin site and from one abdominal site on each subject using the scrub cup technique just prior to application of the preoperative skin treatment to the corresponding contralateral site. Ten minutes after treatment, sample one treated groin site and one treated abdominal site on one-third of the subjects using the same sampling technique. Thirty minutes posttreatment, sample another one-third of the subjects as before, and 6 hours posttreatment, sample the remaining one-third of the subjects. ( 2 ) Between the time of treatment allocation and the 6-hour sampling interval, the subjects movements should be restricted. Subjects treated in the groin area should avoid activities or positions that would cause untreated skin sites to contact treated sites or clothing. Positions that might be appropriate are lying on the back or sitting with the legs extended without flexing from the trunk. To allow subjects some degree of mobility between the time of treatment and the 4-hour posttreatment sampling, the treated skin areas should be loosely draped with a sterile nonocclusive dressing. This material is to be applied in such a manner as to protect the treated skin sites from contact with untreated skin. ( 3 ) For patient preoperative skin preparation antiseptic drug products labeled according to §333.460(b)(2), the treatment is randomly assigned to contralateral dry skin sites on each of the subjects. The assignment is to be balanced such that an equal number of right and left sites in each anatomical area receive treatment. The untreated contralateral site serves as a control site to establish baseline populations. Collect a baseline bacterial sample from an untreated site on each subject using the scrub cup technique just prior to application of the preoperative skin preparation to the corresponding contralateral site. Thirty seconds after application, sample the treated site using the same sampling technique. (J) Microbiological methods. Samples for bacterial enumeration are obtained by the detergent scrub cup technique. Hold a sterile scrubbing cup firmly to the skin. Aseptically pipet 2.5 milliliters of sterile sampling solution into the scrubbing cup and rub the skin with a sterile rubber policeman for 1 minute using moderate pressure. Aspirate the wash fluid and place in a sterile test tube. Place a second 2.5-milliliter aliquot of sampling solution in the scrub cup and rub the skin again for 1 minute with the rubber policeman. Pool the two washes and enumerate the bacteria. (K) Enumeration of bacteria in sampling solution. ( 1 ) Enumerate the bacteria in the sampling solution by a standard plate count procedure such as that described in ``Standard Methods for the Evaluation of Dairy Products'' (available from American Public Health Association, Inc., 1015 15th St. NW., Washington, DC 20005) but using soybean-casein digest agar and a suitable inactivator for the antimicrobial where necessary. The suitability of the inactivator is to be demonstrated using a procedure such as described in E 1054, ``Test Methods for Evaluating Inactivators of Antimicrobial Agents Used in Disinfectant, Sanitizer, and Antiseptic Products,'' in ``Annual Book of ASTM Standards,'' vol. 11.04, which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from The American Society for Testing and Materials, 1916 Race St., Philadelphia, PA 19103&hyph;1187, or may be examined at the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, 7520 Standish Pl., suite 201, Rockville, MD, or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol St. NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. Prepare sample dilutions in dilution fluid. Plate in duplicate. Incubate plated sample at 30 # 2 ○C for 48 hours before reading. ( 2 ) Determine changes from baseline counts obtained with the test material at each sampling interval for each anatomical site. For a more realistic appraisal of the activity of products, all raw data should be converted to common (base 10) logarithms. Reduction should be calculated from the average of the logarithms. This will also facilitate statistical analysis of data. (L) Comparison of test material with control material. ( 1 ) In order to validate the testing procedure, equipment, and facilities, it is required that the test material be compared with an active control material. The number of test subjects will depend upon the number of control posttreatment sampling intervals chosen and the level of statistical significance desired for the test results. The identity of the formulations used by panelists should be blinded from those individuals counting plates and analyzing data.
