FR941125-1-00035 FR941125-1-00008 6. Design Specifications Verification Procedures These procedures apply to all instruments installed for purposes of complying with opacity monitoring requirements (see section 1.1, Applicability). The source owner or operator is responsible for the overall COMS performance demonstration required by the applicable standards. As an alternative, the COMS manufacturer may conduct the COMS design verification procedures called for in this section and provide to the source owner or operator a Manufacturer's Certificate of Conformance (MCOC). These procedures shall be conducted, detailed, and the results submitted in the MCOC (section 9.5) as an integral part of each COMS demonstration required by the applicable standards. In order to assure that the design and procedures to demonstrate conformance with this section coincide with the design procedures as stated in the MCOC, the manufacturer is encouraged to seek an evaluation by the Administrator of the manufacturer's conformance demonstration practices. The procedures to demonstrate conformance with this section may require modification to accommodate instrument designs. All procedural modifications required to demonstrate conformance with the specifications of this section must be approved, in writing, by the Administrator. The owner and operator or the manufacturer, as appropriate, shall obtain any approvals of modifications to the specifications of this section before regulatory agency review and acceptance of the overall COMS performance evaluations. Each analyzer design shall be selected as follows, in order to demonstrate conformance with the design specifications of sections 5.1.1 to 5.1.10. The MCOC, section 9.5, for all instruments subject to this specification shall detail the demonstration procedures as follows: 6.1␣Selection of Analyzer. For conducting the performance test in sections 6.2 through 6.6, the manufacturer shall randomly select (1) a COMS model from each month's production, or (2) a COMS model with a serial number in a distinct lot of 20 such monitors produced, whichever is more frequent. 6.2␣Spectral Response. The owner and operator, or manufacturer, shall conduct a laboratory measurement of the instrument's spectral response curve. The procedures of this laboratory evaluation are subject to approval of the Administrator and shall be provided to the Administrator upon request. The owner and operator or manufacturer, shall measure, develop, and report the effective spectral response curve of the COMS at 10 nm intervals. Determine and report in the MCOC the peak spectral response wavelength, the mean spectral response wavelength using equation 1&hyph;9, and the maximum response at any wavelength below 400 nm and above 700 nm expressed as a percentage of the peak response. 6.3␣Angle of View. In the laboratory, set up the COMS detector as specified by the manufacturer's written instructions. Draw a circular arc with the center of the circle located at the centroid of a plane described by the COMS photodetector housing which the radiation from the nondirectional light source first encounters. The arc shall have a radius of 3 meters in the horizontal plane of the COMS photodetector housing. Using a small (less than 3 cm) nondirectional light source, measure and record the COMS receiver response as the light is moved at each 5-cm interval on the arc for 30 cm on either side of the COMS detector centerline. Identify the point on the arc furthest from the centerline which corresponds to the point where 2.5 percent of the peak COMS detector response is recorded. Repeat the test in the vertical direction. Then, for both the horizontal and vertical directions, calculate the response of the COMS detector as a function of viewing angle (26 cm of arc with a radius of 3 cm equals 5 degrees), report relative angle of view curves, and determine and report the angle of view. 6.4␣Angle of Projection. In the laboratory, set up the COMS light source as specified by the manufacturer's written instructions. Draw a circular arc with the center of the circle located at the centroid of a plane described by the last part of the COMS lamp assembly housing encountered by the light radiation projected from the light assembly. The arc shall have a radius of 3 meters in the horizontal plane of the COMS lamp assembly housing. Using a small (less than 3 cm) photoelectric light detector, measure and record the COMS light intensity as the photoelectric light detector is moved at each 5-cm interval on the arc for 30 cm on either side of the centerline of the light source projection. Repeat the test in the vertical direction.
