FR940722-0-00027 FR940722-0-00005 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;95&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;8980; AD 94&hyph;15&hyph;09] Airworthiness Directives; Aerospatiale Model ATR72 Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule; request for comments. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to all Aerospatiale Model ATR72 series airplanes. This action requires inspections to detect damage, corrosion, or cracking of the hinge pin on each shock absorber on the main landing gear (MLG), and repair or replacement of the pins, if necessary. This amendment is prompted by reports of rupture of certain hinge pins due to stress corrosion of the pins in the shock absorber on the MLG on Model ATR72 series airplanes. The actions specified in this AD are intended to prevent loss of the MLG during a hard landing due to malfunction of the shock absorber on the MLG. DATES: Effective August 8, 1994. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in the regulations is approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of August 8, 1994. Comments for inclusion in the Rules Docket must be received on or before September 20, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;95&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. The service information referenced in this AD may be obtained from Technical Publications Department, Messier-Eram, Zone Aeronautique Luis Breget, B.P. 10, 78142 Velizy Cedex, France. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sam Grober, Aerospace Engineer, Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;1187; fax (206) 227&hyph;1320. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Direction Générale de l'Aviation Civile (DGAC), which is the airworthiness authority for France, recently notified the FAA that an unsafe condition may exist on all Aerospatiale Model ATR72 series airplanes. The DGAC advises that it has received reports of rupture of the upper hinge pins in the shock absorber on the main landing gear (MLG) on Model ATR72 series airplanes. Investigation revealed that these hinge pins ruptured due to stress corrosion inside the pin. Corrosion inside the hinge pins, if not detected and corrected in a timely manner, could result in malfunction of the shock absorber on the MLG. This condition, if not corrected, could result in loss of the MLG during a hard landing. Avions de Transport Regional (ATR) has issued Service Bulletin ATR72&hyph;32&hyph;1025, dated April 5, 1994. This service bulletin references Messier-Bugatti Service Bulletin 631&hyph;32&hyph;099, dated April 12, 1994, for additional service information. The Messier-Bugatti service bulletin describes procedures for repetitive visual inspections (using a borescope) to detect damage to the protective treatments on the inside diameter of the hinge pin on each shock absorber on the MLG. The service bulletin describes procedures for stripping any damaged protective treatments to determine if the base metal is corroded, completing a paint scheme of the damaged area, and reinstalling any pin on which no corrosion of the base metal is found. For pins on which the base metal is corroded, the service bulletin describes procedures for removal of the corrosion and a dye penetrant or fluorescent penetrant inspection to detect cracking of the pin; repair or replacement of any uncracked pin; and replacement of any cracked pin with a serviceable pin. The DGAC classified these service bulletins as mandatory and issued French Airworthiness Directive 94&hyph;065&hyph;020(B), dated March 30, 1994, in order to assure the continued airworthiness of these airplanes in France. This airplane model is manufactured in France and is type certificated for operation in the United States under the provisions of section 21.29 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 21.29) and the applicable bilateral airworthiness agreement. Pursuant to this bilateral airworthiness agreement, the DGAC has kept the FAA informed of the situation described above. The FAA has examined the findings of the DGAC, reviewed all available information, and determined that AD action is necessary for products of this type design that are certificated for operation in the United States. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other airplanes of the same type design registered in the United States, this AD is being issued to prevent loss of the MLG during a hard landing. This AD requires repetitive visual inspections (using a borescope) to detect damage to the protective treatments on the inside diameter of the hinge pin on each shock absorber on the MLG. This AD also requires stripping any damaged protective treatments to determine if the base metal is corroded. For pins on which the base metal is not corroded, this AD requires completion of a paint scheme of the damaged area and reinstallation of the pin. For pins on which the base metal is corroded, this AD requires removal of the corrosion and a dye penetrant or fluorescent penetrant inspection to detect cracking of the pin; repair or replacement of any uncracked pin; and replacement of any cracked pin with a serviceable pin. The actions are required to be accomplished in accordance with the Messier-Bugatti service bulletin described previously.
