FR941011-1-00014 FR941011-1-00005 14 CFR Part 71 [Airspace Docket No. 94&hyph;AGL&hyph;12] Proposed Alteration of VOR Federal Airway V&hyph;36 AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This proposed rule would amend Federal Airway V&hyph;36 by extending the airway from Sault Ste Marie, MI, to Thunder Bay, ON, Canada, via Wawa, ON, Canada. Modifying the airway would simplify routings for air traffic transitioning in that airspace from the United States to Canada. In addition, the airspace designation would be changed to reflect the relocation of the Toronto, ON, Canada, Very High Frequency Omnidirectional Range/Distance Measuring Equipment (VOR/DME). DATES: Comments must be received on or before November 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments on the proposal in triplicate to: Manager, Air Traffic Division, AGL&hyph;500, Docket No. 94&hyph;AGL&hyph;12, Federal Aviation Administration, O'Hare Lake Office Center, 2300 East Devon Avenue, Des Plaines, IL 60018. The official docket may be examined in the Rules Docket, Office of the Chief Counsel, Room 916, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC, weekdays, except Federal holidays, between 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. An informal docket may also be examined during normal business hours at the office of the Regional Air Traffic Division. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patricia P. Crawford, Airspace and Obstruction Evaluation Branch (ATP&hyph;240), Airspace-Rules and Aeronautical Information Division, Air Traffic Rules and Procedures Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591; telephone: (202) 267&hyph;9255. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested parties are invited to participate in this proposed rulemaking by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Comments that provide the factual basis supporting the views and suggestions presented are particularly helpful in developing reasoned regulatory decisions on the proposal. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, aeronautical, economic, environmental, and energy-related aspects of the proposal. Communications should identify the airspace docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address listed above. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments on this notice must submit with those comments a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Airspace Docket No. 94&hyph;AGL&hyph;12.'' The postcard will be date/time stamped and returned to the commenter. All communications received on or before the specified closing date for comments will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposal contained in this notice may be changed in light of comments received. All comments submitted will be available for examination in the Rules Docket both before and after the closing date for comments. A report summarizing each substantive public contact with FAA personnel concerned with this rulemaking will be filed in the docket. Availability of NPRM's Any person may obtain a copy of this Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) by submitting a request to the Federal Aviation Administration, Office of Public Affairs, Attention: Public Inquiry Center, APA&hyph;220, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591, or by calling (202) 267&hyph;3485. Communications must identify the notice number of this NPRM. Persons interested in being placed on a mailing list for future NPRM's should also request a copy of Advisory Circular No. 11&hyph;2A, which describes the application procedure. The Proposal The FAA is considering an amendment to part 71 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 71) to modify V&hyph;36 by extending the airway from Sault Ste Marie, MI, to Thunder Bay, ON, Canada, via Wawa, ON, Canada, excluding the airspace in Canada. Extending the airway has become necessary because of the volume of air traffic utilizing V&hyph;36. This action would simplify routings and reduce the workload for pilots and controllers. In addition, the airspace designation would be changed to reflect the relocation of the Toronto, ON, Canada, VOR/DME. Domestic VOR Federal airways are published in paragraph 6010(a) of FAA Order 7400.9B dated July 18, 1994, and effective September 16, 1994, which is incorporated by reference in 14 CFR 71.1. The airway listed in this document would be published subsequently in the Order. The FAA has determined that this proposed regulation only involves an established body of technical regulations for which frequent and routine amendments are necessary to keep them operationally current. It, therefore_(1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034; February 26, 1979); and (3) does not warrant preparation of a regulatory evaluation as the anticipated impact is so minimal. Since this is a routine matter that will only affect air traffic procedures and air navigation, it is certified that this rule, when promulgated, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 71 Airspace, Incorporation by reference, Navigation (air).
