FR940525-1-00004 FR940525-1-00003 40 CFR Part 52 [MD 26&hyph;2&hyph;6081; FRL&hyph;4887&hyph;4] Approval and Promulgation of Air Quality Implementation Plans; Maryland; New Source Review Regulations AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: EPA is proposing a limited approval/disapproval action of the State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision submitted by the State of Maryland. This revision establishes and requires major new and modified sources of volatile organic compounds (VOC) and nitrogen oxides (NO x ) to meet the new source requirements which include the installation of Lowest Achievable Emission Rate (LAER) technology and to obtain emission offsets. The intended effect of this action is to propose limited approval of new source review requirements for major new and modified sources in Maryland for the limited purpose of strengthening the Maryland SIP which currently has regulations which do not meet the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990. In addition, this action is intended to propose disapproval of Maryland Regulations COMAR 26.11.17 for the limited purpose of allowing Maryland the opportunity to correct the deficiencies in the regulations which result in its failure to meet all requirements of the Clean Air Act (CAA). This action is being taken in accordance with the provisions of section 110 of the Clean Air Act. DATES: Comments must be received on or before June 24, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to Thomas J. Maslany, Director, Air, Radiation, and Toxics Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region III, 841 Chestnut Building, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19107. Copies of the documents relevant to this action are available for public inspection during normal business hours at the Air, Radiation, and Toxics Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region III, 841 Chestnut Building, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19107; and Maryland Department of the Environment, 2500 Broening Highway, Baltimore, Maryland, 21224. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Cynthia H. Stahl, (215) 597&hyph;9337, at the EPA Region III address. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On June 8, 1993, the Maryland Department of the Environment submitted a revision to its State Implementation Plan (SIP) pertaining to requirements for major new and modified sources of VOC and NO x applicable statewide. The revision consists of modifications to COMAR 26.11.01.01 (Definitions), 26.11.02 (Permits, Approvals and Registration) sections .03, .09&hyph;.11, and .18, and an entirely new regulation, COMAR 26.11.17 (Requirements for Major New Sources and Modifications). The modifications to COMAR 26.11.01.01 remove a portion of the definition of ``modification'' which was inconsistent with the Federal definition contained in 40 CFR 51.165, EPA's guidance to states on new source requirements. In addition, Maryland introduces the term ``Major New Source Requiring Approval (MNSRA)'' which is defined as a major stationary source or major modification subject to requirements in COMAR 26.11.17. COMAR 26.11.17 is an entirely new regulation in Maryland meant to replace its previous new source requirements which were located in COMAR 26.11.06.11, General Emission Standards, Prohibitions and Restrictions&hyph;New Source Impacting on a Nonattainment Area (NSINA) Prohibition for Areas III and IV. The proposed revisions to the Maryland SIP were submitted in response to the requirements of the Clean Air Act, as amended on November 15, 1990. The only nonattainment areas in Maryland are those designated nonattainment for ozone and those designated nonattainment for carbon monoxide. The Clean Air Act requires that all states which have areas designated nonattainment for ozone or carbon monoxide (CO), or states located in the Ozone Transport Region, to submit to EPA, by November 15, 1992 or November 15, 1993, respectively, a revision to their SIPs which would require major new and major modified sources of those pollutants to meet new source requirements. Background Federal Requirements According to section 172(c)(5), state implementation plans must require permits for the construction and operation of new or modified major stationary sources. The statutory permit requirements for ozone nonattainment areas are generally contained in revised section 173, and in subpart 2 of part D. EPA is planning to update its new source review rule for nonattainment areas in 40 CFR 51.165 and 52.24 in accordance with the Clean Air Act, as amended on November 15, 1990. At that time, states, including Maryland, will be expected to evaluate their new source regulations in accordance with those new source rules and revise their regulations accordingly. The requirements for new sources in nonattainment areas under sections 172, 173, 182, and 184 of the Act, include the following: a. According to section 173(a)(1), provisions in the state regulation to assure that calculations of emissions offsets are based on the same emissions baseline used in the demonstration of RFP. b. According to section 173(c)(1), states may include provisions which allow offsets to be obtained in another nonattainment area if the area has an equal or higher nonattainment classification and emissions from the other nonattainment area contribute to a NAAQS violation in the area in which the source would construct. c. According to section 173(c)(1), provisions in the state regulation that any emissions offsets obtained in conjunction with the issuance of a permit to a new or modified source must be in effect and enforceable by the time the new or modified source commences operation. This statutory condition for offsets augments the existing requirement under section 173 that provides that offsets must be federally-enforceable before permit issuance, although the required emissions reductions need not occur until the date on which the new or modified source commences operations. d. According to section 173(c)(1), provisions in the state regulation to assure that emissions increases from new or modified sources must be offset by real reductions in actual emissions. EPA's initial guidance interpreting general sections of the Clean Air Act is contained in the title I General Preamble published in the Federal Register on April 16, 1992 (57 FR 13498). In the General Preamble, EPA reiterated that emission increases and decreases for netting are to be determined consistent with EPA's current new source rules and the December 4, 1986 emissions trading policy statement (51 FR 43823). In addition, pre-enactment reductions are expected to be treated as new source growth, even though, for applicability purposes, the source's net emissions change is de minimis. EPA's current new source rules state that a decrease in emissions is only creditable if, among other requirements, the decrease has not been relied upon by the state for any permit, attainment demonstration, or reasonable further progress. Therefore, emission reductions made because of RACT or other requirements which have been taken into account in the state's demonstration of reasonable further progress or attainment demonstration are not creditable for netting purposes. e. According to section 173(c)(2), provisions in the state regulation to prevent emission reductions otherwise required by the Act from being credited for purposes of satisfying part D offset requirements. f. According to section 173(a)(5), provisions in the state regulation that, as a prerequisite to issuing any part D permit, require an analysis of alternative sites, sizes, production processes, and environmental control techniques for proposed sources that demonstrate that the benefits of the proposed source significantly outweigh the environmental and social costs imposed as a result of its location, construction, or modification. g. According to section 328, provisions in the state regulation to assure that sources located on the OCS are subject to the same requirements applicable if the source were located in the corresponding onshore area. h. Provisions in the state regulation to assure that owners or operators of each proposed new or modified major stationary source demonstrate the compliance of all other major stationary sources under the same ownership in the State. i. Provisions in the state regulation defining major new and major modified sources in accordance with the area's nonattainment classification under section 181 for ozone and section 186 for CO. j. Provisions in the state regulation requiring emission offsets for major new and major modified sources in accordance with the area's nonattainment classification under section 181 for ozone and section 186 for CO. k. Provisions in the state regulation requiring all applicable new source requirements for sources locating in the Ozone Transport Region. For a severe or extreme ozone nonattainment area located in the transport region, the major stationary source size thresholds applicable to those areas apply for VOC and, presumptively, for NO x . These provisions must also ensure that new or modified major stationary sources obtain VOC and, presumptively, NO x offsets at a ratio of at least 1.15 to 1 in order to obtain an NSR permit. Higher offset ratios apply in areas classified as serious or above. l. Provisions in the state regulation to ensure that any new or modified major stationary source of NO x satisfies the requirements applicable to any new or modified major stationary source of VOC, unless a special NO x exemption is granted by the Administrator under the provision of section 182(f). m. For serious and severe ozone nonattainment areas, state plans must implement sections 182(c)(6), (7) and (8) with regard to modifications. Nonattainment Area Requirements as They Pertain to Maryland The Clean Air Act requirements under section 182, as they pertain to new sources in Maryland, specify that major sources in the Baltimore severe ozone nonattainment area (Baltimore City, Baltimore, Anne Arundel, Carroll, Harford, and Howard Counties) and in the Maryland portion of the Philadelphia severe ozone nonattainment area (Cecil County, Maryland) be defined as those whose potential emissions of VOC are greater than or equal to 25 tons per year (TPY). In addition, major sources in the Washington DC serious ozone nonattainment area (Calvert, Charles, Frederick, Montgomery, and Prince George's Counties) are defined as those whose potential emissions of VOC are greater than or equal to 50 TPY. Section 182(f) of the Clean Air Act also requires that wherever sources of VOC are required to be controlled, nitrogen oxide (NO x ) sources of the same size thresholds are required to be controlled. Therefore, in the Baltimore, Philadelphia, and Washington DC ozone nonattainment areas, NO x sources which have the potential to emit greater than or equal to 25 TPY, 25 TPY, and 50 TPY, respectively, are required to be subject to new source requirements. Section 184 of the Clean Air Act also establishes, by operation of law, the Ozone Transport Region (OTR), consisting of the states of Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, and the Consolidated Metropolitan Statistical Area that includes the District of Columbia. The section 182 ozone nonattainment area requirements applicable to moderate ozone nonattainment areas apply, at a minimum, in those areas located in the OTR. Section 184(b)(2) requires, however, that instead of the 100 TPY major source threshold required in moderate areas outside the OTR, major sources in the OTR be defined as those with potential emissions of 50 tons of VOC per year or more. Therefore, the remaining counties in Maryland which are designated attainment for ozone but are located in the OTR, are required to apply new source requirements to sources of VOC which have the potential to emit at least 50 tons of VOC per year. The Maryland counties which are designated attainment but are located in the OTR are: Allegany, Caroline, Dorchester, Garrett, Kent, Queen Anne's, Somerset, St. Mary's, Talbot, Washington, Wicomico, and Worcester Counties. In these areas, the CAA's 50 ton threshold for VOC does not apply and the major NO x sources are defined as those which have the potential to emit at least 100 tons of NO x per year. For its carbon monoxide nonattainment area, Maryland is required to define a major source of CO as one which has the potential to emit at least 100 tons of CO per year. Installation of LAER and emission offsets at a greater than 1 to 1 ratio are required for major new or major modified sources. EPA Analysis Maryland's proposed changes to COMAR 26.11.01.01, Definitions, and 26.11.02 primarily relate to inserting the new term for major sources, ``Major New Source Requiring Approval (MNSRA)'' and deleting the old term, ``New Source Impacting on a Nonattainment Area (NSINA)''. The new term and definition are consistent with the Act. One substantive change made in COMAR 26.11.01.01 was to delete the portion of the definition of ``Modification'' which would consider an increase in hours of operation or in production rate as a modification unless those increases are prohibited under any permit or approval conditions ``adopted by the Department.'' The Federal definition specifically excludes increases in hours of operation or in production rate from being considered a modification for new source applicability purposes unless those increases are prohibited under any federally enforceable condition. Maryland's definition of ``Modification'' clarifies that the permits and approvals are those that are federally enforceable, rather than just those adopted by the Department. Therefore, EPA is proposing to approve the ``Modification'' definition in COMAR 26.11.01.01. EPA is also proposing to approve the other changes to COMAR 26.11.01.01 and 26.11.02. COMAR 26.11.02.18 contains a permit fee schedule for new or modified sources which Maryland has requested not be included as part of the SIP approval. Therefore, EPA is proposing to approve COMAR 26.11.02, with the exception of .18. Maryland's new proposed regulation, COMAR 26.11.17, contains the applicability criteria for determining what sources would be considered major new or major modified sources for the purposes of applying new source requirements. This regulation generally meets the requirement pertaining to baseline consistency with the RFP demonstration by requiring all sources to treat emission reductions which occurred prior to January 1, 1991 as not creditable. COMAR 26.11.71.04 E provides that emissions reductions achieved by shutting down an existing source or permanently curtailing production or operating hours below baseline levels are creditable if the reductions are permanent, quantifiable, and federally enforceable, and only if such reductions occurred on or after January 1, 1991. However, existing EPA regulations also provide that if a state does not have an EPA-approved attainment demonstration, then post-January 1, 1991 reductions achieved by a shutdown or curtailment of production or operating hours are only creditable if the state is current in its attainment planning obligations. See 54 FR 27286 (June 28, 1989). EPA's current rules also require that even in nonattainment areas with approved attainment demonstrations, only those shutdown or curtailment credits generated after the date of permit application are creditable. See 40 CFR part 51, appendix S. Therefore, EPA is proposing a limited disapproval of COMAR 26.11.17 for the purpose of allowing Maryland the opportunity to correct this provision by adding a requirement that in the absence of an approved attainment demonstration, Maryland must be current in it attainment planning obligations in order for post-January 1, 1991 shutdown reductions to be creditable, and to clarify that only post-application reductions are creditable. EPA will be seeking comments in its 40 CFR parts 51 and 52 rulemaking on whether there is a need, in light of the revised baseline date in the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, to revisit the fundamental policies underlying the limitation on the use of shutdown and curtailment credits for areas without approved attainment demonstrations. These policies are reflected in EPA's current regulation at ยง51.165(a)(3)(ii)(C), that were the subject of two earlier rulemakings in 1980 and 1989. See 45 FR 52676 (August 7, 1980) and 54 FR 27274 (June 28, 1989). EPA notes that the Clean Air Act Advisory Committee may independently review concerns about the effect of the NSR program on industrial growth in nonattainment areas. These concerns include the crediting and availability of, among other things, emissions offsets. In particular, EPA is taking comments on whether the current policy on the use of shutdown credits unevenly impacts urban vs. suburban areas, including issues related to urban sprawl, commuting patterns, and demographics. Upon final EPA rulemaking on parts 51 and 52, Maryland will have to amend its rule to the extent such amendment is required to make its new source review rule consistent with that final rulemaking. In addition, all sources located in the Maryland portion of the Philadelphia ozone nonattainment area and in the Baltimore and Washington DC ozone nonattainment areas, as well as sources located in the remainder of the state which are one of the sources in the source categories listed in 40 CFR part 51, appendix S, are required to include fugitive emissions ``to the extent quantifiable'' in the calculation of potential emissions. EPA understands the definition of fugitive emissions, as provided for in the Maryland regulations, and as here modified by the phrase ``to the extent quantifiable, to mean that emissions that could reasonably pass through a stack, chimney, vent, or other functionally equivalent opening are not fugitive for NSR applicability threshold calculation purposes, regardless of whether those emission actually pass through a stack, etc. See e.g., 40 CFR 51.166(b)(19). For example, an enclosed facility may have numerous VOC emission points none of which is individually vented. If those emissions reasonably could be individually vented or vented collectively through one or more stacks in this roof of the building, those emissions would not be fugitive within the meaning of the Maryland regulations and must be considered in determining whether the source is major for NSR purposes. In determining whether emissions could pass through a stack, etc..., ``reasonableness'' is to be broadly construed. Thus, for any source category subject to a national standard under sections 111 and 112 that requires collection and/or venting of emissions points, emission from such sources are not fugitive, because the collection/venting requirement in that standard is deemed to be reasonable. Likewise, if the Maryland SIP or a permit issued by the state requires collection/venting of certain emissions, this creates a presumption that similar emissions from any other source in that category could also reasonably pass through a stack, etc., and, therefore, should not be considered fugitive. COMAR 26.11.17.04 F. establishes the criteria for the location of VOC or NO x offsets such that offsets must be obtained from the same ozone nonattainment area, as close to the proposed new source as possible, and may be obtained from another ozone nonattainment area if that area is of an equal or higher classification and if the emissions from this area contributes to a violation in the nonattainment area of the proposed new source. This provision is consistent with the requirements of the Act. COMAR 26.11.17.01 contains requirements that emissions offsets for proposed major new sources or major modified sources be obtained no later than the time of commencement of construction of the major new or major modified source. COMAR 26.11.17.05 requires that these emission offsets be state and federally enforceable by the new source's ``start-up date.'' Section 173 of the CAA provides, however, that offsets are to be federally-enforceable before the permit may be issued, even though such offsets need actually occur no later than the date the new source would commence operations. Therefore, EPA is proposing a limited disapproval of COMAR 26.11.17 for the purpose of allowing Maryland to correct this provision so as to provide for Federal-enforceability of offsets before permit issuance. COMAR 26.11.17.04 establishes the baseline for offsets as the actual emissions in the preceding 1 or 2 year period, or some other period approved by the Department if more representative of normal source operations, but not to exceed the SIP emission limitations. The effect of this requirement is to establish the baseline for offsets as the lower of actual or SIP allowable emissions. Sources with no applicable SIP limitation are required to use actual emissions as the baseline. Sources with SIP emission limitations that exceed their uncontrolled emissions must use the SIP emission limitations as the baseline. The Maryland regulation does not satisfy the Clean Air Act requirement that emission reductions otherwise required by the Act are not creditable for part D offsets. Therefore, EPA is proposing a limited disapproval of COMAR 26.11.17 so that Maryland can correct this deficiency by modifying its regulation by specifically stating that only those emission reductions not otherwise required by the Act are creditable for emission offsets required by this regulation. With regard to emission decreases which are creditable for netting, Maryland's regulation contains the condition that emission decreases are only creditable if, among other requirements, they have not been relied upon by the state for any permit, attainment demonstration, or reasonable further progress. COMAR 26.11.17.01, pertaining to netting calculations, clearly requires emission reductions to be real so that actual emission reductions are obtained. Therefore, the Maryland regulation satisfies the current Federal requirements for netting. COMAR 26.11.17.03 requires sources to perform an analysis of alternative sites, sizes, production processes, and environmental control techniques in order to demonstrate that the benefits of the proposed source significantly outweigh the environmental and social costs imposed as a result of its location, construction or modification. COMAR 26.11.17.03 also requires all sources owned and operated by the proposed new source's applicant to be in compliance with all applicable emission limitations or in compliance with an approved federally enforceable compliance plan. COMAR 26.11.17.01 (5) defines building, structure, facility or installation as including those activities on the outer continental shelf to the extent required by and consistent with section 328 of the Act. EPA is proposing to approve these three provisions as they meet the Act's requirements. Maryland's regulation defines major new and major modified sources of VOC and NO x (for ozone nonattainment areas and areas located in the OTR) and CO consistent with the requirements of the Act. Emission offset ratios for each of these pollutants, consistent with the Act, are also required. The Maryland regulation pertaining to applicability and emission offsets for ozone nonattainment areas and in the OTR is, however, not completely clear in indicating that a source which emits both VOC and NO x is potentially subject to new source requirements for both VOC and NO x . A source emitting both VOC and NO x determines applicability of VOC requirements by individually summing its VOC emissions and comparing such sum to the major source size threshold for VOC or the significance levels for VOC for major modifications. This source would also be required to individually sum its NO x emissions and determine applicability by comparing this sum to the major source size threshold for NO x or the significance levels for NO x for major modifications. Likewise, VOC and NO x sources which are required to obtain emission offsets must obtain offsets of the same type of pollutant (i.e. VOC for VOC and NO x for NO x ). Maryland may choose to retain the applicability determination to sum both VOC and NO x emissions at a source to determine new source applicability since this is more stringent than the Federal requirements. Maryland must, however, require that emission offsets are obtained for the same pollutant as that which is increased. For this reason, EPA is proposing a limited disapproval of COMAR 26.11.17 in order to allow Maryland the opportunity to clarify the applicability and the creditability of emission offsets. The Maryland regulation also states that nothing in the regulation itself is meant to conflict with sections 182(c)(7) and (8) of the Clean Air Act. These two sections of the Act pertain to de minimis provisions which would allow sources located in serious or severe ozone nonattainment areas to opt out of Lowest Achievable Emission Rate (LAER) technology if they obtain 1.3 to 1 internal offsets. Maryland has chosen to incorporate the requirements of section 182(c)(6), pertaining to determining de minimis levels in serious and severe ozone nonattainment areas, into its regulation at COMAR 26.11.17.01. Until EPA issues its new source rule, the Maryland regulation as written is approvable. As mentioned earlier, when EPA issues its new source rule, Maryland will be expected to evaluate its regulation for consistency with that rule and make any appropriate changes to its regulation. Maryland's proposed regulation also appropriately defines major new carbon monoxide sources to obtain LAER and emission offsets at a minimum of 1.1 to 1 in CO nonattainment areas. These nonattainment areas are defined in 40 CFR 81.321 and located in the Baltimore and metropolitan Washington DC areas. EPA is proposing to approve these CO provisions, as they meet the Act's requirements. Because of the above deficiencies, pertaining to applicability determinations, emission offset calculations, and eligibility of emission reduction credits, EPA cannot grant full approval of this rule under section 110(k)(3) and part D. Also, because the submitted rule is not composed of separable parts which meet all the applicable requirements of the CAA, EPA cannot grant partial approval of the rule under section 110(k)(3). However, EPA may grant a limited approval of the submitted rule under section 110(k)(3) in light of EPA's authority pursuant to section 301(a) to adopt regulations necessary to further air quality by strengthening the SIP. The approval is limited because EPA's action also contains a simultaneous limited disapproval, due to the fact that the rule does not meet the section 182(a)(2)(A) requirement of part D because of the noted deficiencies. Thus, in order to strengthen the SIP, EPA is proposing a limited approval of Maryland's submitted COMAR 26.11.01.01 and 26.11.17 under section 110(k)(3) and 301(a) of the CAA. At the same time, EPA is also proposing a limited disapproval of the Maryland new source rule because it contains implementation problems and deficiencies which result in less than the full population of required major new sources to be regulated, and, as such, the rule does not fully meet the requirements of part D of the Act. Under section 179(a)(2), if the Administrator disapproves a submission under section 110(k) for an area designated nonattainment, based on the submission's failure to meet one or more of the elements required by the Act, the Administrator must apply one of the sanctions set forth in section 179(b) unless the deficiency has been corrected within 18 months of such disapproval. Section 179(b) provides two sanctions available to the Administrator: Highway funding and offsets. The 18 month period referred to in section 179(a) will begin at the time EPA publishes final notice of this disapproval. Moreover, the final disapproval triggers the 24-month Federal implementation plan (FIP) requirement under section 110(c). EPA's review of this material indicates that COMAR 26.11.01.01, COMAR 26.11.17.02, .09&hyph;.11 are fully approvable. EPA is proposing to approve COMAR 26.11.17 for the limited purpose of strengthening the Maryland SIP with respect to new source requirements in nonattainment areas and areas located in the ozone transport region. EPA is also proposing a limited disapproval of COMAR 26.11.17 for the limited purpose of allowing Maryland the opportunity to correct the above-identified deficiencies in the regulation so that the regulation can meet Clean Air Act requirements. If Maryland corrects the specific deficiencies cited above and submits the corrected regulation to EPA prior to the final rulemaking action, EPA intends to take final action on the June 8, 1993 submittal and the subsequent submittal which corrects the Maryland new source regulation, without another proposal. Of course, in the event that the parts 51 and 52 rulemaking is finalized prior to final action on this submittal, Maryland's new source review regulations may be subject to reproposal. Further discussion of the Maryland new source review regulation is contained in the accompanying technical support document. EPA is soliciting public comments on the issues discussed in this document or on other relevant matters. These comments will be considered before taking final action. Interested parties may participate in the Federal rulemaking procedure by submitting written comments to the EPA Regional office listed in the Addresses section of this document. Proposed Action EPA is proposing to approve the COMAR 26.11.01.01, 26.11.02. sections .03, .09&hyph;.11, and COMAR 26.11.17 (with the exception of 26.11.17.18), pertaining to new source review requirements in nonattainment areas and in the ozone transport region. At the same time, EPA is also proposing to disapprove COMAR 26.11.17 for the limited purpose of allowing Maryland to correct deficiencies in the regulation such that the Act's requirements can be met. Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting or allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any state implementation plan. Each request for revision to the state implementation plan shall be considered separately in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq. , EPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. 5 U.S.C. 603 and 604. Alternatively, EPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. This action has been classified as a Table 2 action for signature by the Regional Administrator under the procedures published in the Federal Register on January 19, 1989 (54 FR 2214&hyph;2225), as revised by an October 4, 1993 memorandum from Michael H. Shapiro, Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation. A future document will inform the general public of these tables. On January 6, 1989, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) waived Table 2 and Table 3 SIP revisions (54 FR 2222) from the requirements of section 3 of Executive Order 12291 for a period of two years. The USEPA has submitted a request for a permanent waiver for Table 2 and 3 SIP revisions. The OMB has agreed to continue the waiver until such time as it rules on USEPA's request. This request continues in effect under Executive Order 12866, which superseded Executive Order 12291 on September 30, 1993. The Administrator's decision to approve or disapprove this SIP revision, pertaining to Maryland's new source review regulations, will be based on whether it meets the requirements of section 110(a)(2)(A)-(K), and part D of the Clean Air Act, as amended, and EPA regulations in 40 CFR part 51. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 52 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Carbon monoxide, Hydrocarbons, Intergovernmental relations, Nitrogen dioxide, Ozone, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401&hyph;7671q. Dated: March 1, 1994. Stanley L. Laskowski, Acting Regional Administrator, Region III. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12771 Filed 5&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
