FR941128-2-00166 FR941128-2-00086 The Exchanges believe that the proposed rule changes are consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act, in general, and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5), in particular, in that they are designed to protect investors and the public interest and to remove impediments and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market. (B) Self-Regulatory Organizations' Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchanges do not believe that the proposed rule changes will impose any burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organizations' Statements on Comments on the Proposed Rule Changes Received From Members, Participants or Others Written comments on the proposed rule changes were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Changes and Timing for Commission Action The Exchanges have requested that the proposed rule changes be given accelerated effectiveness pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act. The Commission finds that the proposed rule changes to extend the pilot programs until May 17, 1995, are consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of Section 6(b)(5) thereunder. 6 The Commission concludes, as it did when originally approving each of the pilot programs, that providing for increased position and exercise limits for equity options and stock index options in circumstances where those excess positions are fully hedged with offsetting stock positions will provide greater depth and liquidity to the market and allow investors to hedge their stock portfolios more effectively, without significantly increasing concerns regarding intermarket manipulations or disruptions of either the options market or the underlying stock market. 6 15 U.S.C. ยง78f(b)(5) (1982). The Commission also notes that before the pilot program of an Exchange can be extended or approved on a permanent basis, that Exchange must provide the Commission with a report on the operation of its pilot program since its inception by January 31, 1995. Specifically, an Exchange must provide the Commission details on (1) the frequency with which the exemptions have been used; (2) the types of investors using the exemptions; (3) the size of the positions established pursuant to the pilot program; (4) what types of convertible securities are being used to hedge positions and how frequently the convertible securities have been used to hedge; (5) whether the Exchange has received any complaints on the operation of the pilot program; (6) whether the Exchange has taken any disciplinary action against, or commenced any violation of any term or condition of the pilot program; (7) the market impact, if any, of the pilot program; and (8) how the Exchange has implemented surveillance procedures to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of the pilot program. In addition, the Commission expects each Exchange to inform the Commission of the results of any surveillance investigations undertaken for apparent violations of the provisions of its position limit hedge exemption rules. The Commission finds good cause for approving the extension of the pilot programs prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of filing thereof in the Federal Register in order to permit the continuation of the pilot programs. The Commission notes that the Exchanges have not experienced any significant programs with the pilot programs since their inception and that the Exchanges will continue to monitor the pilot programs to ensure that no problems arise. Finally, no adverse comments have been received by the Exchanges or the Commission concerning the pilot programs. Based on the above, the Commission believes good cause exists to approve the extension of the pilot programs through May 17, 1995, on an accelerated basis. Therefore, the Commission believes that granting accelerated approval of the proposal is appropriate and consistent with sections 6 and 19(b)(2) of the Act. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule changes that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule changes between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-mentioned self-regulatory organizations. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by December 19, 1994. It is therefore ordered, Pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 7 that the proposed rule changes (SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;49, SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;41, SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;94&hyph;33, and SR&hyph;PHLX&hyph;94&hyph;53) relating to an extension of the hedge exemption pilot programs until May 17, 1995, is approved. 7 15 U.S.C. ยง78s(b)(2) (1982). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 8 8 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29213 Filed 11&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
