FR940222-1-00015 FR940222-1-00004 SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 13 CFR Parts 108 and 120 Development Companies and Business Loans; Passive Business AGENCY: Small Business Administration (SBA). ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This proposed rule would allow certain passive businesses to be eligible for SBA financial assistance under both the SBA's development company and 7(a) business loan programs if the real estate (or personal property) it holds would be used by an eligible small business concern in which any owner of at least 20 percent of the passive business owns at least 20 percent of the small business concern. The proposed rule would eliminate many requirements and restrictions which presently limit the use of real estate holding entities in SBA's business loan and development company programs. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before April 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to John R. Cox, Acting Assistant Administrator for Financial Assistance, Small Business Administration, 409 3rd Street SW., Washington, DC 20416. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John R. Cox, 202/205&hyph;6490. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 120.101&hyph;2(e) of SBA's regulations (13 CFR 120.101&hyph;2(e) (1993)) provides that a real estate holding entity (known as an alter ego) may be eligible as an applicant for financial assistance under the SBA business loan program if it is organized and operated for profit as a corporation, partnership or individual proprietorship. It must be in the business of owning and leasing property to an operating small business concern for the latter's exclusive use. There must be an identity of ownership in the borrower and the small business concern. The regulation also contains a complicated description of certain familial relationships which qualify as identical for purposes of ownership interest. The regulation also requires as collateral for the assistance that: (1) The applicant pledge the lease between it and the operating concern, (2) the operating concern must be a guarantor or coborrower on the loan, and (3) the owners of the operating concern must guarantee the loan. Section 108.8(d) of the regulations governing SBA's development company program (13 CFR 108.8(d) (1993)) allows a real estate holding entity (known as an alter ego) to be eligible for a loan made pursuant to that program if, among other requirements, it is a business organized for profit, the ownership interests in the holding entity and the small business concern to which it leases the property are identical except for the complicated exceptions with respect to selected family owners, the collateral for the assistance includes an assignment of the lease between the holding entity and the small business, and the small business guarantees the loan or is a co-borrower. In addition, there is a provision which covers the possibility that the operating concern could sublease part of the property to a third party. These detailed requirements and restrictions are confusing and burdensome for the public. Numerous interpretations and guidelines have failed to eliminate inconsistent treatment by SBA of applicant holding entities from program to program. The public has become frustrated by some of the subtle distinctions between the two programs with respect to these real estate holding entities, and the SBA servicing of loans which have been made to them has added to the general confusion. SBA recognizes that valid business reasons (such as estate planning or tax purposes) may exist for an operating small business concern to spin off into an affiliate the real estate on which the operating concern operates its business, and SBA wants to provide assistance in such situations where possible. The Agency, at the same time, wants to ensure that it will not finance purely passive investments in real or personal property. The holding entity regulations were initially promulgated fifteen years ago to accomplish this intent, but the changes, revisions and amendments to the regulations have caused confusion, inconsistency and frustration by the public and SBA personnel.
