FR940607-0-00008 FR940607-0-00006 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Internal Revenue Service 26 CFR Part 301 [TD 8543] RIN 1545&hyph;AS60 Exhaustion of Administrative Remedies AGENCY: Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Treasury. ACTION: Final regulations. SUMMARY: This document contains the final regulations relating to the circumstances in which a party shall be deemed to have exhausted the administrative remedies available within the Internal Revenue Service for purposes of the recovery of court costs and certain fees in a civil tax proceeding brought in a court of the United States (including the Tax Court and the Court of Federal Claims). These regulations differ from the final regulations previously issued under section 7430, which were effective for civil tax proceedings commenced after February 28, 1983, and before January 1, 1986, and addressed the exhaustion of administrative remedies requirement for recovery of litigation costs incurred by taxpayers with respect to a court proceeding in connection with the determination, collection, or refund of any tax, interest, or penalty. Portions of the final regulations previously issued under section 7430 were held to be invalid by the United States Tax Court in Minahan v. Commissioner, 88 T.C. 492 (1987). This regulation does not contain those provisions of the previous final regulation found to be invalid. DATES: The final regulations are effective June 7, 1994, and apply to court proceedings described in section 7430 filed in a court of the United States (including the Tax Court and the Court of Federal Claims) after May 7, 1992. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Thomas D. Moffitt of the Office of Assistant Chief Counsel (Field Service), Internal Revenue Service, (202) 622&hyph;7900 (not a toll-free call). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Proposed amendments to the Income Tax Regulations (26 CFR part 301) under section 7430 of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code) were published in the Federal Register on May 8, 1992 (57 FR 19828 [IA&hyph;003&hyph;89, 1992&hyph;1 C.B. 1100]). The amendments were issued under the authority contained in section 7805 of the Code. One public comment was received concerning these regulations. After consideration of the public comment received, the proposed regulations are adopted, as revised by this Treasury decision. Explanation of Regulatory Provisions In general, under section 7430 of the Code, a prevailing party may recover the reasonable litigation costs incurred in a civil proceeding if the proceeding relates to the determination, collection or refund of any tax, interest or penalty under the Internal Revenue Code and the party has exhausted all the administrative remedies related to that party's tax matter. These final regulations provide information concerning the circumstances in which a party's administrative remedies shall be deemed to have been exhausted. In general, administrative remedies are deemed to have been exhausted if the party has requested (and if granted, participated in) an Appeals office conference on the party's tax matter prior to filing an action in a court of the United States (including the Tax Court and the Court of Federal Claims). A party has participated in an Appeals office conference if the party has disclosed all relevant information regarding the matter to the Appeals office. In the case of the revocation of a determination that an organization is described in section 501(c)(3), a party must complete the procedures set forth in section 7428 and in regulations, rules and revenue procedures thereunder to exhaust its administrative remedies. Where no administrative procedure covering a party's tax matter allows the party to request an Appeals office conference, the party's administrative remedies will not be deemed to have been exhausted unless the party has filed a written claim for relief with the district director having jurisdiction over the tax matter and allowed the district director a reasonable period of time to act on the claim. A party is not required to pursue its administrative remedies if the Internal Revenue Service has notified the party in writing that such pursuit is unnecessary, has not given the party an opportunity to request an Appeals office conference before sending a statutory notice of deficiency, or has failed to grant the party an Appeals office conference with respect to a claim for refund within six months of the filing of such claim for refund. A party must participate in an Appeals office conference during either the deficiency procedures or the refund procedures with respect to the tax matter, but is not required to participate during both procedures. Thus, if a party participated in an Appeals office conference with respect to a tax matter prior to the issuance of the statutory notice of deficiency, the party does not need to request an Appeals office conference after filing a claim for refund with respect to the same tax matter. Comments on the Proposed Regulations One public comment objected to, and requested deletion of, the requirement that a party request (and if granted, participate in) an Appeals office conference on the party's tax matter prior to filing an action in a court of the United States (including the Tax Court and the Court of Federal Claims). This suggestion was not adopted in the final regulations because conferences with Appeals have historically been a fundamental method for providing administrative remedies to taxpayers who do not agree with the Internal Revenue Service. Such remedies are pivotal to the effort to resolve issues promptly, efficiently, fairly and without resort to litigation. In order to avoid costly litigation consistent with the legislative intent and to encourage usage of this process to resolve disputes, the regulations require taxpayers, in order to be deemed to have exhausted their administrative remedies, to pursue such remedies with the Appeals office, if available, prior to instituting litigation. Special Analyses It has been determined that this Treasury decision is not a significant regulatory action as defined in EO 12866. Therefore, a regulatory assessment is not required. It has also been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these regulations, and, therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Code, the notice of proposed rulemaking preceding these regulations was submitted to the Small Business Administration for comment on their impact on small business.
