FR941003-2-00082 FR941003-2-00049 OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT Excepted Service; Consolidated Listing of Schedules A, B, and C Exceptions AGENCY: Office of Personnel Management. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This gives a consolidated notice of all positions excepted under Schedules A, B, and C as of June 30, 1994, as required by Civil Service Rule VI, Exceptions from the Competitive Service. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Civil Service Rule VI (5 CFR 6.1) requires the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to publish notice of all exceptions granted under Schedules A, B, and C. Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, §213.103(c), further requires that a consolidated listing, current as of June 30 of each year, be published annually as a notice in the Federal Register . That notice follows. OPM maintains continuing information on the status of all Schedule A, B, and C excepted appointing authorities. Interested parties needing information about specific authorities during the year may obtain information by contacting the Staffing Management Services Division, room 6A12, Office of Personnel Management, 1900 E Street, NW., Washington, DC 20415, or by calling (202) 606&hyph;0950. The following exceptions were current on June 30, 1994. Schedule A Section 213.3102␣Entire Executive Civil Service (a) Positions of Chaplain and Chaplain's Assistant. (b) (Reserved). (c) Positions to which appointments are made by the President without confirmation by the Senate. (d) Attorneys. (e) Law clerk trainee positions. Appointments under this paragraph shall be confined to graduates of recognized law schools or persons having equivalent experience and shall be for periods not to exceed 14 months pending admission to the bar. No person shall be given more than one appointment under this paragraph. However, an appointment that was initially made for less than 14 months may be extended for not to exceed 14 months in total duration. (f) Chinese, Japanese, and Hindu interpreters. (g) Any nontemporary position the duties of which are part-time or intermittent in which the appointee will receive compensation during his or her service year that aggregates not more than 40 percent of the annual salary rate for the first step of grade GS&hyph;3. This limited compensation includes any premium pay such as for overtime, night, Sunday, or holiday work. It does not, however, include any mandatory within-grade salary increases to which the employee becomes entitled subsequent to appointment under this authority. Appointments under this authority may not be for temporary project employment. (h) Positions in Federal mental institutions when filled by persons who have been patients of such institutions and have been discharged and are certified by an appropriate medical authority thereof as recovered sufficiently to be regularly employed but it is believed desirable and in the interest of the persons and the institution that they be employed at the institution. (i) Subject to prior approval of OPM, positions requiring temporary, part-time, or intermittent employment in wage board type occupations (i.e., positions excluded from Classification Act coverage by section 202(7) of the Act) on construction or repair work, where the activity is carried on in localities where examination coverage for the positions has not been provided and where because of employment conditions there is a shortage of available candidates for the positions. Appointments under this paragraph shall not extend beyond 1 year and the employment thereunder shall not exceed 180 working days a year. Seasonal employments of a recurring nature are not authorized under this paragraph. (j) Positions filled by: (1) Appointment of persons previously employed as National Guard Technicians under 32 U.S.C. 709(a) in positions at the same or equivalent level, or below, who are applying for or receiving an annuity under the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 8337(h) or 5 U.S.C. 8456 by reason of a disability that disqualifies them from membership in the National Guard or from holding the military grade required as a condition of their National Guard employment; or (2) reassignment, promotion, or demotion within the same agency of former National Guard Technicians originally appointed under this authority.
