FR940913-0-00072 FR940913-0-00027 Recipients shall, at a minimum, provide the equivalent insurance coverage for real property and equipment acquired with Federal funds as provided to property owned by the recipient. Federally-owned property need not be insured unless required by the terms and conditions of the award. ยง84.32 Real property. HUD prescribes the following requirements for recipients concerning the use and disposition of real property acquired in whole or in part under awards: (a) Title to real property shall vest in the recipient subject to the condition that the recipient shall use the real property for the authorized purpose of the project as long as it is needed and shall not encumber the property without approval of HUD. (b) The recipient shall obtain written approval by HUD for the use of real property in other federally-sponsored projects when the recipient determines that the property is no longer needed for the purpose of the original project. Use in other projects shall be limited to those under federally-sponsored projects (i.e., awards) or programs that have purposes consistent with those authorized for support by HUD. (c) When the real property is no longer needed as provided in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the recipient shall request disposition instructions from HUD or its successor Federal awarding agency. HUD shall observe one or more of the following disposition instructions. (1) The recipient may be permitted to retain title without further obligation to the Federal Government after it compensates the Federal Government for that percentage of the current fair market value of the property attributable to the Federal participation in the project. (2) The recipient may be directed to sell the property under guidelines provided by HUD and pay the Federal Government for that percentage of the current fair market value of the property attributable to the Federal participation in the project (after deducting actual and reasonable selling and fix-up expenses, if any, from the sales proceeds). When the recipient is authorized or required to sell the property, proper sales procedures shall be established that provide for competition to the extent practicable and result in the highest possible return. (3) The recipient may be directed to transfer title to the property to the Federal Government or to an eligible third party provided that, in such cases, the recipient shall be entitled to compensation for its attributable percentage of the current fair market value of the property. ยง84.33 Federally-owned and exempt property. (a) Federally-owned property. (1) Title to federally-owned property remains vested in the Federal Government. Recipients shall submit annually an inventory listing of federally-owned property in their custody to HUD. Upon completion of the award or when the property is no longer needed, the recipient shall report the property to HUD for further HUD utilization. (2) If HUD has no further need for the property, it shall be declared excess and reported to the General Services Administration, unless HUD has statutory authority to dispose of the property by alternative methods (e.g., the authority provided by the Federal Technology Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 3710 (I)) to donate research equipment to educational and non-profit organizations in accordance with E.O. 12821, ``Improving Mathematics and Science Education in Support of the National Education Goals.'') Appropriate instructions shall be issued to the recipient by HUD. (b) Exempt property. When statutory authority exists, HUD has the option to vest title to property acquired with Federal funds in the recipient without further obligation to the Federal Government and under conditions HUD considers appropriate. Such property is ``exempt property.'' Should HUD not establish conditions, title to exempt property upon acquisition shall vest in the recipient without further obligation to the Federal Government. ยง84.34 Equipment. (a) Title to equipment acquired by a recipient with Federal funds shall vest in the recipient, subject to conditions of this section. (b) The recipient shall not use equipment acquired with Federal funds to provide services to non-Federal outside organizations for a fee that is less than private companies charge for equivalent services, unless specifically authorized by Federal statute, for as long as the Federal Government retains an interest in the equipment. (c) The recipient shall use the equipment in the project or program for which it was acquired as long as needed, whether or not the project or program continues to be supported by Federal funds and shall not encumber the equipment without approval of HUD. When the equipment is no longer needed for the original project or program, the recipient shall use the equipment in connection with its other federally-sponsored activities, in the following order of priority: (1) Activities sponsored by HUD which funded the original project; then (2) Activities sponsored by other Federal awarding agencies. (d) During the time that equipment is used on the project or program for which it was acquired, the recipient shall make it available for use on other projects or programs if such other use will not interfere with the work on the project or program for which the equipment was originally acquired. First preference for such other use shall be given to other projects or programs sponsored by HUD that financed the equipment; second preference shall be given to projects or programs sponsored by other Federal awarding agencies. If the equipment is owned by the Federal Government, use on other activities not sponsored by the Federal Government shall be permissible if authorized by HUD. User charges shall be treated as program income. (e) When acquiring replacement equipment, the recipient may use the equipment to be replaced as trade-in or sell the equipment and use the proceeds to offset the costs of the replacement equipment subject to the approval of HUD. (f) The recipient's property management standards for equipment acquired with Federal funds and federally-owned equipment shall include all of the following. (1) Equipment records shall be maintained accurately and shall include the following information. (i) A description of the equipment.
