FR941206-1-00022 FR941206-1-00001 B. Label Inventory Costs Some firms may discard non-compliant labels when the proposed rule goes into effect. A survey of meat and poultry companies for the nutritional labeling rule indicated that firms carry an average label inventory of 5 to 6 months. Thus, inventory losses would be minor under a 12 month or longer compliance period. Assuming an average inventory discard cost of $30 per product results in an estimated inventory transition cost of $150,000 ($30 times 5,000 products). C. Bone Particle Size A new requirement limits maximum bone particle size. FSIS believes bone particle size will not have a significant effect on actual production. For an establishment already performing bone content tests, FSIS believes an additional 5 minutes per test is sufficient to add the bone particle size test and record results. Good manufacturing practices would require that such tests be conducted at least once per day per shift. Annual costs to perform and record test results for the 108 establishments are estimated at $74,000. This assumes an average of 1.75 shifts per day establishment, 260 operating days per year, 5 additional minutes per test, and a labor cost of $18 per hour. D. Records Management and Maintenance Information from industry indicates that many establishments currently maintain records for bone solids content so minimal additional burden is added by the proposed recordkeeping requirement. New recordkeeping requirements would apply to bone particle size testing. FSIS estimates that each establishment will average an additional 15 minutes per day on records maintenance. Annual costs of additional records maintenance for the 108 establishments are estimated at $84,000. This assumes 260 operating days per year and a labor cost of $12 per hour. E. Benefits Benefits derived from the proposed regulation arise from consumers being assured that labeling for products containing MS(K) would not be false or misleading. The description of ingredients will change, but the physical product itself will remain unchanged. The Agency does not expect any market-wide effects. No estimates exist regarding how consumers value such information. However, the Agency believes the value of avoiding false and misleading information exceeds the cost of labeling. The Agency is seeking additional information and data from commenters on the impact this proposal could have on markets and the value consumers place on this type of labeling information.
