FR940826-0-00079 FR940826-0-00016 (B) The applicant has a control group that consists entirely of members of minority groups and/or women and that owns at least 50.1 percent of the applicant's total equity and, if a corporation, at least 50.1 percent of the applicant's voting interests. (3) A small business corsortium is a conglomerate organization formed as a joint venture between mutually-independent business firms, each of which individually satisfies the definition of a small business. Note to paragraph (b): Ownership interests shall be calculated on a fully diluted basis; all agreements such as warrants, stock options and convertible debentures will generally be treated as if the rights thereunder already have been fully exercised, except that such agreements may not be used to appear to terminate or divest ownership interests before they actually do so. (c) Business Owned by Members of Minority Groups and/or Women. A business owned by members of minority groups and/or women is an entity: (1) That has a control group composed 100 percent of members of minority groups and/or women who are United States Citizens, and (2) Such control group owns and holds 50.1 percent of the voting interests, if a corporation, and (i) Owns and holds 50.1 percent of the total equity in the entity, provided that all other investors hold passive interests; or (ii) Holds 25 percent of the total equity in the entity, provided that no single other investor holds more than 25 percent passive equity interests in the entity. In a partnership, all general partners must be members of minority groups and/or women. Ownership interests shall be calculated on a fully diluted basis; all agreements such as warrants, stock options and convertible debentures will generally be treated as if the rights thereunder already have been fully exercised, except that such agreements may not be used to appear to terminate or divest ownership interests before they actually do so. (d) Gross Revenues. Gross revenues shall mean all income received by an entity, whether earned or passive, before any deductions are made for costs of doing business ( e.g., cost of goods sold), as evidenced by audited quarterly financial statements for the relevant period. (e) Personal Net Worth. Personal net worth shall mean the market value of all assets (real and personal, tangible and intangible) owned by an individual, less all liabilities (including personal guarantees) owed by the individual in his individual capacity or as a joint obligor. (f) Members of Minority Groups. Members of minority groups includes individuals of African American, Hispanic-surnamed, American Eskimo, Aleut, American Indian and Asian American extraction. (g) Passive Equity. Passive equity shall mean: (1) For corporations, non-voting stock or stock that includes no more than fifteen percent of the voting equity; (2) For partnerships, joint ventures and other non-corporate entities, limited partnership interests and similar interests that do not afford the power to exercise control of the entity. (h) Control Group. A control group is an entity, or a group of individuals or entities, that possess de jure control and de facto control of an applicant or licensee, and as to which the applicant's or licensee's charters, articles of incorporation, bylaws, agreements and any other relevant documents (and amendments thereto) provide: (1) That the entity and/or its members own unconditionally at least 50.1 percent of the total voting interests of a corporation; (2) That the entity and/or its members receive at least 50.1 percent of the annual distribution of any dividends paid on the voting stock of a corporation; (3) That, in the event of dissolution or liquidation of a corporation, the entity and/or its members are entitled to receive 100 percent of the value of each share of stock in its possession and a percentage of the retained earnings of the concern that is equivalent to the amount of equity held in the corporation; and (4) That the entity and/or its members have the right to receive dividends, profits and regular and liquidating distributions from the business in proportion to its interest in the total equity of the applicant or licensee. Note to paragraph (h): Voting control does not always assure de facto control, such as, for example, when the voting stock of the control group is widely dispersed ( see, e.g., ยง24.720(e)(2)(iii)). (i) Affiliate. Determinations regarding whether an individual or entity will be considered an affiliate of: (1) An applicant or (2) A person holding an attributable interest in an applicant under paragraph (b)(2) will be made pursuant to the general affiliation rules set forth in ยง24.710(l). 8. Section 24.406 is revised to read as follows:
