FR940104-2-00097 FR940104-2-00057 (f) Act as a clearinghouse for dissemination of information; (g) Develop instructional programs, convene conferences, and provide training for local community leaders, when appropriate; and (h) Exchange information with other Centers. The clearinghouse function in (f) above refers to a local or regional clearinghouse for dissemination of information, including empowerment zone and enterprise communities information and consolidated housing and community development plans information, to local governments and neighborhood groups. This clearinghouse must deal with the problems being addressed at the local level. It is separate and distinct from the functions in (h) above, which relate to the provision of information to the National Clearinghouse which will serve all funded centers. Grantees serving areas which include or are near Federally-designated empowerment zones or enterprise communities will have to assist such zones and communities in developing the required strategic plans and helping implement them. In addition, grantees serving areas which include or are near colonias, as defined in section 916(d) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, must provide clearinghouse services to help improve living conditions and standards within colonias. 2. Match. Grantees must meet the following match requirements: (a) Research Activities. 50 percent of the project costs of establishing and operating research activities. (b) Outreach Activities. 25 percent of the project costs of establishing and operating outreach activities. This non-Federal share may include cash or the value of non-cash contributions, equipment and other allowable in-kind contributions as detailed in Attachment E of OMB Circular No. A&hyph;110, Grants and Agreements with Institutions of High Education, Hospitals, and other Nonprofit organizations. 3. Statement of Work. Each applicant must develop and submit a Statement of Work which incorporates all eligible activities proposed in its application and details how the proposed work will be accomplished. Following a task-by-task format, the Statement of Work must: (a) Delineate the tasks and sub-tasks involved in each of the areas for which the Center is responsible, including research activities, outreach/technical assistance activities, community advisory committee activities, local/regional clearinghouse activities, and other activities necessary to carry out the responsibilities delineated under Program Requirement # 1 outlined above. (b) Indicate the sequence in which the tasks are to be performed, noting areas of work which must be performed simultaneously. (c) State the intermediate and end products to be developed by task and sub-task. (d) Provide a framework for, and be consistent with, the Project Management Work Plan requirements (to be provided in the Application Kit). Note: Where an application is prepared prior to the designation of empowerment zones or enterprise communities, then the affected applicants selected for awards will be required, when necessary, to revise their statement of work to incorporate the activities needed to assist such zones and communities. 4. Administrative. The grant will be governed by the provision of OMB Circulars A&hyph;110 (Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and other Nonprofit Organizations), A&hyph;122 (Cost Principles for Nonprofit Organizations), and A&hyph;133 (Audits of Institutions of Higher Education and other Nonprofit Institutions), as implemented at 24 CFR part 45. F. Eligible Activities Eligible activities include: 1. Research activities which have practical application for solving specific problems in designated communities and neighborhoods. Such activities may not total more than one-quarter of the total project costs contained in any grant made under this NOFA (including the required 50 percent match).
