FR940728-2-00025 FR940728-2-00019 Privacy Act of 1974; Notice to amend a system of records AGENCY: Department of the Army, DOD. ACTION: Notice to amend a system of records. SUMMARY: The Department of the Army is amending one system of records notice in its existing inventory of records system subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended. DATES: This proposed action will be effective without further notice on August 29, 1994, unless comments are received which result in a contrary determination. ADDRESS: U.S. Army Information Systems Command, ATTN: ASOP-MP, Fort Huachuca, AZ 85613&hyph;5000. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Pat Turner at (602) 538&hyph;6856 or DSN 879&hyph;6856. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Department of the Army systems of records notices subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended, have been published in the Federal Register and are available from the address above. The specific change to the record system being amended is set forth below. The proposed amendment is not within the purview of subsection (r) of the Privacy Act of 1974, (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended, which requires the submission of a new or altered system reports. Dated: July 22, 1994. Patricia Toppings, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. A0040&hyph;66bDASG System name: Health Care and Medical Treatment Record System (May 19, 1993, 58 FR 29207). * * * * * Categories of records in the system: Delete the following from the entry `a blood smear that can be used for DNA typing to identify human remains;'. * * * * * A0040&hyph;66bDASG System name: Health Care and Medical Treatment Record System. System location: Army Medical Department facilities and activities. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Army's compilation of record systems notices. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Military members of the Armed Forces (both active and inactive); dependents; civilian employees of the Department of Defense; members of the U.S. Coast Guard, Public Health Service, and Coast and Geodetic Survey; cadets and midshipmen of the military academies; employees of the American National Red Cross; and other categories of individuals who receive medical treatment at Army Medical Department facilities/activities. Categories of records in the system: Name, Social Security Number, medical records (of a permanent nature) used to document health; psychological and mental hygiene consultation and evaluation; medical/dental care and treatment for any health or medical condition provided an eligible individual on an inpatient and/or outpatient status to include but not limited to: health; clinical (inpatient); outpatient; dental; consultation; and procurement and separation x-ray record files. Subsidiary medical records (of a temporary nature) are also maintained to support records relating to treatment/observation of individuals. Such records include but are not limited to: Social work case files, inquiries/complaints about medical treatment or services rendered by the medical treatment facility, and patient treatment x-ray and index files. Authority for maintenance of the system: 5 U.S.C. 301; 10 U.S.C. 1071&hyph;1085; 50 U.S.C. Supplement IV, Appendix 454, as amended; E.O. 9397; and Department of Defense Instruction 6010.15, Third Party Collection (TPC) Program; DoD Directive 6010.14, Inpatient Medical Care for Foreign Military Personnel; and Army Regulation 40&hyph;57, Armed Forces Medical Examiner System. Purpose(s): To provide health care and medical treatment of individuals; to establish tuberculosis/tumor/cancer registries; for research studies; compilation of statistical data and management reports; to implement preventive medicine, dentistry, and communicable disease control programs; to adjudicate claims and determining benefits; to evaluate care rendered; determine professional certification and hospital accreditation; and determine suitability of persons for service or assignment. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: Information may be disclosed to the Department of Veterans Affairs to adjudicate veterans' claims and provide medical care to Army members. National Research Council, National Academy of Sciences, National Institutes of Health, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology, and similar institutions for authorized health research in the interest of the Federal Government and the public. When not essential for longitudinal studies, patient identification data shall be eliminated from records used for research studies. Facilities/activities releasing such records shall maintain a list of all such research organizations and an accounting disclosure of records released thereto. To local and state government and agencies for compliance with local laws and regulations governing control of communicable diseases, preventive medicine and safety, child abuse, and other public health and welfare programs. Third party payers per 10 U.S.C. 1095 as amended by Pub. L. 99&hyph;272, and guidance provided to the DoD health services by DoD Instruction 6010.15, for the purpose of collecting reasonable inpatient/outpatient hospital care costs incurred on behalf of retirees or dependents. Note: Records of identity, diagnosis, prognosis, or treatment of any client/patient, irrespective of whether or when he/she ceases to be a client/patient, maintained in connection with the performance of any alcohol or drug abuse prevention and treatment function conducted, regulated, or directly or indirectly assisted by any department or agency of the united States, shall, except as provided therein, be confidential and be disclosed only for the purposes and under the circumstances expressly authorized in 42 U.S.C. 290dd&hyph;3 and 290ee&hyph;3. These statutes take precedence over the Privacy Act of 1974 in regard to accessibility of such records except to the individual to whom the record pertains. The `Blanket Routine Uses' do not apply to these types of records. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Paper records in file folders; visible card files; microfiche; cassettes; punched cards; magnetic tapes/discs; computer printouts; x-ray film preservers. Retrievability: By patient or sponsor's surname or sponsor's Social Security Number. Safeguards: Records are maintained in buildings which employ security guards and are accessed only by authorized personnel having an official need-to-know. Automated segments are protected by controlled system passwords governing access to data. Retention and disposal: Military health/dental and procurement/separation x-ray records are permanent. Clinical (inpatient), outpatient, dental and consultation record files for military members are destroyed after 50 years; records pertaining to U.S. Military Academy cadets are withdrawn and retired to the Surgeon, U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY 10996&hyph;1797. Records on civilians and foreign nationals are destroyed after 25 years; except for civilian dental records which are destroyed after 5 years. Records on American Red Cross personnel are withdrawn and forwarded to the American National Red Cross. All medical records (except the Military Health/Dental records which are active while individual is on active duty, then retired with individual's Military Personnel Records Jacket and the procurement/separation x-ray records which are forwarded to the National Personnel Records Center on an accumulation basis) are retained in an active file while treatment is provided and subsequently held for a period of 1 to 5 years following treatment before being retired to the National Personnel Records Center. Subsidiary medical records, of a temporary nature, are normally not retained long beyond termination of treatment; however, supporting documents determined to have significant documentation value to patient care and treatment are incorporated into the appropriate permanent record file. System manager(s) and address: Office of the Surgeon General, Headquarters, Department of the Army, 5109 Leesburg Pike, Falls Church, VA 22041&hyph;3258. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether information about themselves is contained in this system should address written inquiries to the medical facility where treatment was provided. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Army's compilation of record systems notices. Red Cross employees may write to the Medical Officer, American National Red Cross, 1730 E Street, NW, Washington, DC 20006. For verification purposes, the individual should provide the full name, Social Security Number of sponsor, and current address and telephone number. Inquiry should include name of the hospital, year of treatment and any details which will assist in locating the records. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to information about themselves contained in this system should address written inquiries to the medical facility where treatment was provided. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Army's compilation of record systems notices. Red Cross employees may write to the Medical Officer, American National Red Cross, 1730 E Street, NW, Washington, DC 20006. For verification purposes, the individual should provide the full name, Social Security Number of sponsor, and current address and telephone number. Inquiry should include name of the hospital, year of treatment and any details which will assist in locating the records. Contesting record procedures: The Army's rules for accessing records, contesting contents, and appealing initial determinations are contained in Army Regulation 340&hyph;21; 32 CFR part 505; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: Subject individual, personal interviews and history statements from the individuals; abstracts or copies of pertinent medical records; examination records of intelligence, personality, achievement, and aptitude; reports from attending and previous physicians and other medical personnel regarding results of physical, dental, and mental examinations, treatment, evaluation, consultation, laboratory, x-ray and special studies and research conducted to provide health care and medical treatment; and similar or related documents. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18422 Filed 7&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;F
