FR940720-1-00036 FR940720-1-00009 3.6␣APO/FPO Copies Any single copy of an unbound publication that includes any enclosures, supplements, or more than one part or section and that is mailed to an APO/FPO address must be completely enclosed in a mailing wrapper. 3.7␣Sealing Second-class mail must be prepared so that it can be easily examined. Mailing publications at second-class postage rates represents consent by the sender to USPS inspection of the contents whether loose or inserted in envelopes, wrappers, or other covers. Mailers who want to ensure that publications are not opened for postal inspection must pay First-Class rates and mark such mail accordingly. 4.0␣PRINTED FEATURES 4.1␣Publication Name; Notices The publication name must be displayed prominently on the publication, and the name must be visible through or displayed prominently on any protective cover or mailing wrapper. The publication name, followed immediately by the USPS publication number, and the mailing address to which undeliverable copies or change-of-address notices are to be sent, may be shown in the upper left corner of the address side of a mailing wrapper, or directly on the outside of the host publication if it can be read when the mailing wrapper is in place. The publication number includes an alpha prefix and is to be within parentheses, e.g., THE NATIONAL WEEKLY (ISSN 9876&hyph;543X) or THE COMMUNITY (USPS 123&hyph;456). 4.2␣Endorsements Mailing wrappers that completely enclose the host publication must bear the words ``Second-Class'' in the upper right corner of the address area. If a clear plastic wrapper is used, those words may appear anywhere on the address side of the wrapper or the topmost item inside. 4.3␣Advertising Advertising (as defined in E211) may be printed on the pages of any component of a publication, subject to the corresponding standards. Regardless of location, an advertisement must be prepared as an integral part of the publication. Except for advertisements in supplements, and on printed matter included as part of a receipt or order for subscriptions (or requests), all advertisements in a bound publication must be permanently attached. Except as provided in C200.1.4d, all advertising must be included in the advertising portion of the issue measured under P200. Different advertising may occupy the same space in different editions of the same issue. 4.4␣Marking of Paid Reading Matter (18 USC 1734) If a valuable consideration is paid, accepted, or promised for the publication or any editorial or other reading matter in a second-class publication, that matter must be plainly marked ``advertisement'' by the publisher. When a single item of paid editorial or other reading matter occupies more than one page, it need only be marked ``advertisement'' on the first page. The word ``advertisement'' may be included in a statement that explains why the material is marked ``advertisement.'' Such a statement must be prominent on the first page of the material and the word ``advertisement'' in the statement must be in bold or italicized print, or otherwise emphasized so that it can be plainly seen. Editors or publishers who print such matter without plainly marking it ``advertisement'' are subject to a fine of not more than $500. 4. Revise Domestic Mail Manual E211, Standards Applicable to All Second- Class Mail, to read as follows: E211␣Standards Applicable to All Second-Class Mail * * * * * 3.0␣PRINTED SHEETS [Insert the following after the first sentence:] Sheets may be die cut or deckle-edged and may be made of paper, cellophane, foil, or other similar materials.
