FR941021-1-00075 FR941021-1-00010 The area has historically been noted for its excellent hunting opportunities for white-tailed deer and small game such as rabbits and squirrels. Nearly all of the refuge area was leased by hunting clubs or commercial hunting enterprises prior to the government obtaining the property. Based on preliminary assessment of the refuge and the experience of the local Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries biologist and enforcement personnel, all indications support the fact that relevant wildlife populations are sufficient for hunting and for other refuge objectives. Because of the unpredictable refuge development timeframe, the location of future land purchases, and the limited amount of developed waterfowl habitat, the initial hunting program will involve only resident game including white-tailed deer, squirrels, and rabbits. A waterfowl hunting program is totally dependent on the capability of being able to have dependable water sources to maintain optimum water levels for waterfowl hunting. Seasons and bag limits for resident game seasons hunting will be within the guidelines established by the Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries, but will likely be more conservative. The hunting program will be reviewed on an annual basis and revisions will be made accordingly. The sport hunting program will be monitored by refuge personnel. Currently, the refuge is operating at the ``custodial level'' with only one staff member_the refuge manager. Resources from other refuges (Tensas River, Catahoula, and Lake Ophelia) will be utilized to help administer the hunt programs. To facilitate the distribution of news releases, the refuge will maintain a mailing list for newspapers, local radio and television stations. News releases will be developed announcing the hunting season dates, where regulations can be obtained, and other pertinent information. Opening the refuge to upland game and big game hunting has been found to be compatible in a separate compatibility determination. This determination noted that time and zone restrictions would be implemented as land acquisition progressed to ensure continued compatibility. A Section 7 evaluation pursuant to the Endangered Species Act was conducted and it was determined that the proposed action is not likely to adversely affect any Federally listed or proposed for listing threatened or endangered species or their critical habitats. Pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), an environmental assessment was made and a Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI) was made regarding the hunt. Numerous contacts were made throughout the area of the refuge soliciting comments on the proposed hunting plan. The Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries concurs and fully supports the regulated recreational hunting program proposed at the refuge. The Service has determined that there would be sufficient funds to administer the proposed hunt pursuant to the requirements of the Refuge Recreation Act. The cost of the proposed hunt program is estimated to be approximately $25,000 for the initial year and $10,000 per year thereafter. Sufficient funds would be available within the refuge unit budget to operate such a hunt as proposed. It is estimated, further, that 10,000 hunter visits per year would take place. Paperwork Reduction Act The information collection requirements for part 32 are found in 50 CFR part 25 and have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. and assigned clearance number 1018&hyph;0014. The information is being collected to assist the Service in administering these programs in accordance with statutory authorities which require that recreational uses be compatible with the primary purposes for which the areas were established. The information requested in the application form is required to obtain a benefit.
