FR940223-2-00209 FR940223-2-00101 Furthermore, commenters were concerned that, while there may be large amounts of financial aid available for undergraduates at their institutions, there may be insufficient aid for graduate students, almost all of whom are able to demonstrate financial need. Thus, it is possible that a college that is able to achieve a diverse student body in some of its programs using race-neutral financial aid criteria or using race or national origin as a ``plus'' factor may find it necessary to use race or national origin as a condition of eligibility in awarding limited amounts of financial aid to achieve diversity in some of its other programs, such as its graduate school or particular undergraduate schools. The Department agrees with the commenters that in the circumstances they have described it may be necessary for a college to set aside financial aid to be awarded on the basis of race or national origin in order to achieve a diverse student body. Whether a college's use of race-targeted financial aid is ``narrowly tailored'' to achieve this compelling interest involves a case-by-case determination that is based on the particular circumstances involved. The Department has determined, based on the comments, to expand Principle 4 to permit those case-by-case determinations. The Court in Bakke indicated that race or national origin could be used in making admissions decisions to further the compelling interest of a diverse student body even though the effect might be to deny admission to some students who did not receive a competitive ``plus'' based on race or ethnicity. 11 However, the use of a set-aside of places in the entering class was impermissible because it was not necessary to the goal of diversity. In cases since Bakke, the Supreme Court has provided additional guidance on the factors to be considered in determining whether a classification based on race or national origin is narrowly tailored to its purpose. These factors will be considered by the Department in assessing whether a college's race-targeted financial aid program meets the requirements of Title VI. 11 Bakke was the Supreme Court's first decision in an affirmative action case. Since that time, the Court has decided a number of affirmative action cases, none of which have invalidated Justice Powell's opinion in Bakke that the promotion of diversity in the higher education setting is a compelling interest. First, it is necessary to determine the efficacy of alternative approaches. United States v. Paradise, 480 U.S. at 171. Thus, it is important that consideration has been given to the use of alternative approaches that are less intrusive ( e.g ., the use of race or national origin as a ``plus'' factor rather than as a condition of eligibility). Metro Broadcasting, Inc. v. F.C.C., 497 U.S. at 583; Richmond v. J.A. Croson, 488 U.S. at 507. Financial aid that is restricted to students of a particular race or national origin should be used only if a college determines that these alternative approaches have not or will not be effective. Second, the extent, duration, and flexibility of the racial classification must be addressed. Metro Broadcasting, Inc. v. F.C.C., 497 U.S. at 594; United States v. Paradise, 480 U.S. at 171. The extent of the use of the classification should be no greater than is necessary to carry out its purpose. Richmond v. J.A. Croson, 488 U.S. at 507. That is, the amount of financial aid that is awarded based on race or national origin should be no greater than is necessary to achieve a diverse student body.
