FR940505-1-00450 FR940505-1-00012 (1) Biennial inspection. Vehicles subject to the current California I/M program which are registered in the FIP I/M areas shall be subject to the FIP I/M program and will be tested on the same biennial schedule as is currently used, with the exception that such vehicles shall go to official FIP I/M program test provider(s) for valid testing. New vehicles which are registered in the FIP I/M areas shall be tested in the next even numbered calendar year after the initial titling if the model year is even, or in the next odd numbered calendar year after the initial titling if the model year is odd, and shall be subject to regular FIP I/M testing every two years thereafter. Once a vehicle has been tested as part of the FIP I/M program, it will remain on the same biennial testing schedule until such time as the FIP I/M program is discontinued. The sale of a vehicle shall not change that vehicle's regularly scheduled testing date. Vehicles previously registered in California but outside the FIP I/M areas which move into a FIP I/M area shall be tested in time to meet the I/M requirement for their first registration as residents of a FIP I/M area, and shall be tested every two years thereafter. (2) Out-of-cycle inspection. Vehicles otherwise subject to the FIP I/M program's requirements which are targeted as potential high emitters as a result of RSD detection must be presented for an enhanced I/M inspection within 30 days of notification of the failure (or sooner, if the regularly scheduled inspection deadline occurs first). If the vehicle fails this confirmatory test, it shall be subject at that time to the same repair, retest, and waiver requirements as apply to vehicles which fail the regularly scheduled biennial inspection. Failure to comply with this out-of-cycle testing requirement shall result in the assessment of a late fee to be collected prior to testing whenever the vehicle is next presented for regular testing. A late fee of $10 will be assessed for each full week past the testing deadline. Being subject to an out-of-cycle inspection does not change the deadline for the vehicle's regularly scheduled biennial inspection, unless it occurs within 30 days of the out-of-cycle test. (h) Notification of requirement for emission inspection. A letter of notification shall be sent to subject vehicle owners or lessees such that the letter shall have been received by the individual owner or lessee no later than 45 days prior to the regularly scheduled test deadline and no later than 30 days prior to an out-of-cycle confirmatory test deadline. In the case of the out-of-cycle inspection requirement, the notification shall be sent by registered mail to ensure documentation of the owner or lessee's receipt of notification. (i) Emission inspection period. The period during which a subject vehicle may be presented for an I/M inspection shall be stated on the emission inspection notification form along with the deadline for completing the inspection process. Subject vehicles presented for an initial inspection or reinspection after the time period shown on the emission inspection notification shall be charged a late fee of $10 for each full week that a vehicle is late. This late fee shall be collected prior to the initiation of testing.
