FR940228-1-00070 FR940228-1-00010 Minimum Program Length The proposed regulations would also add requirements regarding the minimum length of an eligible program. Under section 481(b) of the HEA, a proprietary institution of higher education or a postsecondary vocational institution must, to be eligible, provide an eligible program, as defined in section 481(e) of the HEA. Proposed §668.8(d) would implement that definition. The proposed definition would supplant the current regulatory definition of a six-month training program in 34 CFR 600.2. Section 481(e) of the HEA provides for three types of eligible programs. The first type of eligible program is one that must provide at least 600 clock hours, 16 semester or trimester hours or 24 quarter hours of instruction offered during a minimum of 15 weeks. The program must provide undergraduate training that prepares a student for gainful employment in a recognized occupation. The program may admit as regular students persons who have not completed the equivalent of an associate degree. The second type of eligible program is one that must provide at least 300 clock hours, 8 semester hours, or 12 quarter hours of instruction offered during a minimum of 10 weeks. The program must provide training that prepares a student for gainful employment in a recognized occupation and be a graduate or professional program or admit as regular students only persons who have completed the equivalent of an associate degree. For the first time, this type of program may qualify for purposes of all Title IV, HEA programs, not just the FFEL programs, as under current regulations. The third type of eligible program would qualify for the FFEL programs only. It must provide at least 300 but less than 600 clock hours of instruction offered during a minimum of 10 weeks. The program must provide undergraduate training that prepares a student for gainful employment in a recognized occupation, and admit as regular students some persons who have not completed the equivalent of an associate degree. This type of program must also satisfy regulations of the Secretary governing placement rates, completion rates, and other criteria. These rates and criteria are discussed below. Qualitative Factors Section 481(e)(2) of the HEA requires the third type of eligible program to have a verified completion rate of at least 70 percent and a verified placement rate of at least 70 percent in accordance with the Secretary's regulations and to meet other criteria specified by the Secretary in regulations. Proposed §668.8(e) would implement these provisions. Proposed §668.8(e)(2) would require an institution to substantiate the calculation of its completion and placement rates by having its independent auditor who prepares its compliance audit report under §668.23 verify the accuracy of the calculations. The Secretary believes that the auditor's assurance of these calculations would be a reliable independent substantiation. The Secretary also believes it is practical for an auditor to check this information, inasmuch as he or she is already on site to perform the institution's required compliance audit. Section 668.8 would include formulas in paragraphs (f) and (g) for calculating the appropriate completion and placement rates. The Secretary believes a single methodology is desired, and invites comments in this area. The Secretary notes that an NPRM implementing the Student Right-to-Know provisions in section 485(a) of the HEA, which addressed the calculation of completion or graduation rates, was published in the Federal Register on July 10, 1992 (57 FR 30826). The Secretary will be publishing a second NPRM for implementation of the Student Right-to-Know provisions shortly after publication of this NPRM to further address this calculation. The Secretary would also like to know if any proposals relative to the Student Right-to-Know Act regarding graduation and completion rate calculations should be used instead of the methods proposed here. The proposed formulas would be based on the following: Award Year All calculations would be based on enrollments, completions, and placements during an award year. Thus, an applicable completion or placement rate would be the rate as it existed at the end of a particular award year. Calculation of Completion Rate (1) An institution would base its calculation on the number of regular students who were enrolled in the program during the award year. The rate calculation is based on regular students because those students by definition intend to complete a program. The Secretary believes that inclusion of other students would not provide an accurate picture of the institution's completion rate. (2) The institution would subtract from the number of regular students the number of those students who, during that award year, withdrew from, dropped out of, or were expelled from the program and were entitled to and actually received in a timely manner in accordance with §668.22(i)(3) a refund of 100 percent of their tuition and fees (less any permitted administrative fee) under the institution's refund policy. The Secretary believes that the inclusion of students who have received a 100 percent refund at an institution would unduly penalize the institution because these students would not have participated in the academic component of an institution's program. These students are excluded from the calculation because there would not be a loss of Title IV, HEA program funds to the Department of Education if the institution has refunded all tuition and fees. (3) The institution would subtract the number of students who were enrolled in the program at the end of that award year. (4) The institution would determine the number of regular students who, during that award year, received the degree, certificate or other recognized education credential awarded for successfully completing the program.
