FR940314-1-00026 FR940314-1-00008 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 49 CFR Part 571 [Docket No. 1&hyph;21, Notice 12] RIN 2127&hyph;AE99 Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards; Theft Protection AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), Department of Transportation (DOT). ACTION: Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: Standard No. 114 currently requires automatic transmission vehicles with a ``park'' position on their transmission to have a key-locking system that prevents removal of the key unless the transmission is locked in ``park'' or becomes locked in ``park'' as the direct result of removing the key. In other words, under the first alternative, a vehicle must be designed so that the key cannot be removed when the transmission shift lever or other shifting mechanism is in any position other than ``park.'' NHTSA is proposing to amend this provision to prevent key removal only when the shift lever or other shifting mechanism is fully placed in any designated shift position other than ``park.'' This rulemaking action results from a petition submitted by Mazda. The agency believes that the proposed amendment would provide greater flexibility to manufacturers, and not have any measurable impact on safety. DATES: Comments must be received on or before May 13, 1994. The proposed amendments would become effective 30 days after publication of a final rule in the Federal Register . ADDRESSES: Comments should refer to the docket and notice numbers above and be submitted to: Docket Section, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. Docket hours are 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Jere Medlin, Office of Vehicle Safety Standards, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. Mr. Medlin's telephone number is (202) 366&hyph;5307. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On May 30, 1990, NHTSA amended Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 114, Theft Protection, to protect against injuries to children caused by vehicle rollaway in vehicles with automatic transmissions, where children were able to shift the transmission of a parked vehicle. 55 FR 21868. The amendment required automatic transmission vehicles with a ``park'' position to have a key-locking system that prevents removal of the key unless the transmission is locked in ``park'' or becomes locked in ``park'' as the direct result of removing the key. The amendment became effective on September 1, 1992. In adopting the amendment, the agency explained that a study focusing on child-injuring rollaway accidents in Orange County, California demonstrated that injuries caused by rolling vehicles posed a significant safety problem. That study uncovered nine cases of children releasing the brake or moving the transmission shift lever, or both, causing a parked vehicle to roll and injure the child operating the controls or children near the vehicle. Even though two of the cases could be discounted for the purposes of the rulemaking in question because the vehicle's engine was running and there was insufficient information to draw conclusions about some other situations, the study did establish that the type of accident at issue was occurring. NHTSA explained that although the then-current Standard No. 114 did not prohibit systems which permit the transmission lever to be shifted when the vehicle is parked and the ignition is locked, some manufacturers had voluntarily used a transmission shift lever lock that precludes this possibility. The agency stated that these transmission shift lever lock designs typically have two critical elements. First, the transmission shift lever lock requires the transmission shift lever to be in ``park'' before a person can remove the key. Second, the device also prevents shifting the transmission lever from ``park'' to another position once the key is removed.
