FR940810-1-00019 FR940810-1-00005 4. The SAC would be authorized to permit a vessel owner to have additional equipment linked to the VMS unit, e.g., computer terminal for communications and data transfer; 5. Vessels with VMS units would not be required to notify NMFS when transiting the protected species zone (as they are now required to do); and 6. The Council and NMFS would evaluate the VMS program for a period of time not to exceed 3 years, and make decisions regarding the continued or modified use of VMSs in this fishery and other fisheries under the jurisdiction of the Council. In addition, NMFS would also evaluate this VMS program in regard to the uses of VMSs in fisheries in other areas. A Biological Opinion and Incidental Take Statement under the Endangered Species Act were issued by NMFS on this fishery on June 10, 1993. The Biological Opinion concluded that the longline fishery is not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of any endangered or threatened species of sea turtle, provided that certain conditions set forth in an incidental take statement were met. This statement includes, as a reasonable and prudent measure, use of an automated VMS to confirm the location of those vessels without observers to help verify the accuracy of logbook reports. While being promulgated for enforcement purposes, this proposed rule would also help NMFS satisfy the automated VMS requirements set forth in the incidental take statement. A new Biological Opinion on this fishery is expected to be issued by NMFS during the summer of 1994. NMFS is sensitive to the concerns fishermen might have with regard to their fishing locations becoming widely known. NMFS will be reviewing the level of accuracy and precision required to meet the above obligations with enforcement agents and scientists and will determine the degree of monitoring required. Whatever final decisions are made on the frequency of reports needed, data indicating individual vessel positions would be treated as confidential in accordance with the Trade Secrets Act. Classification This proposed rule is published under the authority of the Magnuson Act, 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq., and was prepared at the request of the Council. The Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, NOAA (AA), has initially determined that this proposed rule is consistent with the Magnuson Act and other applicable law. This proposed rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. The General Counsel of the Department of Commerce certified to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration that this proposed rule, if adopted, would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities for purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. All the costs of installing and operating the proposed reporting system are to be borne by NMFS. Installation of the required equipment is to be done at minimal inconvenience to the vessel owner. Implementing the proposed action also will relieve vessel operators from the current requirement to notify NMFS of the vessel's entrance and exit from the protected species zone. The installed equipment may be used, in conjunction with supplemental equipment provided by the vessel, by the vessel operator at the vessel's own expense, for vessel communications such as obtaining updated weather reports or communication to the vessel owner. The Council has concurred with the establishment of a mandatory observer program and an electronic VMS for the longline fishery as required by the Biological Opinion and Incidental Take Statement, issued on June 10, 1993. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 685 American Samoa, Fisheries, Fishing, Guam, Hawaiian Natives, Northern Mariana Islands. Dated: August 3, 1994. Gary Matlock, Acting Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, National Marine Fisheries Service.
