FR941207-1-00025 FR941207-1-00006 Section 7 and section 10(a)(1)(B) authorize the Service to allow the incidental taking of listed species through otherwise lawful activities such as timber harvesting. Biological opinions completed as part of formal section 7 consultation may authorize a set amount of incidental take associated with Federal activities. For non-Federal actions, Section 10 incidental take permit applications must be supported by a habitat conservation plan that identifies conservation measures that the permittee agrees to implement to conserve the species, usually on the permittee's lands. A key element of the Service's review of a conservation plan is a determination of the plan's effect upon the long-term conservation of the species. A conservation plan would be approved and a section 10(a) permit issued if it would minimize and mitigate the impacts of the taking and would not appreciably reduce the likelihood of the survival and recovery of that species in the wild. The Service expects limited Federal involvement for projects on non-Federal lands and few formal section 7 consultations on non-Federal lands that are included in proposed critical habitat. For those areas of non-Federal land within proposed critical habitat, section 7 would apply only for actions that are funded, authorized, or carried out by a Federal agency. The States and private individuals are still subject to the ``take'' prohibitions under section 9 of the Act, however, and may enter into the section 10 conservation planning process where appropriate. Economic Analysis Section 4(b)(2) of the Act requires the Service to designate critical habitat on the basis of the best scientific and commercial information available and to consider the economic and other relevant impacts of designating a particular area as critical habitat. The Secretary may exclude areas from critical habitat upon a determination that the benefits of such exclusions outweigh the benefits of specifying such areas as part of critical habitat. The exclusion of such areas from critical habitat may not occur when it is determined such exclusion may result in the extinction of the species concerned. An economic analysis is currently being prepared. The Service intends to make the economic analysis available for public review and comment, and notice of its availability will be published in the Federal Register and local newspapers. Public Comments Solicited The Service intends that any final rule resulting from this proposal will be as accurate and effective as possible. Therefore, comments or suggestions from the public, governmental agencies, Indian nations, the scientific community, industry, and any other interested parties concerning this proposed rule are hereby sought. Comments are particularly sought concerning: (1) The reasons why any habitat should or should not be determined to be critical habitat as provided by section 4 of the Act; (2) Specific information on the amount and distribution of Mexican spotted owl habitat, and the number of owls and distribution by landowner and land designation; (3) Specific information on the ability or values of proposed areas to support other listed, proposed, or candidate species and the relation of this proposal to maintaining biodiversity and ecosystem integrity; (4) Current or planned activities in the subject areas and their possible impacts on proposed critical habitat; (5) Any foreseeable economic or other impacts resulting from the proposed designation of critical habitat;
