FR940406-1-00037 FR940406-1-00011 NHTSA notes that, in 1991, it joined with the Federal Highway Administration in commissioning the NAS to estimate the practically achievable levels of fuel economy for various classes of passenger cars and light trucks. The NAS report, Automotive Fuel Economy_How Far Should We Go?, was published in April 1992. NAS did not reach conclusions on what the ``practically achievable'' levels of fuel economy were because it stated that it could not determine the correct balance of the variables that would affect such an estimate. The variables include the ``technically achievable'' levels of fuel economy (described below), the economic effects in terms of jobs, higher vehicle prices, and competitiveness, the effects on vehicle safety and petroleum consumption, etc. The NAS report did venture to offer ``technically achievable'' predictions of fuel economy capabilities in MYs 2001 and 2006. The ``technically achievable'' values were based on certain assumptions. The assumptions were that only currently existing technologies would be used, that fleets would meet the Tier I emissions standards of the Clean Air Act Amendments (CAAA) of 1990, that vehicle interior volume and acceleration performance would be equivalent to those of the MY 1990 fleet, and that the technologies used would be cost-effective at gasoline prices of $5&hyph;10 or less. NAS offered two estimates for the light truck fleet for both MYs 2001 and 2006. One estimate was given with a high degree of confidence that the light truck fleet could achieve such a level. The other estimate, for a higher CAFE level, was given with a lower degree of confidence that the fleet could achieve that level due to unidentified uncertainties. These values are as follows: Table 1._ ``Technically Achievable'' Fuel Economy Levels: New Light Truck Fleet (From NAS Report) 1␣ 1MY 2001 1MY 2006 Higher confidence 24 26 Lower confidence 25 28 The figures in the table have several limitations. They do not represent the capability of any particular manufacturer. Instead, they are intended to represent the light truck fleet as a whole. However, the fleet used by NAS did not include all light trucks. The fleet included small pickups, small vans, small utility vehicles, and large pickups, but not large vans and large utility vehicles. While those last two types of vehicles make up a small percentage of the light truck market, they have low fuel economies. NHTSA is particularly interested in receiving comments concerning the NAS report and whether, and how, it should be used in rulemaking for the MY 1998&hyph;2006 light truck CAFE standards. Energy and Environmental Analysis, Inc. has prepared a report for the Department of Energy that analyzes the domestic manufacturers' light duty truck fuel economy potential to 2005. NHTSA is including it in the docket for this notice, and would welcome comments on the relevance of the report to this rulemaking. NHTSA and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) have mandated a number of safety and emissions standards for light trucks that become effective in the next few years and that are likely to contribute to increased weight (and, hence, decreased fuel economy) and increased cost of these vehicles. Among the safety requirements are the addition of air bags (which phase-in through MY 1999), quasi-static side impact protection (by MY 1995), roof crush resistance (by MY 1995), and interior head impact protection (with an effective date to be determined). The Clean Air Act Amendments mandated a phase-in of more stringent emission standards for light trucks. The U.S. has agreed under the Montreal Protocol to phase-out the chloroflourocarbons used in vehicle air conditioners. This will result in somewhat heavier and less efficient air conditioners. Finally, EPA has also issued several final rules relating to test procedures which could require calibration changes that reduce fuel economy and to onboard diagnostics which could add weight. 5. To what extent are other Federal standards likely to affect manufacturers' CAFE capabilities in MYs 1998&hyph;2006? Answers to this question should include not only the effects of such standards when first implemented, but also the prospect for reducing those effects subsequently.
