FR941205-0-00193 FR941205-0-00029 §266.628 Initial claim payments. (a) Determination of initial claim amount. (1) The initial claim amount is based on the unpaid principal balance of the mortgage note as of the date of default, plus interest at the mortgage note rate from date of default to date of initial claim payment. The mortgage note interest component of the initial claim amount is subject to curtailment as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. (2) HUD shall make an initial claim payment to the HFA that is equal to the initial claim amount, less any delinquent mortgage insurance premiums, late charges and interest, assessed under §266.604(d). (3) The HFA must use the proceeds of the initial claim payment to retire any bonds or any other financing mechanisms securing the mortgage within 30 days of the initial claim payment. Any excess funds resulting from such retirement or repayment shall be returned to HUD within 30 days of the retirement. (b) Curtailment of interest for late filings. In determining the mortgage note interest component of the initial claim amount, if the HFA fails to meet any of the requirements of this section within the specified time (including any granted extension of time), HUD shall curtail the accrual of mortgage note interest by the number of days by which the required action was late. (c) Method of payment. HUD shall pay the claim in cash. §266.630 Partial payment of claims. (a) General. When the Commissioner receives a claim for a partial payment under §266.626(d), the Commissioner may make a partial payment of claim in accordance with the requirements of this section. If the HFA has not previously received a partial claim payment, the HFA may file a claim for a partial claim payment under §266.630. Otherwise, the HFA must file for an initial claim payment under §266.628. (b) HFA submission. In addition to any other requirements set forth in administration instructions, the HFA must provide the following information with its application for a partial claim payment: (1) The amount by which the HFA will reduce the principal on the insured mortgage and the amount of delinquent interest on the insured mortgage that the HFA will defer based on the anticipated closing date; and (2) A certification that: (i) The amount of the principal reduction of the insured first mortgage does not exceed 50 percent of the unpaid principal balance; (ii) The relief resulting from the partial claim payment when considered with other resources available to the project are sufficient to restore the financial viability of the project; (iii) The project is or can (at reasonable cost) be made structurally sound; (iv) The management of the project is satisfactory; (v) The default under the insured mortgage was beyond the control of the mortgagor. (c) Claim processing._ (1) Acceptable application. If the HFA's application is acceptable, the Commissioner shall notify the HFA to process the partial payment, which will include the modification of the existing mortgage and the execution by the mortgagor of a second mortgage payable to the HFA. When the second mortgage is closed, the HFA shall notify the Commissioner, in a form and manner prescribed in administrative instructions. Upon receipt of notice from the HFA, the Commissioner shall make the partial claim payment. (2) Unacceptable application. If the application is unacceptable, the Commissioner shall either advise the HFA of the information needed to make the application acceptable or return the application for further action. The HFA is granted an extension of 30 days from the date of any notification for further action.
