FR941102-1-00082 FR941102-1-00018 The Swiss Valley witness proposed that the somatic cell adjustment begin at 400,000, with a positive adjustment as the SCC declines, and a negative adjustment as the SCC increases, from that level. The adjustment would be five percent of the National Cheese Exchange block price per 100,000 somatic cells. The Swiss Valley witness explained that the adjustment for somatic cells should apply to all producer milk and that Swiss Valley would support a somatic cell adjustment on Class II and Class III milk for the handler. In its post-hearing brief, Swiss Valley reiterated the testimony of its witness in favor of including an adjustment for somatic cells in the amended order. Besides supporting the position of the Swiss Valley witness, Swiss Valley expressed general support for a somatic cell adjustment. Testimony by a fluid processor witness indicated that the handler pays a quality premium when buying milk from producers and specifies minimum quality standards on purchased tanker milk. A witness for Mid-America Dairymen, Inc. (Mid-Am), testified that Mid-Am favored the inclusion of an adjustment for somatic cells in the amended order. The witness quoted from the Final Decision of the Indiana, Ohio Valley, and Eastern Ohio-Western Pennsylvania proceeding to support the position of Mid-Am that an adjustment for somatic cells should be included based on the effect somatic cells have on all milk. The witness explained that quantifying the adjustment on an incremental basis was difficult, and since not all milk is used in the manufacture of cheese a moderate adjustment rate should be used. The witness explained that the Mid-Am proposal would apply the somatic cell adjustment to all producer milk, on a hundredweight basis, with a positive adjustment for a somatic cell count below 400,000 and a negative adjustment for SCCs above 400,000. The witness explained that under the Mid-Am proposal, the somatic cell adjustment would be computed by subtracting the monthly average somatic cell count (in thousands) of the producer from 400 and then multiplying the result by the National Cheese Exchange monthly average barrel cheese price multiplied by .0005. He stated that since the somatic cell adjustment would be included in the computation of the producer price differential, on the producer side only, the total size of the pool would not change but individual producers would receive more or less, depending on whether their milk had a somatic cell count above or below the average SCC of the market. The Mid-Am witness continued by explaining that the Mid-Am proposal would be a redistribution of money from high somatic cell testing producer milk to the lower somatic cell testing milk, since there would be no additional money in the pool from the somatic cell adjustments. Instead of supporting the inclusion of somatic cell adjustment provisions in the five Federal orders, witnesses testifying on behalf of Land of Lakes, Inc., and NCI supported those organizations' proposals to allow each handler to submit a somatic cell or quality adjustment plan for payments to its own producers to the market administrator. A witness for LOL testified that with the LOL proposal a handler could reduce a producer's payment by up to ten percent from that required by the order if other producers of the handler received positive adjustments to their payments, as long as the total payments were equal to at least the minimum total order payment requirements. The witness explained that LOL's proposal does not contain specific criteria for quality and/or volume adjustments. Each handler would submit an individual quality and/or volume adjustment plan to the market administrator which the handler would be required to adhere to until a new plan would be submitted. The witness testified that there is general agreement among handlers for the need to adjust payments for milk based on quality and volume. The witness continued by arguing that since the industry has not yet reached a consensus on how to adjust for quality and volume, it would be appropriate to allow each handler to develop its own quality and volume plan with the approval of the market administrator.
