FR940325-1-00080 FR940325-1-00008 This section would include a paragraph reserved for the qualification criteria that will be developed in a separate rulemaking. Section 4130.7&hyph;4␣Service Charge Section 4130.7&hyph;3 would be amended by redesignating the section as §4130.7&hyph;4, and by adding applications that are made solely for temporary nonuse or conservation use. The service fee would offset the costs of processing such applications. Subpart 4140_Prohibited Acts Section 4140.1␣Prohibited Acts on Public Lands Paragraph (a)(2) of this section would be amended to end misunderstandings about approved temporary nonuse and failure to make substantial use as authorized. Once temporary nonuse is approved, it becomes an authorized action and is therefore not subject to penalty action under §4170.1. Other proposed amendments to this section would clarify paragraph (b)(1) to establish that the receipt of a grazing fee bill does not authorize grazing use of the range until the bill is paid. Paragraph (b)(9) would be amended to make it clear that the permittee is responsible for controlling livestock so they do not stray on to ``closed to range'' areas where grazing is prohibited by local laws, such as ``formally designated agriculture districts'' or municipalities. To be consistent with the Forest Service this section would restore two provisions that existed in this subpart prior to 1984. These provisions would make subject to penalty permittee or lessee violations of the Wild and Free Roaming Horse and Burro Act of 1971, the Endangered Species Act, and Federal or State laws or regulations concerning pest or animal damage control, and conservation or protection of natural and cultural resources or environmental quality when public lands are involved or affected. Under §4170.1&hyph;3, no action could be taken in response to violations of State and Federal laws pertaining to pest or animal damage control, and conservation or protection of natural and cultural resources or environmental quality unless the permittee or lessee is convicted or otherwise determined by the appropriate authority to have been in violation, and there are no outstanding appeals. Several changes were made in addition to those presented in the advance notice of proposed rulemaking to enable BLM law enforcement personnel to assist in protection of authorized use of the public lands and to clarify the various acts committed against grazing animals. In addition some changes have been made to make clear that attempted payment by a check that is not honored by the bank does not constitute payment and would result in unauthorized use, and to provide for reclamation of lands, property or resources when damaged by unauthorized use or actions. A list of the types of violations of Federal and State laws and regulations concerning pest or predator control and conservation or protection of natural and cultural resources or the environment that would be prohibited acts where public lands are involved or affected has been added in this proposed rule. This change was made in response to comments on the advance notice of proposed rulemaking that suggested that this provision needed to be more explicit. Subpart 4150_Unauthorized Grazing Use Section 4150.1␣Violations This section would be reorganized for readability and to add the requirement that the authorized officer shall determine whether a violation is nonwillful, willful, or repeated willful to clarify subsequent sections of the rule. Section 4150.2␣Notice and Order To Remove This section would be amended to grant the authorized officer authority and provide for determining if a nonwillful violation is incidental in nature, and to clarify actions for expedient resolution of these innocent or unintended trespasses. The ability to close areas for a period of up to 12 months to specified class and kinds of livestock for the sole purpose of abating unauthorized use was added in addition to the changes presented in the advance notice of proposed rulemaking. Reference to the agents of livestock owners has also been added. These changes will facilitate the process of identifying and removing unauthorized livestock from public rangelands.
