FR940712-2-00101 FR940712-2-00069 [Release No. 34&hyph;34312; File No. SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;94&hyph;6] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the Boston Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to Chapter XV (``Dealer-Specialists'') July 5, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on June 20, 1994, the Boston Stock Exchange, Inc. (``BSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. On June 23, 1994, the BSE submitted to the Commission Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change. 1 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 See letter from Karen A. Aluise, Assistant Vice President, BSE, to Sandra Sciole, Special Counsel, SEC, dated June 22, 1994. Amendment No. 1 made certain clarifying changes to the proposal. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The BSE proposes to amend Chapter XV of its Rule regarding Dealer-Specialists. 2 2 The exact language of the proposal was included as Exhibit 1 to File No. SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;94&hyph;6 and can be examined at the locations specified in Item IV below. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements governing the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change (1) Purpose The purpose of the proposed rule change is to make certain structural and technical changes to Chapter XV (``Dealer-Specialists''). Primarily, the Exchange seeks to provide paragraph numbering for ease of reference. In addition, the Exchange seeks to remove outdated and repetitive language, such as reference to the Business Conduct Committee which is now the Market Performance Committee. Certain paragraphs have been relocated to sections which are more applicable, and clarifying language has been added to certain sections. (2) Statutory Basis The basis under the Act for the proposed rule change is section 6(b)(5) in that the rule is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in securities, to remove impediments to and to perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and in general, to protect investors and the public interest; and is not designed to permit unfair discrimination between customers, issuers, brokers, or dealers. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others The Exchange has neither solicited nor received comments on the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. ยง552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Room, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the BSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;94&hyph;6 and should be submitted by August 2, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16748 Filed 7&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
