FR940419-0-00047 FR940419-0-00017 (b) A mobile service which provides a regularly interacting group of base, mobile, portable, and associated control and relay stations (whether licensed on an individual, cooperative, or multiple basis) for private one-way or two-way land mobile radio communications by eligible users over designated areas of operation; and (c) Any service for which a license is required in a personal communications service under part 24 of this chapter. Private Mobile Radio Service. A mobile service that is neither a commercial mobile radio service nor the functional equivalent of a service that meets the definition of commercial mobile radio service. Private mobile radio service includes the following: (a) Not-for-profit land mobile radio and paging services that serve the licensee's internal communications needs as defined in part 90 of this chapter. Shared-use, cost-sharing, or cooperative arrangements, multiple licensed systems that use third party managers or users combining resources to meet compatible needs for specialized internal communications facilities in compliance with the safeguards of §90.179 of this chapter are presumptively private mobile radio services; (b) Mobile radio service offered to restricted classes of eligible users. This includes the following services: Public Safety Radio Services; Special Emergency Radio Service; Industrial Radio Services (excluding Business Radio Services that offer customers for-profit interconnected services); Land Transportation Radio Services; and Radiolocation Services; (c) 220&hyph;222 MHz land mobile service and Automatic Vehicle Monitoring systems (part 90 of this chapter) that do not offer interconnected service or that are not-for-profit; and (d) Personal Radio Services under part 95 of this chapter (General Mobile Services, Radio Control Radio Services, and Citizens Band Radio Services); Maritime Service Stations (excluding Public Coast stations) (part 80 of this chapter); and Aviation Service Stations (part 87 of this chapter). Public Switched Network. Any common carrier switched network, whether by wire or radio, including local exchange carriers, interexchange carriers, and mobile service providers, that use the North American Numbering Plan in connection with the provision of switched services. §20.5 Citizenship. (a) This rule implements section 310 of the Communications Act, 47 U.S.C. 310, regarding the citizenship of licensees in the commercial mobile radio services. Commercial mobile radio service authorizations may not be granted to or held by: (1) Any foreign government or any representative thereof; (2) Any alien or the representative of any alien; (3) Any corporation organized under the laws of any foreign government; (4) Any corporation of which any officer or director is an alien or of which more than one-fifth of the capital stock is owned of record or voted by aliens or their representatives or by a foreign government or representative thereof or by any corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country; or (5) Any corporation directly or indirectly controlled by any other corporation of which any officer or more than one-fourth of the directors are aliens, or of which more than one-fourth of the capital stock is owned of record or voted by aliens, their representatives, or by a foreign government or representative thereof, or by any corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country, if the Commission finds that the public interest will be served by the refusal or revocation of such license. (b) The limits listed in paragraph (a) of this section may be exceeded by eligible individuals who held ownership interests on May 24, 1993, pursuant to the waiver provisions established in section 332(c)(6) of the Communications Act. Transfers of ownership to any other person in violation of paragraph (a) of this section are prohibited. §20.7 Mobile services. The following are mobile services within the meaning of sections 3(n) and 332 of the Communications Act, 47 U.S.C. 153(n), 332. (a) Public mobile services (part 22 of this chapter), including fixed operations that support the mobile systems, but excluding Rural Radio Service and Basic Exchange Telecommunications Radio Service (part 22, subpart H of this chapter); (b) Private land mobile services (part 90 of this chapter), including secondary fixed operations, but excluding fixed services such as call box operations and meter reading; (c) Mobile satellite services (part 25 of this chapter) including dual-use equipment, terminals capable of transmitting while a platform is moving, but excluding satellite facilities provided through a transportable platform that cannot move when the communications service is offered; (d) Marine and aviation services (parts 80 and 87 of this chapter), including fixed operations that support these marine and aviation mobile systems; (e) Personal radio services (part 95 of this chapter), but excluding Interactive Video and Data Service; (f) Personal communications services (part 24 of this chapter); (g) Auxiliary services provided by mobile service licensees, and ancillary fixed communications offered by personal communications service providers; (h) Unlicensed services meeting the definition of commercial mobile radio service in §20.3, such as the resale of commercial mobile radio services, but excluding unlicensed radio frequency devices under part 15 of this chapter (including unlicensed personal communications service devices). §20.9 Commercial mobile radio service. (a) The following mobile services shall be treated as common carriage services and regulated as commercial mobile radio services (including any such service offered as a hybrid service or offered on an excess capacity basis to the extent it meets the definition of commercial mobile radio service, or offered as an auxiliary or ancillary service), pursuant to Section 332 of the Communications Act, 47 U.S.C. 332: (1) Private Paging (part 90 of this chapter), excluding not-for-profit paging systems that serve only the licensee's own internal communications needs;
