FR940907-2-00061 FR940907-2-00044 Also, we believe that the implementation of the resource-based relative value scale (RBRVS) fee schedule has contributed largely to the increase in the number of physicians participating in the Medicare program. Nonparticipation is discouraged by the ``limiting charges'' imposed under physician payment reform. We will continue to pay incentive bonuses to any carrier that achieves an increase of at least one-tenth of one percent in the participating physicians' rate or proportion of payments for participating physicians' services in the carrier's total service area. Carriers that achieve an increase in physicians' participation or payments for participating physician services of less than 2 percentage points will be paid a partial incentive payment. Carriers that achieve an increase of at least 2 percentage points, but less than 4 points, will be paid the full incentive payment. Carriers that achieve an increase equal to or greater than 4 percentage points will be paid a bonus for each additional 2 percentage point increase over and above the initial 2 percentage point increase. As required by section 1842(c)(1)(B) of the Act, the amount of the total incentive payable to carriers is one percent of the total payments to carriers for claims processing costs for the fiscal year. The total incentive pool is calculated by summing the total claims processing costs reported by each carrier in fiscal year (FY) 1985 and multiplying the total by one percent. The total claims processing costs in that fiscal year amounted to $380 million. Therefore, carrier bonuses in FY 1995 will be one percent of this amount or $3.8 million. Fiscal year 1985 has been used as a base because it reflects the claims processing costs and workload at the inception of the participating physician program. For the purpose of determining each carrier's eligibility for an incentive payment, we make two comparisons. We compare the carrier's physician participation rate after the latest enrollment period with the physician participation rate after the prior enrollment date. We make a similar comparison of the proportion of covered charges for services by participating physicians during the quarter following the enrollment period with those of the quarter following the prior enrollment period. We intend to use whichever difference yields the higher percentage increase to determine eligibility for award of the incentive payment. Currently, we issue carrier incentive payments by September 30 following each annual enrollment period. The amount of these payments will be included in line 11 (other) of the carrier's Notice of Budget Approval, Form HCFA&hyph;1524. III. Criteria and Standards_General Basic tenets of the Medicare program are to pay claims promptly and accurately and to foster good beneficiary and provider relations. Contractors must administer the Medicare program efficiently and economically. We have developed a contractor management program for FY 1995 that sets expectations for the contractor; measures the performance of the contractor; evaluates the performance against the expectations; and, takes appropriate contract action based upon evaluation of the contractor's performance. The goal of performance evaluation is to ensure that contractors meet their contractual obligations. We measure contractor performance to ensure that the following objectives are met: contractors do what is required of them by law, regulation and HCFA directive; do it well; and continually improve what they do. We have restructured contractor evaluation into five criteria, designed to meet those objectives. This restructuring effort considered comments from HCFA components as well as beneficiary and provider groups which have commented on past Federal Register notifications.
