FR940404-2-00167 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the Annual Meeting of the Executive Board of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), New York, April 26&hyph;May 7, 1993 Representative Marian Wright Edelman, United States Representative to the United Nations Children's Fund, Washington, DC Alternate Representative William H. Foege, M.D., United States Alternate Representative to the United Nations Children's Fund, Atlanta, Georgia Senior Advisers Audrey F. Manley, M.D., Acting Assistant Secretary for Health, Department of Health and Human Services The Honorable Edward Marks, Minister-Counselor, Deputy United States Representative on the United Nations Economic and Social Council, New York Advisers Thomas G. Beck, Office of International Donor Programs, Policy Directorate, Agency for International Development Robert M. Clay, Office of Health, Bureau for Research and Development, Agency for International Development Kimberly J. DeBlauw, Office of International Development Assistance, Bureau of International Organization Affairs, Department of State Robert H. Dodson, Office of International Donor Programs, Policy Directorate, Agency for International Development Teresa D. Hobgood, Office of United Nations System Budgets, Bureau of International Organization Affairs, Department of State Margaret J. Pollack, Chief, Economic and Humanitarian Assistance, Office of International Development Assistance, Bureau of International Organization Affairs, Department of State David L. Schiele, United States Mission to the United Nations, New York Susan Shearouse, United States Mission to the United Nations, New York Linda S. Shenwick, Counselor, United States Mission to the United Nations, New York Linda Vogel, Office of International Health, Department of Health and Human Services Private Sector Advisers Alejandro J. Palacios, Director, Office of Public Policy and Government Relations, United States Committee for UNICEF, Washington, DC James D. Weill, General Counsel, Children's Defense Fund, Washington, DC United States Delegation to the Statistical Committee, 45th Session, (April 27), and Standing Committee, 76th Session, (April 28), International Lead and Zinc Study Group, London, April 27&hyph;28, 1993 Representative Michael Glover, Economic Officer, United States Embassy, London Private Sector Adviser Richard Bauer, Jr., Vice President, Eastern Alloys, Maybrook, New York United States Delegation to the First Meeting of the Telecommunication Standardization Sector (TSS) of Study Group 8, International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Geneva, April 27&hyph;May 6, 1993 Representative Dennis Bodson, Deputy Director, National Communications System Alternate Representative Gary Fereno, Director for CITEL and CCITT, Standards and Policy, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Advisers Douglas V. Davis, Attorney Advisor, Federal Communications Commission Steven Perschau, Senior Engineer, National Communications System Private Sector Advisers Elaine J. Baskin, Technical Writer, Palo Alto, California Bruce J. DeGrasse, Consultant, B.J. Communications, Dallas, Texas Kenneth R. Krechmer, Action Consulting, Palo Alto, California Andrew Mutz, Research Scientist, Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York Herman R. Silbiger, Communications Consultant, APPLICOM, Tinton Falls, New Jersey Cornelius J. Starkey, Vice President, Data Beam Corporation, Lexington, Kentucky Charles Touchton, Standards Engineer, IBM Corporation, Tampa, Florida Steven Urban, Senior Engineer, Delta Information Systems, Horsham, Pennsylvania
