FR940826-2-00161 FR940826-2-00081 6. The Travelers requests an exemption from rule 17j&hyph;1, except rule 17j&hyph;1(a). Rule 17j&hyph;1 requires that every access person of a registered investment company report to the investment company with respect to transactions in any security in which the access person has any beneficial ownership in the security. Applicant believes that the community of interests among the partners of the Partnerships and the conditions described below provide adequate safeguards. The Travelers does not seek an exemption from, and the Partnerships will comply with, the anti-fraud provisions of paragraph (a) of rule 17j&hyph;1. 7. The Travelers believes that the exemptions requested under section 6(b) of the Act are consistent with the protection of investors. The exemptions are being requested because they are considered necessary or relevant to the operations of the Partnerships as an investment program uniquely adapted to the needs of employees of The Travelers Group. The Travelers further believes that the requested relief is consistent with the legislative history relating to employees' securities companies. 8. The Travelers also believes that a substantial community of economic and other interests exists among The Travelers Group and the limited partners which obviates the need for protection of investors under the Act. The Partnerships will be conceived, organized and managed by persons who will be investing in the Partnerships, and will not be promoted by persons seeking to profit from fees or investment advice or from the distribution of securities. The travelers also believes that the terms of the proposed affiliated transactions will be reasonable and fair and free from overreaching, and will be consistent with the policy of each registered investment company concerned. Applicant's Conditions Applicant will comply with the following conditions if the requested order is granted: 1. Each proposed transaction involving a Partnership otherwise prohibited by section 17(A) or section 17(D) of the Act and rule 17d&hyph;1 thereunder (the ``section 17 transactions'') will be effected only if the general partner determines that: a. the terms of the transaction, including the consideration to be paid or received, are fair and reasonable to the partners and do not involve overreaching of the Partnership or its partners on the part of any person concerned; and b. the transaction is consistent with the interests of the partners, the Partnership's organizational documents and the Partnership's reports to its partners. In addition, the general partners will record and preserve a description of such affiliated transactions, their findings, the information or materials upon which their findings are based and the basis therefor. All such records will be maintained for the life of the Partnerships and at least two years thereafter, and will be subject to examination by the Commission and its staff. 1 1 Each Partnership will preserve the accounts, books and other documents required to be maintained in an easily accessible place for the first two years. 2. In connection with the section 17 transactions, the general partner will adopt, and periodically review and update, procedures designed to ensure that reasonable inquiry is made, prior to the consummation of any such transaction, with respect to the possible involvement in the transaction of any affiliated person or promoter of or principal underwriter for the Partnerships, or any affiliated person of such a person, promoter, or principal underwriter. 3. The general partner will not invest the funds of any Partnership in any investment in which an Affiliated Co-Investor has or proposes to acquire the same class of securities of the same issuer, where the investment involves a joint enterprise or other joint arrangement within the meaning of rule 17d&hyph;1 in which the Partnership and an Affiliated Co-Investor are participants, unless any such Affiliated Co-Investor, prior to disposing of all or part of its investment, (a) gives the general partner sufficient, but not less than one day's, notice of its intent to dispose of its investment, and (b) refrains from disposing of its investment unless the Partnership has the opportunity to dispose of the Partnership's investment prior to or concurrently with, on the same terms as, and pro rata with the Affiliated Co-Investor. The term ``Affiliated Co-Investor'' means any person who is: (1) an ``affiliated person'' (as such term is defined in the Act) of the Partnership; (2) a member of The Travelers Group; (3) an officer or director of a member of the Travelers Group; (4) a travelers sponsored vehicle; or (5) a company in which an officer or director of the general partner acts as an officer, director, or general partner, or has a similar capacity to control the sale or other disposition of the company's securities. The restrictions contained in this condition, however, shall not be deemed to limit or prevent the disposition of an investment by an Affiliated Co-Investor: (a) to its direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, to any company (a ``parent'') of which the Affiliated Co-Investor is a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, or to a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of its parent; (b) to immediate family members of the Affiliated Co-Investor or a trust established for any Affiliated Co-Investor or any such family member; or (c) when the investment is comprised of securities that are (i) listed on a national securities exchange registered under section 6 of the 1934 Act, (ii) national market system securities pursuant to section 11A(1)(2) of the 1934 Act and rule 11A(a)(2)&hyph;1 thereunder, or (iii) government securities as defined in section 2(a)(16) of the Act. 4. Each Partnership and its general partner will maintain and preserve, for the life of each such Partnership and at least two years thereafter, such accounts, books, and other documents as constitute the record forming the basis for the audited financial statements that are to be provided to the partners, and each annual report of such Partnership required by the terms of the applicable partnership agreement to be sent to the partners, and agree that all such records will be subject to examination by the Commission and its staff. 2 2 Each Partnership will preserve the accounts, books, and other documents required to be maintained in an easily accessible place for the first two years. 5. The general partner will send to each limited partner who had an interest in the Partnership, at any time during the fiscal year then ended, Partnership financial statements audited by the Partnership's independent accountants. At the end of each fiscal year, the general partner will make a valuation or have a valuation made of all of the assets of the Partnership as of such fiscal year end. In addition, within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of each of the Partnerships or as soon as practicable thereafter, the general partner shall send a report to each person who was a limited partner at any time during the fiscal year then ended, setting forth such tax information as shall be necessary for the preparation by the limited partner of his or her federal and state income tax returns and a report of the investment activities of the Partnership during such year. 6. In any case where purchases or sales are made from or to an entity affiliated with a Partnership by reason of a 5% or more investment in such entity by a Travelers Group director, officer or employee, such individual will not participate in the general partner's determination of whether or not to effect such purchase or sale. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21004 Filed 8&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
