FR940106-0-00169 FR940106-0-00022 26. Paragraphs (a) and (d) of §617.50 are revised to read as follows: §617.50 Determinations of entitlement; notices to individuals. (a) Determinations of initial applications for TRA or other TAA. The State Agency whose State law is the applicable State law under §617.16 shall upon the filing of an initial application for TRA or other TAA promptly determine the individual's entitlement to such TRA or other TAA under this part 617, and may accept for such purposes information and findings supplied by another State agency under this part 617. * * * * * (d) Use of State law. In making determinations or redeterminations under this section, or in reviewing such determinations or redeterminations under §617.51, a State agency shall apply the regulations in this part 617. As to matters committed by this part 617 to the applicable State law, a State agency, a hearing officer, or a State court shall apply the applicable State law and regulations thereunder, including procedural requirements of such State law or regulations, except so far as such State law or regulations are inconsistent with this part 617 or the purpose of this part 617: Provided, that, no provision of State law or regulations on good cause for waiver of any time limit, or for late filing of any claim, shall apply to any time limitation referred to or specified in this part 617, unless such State law or regulation is made applicable by a specific provision of this part 617. 27. Section 617.55 is revised to read as follows: §617.55 Overpayments; penalties for fraud. (a) Determination and repayment. (1) If a State agency or a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any person or individual has received any payment under this part 617 to which the person or individual was not entitled, including a payment referred to in paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of this section, such person or individual shall be liable to repay such amount to the State agency, and the State agency shall recover any such overpayment in accordance with the provisions of this part 617; except that the State agency may waive the recovery of any such overpayment if the State agency determines, in accordance with the guidelines prescribed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, that: (i) The payment was made without fault on the part of such person or individual; and (ii) Requiring such repayment would be contrary to equity and good conscience. (2)(i)(A) In determining whether fault exists for purposes of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the following factors shall be considered: ( 1 ) Whether a material statement or representation was made by the person or individual in connection with the application for TAA that resulted in the overpayment, and whether the person or individual knew or should have known that the statement or representation was inaccurate.
