FR941227-2-00056 FR941227-2-00044 Abstract: The Federal Reserve proposes to reduce the reporting frequency from once a month to once a year, and to eliminate nine of the thirteen items on the report. The panel selection criterion for future panel additions would change from the 100 most active issuers to those whose acceptances outstanding exceed $50 million on their quarterly condition reports. The proposed revisions would reduce the annual reporting burden for this report by 97 percent. 2. Report title: Notice by Financial Institutions of, and Termination of, Activities as a Government Securities Broker or Government Securities Dealer Agency form number: FR G&hyph;FIN and FR G&hyph;FINW OMB Docket number: 7100&hyph;0224 Frequency: On occasion Reporters: State member banks, foreign banks, state-chartered branches and agencies of foreign banks, and commercial lending companies owned or controlled by foreign banks Annual reporting hours: 37 Estimated average hours per response: 1 Number of respondents: 37 Small businesses are affected. General description of report: This information collection is mandatory [15 U.S.C. §78o&hyph;5(a)(1)(B)(ii)] and is not given confidential treatment. Abstract: Each financial institution that acts as a government securities broker or dealer is required to notify its appropriate federal regulatory agency of its broker-dealer activities by filing an FR G&hyph;FIN, unless exempted from the notice requirement by Treasury Department regulation. Financial institutions that have previously filed an FR G&hyph;FIN and that have terminated their broker-dealer activities must notify their appropriate federal regulatory agency by filing an FR G&hyph;FINW. The revisions involve clarifying the instructions as to the appropriate regulatory authority for various categories of government securities brokers and dealers to reflect the Government Securities Act Amendments of 1993. 3. Report title: Uniform Application for Municipal Securities Principal or Municipal Securities Representative Associated with a Bank Municipal Securities Dealer; Uniform Termination Notice for Municipal Securities Principal or Municipal Securities Representative Associated with a Bank Municipal Securities Dealer Agency form number: FR MSD&hyph;4, MSD&hyph;5 OMB Docket number: 7100&hyph;0100, 7100&hyph;0101 Frequency: On occasion Reporters: State member banks who engage in activities as municipal securities dealers, and persons who are or seek to be associated with such dealers as municipal securities principals or representatives Annual reporting hours: 303, 33 Estimated average hours per response: 2.75, 0.25 Number of respondents: 110, 133 Small businesses are not affected. General description of report: This information collection is mandatory [15 U.S.C. §§78o&hyph;4(b)(2)(A) and 78o&hyph;4(c)(5)] and is given confidential treatment [5 U.S.C. §552(b)(6)]. Abstract: The filing of this application is required of a Municipal Securities Dealer Bank (MSD) and a person associated with a MSD, prior to such person functioning in a professional capacity. This application serves to verify compliance with the rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board and with related securities and banking laws. It is also used as a source document for entry into an interagency computer system of records. The MSD&hyph;5 notice must be filed within 30 days after a person associated in a professional capacity with a bank municipal securities dealer terminates employment. The notice is a compliance vehicle for rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board and for related securities and banking laws. It is also a source document for updating information on an interagency computer system of records. The proposed revisions involve changing the phrasing of one item on the FR MSD&hyph;4.
