FR940323-0-00076 FR940323-0-00020 (h) Intergenerational support. The Corporation may assist programs in developing a service component that combines students, out-of-school youths, and older adults as participants to provide needed community services. (i) Planning coordination. The Corporation may coordinate community-wide planning among programs and projects. (j) Youth leadership. The Corporation may support activities to enhance the ability of youth and young adults to play leadership roles in national service. (k) National program identity. The Corporation may support the development and dissemination of materials, including training materials, and arrange for uniforms and insignia, designed to promote unity and shared features among programs that receive assistance under the national service laws. (l) Service-learning. The Corporation will support innovative programs and activities that promote service-learning. (m) National youth service day_ (1) Designation. April 19, 1994, and April 18, 1995 are each designated as ``National Youth Service Day''. The President is authorized and directed to issue a proclamation calling on the people of the United States to observe the day with appropriate ceremonies and activities. (2) Federal activities. In order to observe National Youth Service Day at the Federal level, the Corporation may organize and carry out appropriate ceremonies and activities. (3) Activities. The Corporation may make grants to public or private nonprofit organizations with demonstrated ability to carry out appropriate activities, in order to support such activities on National Youth Service Day. (n) Clearinghouses _(1) Authority. The Corporation may establish clearinghouses, either directly or through a grant or contract. Any service-learning clearinghouse to be established pursuant to part 2518 of this chapter is eligible to apply for a grant under this section. In addition, public or private nonprofit organizations are eligible to apply for clearinghouse grants. (2) Function. A Clearinghouse may perform the following activities: (i) Assist entities carrying out State or local community service programs with needs assessments and planning; (ii) Conduct research and evaluations concerning community service; (iii) Provide leadership development and training to State and local community service program administrators, supervisors, and participants; and provide training to persons who can provide such leadership development and training; (iv) Facilitate communication among entities carrying out community service programs and participants; (v) Provide information, curriculum materials, and technical assistance relating to planning and operation of community service programs, to States and local entities eligible to receive funds under this chapter; (vi) Gather and disseminate information on successful community service programs, components of such successful programs, innovative youth skills curriculum, and community service projects; (vii) Coordinate the activities of the clearinghouse with appropriate entities to avoid duplication of effort; (viii) Make recommendations to State and local entities on quality controls to improve the delivery of community service programs and on changes in the programs under this chapter; and (ix) Carry out such other activities as the Chief Executive Officer determines to be appropriate. (o) Assistance for Head Start. The Corporation may make grants to, and enter into contracts and cooperative agreements with, public or nonprofit private agencies and organizations that receive grants or contracts under the Foster Grandparent Program (part B of title II of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 5011 et seq.)), for projects of the type described in section 211(a) of such Act (29 U.S.C. 5011) operating under memoranda of agreement with the ACTION Agency, for the purpose of increasing the number of low-income individuals who provide services under such program to children who participate in Head Start programs under the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.). (p) Other assistance. The Corporation may support other activities that are consistent with the purposes described in part 2530 of this chapter. PART 2533_SPECIAL ACTIVITIES Sec. 2533.10␣National service fellowships. 2533.20␣Presidential awards for service. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq. §2533.10 National service fellowships. The Corporation may award national service fellowships on a competitive basis. Application procedures, selection criteria, timing and other requirements will be announced in the Federal Register. §2533.20 Presidential awards for service. The President, acting through the Corporation, may make Presidential awards for service to individuals providing significant service, and to outstanding programs. Information about recipients of such awards will be widely disseminated. The President may provide such awards to any deserving individual or program, regardless of whether the individual is serving in a program authorized by this chapter or whether the program is itself authorized by this chapter. In no instance, however, may the award be a cash award. PART 2540_GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
