FR940524-1-00077 FR940524-1-00010 Subpart K_Particulate Respirators §84.170 Particulate respirators; description. (a) Particulate air-purifying respirators have filters to remove solid or both liquid and solid particulates from the ambient air. They are designed for use as respiratory protection against atmospheres with particulate contaminants (e.g., dust, fume, mists) that are not immediately dangerous to life or health and that contain adequate oxygen to support life. (b) Particulate air-purifying respirators are classified as either non-powered or powered, according to their design and are further classified into one of two types: those intended for removal of solid particulates only and those intended for both liquid and solid particulates. (c) Non-powered particulate air-purifying respirators are classified according to the efficiency of the filter element(s) as tested according to the requirements of this part. (1) Type A filters shall demonstrate a minimum efficiency of 99.97 percent. (2) Type B filters shall demonstrate a minimum efficiency of 99 percent. (3) Type C filters shall demonstrate a minimum efficiency of 95 percent. (d) Powered particulate air-purifying respirators are classified according to the efficiency of the filter element(s) as tested according to the requirements of this part. (1) Type A filters shall demonstrate a minimum efficiency of 99.97 percent. (2) Type B filters shall demonstrate a minimum efficiency of 99 percent. §84.171 Particulate respirators; required components. (a) Each particulate respirator described in §84.170 shall, where its design requires, contain the following component parts: (1) Facepiece, mouthpiece with noseclip, hood, or helmet; (2) Filter unit; (3) Harness; (4) Attached blower; and (5) Breathing tube. (b) The components of each particulate respirator shall meet the minimum construction requirements set forth in subpart G of this part. §84.172 Breathing tubes; minimum requirements. Flexible breathing tubes used in conjunction with respirators shall be designed and constructed to prevent: (a) Restriction of free head movement; (b) Disturbance of the fit of facepieces, mouthpieces, hoods, or helmets; (c) Interference with the wearer's activities; and (d) Shutoff of airflow due to kinking, or from chin or arm pressure. §84.173 Harnesses; installation and construction; minimum requirements. (a) Each respirator shall, where necessary, be equipped with a suitable harness designed and constructed to hold the components of the respirator in position against the wearer's body. (b) Harnesses shall be designed and constructed to permit easy removal and replacement of respirator parts, and, where applicable, provide for holding a full facepiece in the ready position when not in use. §84.174 Respirator containers; minimum requirements. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section each respirator shall be equipped with a substantial, durable container bearing markings which show the applicant's name, the type of respirator it contains, and all appropriate approval labels. (b) Containers for single-use respirators may provide for storage of more than one respirator, however, such containers shall be designed and constructed to prevent contamination of respirators which are not removed, and to prevent damage to respirators during transit. §84.175 Half-mask facepieces, full facepieces, hoods, helmets, and mouthpieces; fit; minimum requirements. (a) Half-mask facepieces and full facepieces shall be designed and constructed to fit persons with various facial shapes and sizes either: (1) By providing more than one facepiece size; or (2) By providing one facepiece size which will fit varying facial shapes and sizes. (b) Full facepieces shall provide for optional use of corrective spectacles or lenses, which shall not reduce the respiratory protective qualities of the respirator. (c) Hoods and helmets shall be designed and constructed to fit persons with various head sizes, provide for the optional use of corrective spectacles or lenses, and insure against any restriction of movement by the wearer.
