FR940428-2-00155 FR940428-2-00072 VII. Other Legal Requirements A. Economic Impact (Executive Order 12291) EPA has reviewed the effect of Executive Order 12291 on this draft general permit and has determined that it is not a major rule under that order. This regulation was submitted previously to the Office of Management and Budget for review as required by Executive Order 12291. The Office of Management and Budget has exempted this action from the review requirements of Executive Order 12291 pursuant to section 8(b) of that Order. B. Paperwork Reduction Act EPA has reviewed the requirements imposed on regulated facilities by these draft general NPDES permits under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. §§3501 et seq. The information collection requirements of these draft permits have already been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under submissions made for the NPDES permit program under the provisions of the Clean Water Act. No comments from the Office of Management and Budget or the public were received on the information collection requirements in these permits. C. The Regulatory Flexibility Act After review of the facts presented in the notice printed above, I hereby certify, pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. §605(b), that these permits do not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Moreover, the draft permits will reduce a significant administrative burden on regulated sources. Dated: April 6, 1994. John P. DeVillars, Regional Administrator. Appendix A_Summary of Responses to Public Comments on the September 15, 1992, Draft General Permits One commenter expressed concern that the general permits eliminate all effective water treatment programs for non-contact cooling systems and that the permits surmised that additives used to control biological growth (biocides) are inherently toxic to aquatic life. The commenter suggested that EPA more fully review all the technical aspects of operating and maintaining cooling tower systems before issuing the permit. As stated in the permit, the purpose of general permits is to extend environmental and regulatory controls to a large number of discharges and reduce some permit backlog. It is a mechanism through which the Region can properly regulate many of the minor non-contact cooling water discharges, it can provide quick coverage to a large number facilities. Time and resources do not allow for individual review of each of the facilities cooling water systems and the types of additives used. If a facility wishes it may apply for an individual permit which can address this issue separately. One commenter from New Hampshire expressed concern regarding the pH requirements for the permit, the commenter was concerned that excursions of pH caused by precipitation or intake water are not allowed. The final permit requirements for New Hampshire do allow for pH excursions due to natural causes as part of the State Surface Water Quality Regulations (see the New Hampshire general permit, Part B, State Permit Conditions). Appendix B_Final General Permits Under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES). Note: The following three general NPDES permits have been combined for purposes of this Federal Register . Parts I.A. and I.B. of the permits are specific for each state. Parts I.C. and I.D. are common to all three permits. Massachusetts General Permit, Permit No. MAG250000 In compliance with the provisions of the Federal Clean Water Act, as amended, (33 U.S.C. §§1251 et seq.; the ``CWA''), and the Massachusetts Clean Waters in Massachusetts, which discharge solely non-contact cooling water, as previously defined in Part III, to the classes of waters as designated in the Massachusetts Water Quality Standards, 314 CMR 4.00 et seq.; are authorized to discharge to all waters, unless otherwise restricted, in accordance with effluent limitations, monitoring requirements and other conditions set forth herein. This permit shall become effective when issued. This permit and the authorization to discharge expire at midnight, five years from the effective date of the Federal Register publication. Operators of facilities within the general permit area who fail to notify the Director of their intent to be covered by this general permit and receive written notification of permit coverage, or those who are denied by the Director are not authorized under this general permit to discharge from those facilities to the receiving waters or areas named. Signed this 6th day of April, 1994. David A. Fierra, Director, Water Management Division, Environmental Protection Agency, Boston, MA. Andrew Gottlieb, Director, Office of Watershed Management, Bureau of Resource Protection, Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Boston, MA.
