FR941007-1-00097 FR941007-1-00009 (ii) Occasional use of innovative or complex qualified investments, community development loans, or community development services, to support community development initiatives; and (iii) Adequate responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs in its service area(s). (3) Needs to improve. The OCC shall rate a wholesale or limited purpose bank's community development performance as ``needs to improve'' if, in general, it demonstrates: (i) A poor level of qualified investments, community development loans outstanding, or community development services, particularly those that directly address credit needs; (ii) Rare use of innovative or complex qualified investments, community development loans, or community development services, to support community development initiatives; and (iii) Poor responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs in its service area(s). (4) Substantial noncompliance. The OCC shall rate a wholesale or limited purpose bank's community development performance in ``substantial noncompliance'' if, in general, it demonstrates: (i) Few, if any, qualified investments, community development loans outstanding, or community development services, particularly those that directly address credit needs; (ii) No use of innovative or complex qualified investments, community development loans, or community development services, to support community development initiatives; and (iii) Very poor responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs in its service area(s). (d) Assessment standards for small banks. The OCC shall rate each small bank's performance as described below. (1) Eligibility for a satisfactory rating. The OCC shall rate a bank's performance ``satisfactory'' if, in general, the bank demonstrates: (i) A reasonable loan-to-deposit ratio (considering seasonal variations) given the bank's size, financial condition, the credit needs of its service area(s), and taking into account, as appropriate, lending-related activities such as loan originations for sale to the secondary markets and community development lending and investment; (ii) A majority of its loans and, as appropriate, other lending-related activities are in its service area(s); (iii) A distribution of loans to and, as appropriate, other lending related-activities for individuals of different income levels (including low- and moderate-income individuals) and businesses and farms of different sizes that is reasonable given the demographics of the bank's service area(s); (iv) A record of taking appropriate action, as warranted, in response to written complaints, if any, about the bank's performance in meeting the credit needs of its service area(s); and (v) A reasonable geographic distribution of loans given its service area(s). (2) Eligibility for an outstanding rating. A small bank that meets each of the standards for a ``satisfactory'' rating under this paragraph and exceeds some or all of those standards may warrant consideration for an overall rating of ``outstanding''. In assessing whether a small bank's performance is ``outstanding'', the OCC shall consider the extent to which the bank exceeds each of the assessment standards for a ``satisfactory'' rating and its performance in making qualified investments (as defined in §25.23 of this part) and its performance in providing branches, ATMs or other services and delivery systems that enhance credit availability in its service area(s). (3) Needs to improve or substantial noncompliance ratings. A small bank also may receive a rating of ``needs to improve'' or ``substantial noncompliance'' depending on the degree to which its performance has failed to meet the standards for a ``satisfactory'' rating. (e) Strategic plan assessment and rating. (1) Satisfactory goals. The OCC shall approve as ``satisfactory'' measurable goals that adequately help meet the credit needs of each of a bank's service area(s). (2) Outstanding goals. If the plan identifies a separate group of measurable goals that substantially exceed the levels approved as ``satisfactory,'' the OCC shall approve those goals as ``outstanding.'' (3) Rating. The OCC shall assess the performance of a bank operating under an approved plan to determine if the bank has met its plan goals: (i) If the bank substantially achieves its plan goals for a satisfactory rating, the OCC shall rate the bank's performance under the plan as ``satisfactory.'' (ii) If the bank exceeds its plan goals for a satisfactory rating and substantially achieves its plan goals for an outstanding rating, the OCC shall rate the bank's performance under the plan as ``outstanding''. (iii) If the bank fails to substantially meet its plan goals for a satisfactory rating, it shall be rated as either ``needs to improve'' or ``substantial noncompliance,'' depending on the extent to which it falls short of its plan goals, or if the bank so elected at the time it first submitted its plan, it shall be rated under the lending, investment and service tests (as described in §§25.22 through 25.24 of this part), the community development test (as described in §25.25 of this part), or the small bank assessment standards (as described in §25.26 of this part), as appropriate.
