FR940603-1-00162 FR940603-1-00009 (5) The Contractor will furnish all information and reports required by Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, and by rules, regulations, and orders of the Secretary of Labor, or pursuant thereto, and will permit access to its books, records, and accounts by the administering agency and the Secretary of Labor for purposes of investigation to ascertain compliance with such rules, regulations, and orders. (6) In the event of the Contractor's noncompliance with the Equal Opportunity Clause of this Contract or with any of the said rules, regulations, or orders, this Contract may be cancelled, terminated, or suspended in whole or in part, and the Contractor may be declared ineligible for further Government contracts or federally assisted construction contracts in accordance with procedures authorized in Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, and such other sanctions may be imposed and remedies invoked as provided in Executive Order 11246 of September 24,1965, or by rule, regulation, or order of the Secretary of Labor, or as provided by law. (7) The Contractor will include this Equal Opportunity Clause in every subcontract or purchase order unless exempted by the rules, regulations, or order of the Secretary of Labor issued pursuant to Section 204 of Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, so that such provisions will be binding upon each subcontractor or vendor. The Contractor will take such action with respect to any subcontract or purchase order as the administering agency may direct as a means of enforcing such provisions, including sanctions for noncompliance: Provided, however, That in the event a Contractor becomes involved in, or is threatened with, litigation with a subcontractor or vendor as a result of such direction by the administering agency, the Contractor may request the United States to enter into such litigation to protect the interests of the United States. c. Certificate of Nonsegregated Facilities. The Contractor certifies that it does not maintain or provide for its employees any segregated facilities at any of its establishments, and that it does not permit its employees to perform their services at any location, under its control, where segregated facilities are maintained. The Contractor certifies further that it will not maintain or provide for its employees any segregated facilities at any of its establishments, and that it will not permit its employees to perform their services at any location, under its control, where segregated facilities are maintained. The Contractor agrees that a breach of this certification is a violation of the Equal Opportunity Clause in this Contract. As used in this certification, the term ``segregated facilities'' means any waiting rooms, work areas, restrooms and washrooms, restaurants and other eating areas, timeclocks, locker rooms and other storage or dressing areas, parking lots, drinking fountains, recreation or entertainment areas, transportation, and housing facilities provided for employees which are segregated by explicit directive or are in fact segregated on the basis of race, color, religion, or national origin, because of habit, local custom, or otherwise. The Contractor agrees that (except where it has obtained identical certifications from proposed subcontractors for specific time periods) it will obtain identical certifications from proposed subcontractors prior to the award of subcontracts exceeding $10,000 which are not exempt from the provisions of the Equal Opportunity Clause, and that it will retain such certifications in its files. Section 5_Franchises and Rights-of-way. The Contractor will be under no obligation to obtain or assist in obtaining any franchises, authorizations, permits, or approvals required to be obtained by the Owner from Federal, State, County, Municipal or other authority; any rights-of-way over private lands or any agreements between the Owner and third parties with respect to the joint use of poles, crossing or any other matter incident to the construction and operation of the Project. Section 6_Nonassignment of Contract. The Contractor will not assign the Contract effected by an acceptance of this Proposal or any part thereof or enter into any contract with any person, firm or corporation for the performance of the Contractor's obligations thereunder, or any part thereof, without the approval in writing of the Owner. Section 7_Definitions. a. The term Owner shall also include an engineer employed by the Owner, or a firm or engineer retained by the Owner, and designated by the Owner to act in that capacity. The Contractor will be notified in writing by the Owner of those designated to act for the Owner at the time of acceptance of this Proposal. b. The term Completion of Construction shall mean full performance by the Contractor of the Contractor's obligations under the contract and all amendments and revisions thereof relating to any Section of the Project or to the Project except the Contractor's obligations in respect of (i) Certificate of Contractor and Indemnity Agreement_Line Extensions under Article III, section 2 hereof and (ii) the Final Inventory referred to in Article III, Section 1a hereof. c. The term Completion shall mean full performance by the Contractor of the Contractor's obligations under the Contract and all amendments and revisions thereof relating to any Section of the Project or to the Project. Section 8_Extension to Successors and Assigns. Each and all of the covenants and agreements contained in the Contract effected by the acceptance of the Proposal shall extend to and be binding upon the successors and assigns of the parties thereto. XXXX (Contractor) By XXXX (President) XXXX (Address) ATTEST: XXXX (Secretary) XXXX Date of Proposal This Proposal must be signed with the full name of the Contractor. If the Contractor is a partnership, the Proposal must be signed in the partnership name by a partner. If the Contractor is a corporation, the Proposal must be signed in the corporate name by a duly authorized officer and the corporate seal affixed and attested by the Secretary of the Corporation. Construction Units_New Construction SECTION 1_POLE UNITS
