FR941219-1-00049 FR941219-1-00016 A. The Present or Threatened Destruction, Modification, or Curtailment of Their Habitat or Range The primary threats to Lasthenia conjugens, Navarretia leucocephala ssp. pauciflora, Navarretia leucocephala ssp. plieantha, and Parvisedum leiocarpum consist of activities that result in the destruction of the plants or hydrologic changes in their vernal pool habitats. Such activities include urbanization, industrial development, agricultural land conversion, off-highway vehicle use, horseback riding, trampling by grazing cattle, and road widening. Damage or destruction of vernal pool habitat happens quickly and easily due to the extremely friable nature of the soil and the dependency of the pool upon an intact durapan or impermeable subsurface soil layer. Lasthenia conjugens is no longer found in five of the seven counties in which it historically occurred. Agricultural land conversion, urbanization, and associated developments have extirpated populations of this species in Alameda, Contra Costa, Santa Clara, and Santa Barbara Counties (CNDDB 1993, CNPS 1978). Agricultural land conversion has extirpated one additional population of L. conjugens in Napa County (CNDDB 1993). Widening and straightening of Ledgewood Creek north of Cordelia Road in Solano County by the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers eliminated a large amount of habitat and plants of L. conjugens (Ann Howald, CDFG, pers. comm., 1993). Urbanization threatens a population of L. conjugens in Napa County (CNDDB 1993; Jake Ruygut, CNPS, in. litt., 1993). Off-highway vehicle traffic has adversely impacted this same population (CNDDB 1993). Industrial development threatens a population of L. conjugens in Solano County (CNDDB 1993). Navarretia leucocephala ssp. pauciflora has disappeared at over 50 percent of the sites from which it historically occurred. Extant populations continue to decline due to anthropogenic activities. Two population sites have been adversely affected by drainage or, in one case, by the attempt to create a more permanent water source (CDFG 1989b). One partially drained site, Manning Flat in Lake County, has experienced significant accelerated soil erosion, reducing the amount of available habitat and the plant population (McCarten 1985; CDFG 1989b). Off-highway vehicle use has damaged several population sites in Lake County (CDFG 1989b; CNDDB 1993). Agricultural land conversion to a rice field adversely affected another population site in Lake County (CDFG 1989b). Pond construction for cattle watering partially destroyed the population of N. leucocephala ssp. pauciflora at Ely Flat in Lake County and severely altered the hydrology of its habitat (CDFG 1989b). Agricultural land conversion threatens this same population (CDFG 1989b; CNPS 1990a). Navarretia leucocephala ssp. plieantha has apparently been extirpated at one population site in Sonoma County. This area has been severely impacted by horseback riding, feral pigs ( Sus scrofa ), and a tree eradication program (CNDDB 1993; John Herrick, CNPS, pers. comm., 1993). Off-highway vehicle use has resulted in the destruction of plants and habitat of this subspecies at one location in Sonoma County, and at four population sites in Lake County (CDFG 1991a). Urbanization threatens one population site in Lake County and the extant population site in Sonoma County (CNDDB 1993). Attempted drainage of a pool in Lake County containing Navarretia leucocephala ssp. plieantha has resulted in the invasion of two competitive weeds, Centaurea solstitialis and Taeniatherum caput-medusa (CNDDB 1993). Parvisedum leiocarpum has been extirpated from 50 percent of its historic population sites. Attempted drainage has altered the hydrology of two of the three remaining vernal pools containing populations of this plant (CNPS 1990b). Drainage attempts at one of the sites resulted in severe erosion and a reduction of habitat and plant numbers (CNPS 1990b). Widening of Highway 29 by California Department of Transportation also threatens to impact this population (CNPS 1990b). Discing has occurred at the third population site (CNDDB 1993). All population localities occur on privately owned, flat land next to major roads. This makes them vulnerable to urban development and agricultural land conversion (CDFG 1989a, CNPS 1990b). Off-highway vehicle use has occurred at two of the three P. leiocarpum population sites (CNDDB 1993, CNPS 1990b). Population sites for each of the four species are impacted by trampling from grazing cattle and by feral pigs. Trampling by livestock threatens all populations of Parvisedum leiocarpum (CDFG 1989a). B. Overutilization for Commercial, Recreational, Scientific, or Educational Purposes Due to the localized and limited distribution of Lasthenia conjugens, Navarretia leucocephala ssp. pauciflora, Navarretia leucocephala ssp. plieantha, and Parvisedum leiocarpum, indiscriminate collecting of plants could seriously affect these species. Overutilization is not known to occur at this time. C. Disease or Predation Not known to be applicable.
