FR941206-2-00017 FR941206-2-00009 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Coastal Nonpoint Pollution Control Program Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement Scoping AGENCY: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce. ACTION: Notice of Intent to Prepare a Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement. SUMMARY: Pursuant to Section 6217 of the Coastal Zone Act Reauthorization Amendments of 1990, 16 U.S.C. 1455b, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) proposes to prepare a programmatic environmental impact statement (PEIS) on the approval of state coastal nonpoint pollution control programs. The requirements of 40 C.F.R. parts 1500&hyph;1508 [Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) regulations to implement the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)] apply to the preparation of the PEIS. Specifically, 40 CFR 1501.7 requires an early and open ``scoping'' process. This notice is part of NOAA's action to comply with the scoping requirement. DATES: Individuals or organizations wishing to submit comments on these or other issues should do so by December 30, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be made to: Marcella Jansen, Coastal Programs Division (N/ORM3), Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management, NOAA, 1305 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, Maryland 20910, tel. (301) 713&hyph;3098, x143. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Marcella Jansen, Coastal Programs Division (N/ORM3), Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management, NOS, NOAA, 1305 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, Maryland 20910, tel. (301) 713&hyph;3098, x143. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 6217 of the Coastal Zone Act Reauthorization Amendments of 1990 requires states with coastal zone management programs that have received Federal approval under section 306 of the Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA) to develop and implement coastal nonpoint pollution control programs (coastal nonpoint programs). Coastal states are required to submit their coastal nonpoint programs to NOAA and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for approval by July, 1995. Once approved, these programs will be implemented through changes to the state nonpoint source pollution program approved by EPA under section 319 of the Clean Water Act and through changes to the state coastal zone management program approved by NOAA under the CZMA. To assist states in the development of their programs, NOAA and EPA jointly published a program development and approval guidance document. EPA also published a technical guidance document specifying management measures for sources of nonpoint pollution in coastal waters. This management measure guidance addresses five source categories of nonpoint pollution: agriculture, forestry, urban, marinas, and hydromodification. Management measures are also included for wetlands protection, riparian areas, and vegetated filter strips. In addition to these management measures, additional management measures must be developed and implemented by each state for land uses and critical areas adjacent to impaired or threatened coastal waters. NOAA proposes to prepare a programmatic environmental impact statement (PEIS). This PEIS will assess the environmental impacts associated with the implementation of the requirements of the section 6217 program. The PEIS will form the basis for the subsequent NEPA documents (environmental impact statements or assessments) NOAA will prepare on each of the 29 state coastal nonpoint programs submitted for approval. When a state program is proposed, a subsequent NEPA document will be prepared which addresses the state-specific environmental impacts arising from that method of implementing the program. These subsequent NEPA documents will present a summary of the issues addressed in the PEIS and, as appropriate, incorporate by reference the analyses presented in the PEIS. Possible alternatives to the proposed action of approval of the state coastal nonpoint programs include: (a) Conditional approval of the programs; and, (b) denial of program approval. Based on discussion with the EPA and other involved Federal agencies and comments received in response to this notice, NOAA will develop the draft PEIS. The final PEIS will be published in July, 1995. Comments on the draft PEIS will be solicited and evaluated in accordance with 40 CFR Part 1503. The following preliminary table of contents for the PEIS has been developed for discussion purposes: 1. Cover Sheet and Abstract. 2. Summary. 3. Table of Contents. 4. Purpose of and Need for the Action._As part of the Coastal Zone Act Reauthorization Amendments of 1990, states with approved coastal zone programs are required to develop and implement coastal nonpoint programs. Coastal states are required to submit their coastal nonpoint programs to NOAA and the EPA for approval by July, 1995. NOAA and EPA must review the programs within six months. 5. Alternatives, including proposed action._This section will evaluate reasonable alternatives to the approval of the state programs. 6. Affected Environment._This section will describe the physical, chemical, and biological characteristics of the marine and terrestrial environment within the boundaries of the 6217 management areas that NOAA recommended after its review of each state's existing coastal zone boundary and coastal watersheds. Land and water uses within the areas will also be described. 7. Environmental Consequences._This discussion will identify direct and indirect impacts associated with each management measure and with the implementation of the Coastal Nonpoint Pollution Control Program, including any adverse environmental impacts which cannot be avoided. The relationship between the proposed action and the enhancement of long-term productivity and the irreversible or irretrievable commitment of resources will be described. 8. List of Preparers. 9. List of Agencies, Organizations and Persons to Whom EIS Sent. 10. Index. 11. Appendices. (Federal Domestic Assistance Catalog 11.419 Coastal Zone Management Program Administration) Dated: November 30, 1994. W. Stanley Wilson, Assistant Administrator for Ocean Services and Coastal Zone Management. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29999 Filed 12&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;12&hyph;M
