FR940214-0-00026 FR940214-0-00004 FmHA response: The only change being made to this section is to correspond to a recent wording change in FmHA's closing regulation. The use of member attorneys by nonprofit groups has been allowed by the regulation for some time. FmHA does not consider the relationship between a nonprofit borrower and its attorney in any way resembles the relationship between a profit-motivated borrower and its attorney. The nonprofit attorney has no financial interest in the nonprofit whereas the reverse can be true of the attorney who is a member of the limited profit. 44. Section 1944.237(a) Comment: One respondent suggested that this section be amended to make clear that subsequent loans to existing borrowers for rehabilitation do not have to go through the preapplication process. Another respondent felt that this will adversely affect developers who acquired land for a future second phase. Another respondent recommended that this section show what types of paperwork are needed for a subsequent loan or that the information be contained in an exhibit to the regulation. Two respondents expressed their opinion that the language which states that subsequent loans made on or after December 15, 1989, cannot be prepaid is contrary to prior interpretations by the National Office. Another person suggested that this section be revised to permit the addition of office, laundry, maintenance, or other community space not be subject to rating and ranking. One respondent agreed with this section. FmHA response: This section states that subsequent loans to develop additional units must be rated and ranked. All other subsequent loans which do not fall within this definition are excluded, including rehabilitation of existing FmHA-financed units. It was always FmHA's intention that subsequent loans to develop additional units be subject to the rating system; this section merely clarifies that intention. FmHA agrees that some guidance be added to the regulation which better defines what types of paperwork are required for subsequent loans. The types of paperwork needed for subsequent loans has been added to the regulation as Exhibit A&hyph;14. Prepayment is covered by proposed changes now being incorporated in FmHA regulations. Office, laundry, maintenance, and other community space facilities are not considered living units and do not fall under this definition. 45. Exhibit A Paragraph IV.B.6 Comment: Two respondents expressed their opinion that no new AD&hyph;622 be issued until the market question is resolved.
