FR940617-2-00125 FR940617-2-00079 Allowable services under this allocation for Vietnamese political prisoners are intended to supplement, not to supplant, those services provided to refugees in general under the social service formula allocation, discussed below. ORR intends to provide technical assistance to States and organizations that request it to assure effective program development and implementation. Because these funds are being provided specifically for services for former political prisoners from Vietnam, States which allocate social service funds to other local administrative jurisdictions, such as counties, shall do so for these funds, using a formula which reflects arrivals of this target population during FY 1993. ORR strongly encourages States and other contracting jurisdictions, in selecting service providers for the above, to award these funds, to the extent possible, to qualified refugee mutual assistance associations with experience serving the target population. All contractors receiving these funds should have Vietnamese language capacity and Vietnamese cultural understanding. States are required to provide to ORR program performance information on the Vietnamese political prisoner program that meets the reporting requirements contained in 45 CFR 92.40, under the terms and conditions of the social services grant awards to States. The information to be contained in the narrative portion of State quarterly performance reports must include: (1) Names of service contractors; (2) categories of activities provided; (3) numbers of persons served; and (4) outcomes, to the extent possible. B. Refugee Social Service Funds The population figures for the social service allocation include refugees, Cuban/Haitian entrants, and Amerasians from Vietnam since these populations may be served through funds addressed in this notice. (A State must, however, have an approved State plan for the Cuban/Haitian Entrant Program in order to use funds on behalf of entrants as well as refugees.) The Director will allocate $68,681,700 to States on the basis of each State's proportion of the national population of refugees who had been in the U.S. 3 years or less as of October 1, 1993 (including a floor amount for States which have small refugee populations). The use of the 3-year population base in the allocation formula is required by section 412(c)(1)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) which states that the ``funds available for a fiscal year for grants and contracts [for social services] *␣*␣*. shall be allocated among the States based on the total number of refugees (including children and adults) who arrived in the United States not more than 36 months before the beginning of such fiscal year and who are actually residing in each State (taking into account secondary migration) as of the beginning of the fiscal year.'' As established in the FY 1991 social services notice published in the Federal Register of August 29, 1991, section I, ``Allocation Amounts'' (56 FR 42745), a variable floor amount for States which have small refugee populations is calculated as follows: If the application of the regular allocation formula yields less than $100,000, then_ (1) a base amount of $75,000 is provided for a State with a population of 50 or fewer refugees who have been in the U.S. 3 years or less; and (2) For a State with more than 50 refugees who have been in the U.S. 3 years or less: (a) A floor has been calculated consisting of $50,000 plus the regular per capita allocation for refugees above 50 up to a total of $100,000 (in other words, the maximum under the floor formula is $100,000); (b) if this calculation has yielded less than $75,000, a base amount of $75,000 is provided for the State. ORR has consistently supported floors for small States in order to provide sufficient funds to carry out a minimum service program. Given the range in numbers of refugees in the small States, we have concluded that a variable floor, as established in the FY 1991 notice, will be more reflective of needs than previous across-the-board floors. The $12,120,300 in remaining social service funds (15% of the total funds available) will be used by ORR on a discretionary basis to provide funds for individual projects intended to contribute to the effectiveness and efficiency of the refugee resettlement program. Grant announcements on discretionary initiatives will be issued separately.
