FR940822-2-00117 FR940822-2-00061 •The absence of educational programs in the applicant's State addressing the particular topic; •How the applicant will disseminate the knowledge gained (e.g., by developing/teaching a course or providing in-service training for judges or court personnel at the State or local level); •The length of time that the applicant intends to serve as a judge or court manager, assuming reelection or reappointment, where applicable; •The likelihood that the applicant would be able to attend the program without a scholarship; •The unavailability of State or local funds to cover the costs of attending the program; •The quality of the educational program to be attended as demonstrated by the sponsoring organization's experience in judicial education, evaluations by participants or other professionals in the field, or prior SJI support for this or other programs sponsored by the organization; •Geographic balance; •The balance of scholarships among types of applicants and courts; •The balance of scholarships among educational programs; and •The level of appropriations available to the Institute in the current year and the amount expected to be available in succeeding fiscal years. (f) Responsibilities of Scholarship Recipients. In order to receive the funds authorized by a scholarship award, recipients must submit Scholarship Payment Voucher (Form S3) together with a tuition statement from the program sponsor, and a transportation fare receipt (or statement of the driving mileage to and from the recipient's home to the site of the educational program). Recipients also must submit to the Institute a certificate of attendance at the program and an evaluation of the educational program they attended. A copy of the evaluation also must be sent to the Chief Justice of their State. A State or a local jurisdiction may impose additional requirements on scholarship recipients that are consistent with SJI's criteria and requirements, e.g., a requirement to serve as faculty on the subject at a State- or locally-sponsored judicial education program. c. Dispute Resolution and the Courts. This category includes research, evaluation, and demonstration projects addressing the findings and recommendations developed at the National Symposium on Court-Connected Dispute Resolution Research, conducted in Orlando in October 1993. The Institute is interested in projects that enhance the courts' ability to compare findings among research studies; address the nature and operation of ADR programs within the context of the court system as a whole; compare dispute resolution processes to attorney settlement as well as trial; and promote the ability of the courts to move toward on-going self-evaluation of court-connected dispute resolution programs. Among the topics of greatest interest are: i. The Structure of Court-Connected Dispute Resolution Programs including such issues as the appropriate timing for referrals to dispute resolution services and the effects implementing such referrals at various stages during litigation; the effect of different referral methods including any differences in outcome between voluntary and mandatory referrals; cultural issues, including the nature of cultural conflict and its effect on outcomes; and approaches that provide rural courts and other under-served areas with adequate court-connected dispute resolution services. ii. The Selection, Qualifications and Training of Court-Connected Neutrals including what selection procedures are most effective; what standards should be used to qualify a neutral; what constitutes effective dispute resolution training; on what basis and when people should be eliminated from the training process; how courts can maintain and improve neutrals' skills; and how ineffective neutrals should be removed from the pool. iii. Innovative uses of court-connected dispute resolution for resolving complex cases including land-use litigation.
