FR941017-2-00099 FR941017-2-00059 The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Written comments on the proposed rule change were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The PSE has requested that the proposed rule change be given accelerated effectiveness pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act. 15 15 See Amendment No. 3, supra note 3. The Commission believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to national securities exchanges, particularly, Section 6(b)(5) of the Act. 16 Specifically, the Commission believes the Exchange's proposal is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in facilitating transactions in securities, and to protect investors and the public interest. 16 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). Although all options exchanges currently have a uniform 5:30 p.m. (e.s.t.) Exercise Cut-Off Time for expiring equity options, 17 the OCC's rules permit the OCC to accept exercise notices for expiring equity options from clearing firms until 12 a.m. (e.s.t.) on the expiration date ( i.e., the Saturday after an Expiration Friday). This additional time within which to receive exercise notices from clearing members was provided to accommodate corrections of mistakes made in good faith, trade reconciliations, and certain exceptional circumstances that affected a customer's ability to inform its brokerage firm or affected a firm's ability to receive final exercise decisions before the Exercise Cut-Off Time. Because exercise instructions presently are submitted to clearing members and then to the OCC by the clearing members, without having the audit trail pass directly through the Exchange, it is difficult for the Exchange to surveil for violations of Rule 6.24. 18 As a result, there have been situations where member organizations have either delayed making exercise decisions until after 5:30 p.m. (e.s.t.) on Expiration Friday in anticipation of the release of material news concerning a particular underlying company, or having made decisions prior to 5:30 p.m. (e.s.t.), changed these decisions based upon such material news. 19 The Commission, therefore, believes that it is appropriate for the Exchange to make it clear in its rules that the submission of a Contrary Exercise Advice on the basis of material information released after the Exercise Cut-Off Time will be actively deemed inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade. 20 17 Generally, equity options may be traded until the close of business on the last business day before expiration, which is generally the third Friday of the expiration month (``Expiration Friday''). 18 The Commission believes that the Executive Cut-Off Time serves an important investor protection function. Specifically, the Exercise Cut-Off Time protects holders of short positions in equity options from unanticipated events occurring after the close of the market. As the Commission has previously stated, if expiring equity options were allowed to be exercised after the Exercise Cut-Off Time for reasons other than the exceptions set forth above, the Commission believes that options writers could be unfairly disadvantaged with respect to options holders by not having the same opportunity to react to such unanticipated events. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 19589 (March 10, 1983), 48 FR 11196 (March 16, 1983). 19 See e.g., In re Farmers Group Stock Options Litigation, Master File No. 88&hyph;4994 (E.D.Pa 1989). 20 See supra note 18. The Commission believes that the proposed exercise procedures should enhance the Exchange's ability to surveil for violations of Rule 6.24 by providing an enhanced audit trail for identifying late exercises. Specifically, every time an exercise decision is made contrary to OCC Rule 805, a Contrary Exercise Advice must be filed with the Exchange, 21 in addition to submitting an exercise instruction to a clearing member as is currently required. 22 Similarly, the proposal requires that documentation must be prepared and submitted to the proper options exchange whenever a late exercise decision is made in reliance on one of the exceptions to Rule 6.24, with the burden of establishing the existence of the exception on the party submitting the Contrary Exercise Advice. The proposed rule change, therefore, should facilitate the Exchange's ability to monitor and enforce compliance with Rule 6.24. 23 Accordingly, because the proposed rule change significantly bolsters the Exchange's existing procedures regarding the exercise of expiring equity options and helps to ensure compliance with their rules, the Commission believes that the proposal is consistent with the Act. 24 21 Even though this may be accomplished by submitting exercise decisions directly to the Exchange, the more likely manner of accomplishing this will be to submit the exercise decisions to the Exchange electronically through the Clearing Management and Control System (``C/MACS''). Due to the burden that would be placed on members of having to manually process every exercise decision for delivery directly to the Exchange, the procedures and rules being approved herein will not be implemented by the PSE until the OCC submits a written representation to the Commission that C/MACS have been modified as necessary, fully tested, and ready to go on-line, to allow members to submit exercise decisions to the Exchange through C/MACS. This process is expected to be completed in time for the November 1994 expirations. 22 For customers, an exercise instruction is a notice delivered to a member organization to exercise an option. For a clearing member, market maker, or floor broker, an exercise instruction is a notice to the OCC to exercise an option that would not be automatically exercised pursuant to OCC Rule 805, or not to exercise an option that otherwise would automatically be exercised pursuant to OCC Rule 805. The OCC has separate rules regarding the cut-off time by which exercise notices must be delivered to the OCC by the clearing members. The proposed rule change does not in any way affect the rules of the OCC in this regard. Because the OCC's rules are not changing, the reporting of final exercise decisions as contemplated by the revised rule does not serve to substitute as the effective exercise notice to OCC for the exercise or non-exercise of expiring options. The Commission also notes that the proposed procedures discussed herein are in addition to the Exchange's existing procedures regarding the submission of exercise instructions to clearing members, which for the most part, are not being amended by this proposal. See PSE Rule 6.24. 23 PSE Rule 6.24 does not apply to expiring series of index options on the business day immediately prior to expiration. See PSE Rules 7 (Introduction) and 7.15(f). An additional purpose of the proposed rule change is to specifically state within Rule 6.24 that the Exercise Cut-Off Time does not apply to expiring index options. 24 The Commission notes that the PSE has represented that it will prepare (in cooperation with the other options exchanges) and distribute a notice to member organizations describing the new procedures set forth above, and notifying member organizations as to when the new procedures will be fully in effect. See supra notes 5 and 21.
