FR940114-1-00034 FR940114-1-00008 Inform the judiciary about technical evidence presented in impaired driving cases, including SFST and DEC testimony; Educate the judiciary in appropriate and aggressive sanctions for offenders including violators of commercial motor vehicle safety regulations; and Ensure that judges are knowledgeable and prepared to adjudicate youthful offenders in an appropriate and aggressive manner. F. Licensing Driver licensing actions can be an effective means for preventing, deterring, and monitoring impaired driving. In addition to the license sanctions for impaired driving offenses discussed earlier, States should: Issue provisional licenses to novice drivers; Provide for license suspension for driver under age 21 who drives with a BAC exceeding .02 (or some other low value); Issue distinctive licenses to drivers under the age of 21; Monitor licensing records to identify high risk drivers for referral to education or remediation programs; Ensure the accurate and timely reporting of alcohol and drug violations as proscribed by the Commercial Drivers License (CDL) regulations; Assure that all licensing records are used to help assess whether a driver requires alcohol or drug treatment; and Actively participate in the Driver License Compact to facilitate the exchange of driver license information between jurisdictions. III. Treatment and Rehabilitation Many first-time impaired driving offenders and most repeat offenders have substantial substance abuse problems that affect their entire lives, not just their driving. They have been neither prevented nor deterred from impaired driving. Each State should implement a system to identify and refer these drivers to appropriate substance abuse treatment programs to change their dangerous behavior. A. Diagnosis and Screening States should have a systematic program to evaluate persons who have been convicted of an impaired driving offense to determine if they have an alcohol or drug abuse problem. This evaluation should: Be required by law; Be conducted by qualified personnel prior to sentencing; and Be used to decide whether a substance abuse treatment program should be part of the sanctions imposed. B. Treatment and Rehabilitation States should establish and maintain programs to treat alcohol and other drug dependent persons referred through traffic courts and other sources. These programs should: Ensure that those referred for impaired driving offenses are not permitted to drive again until their substance abuse problems are under control; Be conducted in addition to, not as a substitute for, license restrictions and other sanctions; and Be conducted separately for youth. IV. Program Management Good program management produces effective programs. Planning and coordination are especially important for impaired driving activities, since many different parties are involved. Each State's impaired driving program management system should have an established process for managing its planning (including problem identification), program control, and evaluation activities. The system should provide for community traffic safety programs (CTSPs), State and local task forces, data analysis, and funding. It also should include planning and coordination of activities with other agencies involved in impaired driving programs, such as MCSAP. A. State Program Planning States should develop and implement an overall plan for all impaired driving activities. The plan should: Be based on careful problem definition that makes use of crash and driver record data; and Direct State and community resources toward effective measures that address the State's impaired driving issues. B. Program Control States should establish procedures to ensure that program activities are implemented as intended. The procedures should provide for systematic monitoring and review of ongoing programs to:
