FR940727-1-00008 FR940727-1-00002 The Act provides that administrative proceedings must be exhausted before parties may file suit in court. Under section 8c(15)(A) of the Act, any handler subject to an order may file with the Secretary a petition stating that the order, any provision of the order, or any obligation imposed in connection with the order is not in accordance with law and requesting a modification of the order or to be exempted therefrom. Such handler is afforded the opportunity for a hearing on the petition. After the hearing the Secretary would rule on the petition. The Act provides that the district court of the United States in any district in which the handler is an inhabitant, or has his or her principal place of business, has jurisdiction in equity to review the Secretary's ruling on the petition, provided a bill in equity is filed not later than 20 days after date of the entry of the ruling. Pursuant to the requirements set forth in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA), the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) has considered the economic impact of this rule on small entities. The purpose of the RFA is to fit regulatory actions to the scale of business subject to such actions in order that small businesses would not be unduly or disproportionately burdened. Marketing orders issued pursuant to the Act, and rules issued thereunder, are unique in that they are brought about through group action of essentially small entities acting on their own behalf. Thus, both statutes have small entity orientation and compatibility. There are approximately 15 handlers of oranges and grapefruit regulated under the marketing order each season and approximately 750 orange and grapefruit producers in south Texas. Small agricultural producers have been defined by the Small Business Administration [13 CFR §121.601] as those having annual receipts of less than $500,000, and small agricultural service firms are defined as those whose annual receipts are less than $5,000,000. The majority of these handlers and producers may be classified as small entities. Section 906.40 of the order authorizes the establishment of grade, size, quality, maturity, pack and container requirements for fresh shipments of Texas oranges and grapefruit. Whenever such requirements are in effect, oranges and grapefruit are required to be inspected and certified as meeting applicable standards in accordance with §906.45 of the order. The program is financed through handler assessments, established pursuant to §906.34. The order provides, in §906.42, that regulations issued under §§906.34, 906.40, and 906.45 may be modified, suspended or terminated to facilitate the handling of citrus fruit for certain purposes. Under this authority, §906.120 of the order's rules and regulations provides that oranges and grapefruit may be handled for relief, charity or home use exempt from order requirements. Handlers desiring to utilize this exemption are required to apply to the Texas Valley Citrus Committee (committee), the agency established to administer the order locally. In making an application, the handler is required to submit information such as the quantity of fruit to be handled under the exemption and its intended destination. Based on the information provided, the committee determines whether to approve the application and issue the handler a certificate of privilege. The committee met on May 10, 1994, and unanimously recommended revising paragraph (c)(1) of §906.120 by deleting ``home use'' from the provision which allows fruit to be handled exempt from regulation. Current regulations allow for an unlimited amount of fruit to be shipped for home use (not for resale) exempt from all marketing order requirements. The committee recommended this amendment to reduce the potential for abuse of the home use exemption. The committee has had difficulty in verifing the final disposition of exempted fruit. The committee expressed concern that bulk loads of uninspected fruit may enter fresh, commercial markets and prove detrimental to producer returns if the exemption is not removed. Section 906.120(c)(1) is proposed to be amended by deleting the phrase ``home use''. Other exemptions from order requirements would remain unchanged. Under paragraph (a) of §906.120, individuals would continue to be able to handle up to 400 pounds of citrus per day exempt from order requirements. The committee believes that this minimum quantity exemption is sufficient to cover fruit purchased for home use and not for resale. Thus, it is not expected that this action would adversely impact those persons who purchase Texas oranges and grapefruit directly from handlers for their own use. Based on the above the Administrator of the AMS has determined that this action would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The information collection requirements contained in the referenced sections have been previously approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. chapter 35 and have been assigned OMB number 0581&hyph;0068 for oranges and grapefruit. This rule would reduce the reporting burden on approximately 6 handlers of oranges and grapefruit who have been completing the Special Purpose Shipments Form (Application for fundraiser-specialty pack), taking about 5 minutes to complete each report. Interested persons are invited to submit their views and comments on this proposal. All comments timely received will be considered prior to issuance of any final rule. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 906 Grapefruit, Marketing agreements and orders, Oranges, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 7 CFR part 906 is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 906_ORANGES AND GRAPEFRUIT GROWN IN THE LOWER RIO GRANDE VALLEY IN TEXAS 1. The authority citation for 7 CFR Part 906 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 601&hyph;674. 2. Section 906.120 is amended by revising the first sentence of paragraph (c)(1) to read as follows: §906.120 Fruit exempt from regulation. (a) *␣*␣* (b) *␣*␣* (c) Special purpose shipments and safeguards. (1) Fruit may be handled for relief or charity exempt from the requirements of §§906.34, 906.40, and 906.45 and the regulations issued thereunder: Provided, That the fruit shall not be offered for resale, and the handler submits, prior to any such handling, an application to the committee on forms provided by the committee. *␣*␣* * * * * * Dated: July 21, 1994. Terry C. Long, Acting Deputy Director, Fruit and Vegetable Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18213 Filed 7&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;02&hyph;P
