FR940613-2-00088 FR940613-2-00055 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34160; File No. SR&hyph;MSRB&hyph;94&hyph;5] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Proposed Rule Change by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board Relating to Rule G&hyph;37 on Political Contributions and Prohibitions on Municipal Securities Business, and Rule G&hyph;8 on Recordkeeping June 3, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on May 24, 1994, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (``Board'' or ``MSRB'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') a proposed rule change as described in Items I and II below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The purpose of the proposed rule change is to provide procedures for dealers to seek exemptive relief from rule G&hyph;37, in limited circumstances, and to clarify certain definitions in rules G&hyph;37 and G&hyph;8. The Board has requested accelerated approval of the proposed rule change to facilitate compliance with rule G&hyph;37. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the propose rule change from interested persons. As discussed below, the Commission finds good cause for granting accelerated approval of the proposed rule change. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Board is filing the proposed rule change to amend rule G&hyph;37 concerning political contributions and prohibitions on municipal securities business, and rule G&hyph;8 concerning recordkeeping. The proposed rule change: (i) Provides procedures for dealers to seek exemptive relief from rule G&hyph;37's prohibition on business, in limited circumstances; and (ii) clarifies certain definitions in rules G&hyph;37 and G&hyph;8. The Board has requested accelerated approval of the proposed rule change to facilitate compliance with the rule. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the Board included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In response to the Board's initial proposal on political contributions and prohibitions on municipal securities business and its rule G&hyph;37 filing with the Commission, 1 the Board received a number of comments recommending that the Board consider providing, in limited instances, a ``good faith exemption'' to the rule's prohibition on municipal securities business. 2 In light of these comments, the Board has determined to submit the proposed rule change. 1 The Commission approved rule G&hyph;37 in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33868 (April 7, 1994), 59 FR 17621. Rule G&hyph;37 became effective on April 25, 1994. 2 The Board previously considered and rejected the inclusion of a good-faith exception to the rule. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33482 (January 14, 1994), 59 FR 3389. A registered securities association or appropriate regulatory agency may exempt a dealer who is prohibited from engaging in municipal securities business with an issuer from such prohibition. A number of commenters on rule G&hyph;37 have expressed concern that imposing a prohibition on municipal securities business may be unfair in certain limited situations when political contributions have been made. 3 For example, a disgruntled municipal finance professional may make a contribution purposely to injure the dealer, its management or employees. Also, a municipal finance professional eligible to vote for an issuer official may make a number of small contributions during an election cycle ( e.g. , over four years) which, when consolidated, amount to slightly over the $250 de minimis exemption ( e.g. , $255). In both examples, the contributions would trigger the prohibition on business under rule G&hyph;37(b), thereby prohibiting the dealer from engaging in municipal securities business with the issuer for two years. 3 See rule G&hyph;37 approval order, supra note 1. The Board recognizes that in certain circumstances, such as those discussed above, the rule's prohibition on business may be too harsh a consequence for truly inadvertent contributions or the contributions of disgruntled employees. Thus, the Board has determined to add new paragraph (i) to rule G&hyph;37 to establish a procedure whereby the National Association of Securities Dealers (``NASD'') and the federal bank regulatory agencies ( i.e. , the Office of Comptroller of the Currency, Federal Reserve Board, and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation), upon application by a dealer subject to such association's or agency's inspection and enforcement authority, may exempt, conditionally or unconditionally, a dealer who is prohibited from engaging in municipal securities business from such prohibition. 4 In determining whether to grant such an exemption, the proposed rule change would require that the NASD and bank regulatory agencies consider, among other factors, whether: 4 The NASD and the bank regulatory agencies are statutorily authorized to inspect for compliance with, and to enforce Board rules. See Sections 15A(b)(7), 15B(c)(5), and 15B(c)(7) of the Act; [15 U.S.C. §§78o&hyph;3(b)(7), 78o&hyph;4(c)(5), 78o&hyph;4(c)(7)].
