FR940419-2-00004 FR940419-2-00003 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Institute of Standards and Technology Notice of Government Owned Inventions Available for Licensing AGENCY: National Institute of Standards and Technology Commerce. SUMMARY: The inventions listed below are owned by the U.S. Government, as represented by the Department of Commerce, and are available for licensing in accordance with 35 U.S.C. 207 and 37 CFR part 404 to achieve expeditious commercialization of results of federally funded research and development. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Technical and licensing information on these inventions may be obtained by writing to: Nancy Hale, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Office of Technology Commercialization, Physics Building, room B&hyph;256, Gaithersburg, MD 20899; Fax 301&hyph;869&hyph;2751. Any request for information should include the NIST Docket No. and Title for the relevant invention as indicated below. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The inventions available for licensing are: NIST Docket No. 89&hyph;031 Title: Highly Accurate In-Situ Determination of Refractivity of an Ambient Atmosphere Description: A method of determining the index of refraction of an ambient atmosphere, such as air. This measurement can then be used to enhance the accuracy of a quantity measurement (such as measurement of distance or length), for example, during the ``step and repeat'' process of patterning integrated circuit wafers using photolithography. NIST Docket No. 91&hyph;002 Title: Thermal Properties Measurement Using a Superconductor Sensor Description: Superconducting materials are used to sense the thermal environment in low power cryogenic flow meters, bolometers, level detectors, etc. This invention uses derivative functions of the voltage/current relationship, or any other parameter indicative of the non-linearity of this relationship, to control the current in these devices via a feedback loop. NIST Docket No. 91&hyph;010 Title: Corrosion Resistant Thin-Film Thermocouples and Method Description: These thin-film thermocouples provide fast temperature measurements and can operate in highly corrosive environments. The response speed of these devices approach 1,000 times faster than commercially available sheathed sensors. They can be miniaturized for use in harsh environments. NIST Docket No. 91&hyph;013 Title: Method and Apparatus for Analyzing Character Strings Description: Newly developed NIST technology analyzes and corrects errors in electronically stored character strings derived from handwritten documents. A processor has been designed to incorporate the technology, which significantly improves optical character recognition of handwritten data. NIST Docket No. 92&hyph;044 Title: Monitor for Gas-Metal-Arc Welding (GMAW) Process Description: New NIST technology provides improved control of gas-metal-arc welding (GMAW) and reduces material flaws caused by process perturbations. The technique relates arc light intensity to arc length, which corresponds with arc voltage, indicating metal-transfer frequency. NIST Docket No. 93&hyph;016 Title: High Intermetallic Titanium-Aluminum-Vanadium-Chromium Alloys Combining High Temperature Strength with Excellent Room Temperature Ductility Description: New NIST alloys are about 50 percent lighter than other alloys used in aerospace and industrial applications. They are very ductile at room temperatures and provide excellent strength at high temperatures. NIST Docket No. 93&hyph;017 Title: Correlated Run Length Method for Detecting Form Structure within Digitized Documents Description: A method of analyzing digitized form documents to identify lines, boxes and other shapes on the documents; this information allows a scanning system to identify the form being scanned and the data entry fields on that form. NIST Docket No. 31&hyph;038 Title: Amperometric Flow Injection Analysis Biosensor for Glucose Based on Graphite Paste Modified with Tetracyanoquinodimethane Description: NIST has developed a new biosensor for glucose based on using a graphite paste of glucose oxidase and tetracyanoquinodimethan (TCNQ) in a flow injection analysis system. Dated April 13, 1994. Samuel Kramer, Associate Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9414 Filed 4&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;13&hyph;M
