FR940912-1-00020 FR940912-1-00010 C. Economic Impacts IV. Rationale for Proposed Standards A. Selection of Source Category B. Selection of Emission Sources C. Pollutants To Be Regulated D. Selection of Affected Facility E. Selection of Best Demonstrated Technology F. Selection of Format of Proposed Standard G. Selection of Standards H. Modification and Reconstruction Considerations I. Monitoring Requirements J. Performance Test Methods K. Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements L. Solicitation of Comments V. Administrative Requirements A. Public Hearing B. Administrative Designation and Regulatory Analysis C. Compliance With Regulatory Flexibility Act D. Paperwork Reduction Act I. Introduction A. New Source Performance Standards_General New source performance standards (NSPS) implement section 111 of the Act. The NSPS are issued for categories of sources that cause, or contribute significantly to, air pollution that may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare. They apply to new stationary sources of emissions, i.e., sources whose construction, reconstruction, or modification begins after a standard for them is proposed. An NSPS requires these sources to control emissions to the level achievable by ``best demonstrated technology,'' or ``BDT.'' B. NSPS Decision Scheme An NSPS is the product of a series of decisions made during development of the regulation. Elements in this ``decision scheme'' include the following: 1. Source category to be regulated: usually an entire industry, but can be a process or group of processes within an industry. 2. Pollutant(s) to be regulated: the particular substance(s) emitted by the source that the standard will control. 3. Best demonstrated technology: the technology on which the Agency will base the standards, as defined in section 111(a)(1) of the Act. 4. Affected facility: the pieces or groups of equipment that comprise the sources to which the standards will apply. 5. Emission points to be regulated: within the affected facility, the specific physical location emitting pollutants (e.g., vents, equipment leaks, and wastewater streams). 6. Format for the standards: the form in which the standards are expressed, i.e., as a percent reduction in emissions, as pollutant concentration, or as equipment standards. 7. Standards: based on what BDT can achieve, the maximum permissible emissions, or design, equipment, work practice, or operational requirements if emission limits are infeasible. 8. Other considerations: in addition, NSPS usually include modification/reconstruction considerations, monitoring requirements, performance test methods, and reporting and recordkeeping requirements. II. Summary of the Proposed NSPS A. Source Category To Be Regulated Volatile organic compound emissions from SOCMI wastewater (also referred to as ``secondary sources'') are being regulated under section 111 of the Act. The proposed standards would regulate VOC emissions from wastewater generated by SOCMI process units and are limited to emission points in the associated process unit's wastewater collection and treatment systems. Specific emission points are discussed in section II.E. Wastewater is water that comes in contact with process fluids during manufacturing, processing, or maintenance operations within a process unit at a SOCMI facility. Most wastewaters contain relatively low concentrations of contaminants (e.g., less than 2 percent or 20,000 parts per million (ppm)) and are managed in wastewater collection and treatment systems. Wastewater collection and treatment systems typically include individual drain systems, oil- water separators, air flotation units, equalization tanks, and biological treatments units. Volatile organic compounds are emitted from the wastewater during collection and treatment. Regulations targeting emissions from SOCMI wastewater have been developed previously. National emission standards for hazardous air pollutants (NESHAP) for benzene waste operations (40 CFR part 61, subpart FF) regulate benzene emissions from SOCMI waste streams that contain benzene at concentrations of 10 parts per million by weight (ppmw) or more at facilities that handle at least 10 Mg/yr of benzene in certain wastes. A second regulation, the hazardous organic NESHAP (``the HON'') in subpart G of 40 CFR part 63, is broader in scope, regulating emissions of many organic hazardous air pollutants (HAP) from SOCMI wastewater. The HON imposes standards on SOCMI process wastewater streams from process units that produce any of a selected group of products at facilities that are major sources under the Act. The rule covers individual waste streams that contain one or more of the HAP identified in section 112(b) of the Act at concentrations above specified levels. Generally, a SOCMI source subject to the benzene waste NESHAP would also be subject to the HON.
