FR940128-2-00028 FR940128-2-00011 Conformance Rules for Data Streams. A conforming data stream shall be syntactically, semantically, and structurally correct as defined in this standard. Conformance rules for Generators. A generator which claims conformance to this standard shall create only conforming data streams which correctly represent the raster graphics image which was input to the generator. Conformance Rules for Receivers. A receiver which claims conformance to this standard shall be capable of reading and correctly processing any conforming data stream without halting or aborting such that it produces the correct results. 11. Implementation. The implementation of this standard involves three areas of consideration: acquisition of raster graphics implementations, interpretations of the standard, and validation of ODA Raster DAP implementations. 11.1 Acquisition of Raster Graphics Applications. This standard is effective six months after date of publication of final document in the Federal Register . For a period of twelve (12) months after the effective date, agencies are permitted to acquire alternative software that provides equivalent functionality to the ODA Raster DAP. Agencies are encouraged to use this standard for solicitation proposals for new raster processing systems to be acquired after the effective date. This standard is mandatory for use in all solicitation proposals for new raster application products acquired twelve (12) months after the effective date. 11.2. Interpretation of the Standard. NIST provides for the resolution of questions regarding FIPS for ODA Raster DAP specifications and requirements, and issues official interpretations as needed. Procedures for interpretations are specified in FIPS PUB 29&hyph;2. All questions about the interpretation of FIPS for ODA Raster DAP should be addressed to: Computer Systems Laboratory, ATTN: Raster Graphics Interpretation, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD 20899. 11.3. Validation of ODA Raster DAP Implementations. Validation of ODA Raster DAP implementations is not mandatory at this time. Future versions of this FIPS may mandate the validation of ODA Raster DAP implementations for government use. Testing of an implementation's conformance to this FIPS will be optional by the agency. Until a formal conformance testing service is available, government agencies acquiring implementations in accordance with this standard may wish to require testing for conformance, interoperability, and performance. The tests to be administered and the testing organization are at the discretion of the government agency. 12. Waivers. Under certain exceptional circumstances, the heads of Federal departments and agencies may approve waivers to Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS). The head of such agency may delegate such authority only to a senior official designated pursuant to section 3506(b) of title 44, U.S. Code. Waivers shall be granted only when: a. Compliance with a standard would adversely affect the accomplishment of the mission of an operator of a Federal Computer system, or b. Cause a major adverse financial impact on the operator that is not offset by Government wide savings. Agency heads may act upon a written waiver request containing the information detailed above. Agency heads may also act without a written waiver request when they determine that conditions for meeting the standard cannot be met. Agency heads may approve waivers only by a written decision that explains the basis on which the agency head made the required finding(s). A copy of each such decision, with procurement sensitive or classified portions clearly identified, shall be sent to: National Institute of Standards and Technology; Attn: FIPS Waiver Decision, Technology Building, Room B&hyph;154; Gaithersburg, MD 20899. In addition, notice of each waiver granted and each delegation of authority to approve waivers shall be sent promptly to the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Government Affairs of the Senate and shall be published promptly in the Federal Register . When the determination on a waiver applies to the procurement of equipment and/or services, a notice of the waiver determination must be published in the Commerce Business Daily as a part of the notice of solicitation for offers of an acquisition or, if the waiver determination is made after that notice is published, by amendment to such notice. A copy of the waiver, any supporting documents, the document approving the waiver and any supporting and accompanying documents, with such deletions as the agency is authorized and decides to make under 5 U.S.C. 552(b), shall be part of the procurement documentation and retained by the agency. 13. Where to Obtain Copies. Copies of this publication are for sale by the National Technical Information Service, U.S. Department of Commerce, Springfield, VA 22161. When ordering, refer to Federal Information Processing Standards Publication XXXXX (FIPS PUB XXXXX), and title. Specify microfiche, if desired. Payment may be made by check, money order, or NTIS deposit account. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1820 Filed 1&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;CN&hyph;M
