FR940302-1-00005 FR940302-1-00002 9 CFR Part 94 [Docket No. 93&hyph;172&hyph;1] Change in Disease Status of Hungary Because of Rinderpest and Foot-and-Mouth Disease AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: We are proposing to declare Hungary free of rinderpest and foot-and-mouth disease. As part of this proposed action, we would add Hungary to the list of countries that, although declared free of rinderpest and foot-and-mouth disease, are subject to restrictions on meat and other animal products offered for importation into the United States. We would also add Hungary to the list of countries from which the importation into the United States of llamas and alpacas is restricted. This proposed rule would remove the prohibition on the importation into the United States, from Hungary, of ruminants and fresh, chilled, and frozen meat of ruminants, although those importations would be subject to certain restrictions. This proposed rule would also relieve restrictions on the importation, from Hungary, of milk and milk products of ruminants. DATES: Consideration will be given only to comments received on or before May 2, 1994. ADDRESSES: Please send an original and three copies of your comments to Chief, Regulatory Analysis and Development, PPD, APHIS, USDA, room 804, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782. Please state that your comments refer to Docket No. 93&hyph;172&hyph;1. Comments received may be inspected at USDA, room 1141, South Building, 14th Street and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC, between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. Persons wishing to inspect comments are requested to call ahead on (202) 690&hyph;2817 to facilitate entry into the comment reading room. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Kathleen J. Akin, Senior Staff Veterinarian, Import-Export Products Staff, National Center for Import-Export, Veterinary Services, APHIS, USDA, room 755, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;7830. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulations in 9 CFR part 94 (referred to below as the regulations) govern the importation into the United States of specified animals and animal products in order to prevent the introduction into the United States of various animal diseases, including rinderpest, foot-and-mouth disease (FMD), bovine spongiform encephalopathy, African swine fever, hog cholera, and swine vesicular disease. These are dangerous and destructive communicable diseases of ruminants and swine. Section 94.1(a)(1) of the regulations provides that rinderpest or FMD exists in all countries of the world except those listed in §94.1(a)(2), which have been declared to be free of both diseases. We will consider declaring a country to be free of rinderpest and FMD if there have been no reported cases of either disease in that country for at least the previous 1-year period and no vaccinations for rinderpest or FMD have been administered to swine or ruminants in that country for at least the previous 1-year period. The last outbreak of rinderpest in Europe occurred prior to 1921, and there have been no outbreaks of FMD since 1973. A limited FMD vaccination program that was conducted near the country's eastern borders was discontinued in 1989. Based on these considerations, the government of Hungary requested that the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) declare Hungary to be free of rinderpest and FMD. The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) reviewed the documentation submitted by the government of Hungary in support of its request, and a team of APHIS officials traveled to Hungary in October 1993 to conduct an on-site evaluation of the country's animal health program with regard to the FMD situation in Hungary. The evaluation consisted of a review of Hungary's veterinary services, laboratory and diagnostic procedures, vaccination practices, and administration of laws and regulations intended to prevent the introduction of rinderpest and FMD into Hungary through the importation of animals, meat, or animal products. The APHIS officials conducting the on-site evaluation concluded that Hungary is free of rinderpest and FMD. (Details concerning the on-site evaluation are available, upon written request, from the person listed under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT .) Therefore, based on the information discussed above, we are proposing to amend §94.1(a)(2) by adding Hungary to the list of countries declared to be free of both rinderpest and FMD. This proposed action would remove the prohibition on the importation, from Hungary, of ruminants and any fresh, chilled, and frozen meat of ruminants, and would relieve restrictions on the importation, from Hungary, of milk and milk products of ruminants. However, because Hungary has not been declared free of hog cholera, the importation of pork and pork products would continue to be restricted under §94.9 of the regulations, and the importation of swine from Hungary would continue to be prohibited under §94.10. Similarly, for the reasons discussed below, we would make the importation of meat and other animal products of ruminants or swine from Hungary subject to the restrictions contained in §94.11.
