FR940819-0-00120 FR940819-0-00020 8. §40.25(h) is revised to read as follows: §40.25 Specimen collection procedures. * * * * * (h) Transportation to Laboratory. Collection site personnel shall arrange to ship the collected specimen to the drug testing laboratory. The specimens shall be placed in shipping containers designed to minimize the possibility of damage during shipment (e.g., specimen boxes and/or padded mailers); and those containers shall be securely sealed to eliminate the possibility of undetected tampering with the specimen and/or the form. On the tape sealing the shipping container, the collection site person shall sign and enter the date specimens were sealed in the shipping container for shipment. The collection site person shall ensure that the chain of custody documentation is enclosed in each container sealed for shipment to the drug testing laboratory. Since specimens and documentation are sealed in shipping containers that would indicate any tampering during transit to the laboratory and couriers, express carriers, and postal service personnel do not have access to the chain of custody forms, there is no requirement that such personnel document chain of custody for the shipping container during transit. Nor is there a requirement that there be a chain of custody entry when a specimen which is sealed in such a shipping container is put into or taken out of secure storage at the collection site prior to pickup by such personnel. This means that the chain of custody is not broken, and a test shall not be canceled, because couriers, express carriers, postal service personnel, or similar persons involved solely with the transportation of a specimen to a laboratory, have not documented their participation in the chain of custody documentation or because the chain of custody does not contain entries related to putting the specimen into or removing it from secure temporary storage at the collection site. * * * * * 9. §40.25(k) is revised to read as follows: §40.25 Specimen collection procedures. * * * * * (k) Use of chain of custody form. A chain of custody form (and a laboratory internal chain of custody document, where applicable), shall be used for maintaining control and accountability of each specimen from the point of collection to final disposition of the specimen. The date and purpose shall be documented on the form each time a specimen is handled or transferred and every individual in the chain of custody shall be identified. Since specimens and documentation are sealed in shipping containers that would indicate any tampering during transit to the laboratory and couriers, express carriers, and postal service personnel do not have access to the chain of custody forms, there is no requirement that such personnel document chain of custody for the shipping container during transit. Nor is there a requirement that there be a chain of custody entry when a specimen which is sealed in such a shipping container is put into or taken out of secure storage at the collection site prior to pickup by such personnel. This means that the chain of custody is not broken, and a test shall not be canceled, because couriers, express carriers, postal service personnel, or similar persons involved solely with the transportation of a specimen to a laboratory, have not documented their participation in the chain of custody documentation or because the chain of custody does not contain entries related to putting the specimen into or removing it from secure temporary storage at the collection site. Every effort shall be made to minimize the number of persons handling specimens. 10. The existing text of §40.29(b)(1) is redesignated as §40.29(b)(1)(i), and a new §40.29(b)(1)(ii) is added, to read as follows: §40.29 Laboratory analysis procedures. * * * * * (b) * * * (1) * * * (ii) Where the employer has used the split sample method, and the laboratory observes that the split specimen is untestable, inadequate, or unavailable for testing, the laboratory shall nevertheless test the primary specimen. The laboratory does not inform the MRO or the employer of the untestability, inadequacy, or unavailability of the split specimen until and unless the primary specimen is a verified positive test and the MRO has informed the laboratory that the employee has requested a test of the split specimen. * * * * * 11. In §40.29(e), the chart is revised to read as follows: (e) * * *
