FR941028-2-00157 FR941028-2-00109 Response: Revised the document to present more clearly the potential use of air cleaning units in areas where air changes are limited and to set their place in a control hierarchy. In addition, further clarified the importance of placement, performance, and potential limitations. Added a statement that manufacturers of these units should provide documentation of both the efficiency of the HEPA filter and the efficiency of the device in lowering air contaminant levels. Negative Pressure Comments: Because smoke can be an irritant, the use of smoke tubes for continuous pressure monitoring should be replaced with flutter strips. Daily monitoring of negative pressure is unnecessary and labor intensive. Response: Made no change in the recommended monitoring schedule. The concern over the use of smoke tubes is unfounded. Controlled tests by NIOSH have shown that the quantity of smoke that is released is so minute that it is not measurable in the air. The location of the patient and the length of time the patient is exposed dilute the smoke to several orders of magnitude below an 8-hour exposure limit. It is not practical and often not effective to use flutter strips or continuous monitoring devices as alternatives to indicate directional air movement. The air flow (due usually to the small clearance area under a door) is insufficient to move the flutter strip. Likewise, low negative pressure, which will satisfactorily provide adequate directional air flow into the isolation room, may not be readable on continuous monitoring devices. Devices must be capable of reading 0.001 inch of water, the established minimum, to be effective. Clarified the overall guidance in this area by indicating the use of smoke as the optimum test procedure and clearly stating the potential results of flutter strips and continuous instrumentation. Used illustrations to clarify procedures for setting negative pressure. HEPA Filtration Comments: The recommendations on the use of HEPA filtration in a ventilation system are not supported by the data. The purpose of its use is unclear. Response: Addressed the general confusion on the use of HEPA filtration by rewording the section. Comments: Provide information on the necessity of ``bag in_bag out'' and ``red bag'' use when changing filters. Response: Eliminated the bag in_bag out requirement since there is no evidence that it is needed. Retained the red bag recommendation (treating filters as infectious waste). G. Respiratory Protection and Supplement 4. Respiratory Protection Comments: HEPA filtered masks are too expensive, and no data support their use. Instituting a fit-testing program and, in general, a respiratory protection program is too expensive. HCWs will not wear the masks. The masks are uncomfortable, impede communication, and interfere with general patient care. Response: Retained the original performance criteria on respiratory protection; however, details on specific respirators such as dust-mist and dust-fume-mist were removed. Removed the respiratory protection table and accompanying performance characteristics in the supplement in anticipation of the new certification process. Retained the explanations about fit, fit testing and fit checking, and the elements of a respiratory protection program. Added a statement about ongoing research being conducted on various forms of respiratory protection.
