FR941230-0-00052 FR941230-0-00010 Background and Purpose The City of Chesapeake, Virginia has requested that openings of the Gilmerton Highway drawbridge across the Southern Branch of the Elizabeth River, Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway, mile 5.8, at Chesapeake, Virginia, be limited during the morning and evening rush hours. This would help reduce highway traffic congestion problems and address public safety and welfare concerns associated with frequent bridge openings caused by recreational and commercial boat traffic. The City of Chesapeake's request is based on the increase in highway traffic crossing the Gilmerton Bridge occurring as a result of the emergency closing to highway traffic of the Jordan Bridge located downriver at mile 2.8. When the Jordan Bridge experienced a sudden mechanical malfunction on May 10, 1994, this vertical lift bridge was raised to the fully opened to river traffic position in order not to block use of the waterway by the heavy commercial and recreational traffic routinely transitting the Intracoastal Waterway. As a result of locking the bridge in the open position until further notice, the highway traffic that had been using the Jordan Bridge was diverted to the Gilmerton Bridge. The increase in highway congestion and lengthy delays across the bridge caused by the Jordan Bridge's closure, coupled with random, non-scheduled drawbridge openings for the many commercial and recreational vessels using the Intracoastal Waterway in this area warrants the need to change the operating schedule for this bridge. Currently, the drawbridge opens on demand, 24-hours a day, seven-days a week. This rule will limit bridge openings between the hours of 6:30 a.m. to 8 a.m. and from 3:30 p.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. Commercial cargo vessels, tugs, and tugs with tows will be allowed passage through the bridge during the morning and evening rush hours, provided a 2-hour advance notice is given to the Gilmerton Bridge. Public vessels of the United States, vessels in distress, commercial vessels carrying liquefied flammable gas or other harmful substances, and commercial or public vessels assisting in an emergency situation will be allowed passage through the bridge at any time. Recreational vessels and all other commercial vessels will not be allowed passage through the bridge during the morning and evening rush hours. The decision to allow liquefied flammable gas carriers access through the bridge at any time with no restrictions was made based on the hazards involved in shipping liquefied flammable gas and to maintain safety along the Southern Branch of the Elizabeth River. It has been determined by the Coast Guard that since tugs and tugs with tows have no place to tie up in the proximity of the bridge to wait for a bridge opening, it was necessary to include them in the 2-hour advance notice requirement provision. Commercial cargo vessels, requiring high tide to transit this river also are included in the 2-hour advance notice requirement provision. The Gilmerton Bridge is a vital link between the cities of Portsmouth and Chesapeake used widely by motorists that work at the Norfolk Naval Shipyard, other Federal agencies located within the Shipyard, as well as within Portsmouth, and other industries and businesses in Portsmouth and Chesapeake, Virginia. It appears the need to limit bridge openings during peak rush hours far outweighs any need to maintain the Gilmerton Bridge at its present ``open on demand'' schedule. On November 2, 1994, the Coast Guard met with the Hampton Roads Maritime Association to discuss changing the regulations on the Gilmerton Bridge and the reasons why restricting this bridge during the morning and evening rush hours was necessary. The Hampton Roads Maritime Association considered the current condition of the Jordan Bridge and they supported the plan to regulate the Gilmerton Bridge to accommodate the additional vehicle traffic being diverted from the Jordan Bridge.
