FR941026-2-00018 FR941026-2-00013 • Project design . Had all important aspects of project design been considered? • Transmission availability . Were transmission capacity or wheeling services available to deliver the energy to the BPA grid? • Site control . Developers were asked to provide copies of lease documents or other evidence of site control. • Development schedule . Was the development schedule realistic, well thought out, and logical? Did it include all important activities? • Environmental impacts/siting issues/permits and licenses . To what extent had environmental and siting issues been identified? What progress had been made in obtaining permits and licenses? BPA staff consulted with land management agencies in the project areas, and requested additional information from developers, when necessary. • Cost of energy . This was used more as a starting point for negotiations than as a selection criterion. BPA did not expect developers to commit to a price until the terms and conditions of the power contract were better known. Another reason for not selecting based on price was to avoid being forced to select weak projects with unrealistic power prices and to discourage ``low-ball'' bids. The evaluation process included a preliminary evaluation of the proposals, followed by requests from the BPA project team for additional information and a final evaluation. An issue of site control affecting the two proposed projects at Newberry Volcano was examined. The ownership or ownership share of three leases_OR 11987, OR 11992, and OR 45506_was a matter of dispute between CEC and Vulcan. Since both developers considered it likely that litigation would be necessary to resolve this dispute, and because BPA's decision to purchase only output was thought to place all risk of nonperformance on the developer, this was not a critical factor in the selection process. The BPA team selected three projects for further consideration, and the Administrator was briefed and a final decision made on December 17, 1991. The proposers were notified of BPA's decision by registered letter between December 18 and December 20, 1991. The December 18 letter to Vulcan Power Company, which was not selected, explained the reasons for BPA's decision. The CEC/EWEB project was stronger in many respects and met BPA requirements for utility cost sharing. Also, Vulcan lacked a history of successful project development (the one project it attempted was unsuccessful). As noted in the December 1990 Geothermal Resources Council BULLETIN article mentioned above, only one project would be chosen at each site. Contract Negotiations The three projects selected for contract discussions were Glass Mountain, Vale, and the CEC/EWEB Newberry Project. All three projects were considered capable of meeting the goals of the program. Total output from the three projects exceeded the 30 aMW BPA agreed to purchase in the solicitation. But because the terms of the power purchase contracts and the degree of participation by other utilities were not known at this time (only one of the projects had identified a utility partner), and in the interest of meeting program goals, BPA agreed to consider purchasing more than 30 aMW. The Glass Mountain and Vale Projects will, if appropriate, be the subject of separate Records of Decision, and will not be discussed further in this document. Negotiations for the Newberry Project began in January 1992, and were completed in December 1992. The negotiations resulted in three proposed agreements: •A Power Purchase Agreement between CEC and BPA; •A Billing Credits Generation Agreement between EWEB and BPA; •A Power Purchase Agreement between CEC and EWEB. Under its Power Purchase Agreement with CEC, BPA would purchase approximately 20 average megawatts of output from the project and receive an option on an additional 67 megawatts, if available in the future. Under its Power Purchase Agreement with CEC, EWEB would purchase 10 average megawatts from the project and receive an option on 33 megawatts, if available. BPA would give EWEB billing credits for 10 average megawatts under a Billing Credits Generation Agreement. The term of the agreements is 50 years from the commercial operation date of the project. The price of energy will not exceed BPA's Alternative Cost, as established in BPA's 1990 Billing Credit Solicitation. The Alternative Cost is the estimated cost which BPA would incur as a result of acquiring new resources, and is the upper limit on the amount of a billing credit other than conservation. Memorandum of Understanding A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between CE Newberry, Inc. (a subsidiary of the California Energy Company), EWEB, and BPA was executed on December 17, 1992. The MOU acknowledged that the parties had reached agreement on contract principles, and defined the roles of the parties during the environmental review required by NEPA. The MOU noted that BPA had not made a final decision to sign any power purchase or other agreements, and that such power purchase obligation would not arise, if at all, until the environmental impacts of the proposed Newberry Project had been analyzed in accordance with NEPA. Environmental Considerations National Environmental Policy Act Background The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) is the basic national charter for protection of the environment. It establishes policy, sets goals, and provides means for carrying out its policy. NEPA requires Federal agencies to make environmental information available to public officials and citizens before decisions are made and before actions are taken. Accurate scientific analysis, expert agency comments, and public scrutiny are essential to implementing NEPA. The NEPA process is intended to help public officials make decisions that are based on an understanding of environmental consequences. NEPA mandates that Federal agencies use all practical means to protect, restore, and enhance the quality of the human environment and avoid or minimize any possible adverse effects of their actions upon the quality of the human environment. Newberry Geothermal Pilot Project Environmental Impact Statement On December 2, 1992, a Notice of Intent to Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) in accordance with NEPA was published by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in the Federal Register . This EIS would analyze the environmental impacts of various alternatives related to the development of the proposed Newberry Geothermal Pilot Project (Newberry Project). The U.S. Forest Service (USFS) would be the Lead Agency in this process; the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and BPA would be Cooperating Agencies. BPA adopted the Newberry Geothermal Pilot Project Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) (DOE/EIS&hyph;0207, June 1994). The FEIS was tiered to the Resource Programs Environmental Impact Statement (RPEIS&hyph;DOE/EIS&hyph;0162), which considered the environmental tradeoffs among the resource types available to meet BPA's need. The FEIS evaluated the exploration, development, utilization, and decommissioning phases of the Newberry Project as well as related transmission, wheeling, and billing credit components. Alternative A is the CEC/EWEB proposal, and Alternative B is the three Federal agencies' modification of the proposal. In addition to identifying and analyzing the environmental impacts of these two alternatives for the proposed Newberry Project, the FEIS also evaluated the No Action alternative. The Power Purchase and Billing Credits Agreements require that the Newberry Project meet all Federal, state, and local requirements. The FEIS fulfills the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and meets the needs of the USFS and the BLM, who have documented their decisions in a separate, joint Record of Decision (ROD). BPA has also determined that this action is consistent with the Council's 1991 Power Plan. The following alternatives were considered in the EIS: Alternative A Alternative A is the proposal as submitted by CE Exploration (CEE, a subsidiary of the California Energy Company). It includes exploration, development, production, utilization, and decommissioning of the geothermal resources on CEE's Federal geothermal leases on the west flank of Newberry Volcano. Highlights of this alternative, which is described in more detail in the FEIS, include development of exploration/production well pads at 14 specific locations; construction and operation of one 33&hyph;MW (gross output) power plant at a specific site; construction of associated pipelines and access roads; construction and utilization of an H-frame, 115-kilovolt transmission line along the north side of Forest Road 9735 to deliver power from the plant to an existing transmission line; and mitigation and monitoring measures as proposed by CEE. These would be permanent facilities with a contract life of at least 50 years.
