FR940930-0-00215 FR940930-0-00029 Section 234.103␣Timely Response to Report of Malfunction §234.103(a) Proposed subsection (a) requires that upon receipt of a credible report of a warning system malfunction, the railroad shall immediately investigate the report and determine the nature of the malfunction. The railroad then takes action as required by §234.207. Various commenters stated that use of the term ``immediately'' is inappropriate. New Jersey Transit states that ``[t]he requirement to `immediately investigate' a reported warning system malfunction in (a) adds vagueness to an otherwise adequate rule.'' The labor/management group also recommended deletion of the ``immediate response'' requirement. They commented that ``the term `immediately' may be too restrictive and would impose a standard which simply could not be achieved under all circumstances.'' We agree with the commenters that use of ``immediate'' could present compliance problems when ``immediate'' is interpreted in its dictionary meaning. Immediately is commonly defined as ``without lapse of time; without delay; instantly; at once.'' We agree with the labor/management group that a more appropriate standard is provided by requiring a ``prompt'' response, which, while not requiring a virtually impossible instantaneous response, will establish a standard that a railroad must respond quickly to a credible report of malfunction. The final rule is revised accordingly. Final Rule Subsection 234.103(a) requires that upon receipt of a credible report of a warning system malfunction, a railroad having maintenance responsibility for the warning system shall promptly investigate a credible report of malfunction. Based upon the results of that investigation, and in accordance with §234.207, the railroad is required to adjust, repair, or replace any faulty component without undue delay. §234.103(b) As proposed, §234.103(b) requires that, until repair or correction of the warning system is completed, the railroad shall provide alternative means of warning highway traffic and railroad employees in accordance with this subpart. There were no comments on subsection (b). Final Rule Because acceptable alternative means of protecting the travelling public and railroad employees are described in §§234.105 and 234.107, this section is being revised to specifically reference those sections. §234.103(c) As proposed, subsection (c) provides that nothing in this subpart requires repair or correction of a warning system, if, acting in accordance with applicable State law, the railroad proceeds to discontinue or dismantle the warning system, provided such warning system not be left in place unless the railroad complies with this subpart. This subsection makes clear that nothing in these regulations forces a railroad to continually repair a warning system that, under State law, may be retired. However, a railroad must still comply with this part during retirement proceedings. This subsection also requires that even if a warning system has been retired under State law, until that system is physically removed, the railroad must comply with this part. This requirement will ensure that if a highway user sees a warning system at a crossing, he or she can rely on it to be a properly functioning system. There were no comments on this subsection. Final Rule Subsection 234.103(c) is adopted as proposed. Section 234.105␣Activation Failure Commenters raised a number of issues relating to this section. The labor/management group recommended that this section be modified by establishing a requirement for ``prompt,'' rather than ``immediate,'' action in response to a credible report of warning system malfunction. For the same reasons as stated in the discussion regarding §234.103, FRA is substituting ``promptly'' for ``immediately'' in the final rule. As in §234.103, FRA believes this will establish a standard that a railroad must initiate the required warning efforts quickly and without undue delay.
