FR940324-2-00148 FR940324-2-00085 Customer-Owned Service Lines AGENCY: Research and Special Programs Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of public meeting. SUMMARY: The Research and Special Programs Administration (RSPA) invites representatives of industry, state and local government, and the public to an open meeting on the safety of customer-owned service lines. The purpose of this meeting is to gather information on the extent to which lack of maintenance of customer-owned service lines raises safety concerns, and on how to address these concerns, including the need for any legislative changes or regulatory action. DATES: The meeting will be held on May 17, 1994 from 9 a.m.&hyph;4 p.m. ADDRESSES: The meeting will held at the Transportation Safety Institute, 715 South Metropolitan, North Campus, Room 204, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. The transcript of the meeting will be available for inspection and copying in room 8421, Nassif Building, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590 between 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. each working day. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Marvin Fell, (202) 366&hyph;6205, regarding the subject matter of this notice, or the Dockets Unit (202) 366&hyph;5046, regarding copies of this notice or other material referenced in this notice. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 115(b) of the Pipeline Safety Act of 1992 (the Act, Pub. L. 102&hyph;508; October 24, 1992), requires the Department of Transportation to conduct a review of Federal, State and local rules, policies, procedures and other measures with respect to the safety of customer-owned natural gas service lines to determine their effectiveness. In a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) published February 3, 1994 (59 FR 5168), RSPA defined a customer-owned service line as a pipeline that transports gas from a service line to an exterior wall of a building or end use equipment. These lines are commonly called ``yard lines'' of ``fuel lines.'' Similarly, ``farm taps'' are customer-owned service lines that begin at a customer meter, usually adjacent to a gas transmission line, and run to a single consumer. In performing this review, the Department is to consider the extent to which lack of maintenance of customer-owned service lines raises safety concerns. Additional factors to be considered are State and local law, including law governing private property and rights, and State pipeline safety regulation of distribution operators; the views of State and local regulatory authorities; available accident information; costs; and civil liability implications of distribution operators taking responsibility for customer-owned service lines. The Department is also to consider whether the customer-owned service line maintenance information regulations it is required to issue pursuant to section 115(a) of the Act sufficiently address safety risks and concerns involving such lines. RSPA published the proposed maintenance information regulations in an NPRM on February 3, 1994 (59 FR 5168). The NPRM proposes to require operators of natural gas or petroleum gas pipelines that do not maintain their customer-owned service lines up to building walls to advise their customers of the requirements for maintenance of those lines, any resources known to the operator that could aid customers, and the potential hazards of not maintaining service lines. To begin its review, RSPA sent out a survey to the directors of state pipeline safety offices asking for information on the above-described matters. After careful review of the responses, RSPA determined additional information is needed to determine if lack of maintenance of customer-owned service lines raises safety concerns and how any concerns should be addressed, including need for legislative and regulatory changes. Accordingly, a public meeting will be held to collect this information. RSPA will provide preliminary results from its survey at this meeting. RSPA is seeking comment on any of the above-described matters and, in particular, is requesting comment on the following questions:
