FR940318-0-00138 FR940318-0-00023 The assessments presented in the background documents are screens of the comparative risks posed by use of substitutes, not assessments or rankings of the absolute risks associated with use of each substitute. Designating a substitute as acceptable does not imply the absence of risks for that substitute, but rather that the substitute in question is believed to present lower overall risks than both the class I compound it is replacing and other substitutes available for the same end-use. For instance, in some cases, ozone-depleting substances can be replaced by chemicals with known toxicity or ability to contribute to ground-level ozone formation. The Agency's risk screen analyzes these effects, and the SNAP determinations generally describe as acceptable those substitutes for which risks from replacements would be lower on an overall basis compared to risks from other existing alternatives, or for which such risks could be managed by developing and implementing appropriate regulatory controls. Additionally, in cases where the Agency has listed a substitute as unacceptable, it has assessed_as required in section 612_the availability of other substitutes and concluded that alternatives with reduced overall risk are currently or potentially available. As a rule, the Agency did not evaluate the technical performance of a substitute, since the purpose of the SNAP program is to examine environmental effects of substitutes identified as being of commercial interest regardless of technical acceptability. However, in certain sectors, performance of the substitute does pertain directly to environmental or health effects. For example, in refrigeration, the ability of a refrigerant replacement to serve as a coolant will directly influence the substitute's energy efficiency, which in turn will affect the substitute's environmental effects. Similarly, in fire suppression, the ability of a substitute to put out fires and thereby save human lives will directly affect a substitute's health effects. Further, in the case of narrowed use listings, the Agency's decision to grant or deny a narrowed use petition may hinge on the ability of potential substitutes to meet technical performance criteria. For example, in the case of certain specialized solvents, some substitutes otherwise considered unacceptable may require special consideration because they are the only available substitute offering performance characteristics deemed essential in a certain application. In cases such as these, the SNAP analyses do consider the performance of a substitute as necessary. EPA's evaluation of each substitute in an end use is based on the following types of information and analyses: •Atmospheric effects are assessed by predicting ozone depletion and analyzing total global warming potential, including chemical properties relevant to global warming. Ozone depletion is based on market penetration of a substitute and is measured in terms of cumulative Cl x loadings and its effect in terms of increased incidence of skin cancer cases and skin cancer mortalities. Analysis of total global warming potential includes changes consideration of inherent properties such as atmospheric lifetime and absorption spectra, as measured by the GWP index, and from changes in fossil fuel use due to increases or decreases in energy efficiency resulting from production or use of the substitutes. Atmospheric lifetime is considered as an indicator of the likely persistence of an environmental effect or of the time lag to reverse any known or unknown effect associated with an emission. The model used by the Agency to determine atmospheric effects_the Atmospheric Stabilization Framework model_has been used by the Agency in calculating the benefits from the phase-out of class I substances. The model was peer-reviewed in connection with this earlier analysis. Although scientific studies have pointed to the possibility of ecological effects due to ozone depletion, such as crop damage, the scope of existing studies is limited and therefore these effects were not part of this analysis. •Exposure assessments are used to estimate concentration levels of substitutes to which workers, consumers, the general population, and environmental receptors may be exposed, and over what period of time. These assessments are based on personal monitoring data or area sampling data if available. Otherwise, exposures are assessed using measured or estimated releases as inputs to mathematical models. Exposure assessments may be conducted for many types of releases, including releases in the workplace and in homes, releases to ambient air and surface water, and releases from the management of solid wastes. •Toxicity data are used to assess the possible health and environmental effects from exposure to the substitutes. If Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)-approved or EPA-wide health-based criteria such as Permissible Exposure Limits (PELs, for occupational exposure), inhalation reference concentrations (RfCs, for noncarcinogenic effects), or cancer slope factors (for carcinogenic risk) are available for a substitute, exposure information is combined with this toxicity information to explore any basis for concern. Otherwise, toxicity data are used with existing EPA guidelines to develop health-based criteria for interim use in these risk characterizations. •Flammability is examined as a possible safety concern for workers and consumers. EPA assesses flammability risk using data on flash point and flammability limits (e.g., OSHA flammability/combustibility classifications), data on testing of blends with flammable components, test data on flammability in consumer applications conducted by independent laboratories, and information on flammability risk minimization techniques. •Some of the substitutes are volatile organic compounds (VOCs), chemicals that increase tropospheric air pollution by contributing to ground-level ozone formation. Local and nationwide increases in VOC loadings from the use of substitutes is also evaluated.
