FR940805-1-00116 FR940805-1-00013 (4) Emergency exits. In compliance with NFPA Code and OSHA regulations, designated exits in the facility shall permit prompt evacuation of inmates and staff members in an emergency. Facility exits shall be properly positioned, clear and distinctly and permanently marked. (5) Protective holding cells. Other than as indicated in the mass arrest policy, single and multiple occupancy protective holding cells shall hold no more than eight persons and shall be used only for the temporary holding of persons during the booking process for periods of up to eight hours. Each room or cell shall have, at a minimum: (i) sixty square feet of floor space; (ii) toilet facilities that are located above floor level, provide some degree of privacy and are available for use without staff assistance twenty-four hours a day; (iii) hot and cold running water; and (iv) a bed or fixed bench at or above floor level. (6) Emergency equipment. The facility shall have the equipment necessary to maintain essential lights, power, ventilation, power-operated doors or locks and communication in an emergency. (7) Visual surveillance equipment. When visual electronic surveillance is used, it shall be located primarily in hallways, elevators, corridors, or at points on the security perimeter such as entrances and exits. (e) New facility planning process_ (1) New facility planning requirement. All new construction, renovation and expansion projects shall follow the Planning of New Institutions (PONI) process as required by 25 CFR Part 296. (2) Safety management review. The design and specifications for all new construction, renovation and expansion projects shall be reviewed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs in compliance with 29 CFR 1960, Suparts B through D. (f) New construction, renovation and expansion_ (1) Staff inmate interaction. Physical plant design shall facilitate continuous personal contact and interaction between staff and inmates. (2) Continuous observation. All general population and immediate segregation living areas shall be constructed to facilitate continuous staff observation, excluding electronic surveillance, of cell or room fronts and activity areas, such as dayrooms and recreation spaces. (3) Location. The facility shall be conveniently located for criminal justice agencies, the health authority, community agencies and inmates' attorneys, families and friends. (4) Single occupancy requirements (general population). Only one inmate shall occupy each cell or detention room designed for single occupancy. All single rooms or cells shall have at least sixty square feet of floor space, provided inmates spend no more than ten hours per day locked in. When confinement exceeds ten hours per day, there shall be at least seventy square feet of floor space. In general population, each room or cell shall have, at a minimum: (i) natural light; (ii) toilet facilities with some degree of privacy that are located above floor level and are available for use without staff assistance twenty-four hours a day; (iii) a wash basin with hot and cold running water; (iv) access to showers; and (v) a bed above floor level, a desk or writing surface, safety-type hooks or closet space, and a chair or stool. (5) Single occupancy requirements (immediate segregation). Only one inmate shall occupy each cell or detention room designed for single occupancy. The facility shall provide single cell occupancy for immediate segregation housing. At least one immediate segregation cell shall be vented directly to the exterior. In immediate segregation units, rooms shall provide living conditions that approximate those of the general inmate population; all exceptions shall be clearly documented. Each room or cell shall have, at a minimum: (i) natural light; (ii) a minimum of seventy square feet of floor space; (iii) toilet facilities with some degree of privacy that are located above floor level and that are available for use without staff assistance twenty-four hours a day; (iv) access to showers; (v) hot and cold running water; and (vi) a bed at or above floor level, a desk or writing surface, and a stool. (6) Multiple occupancy space requirements. Where used, multiple occupancy rooms or cells shall house inmates, who have been screened for suitability to group living. The rooms shall provide: (i) continuous observation by staff; (ii) a minimum of fifty square feet of floor space per occupant in the sleeping area and a clear floor-to-ceiling height of not less than eight feet; (iii) natural light; (iv) a toilet(s), with some degree of privacy; (v) an operable wash basin(s) with hot and cold running water; (vi) access to showers; and (vii) beds above floor level and a locker or container for each occupant's belongings. (7) Space, furnishings and conditions for dayrooms. The facility shall provide separate dayroom space for each cellblock or detention room cluster. The dayroom shall provide: (i) natural light; (ii) a minimum of thirty-five square feet of space per inmate exclusive of lavatories; (iii) showers and toilets with some degree of privacy; and (iv) seating and writing surfaces, appropriate to the classification which uses this space, sufficient for the number of inmates who use the dayroom at one time. (8) Toilets. The facility shall provide operable toilets at a minimum ratio of one for every twelve inmates in male facilities and one for every eight inmates in female facilities. Urinals may be substituted for up to one-half of the toilets in male facilities. All housing units with three or more inmates shall have two toilets.
