FR940803-0-00111 FR940803-0-00040 Summary of Comments A number of manufacturers expressed concerns regarding the proposed fuel economy labeling requirements for alternative-fueled vehicles. One concern common to many manufacturers related to the requirement to have statements appear on the bottom border of the label. Since manufacturers use printed forms to generate fuel economy labels, the number of preprinted types of forms that manufacturers would have to purchase would increase because of the differences in border wording for different vehicles. Instead, manufacturers recommended that these statements be written just above the bottom border, leaving the preprinted portion of the label unchanged. Manufacturers also recommended that the size of the fuel pump logo be reduced to accommodate fuel titles above the pump logo and that ``Gas Mileage Information'' be replaced by a more generic and appropriate title such as ``Fuel Mileage Information''. Manufacturers recommended that EPA establish an optional label format to include the fuel economy values for dual-fueled vehicles while operated on the alternative fuel in addition to the fuel economy values while operated on gasoline as required by the AMFA. They recommended that these optional fuel economy values could take the place of the reference to having the customer obtain the information from the gas mileage guide. One manufacturer recommended that the proposed label for natural gas vehicles, which includes a conversion factor of 0.823 to be used by the consumer to convert mpg to miles per 100 cubic feet of natural gas, should be changed so that the manufacturer would perform the calculation for the consumer. The manufacturer would then report the natural gas fuel economy on the lower right hand side of the label in units that are used at retail. Several manufacturers commented that the multiplicative factors for label values for gasoline vehicles developed by EPA of 0.90 and 0.78 should also be applied to alcohol and natural gas fuel economy label values. However, these factors may have to be revised as more experience is gained with the use of alternative-fueled vehicles. EPA Response to Comments The EPA believes that the concerns of manufacturers regarding printing statements on the bottom border of the fuel economy label are valid. The purpose of the proposed location of the statement on the bottom border was to ensure that the statement was clearly visible and caught the eye of the consumer. However, this objective can still be reached if large print is used and the statement is printed just above the bottom border of the label. Therefore, for the final rule, EPA is requiring that this statement be located just above the bottom border of the label. EPA agrees with the comments received in regard to the size of the fuel pump logo be slightly reduced to provide adequate space for the fuel title to be positioned above the logo. The slight reduction in logo size will not have any adverse impact on the effectiveness of the label in informing the consumer of the vehicle's fuel economy. In addition, the fuel pump logo statement ``Gas Mileage Information'' is not appropriate for vehicles powered by alternative fuels. However, in clarifying the comments received on this issue, the commenters who recommended the use of ``Fuel Mileage'' in place of Gas Mileage agreed with EPA that an even more appropriate term would be ``Fuel Economy''. Therefore, for the final rule, all label occurrences of the term ``Gas Mileage'' are replaced by ``Fuel Economy''. The AMFA clearly mandates that the label for dual-fueled vehicles contain the fuel economy values when operated on gasoline or diesel fuel, and that additional information be contained in the Gas Mileage Guide regarding operation on the alternative fuel. The information required to be published in the Gas Mileage Guide includes: the energy efficiency and cost of operation of such automobiles when operated on gasoline or diesel fuels as compared to operation of alcohol or natural gas; the driving range of such automobiles when operated on gasoline or diesel fuel as compared to such automobiles when operated on alcohol or natural gas; information regarding the miles per gallon achieved by dual-fueled automobiles when operated on alcohol; and an explanation of how the information may be expected to change when the automobile is operated on mixtures of alcohol and gasoline or diesel fuel (15 U.S.C. 2006(b)(3)). This information will most likely be of interest to a consumer who is deciding whether or not to purchase a dual-fueled vehicle. Congress recognized that it would be impractical to incorporate all of this information on the fuel economy label and required that, at a minimum, the label contain gasoline fuel economy information while alternative fuel information is contained in the Gas Mileage Guide. However, the AMFA does not specifically prohibit other label formats. To avoid consumer confusion and frustration with dual-fueled vehicle labeling, EPA agrees with commenters that it would be beneficial to include fuel economy values while operating on the alternative fuel in addition to those while operating on gasoline on the same label. This could help avoid problems which would occur when a model is offered for sale before the Gas Mileage Guide is available for a particular model year. However, it would not be practical to design an optional label that would contain all the information that the AMFA requires to be contained in the Gas Mileage Guide. Therefore, EPA is providing an optional label format for dual-fueled vehicles that contains limited information on the fuel economy while operated on the alternative fuel. Also, this optional label will contain a statement that refers to the availability of additional information in the Gas Mileage Guide. The AMFA mandates that the fuel economy label values for dedicated natural gas-fueled vehicles are the values used for CAFE purposes multiplied by 0.15. This requires that the fuel economy value units are in terms of miles per equivalent gallon of gasoline for natural gas-fueled automobiles. The most appropriate units in terms of consumer usefulness are dependent on how the fuel will be sold at retail (e.g., per volume, per weight, per equivalent gallon gasoline). Since the vehicle fuel market for natural gas is not yet established, the most appropriate label units are not known at this time. Therefore, the statement: ``To convert these values into units of miles per 100 cubic feet of natural gas, multiply by 0.823.'' will only be required if natural gas as a motor vehicle fuel is sold on a volume (cubic feet) basis. As an option, the manufacturer can perform the calculation for the consumer and display the values on the label in the following format: ``The fuel economy in units of miles per [insert units used in retail] is estimated to be [insert city fuel economy value] in the city, and [insert highway fuel economy value] on the highway.'' This format can also be used if natural gas is sold in terms of units other than gallon equivalent of gasoline or cubic feet. Also, for the optional label format for natural gas dual-fueled vehicles, the fuel economy units while operating on natural gas will be based on units used at retail. The EPA agrees with manufacturers' comments regarding the necessity to reevaluate the multiplicative city and highway fuel economy adjustment factors for label values to better represent in-use fuel economy when more experience and data are available for alternative-fueled vehicles.
