FR940617-2-00065 FR940617-2-00042 Golden Field Office; Federal Assistance Award to Utility Photo Voltaic Group AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of Financial Assistance Award in Response to a Financial Assistance Application. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), pursuant to the DOE Financial Assistance Rules, 10 CFR 600.7, is announcing its intention to renew a Cooperative Agreement with the Utility PhotoVoltaic Group (UPVG) for a multi-task photovoltaics (PV) program intended to continue outreach efforts to electric utilities and to begin a multi-year PV hardware initiative. ADDRESSES: Questions regarding this announcement may be addressed to the U.S. Department of Energy, Golden Field Office, 1617 Cole Blvd., Golden, Colorado 80401, Attention: J.W. Meeker, Contract Specialist. The telephone number is 303&hyph;275&hyph;4748. Dr. Paul K. Kearns is the Contracting Officer. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: DOE has evaluated, in accordance with ยง600.7 of the Federal Assistance Regulations, the proposal entitled ``Phase 2 Plan for the Utility PhotoVoltaic Group'' submitted by UPVG. DOE recommends that the proposal for work continuation be accepted for support without further competition in accordance with ยง600.7 of 10 CFR part 600. The project extension will be performed in ten tasks, with emphasis toward outreach to educate utility and other audiences and toward building a foundation for accelerated utility PV purchase commitments. The overall UPVG objective is the establishment of an accelerated market for PV systems that allows reduced PV costs through economy of scale. The program is intended to develop and disseminate PV information for utilities, prompt utility purchases, and develop a foundation for a multi-year PV hardware initiative. The programmatic evaluation [see 10 CFR 600.7(b)(2)(ii)(D)] completed for this proposal resulted in a recommendation to fund this grant application for the following reasons: A. Overall Merit and Relevance to the DOE Mission DOe is actively pursuing a program towards solar energy conversion, with a major program objective being the cost-effective use of photovoltaics (PV) in utility applications. The UPVG activities directly support the DOE objectives by involving a large group of member electric utilities in the near-term implementation of large-scale PV systems. The UPVG represents an ideal and totally unique mechanism to encourage the use of PV through DOE financial support of the large, unified group of interested utilities. B. Anticipated Objectives and Probability of Success in Meeting Them The proposed activities continue a multi-year program at UPVG intended to result in the achievement of PV acceptance and use by electric utilities. The program involves several different tasks, with an overall objective being the installation of 50 MW of new utility PV generation capacity within 5 years. The current UPVG program includes ten overall tasks, each with multiple subtasks. The ten tasks include: 1. Technology Transfer and Member Development. 2. Commercialization Strategies. 3. Applications and Markets. 4. Planning and Evaluation. 5. Engineering and Demonstrations. 6. External Outreach and Coordination. 7. TEAM-UP Organization Development. 8. Initiate Small-Scale Applications. 9. Initiate Large-Scale Applications. 10. Management and Administration. Each of these tasks is a required element of the overall program to develop a utility market for PV. The successful implementation of this project would result in: 1. Continued UPVG member utility involvement with PV technology.
