FR940524-2-00073 FR940524-2-00048 3. Exclusion of Interagency Acquisitions Under the Economy Act Several commenters raised concern about excluding interagency agreements from coverage of the Policy Letter in view of the problems identified in the recent hearings on contract offloading. Other commenters suggested that the exclusion should be clarified since an interagency agreement under the Economy Act can be used to obtain either in-house support from another agency or to obtain support from a contract sponsored by another government organization. OFPP's intent was to exclude interagency agreements where the support service is being provided by in-house government employees. Interagency acquisitions under the Economy Act where the servicing agency contracts out for the support are covered by the Policy Letter. In developing the requirement for the interagency agreement, the requesting and servicing agencies should ensure that the principles outlined in the Policy Letter are being followed. Section 5 (Exclusions) has been revised to make clear that only interagency acquisitions/agreements where support is provided by in-house government employees are excluded from coverage of the Policy Letter. 4. Other Exclusions One agency suggested that the coverage of the Policy Letter was too broad which creates an enormous administrative burden without a demonstrated need. The agency suggested that such services as ADP and telecommunications, training, medical services, or those that do not affect government decisionmaking, support or influence agency policy development, or affect program design and implementation should be excluded. In addition it was suggested that research and development (R&D) should be excluded since contracts for R&D are inherently different from service contracts. The concern is that many of the questions may be misapplied to R&D contracts since the very nature of the work is very broad and imprecise. OFPP disagrees with excluding the other suggested services since they may be susceptible to abuse in those problem areas identified in the Policy Letter. Prior GAO reports, the SWAT Report on Civilian Agency Contracting, and the Director's recent services contract review revealed that services contracting practices are uneven across the Executive Branch and that various contract management problems should be addressed. We understand that a distinction can be made between R&D and service contracts. Moreover, some of the questions may not be appropriate for R&D because of the technical and scientific nature of the work. We believe, however, that R&D contracts may be susceptible to the problem areas identified in the Policy Letter and should not be excluded. We have included a statement in the second introductory paragraph in section 7 to recognize that R&D, as well as architect and engineering services, are specialized categories of contracting. Agencies should also ensure that they are in compliance with applicable FAR guidance pertaining to those categories when using the guiding principles in the Policy Letter. As part of the National Performance Review, the procurement reform legislation includes a provision to increase the small purchase threshold to $100,000. This would significantly reduce the number of service contracts subject to the Policy Letter because the Letter does not apply to contracts below the small purchase threshold. Moreover, we believe that the questions in appendix A are good guiding principles that should help agencies better structure their requirements for all services so that excellence in contractor performance is achieved. DATES: The Policy Letter is June 23, 1994. It directs that governmentwide regulations be promulgated to implement the policies contained therein within December 20, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Linda G. Williams, Deputy Associate Administrator, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, 725 17th Street NW., New Executive Office Building, room 9013, Washington, DC 20503, telephone (202) 395&hyph;3302. To obtain a copy of this reissued Policy Letter, please call the Executive Office of the President's Publications Office at (202) 395&hyph;7332. Steven Kelman, Administrator.
