FR940902-1-00038 FR940902-1-00005 Meteorological Data The analysis used 1 year of on-site meteorological data (1988). As a comparison, the MPCA conducted supplemental modeling using 1973&hyph;1977 Minneapolis Airport surface meteorological data, and St. Cloud mixing height data. The results showed that the on-site meteorological data resulted in higher predicted 3-hour and 24-hour concentrations. However, both data sets produced concentrations demonstrating modeled attainment of the SO 2 NAAQS. Background concentrations of SO 2 from sources not included in the modeling inventory were determined based on consideration of previous background values. Historic monitoring data (1984) was considered in ascertaining the SO 2 unmodeled background concentration. The modeling inventory also included many minor sources whose collective contributions were classified in the submittal as ``background.'' These modeled ``background'' values, along with the monitored values, were included in the critical concentrations identified in the attainment demonstration. Receptor Grid The sulfur impacts were calculated over a 4-kilometer by 4-kilometer area with 100 meter resolution. Terrain effects were considered. Complex terrain impacts were determined by using the COMPLEX1 model run in the VALLEY mode. The predicted 24-hour concentrations for the complex run was less than the ISCST simple terrain run; therefore, ISCST results were used for establishing the SO 2 emission limits in Ashland's Administrative Order. GEP Determinations All Ashland Refinery stacks were modeled using the lesser of the actual stack height or 65 meters. Building downwash was not incorporated in the original attainment demonstration because MPCA maintained the stack heights at the facility were sufficiently high to avoid downwash. The USEPA requested, and received from the State, documentation demonstrating that the significant sources at the facility were not subject to building downwash. Interstate Impacts Section 110(a)(2) of the Clean Air Act requires that the Minnesota SIP prohibit emissions which would prevent attainment or maintenance of the NAAQS in any other State. The Wisconsin border is approximately 40 kilometers (km) to the east of the sources included in this attainment demonstration. For each source which was explicitly modeled in this submittal, attainment in the adjacent State was demonstrated through supplemental dispersion modeling. This modeling showed either decreasing or steady concentration gradients in the direction of the adjacent State and demonstrated that SO 2 emissions allowed in Minnesota would not prevent attainment or maintenance of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) in Wisconsin. Comments The USEPA has identified deficiencies in the Ashland Petroleum Company Administrative Order that the MPCA must adequately address before the USEPA can proceed with a final approval. The deficiencies are presented in the following comments. (1) On page 6, under the definition of 24-hour average, the word ``quality'' must be replaced by the word ``quantity.'' (2) On page 9, Section I.C.2. states that ``the company is allowed to conduct decoking operations at each process heater not more than 72 hours in each calendar quarter.'' However, the modeling demonstration appears to have based the decoking emissions on operations restricted to 72 hours per year. The restriction in the order must reflect the same operating hours as the attainment demonstration (72 hours per year). (3) On page 10, Section I.C.4.a.2. limits the amount of hydrogen sulfide in the refinery gas to no more than 162 ppm as an average for any consecutive 3-hour period. In the order, this limit does not apply during ``periods of startup, shutdown, breakdown, maintenance and repair of the fuel gas amine system, SRU1, SRU2, the tailgas recovery unit (SCOT), the heavy distillate hydrotreater, and significant decreases in hydrogen production.'' The emissions used in the modeled attainment demonstration for the refinery gas sources appear to be based on the hydrogen sulfide limit on the refinery gas. Allowing exemptions to the hydrogen sulfide limit during the time periods mentioned above may jeopardize the SO 2 standards.
