FR940630-2-00040 FR940630-2-00038 Compliance Licensees are solely responsible for accurately accounting for all licenses and for paying proper regulatory fees. Any omission or payment deficiency can result in a 25% monetary penalty, dismissal of pending actions, and/or revocation of any authorization. Additionally, the Commission intends to invoke its authority under the Debt Collection Act against any licensee failing to meet its regulatory fee payment obligations. Waivers, Reductions, and Deferments of Regulatory Fees The Commission will consider requests for waivers, reductions or deferments of regulatory fees, in extraordinary and compelling circumstances only, upon a showing that such action overrides the public interest in reimbursing the Commission for its regulatory costs. Timely submission of the appropriate regulatory fee must accompany requests for waivers or reductions. This will ensure efficient collection in situations where a waiver or reduction is not warranted and will allow the requester to avoid a 25% late-payment penalty if its request is denied. The regulatory fee would be refunded later if the request is granted. Only in exceptional or compelling instances (where payment of the regulatory fee along with the waiver or reduction request could result in the reduction of service to a community or other financial hardship to the licensee) will the Commission accept a petition to defer payment along with a waiver or reduction request. Additional Information The Commission has prepared a number of informative Fee Filing Guides for information on application fees for cable services, and for information on application and regulatory fees for the common carrier, mass media, engineering and technology, field operations or private radio services. These Guides are available from the Commission's Public Service Division, from its various field office locations and can be downloaded from the Internet (ftp @ fcc.gov). For additional information, please call the Fees Hotline at (2) 632&hyph;FEES, or write to: Federal Communications Commission, ATTN: Public Service Division, 1919 M Street NW., Washington, DC 20554. Filing Procedures for AM Radio Stations Who Must Pay: Licensees of Class A, Class B, Class C & Class D AM radio stations and holders of construction permits for new stations in the AM service whose license or permit was granted on or before October 1, 1993. AM radio station licensees who also hold auxiliary broadcast service licenses operated in conjunction with the main AM station ( e.g., remote pickup stations, aural broadcast STLs, intercity relay stations and low power auxiliary stations) will also be assessed a regulatory fee for each of these stations. Governments and nonprofit (exempt under Section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code) entities are exempt from paying regulatory fees and should not submit payment, but may be asked to submit a current IRS Determination Letter documenting its nonprofit status, or a certification of governmental authority. Fee Requirement: Fees are assessed for AM radio station licensees based upon class of station as shown. Determination of class is based upon the station's most recent granted license on or before October 1, 1993.
