FR940621-2-00023 FR940621-2-00016 Recent nuclear arms reduction agreements and pledges, along with Presidential decisions concerning what stocks of plutonium, HEU, and other nuclear materials are to be reserved for national defense will largely determine how much and when material will be declared ``surplus'' and will become available for disposition. Discussions are ongoing with the Nuclear Weapons Council to determine what materials are surplus and what must be maintained as a reserve. DOE anticipates that these amounts will be identified so that the analysis planned for the PEIS can address the storage and disposition alternatives. Several kilograms of plutonium, or several times that amount of HEU, are sufficient to make a nuclear weapon. Although both plutonium and HEU can be used to make nuclear weapons, they pose different risks and require different controls. HEU is produced by ``enriching'' natural uranium using one of several technologies, all of which are complex isotopic separation technologies that require commitment of significant funds and industrial resources. As stated by the National Academy of Sciences in its study, HEU can be blended down with naturally occurring, depleted or low-enriched uranium to make a low-enriched uranium (LEU) reactor fuel that poses lower proliferation risk and can return a substantial economic benefit. In fact, LEU is the fuel for most of the world's nuclear power reactors. In contrast, blending cannot reduce the proliferation risks of plutonium because all plutonium isotopes can be used to make a nuclear weapon. Separating plutonium from other elements with which it might be mixed or from unirradiated reactor fuel containing plutonium requires only well-understood chemical processing techniques. Thus, the management of plutonium in any form is a greater challenge than the management of HEU. HEU Long-Term Storage and Disposition Alternatives DOE has proposed to consolidate HEU into secure interim storage at Oak Ridge in the Y&hyph;12 facility (see 59 FR 11783), and may reduce its surplus by blending down some of the HEU. The resulting LEU could then be made available for commercial sale. The PEIS will consider the following alternatives for HEU disposition: Blending down surplus HEU with other, more abundant, naturally occurring uranium, depleted uranium or other LEU, to make LEU for reactor fuel; and any other reasonable alternatives identified in the scoping process. Additionally, the no-action alternative of maintaining surplus HEU in a storage facility indefinitely will be evaluated. HEU can be made highly proliferation resistant by blending it down into a LEU (less than 20 percent U&hyph;235), and there may be significant economic benefits that would offset the costs associated with this alternative. Consequently, alternatives which do not exploit the economic value of the surplus HEU, such as blending it down into LEU, are likely to be considered reasonable for disposition of most of the surplus HEU. However, some HEU may have impurities that make this material unacceptable as a reactor fuel when blended down and would have to be disposed of as waste. For these materials, blending down to less than 20 percent U&hyph;235 to prevent use in nuclear weapons, followed by disposal as waste, may be the only reasonable alternative. Plutonium Long-Term Storage and Disposition Alternatives The Department proposes to use the report prepared by the National Academy of Sciences, Management and Disposition of Excess Weapons Plutonium, as the starting point for evaluating alternatives regarding the long-term storage and disposition of plutonium. The Academy concluded that the existence of surplus fissile materials worldwide constitutes a ``clear and present danger to national and international security.'' The Academy further noted that: None of the options yet identified for managing this material can eliminate this danger; all they can do is to reduce the risk. Moreover, none of the options for long-term disposition of excess weapons plutonium can be expected to substantially reduce the inventories of excess plutonium from nuclear weapons for at least a decade. As a result, the Academy recommended that: It is important to begin now to build consensus on a road map for decisions concerning long-term disposition of excess weapons plutonium. Because disposition options will take decades to carry out, it is critical to develop options that can muster a sustainable consensus. Standards for Action In its report, the Academy identified standards for managing the risks associated with surplus weapons plutonium. These standards include: The Stored Weapons Standard The high standards of security and accounting applied to storage of nuclear weapons should be maintained for weapons-usable fissile materials throughout the process of dismantlement, storage and disposition. The Academy concluded that storage should not be extended indefinitely because of nonproliferation risks and arms reduction objectives. The Spent Fuel Standard The National Academy of Sciences recommended that options for long-term disposition of plutonium should seek to meet a ``spent-fuel standard'' in which the plutonium is as inaccessible for weapons use as the plutonium in spent nuclear fuel from commercial power reactors.
