FR940728-2-00067 FR940728-2-00047 a. Written notification of commencement of operations including the legal names and addresses of the owners and operator and the locations, number and type of facilities and/or operations covered shall be submitted. (1) For existing discharges as soon as possible after the effective date of this permit, by operators whose facilities and/or operations are discharging into the general permit area on the effective date of the permit; or (2) For new or substantially increased discharges 20 days prior to commencement of the discharge by operators whose facilities and/or operations commence discharge subsequent to the effective date of this permit. b. Operators of facilities and/or operations within the general permits area who fail to notify the Director of their intent to be covered by this general permit and obtain written authorization of coverage are not authorized under this general permit to discharge from those facilities into the named receiving waters. 2. Termination of Operations Operators of facilities and/or operators authorized under this permit shall notify the Director upon the termination of discharges. 3. Renotification Upon reissuance of a new general permit, the permittee is required to notify the Director of his intent to be covered by the new general permit. 4. When the Director May Require Application for an Individual NPDES Permit Any interested person may petition the Director to take such action. Instances where an individual permit may be required include the following: (1) The discharge(s) is a significant contributor of pollution: (2) The discharger is not in compliance with the conditions of this permit; (3) A change has occurred in the availability of the demonstrated technology of practices for the control or abatement of pollutants applicable to the point source; (4) Effluent limitation guidelines are promulgated for point sources covered by this permit; (5) A Water Quality Management Plan containing requirements applicable to such point source is approved; or (6) The point source(s) covered by this permit no longer: (a) Involves the same volume or substantially similar types of operations (b) Discharges the same type of wastes; (c) Requires the same effluent limitations or operating conditions; (d) Requires the same or similar monitoring and (e) In the opinion of the Director is more appropriately controlled under a general permit than under an individual NPDES permit. 5. The Director may require an individual permit only if the permittee authorized by the general permit has been notified in writing that an individual permit is required, and has been given a brief explanation of the reasons for this decision. 6. When an Individual NPDES Permit is issued to an operator otherwise subject to this general permit, the applicability of this permit to that owner or operator is automatically terminated on the effective date of the individual permit. Appendix B: Part II, General Requirements for all EPA, Region I, General NPDES Permits Section A. General Requirements 1. Duty to Comply see 40 CFR 122.41(a). 2. Permit Actions see 40 CFR 122.41(f). 3. Duty to Provide Information see 40 CFR 122.41(h). 4. Reopener Clause. The Regional Administrator reserves the right to make appropriate revisions to this permit in order to establish any appropriate effluent limitations, schedules of compliance, or other provisions which may be authorized under the CWA in order to bring all discharges into compliance with the CWA. 5. Oil and Hazardous Substance Liability. Nothing in this permit shall be construed to preclude the institution of any legal action or relieve the permittee from any responsibilities, liabilities, or penalties to which the permittee is or may be subject under Section 311 of the CWA, or Section 106 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA). 6. Property Rights see 40 CFR 122.41(g). 7. Confidentiality of Information. a. In accordance with 40 CFR part 2, any information submitted to EPA pursuant to these regulations may be claimed as confidential by the submitter. Any such claim must be asserted at the time of submission in the manner prescribed on the application form or instructions or, in the case of other submissions, by stamping the words ``confidential business information'' on each page containing such information. If no claim is made at the time of submission, EPA may make the information available to the public without further notice. If a claim is asserted, the information will be treated in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR Part 2 (Public Information). b. Claims of confidentiality for the following information will be denied: (1) The name and address of any permit applicant or permittee; (2) Permit applications, permits, and effluent data as defined in 40 CFR 2.302(a)(2). c. Information required by NPDES application forms provided by the Regional Administrator under ยง122.21 may not be claimed confidential. This includes information submitted on the forms themselves and any attachments used to supply information required by the forms. 8. Duty to Reapply see 40 CFR 122.41(b). 9. Right of Appeal. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of notice of a final permit decision, any interested person, including the permittee, may submit a request to the Regional Administrator for an Evidentiary Hearing under subpart E, or a Non-Adversary Panel Hearing under subpart F, of 40 CFR part 124, to reconsider or contest that decision. The request for a hearing must conform to the requirements of 40 CFR 124.74. 10. State Authorities. Nothing in part 122, 123, or 124 precludes more stringent State regulation of any activity covered by these regulations, whether or not under an approved State program. 11. Other Laws.
