FR940505-1-00224 FR940505-1-00012 EPA recognizes that numerous issues must be addressed before many of these technologies can be commercialized for diesel-fueled engines; such issues include durability, fuel consumption impacts, cost and availability of improved fuels, if they are needed. The Agency solicits input on these issues as well as the overall feasibility of the 1.5 g/bhp-hr NO X standard for diesels. The Agency has received information that certain on-highway heavy-duty diesel engines are using ``transient sensing algorithms'' that have the effect of retarding the timing during transient engine operating conditions and advancing the timing during certain steady state operating conditions. 111 Since injection timing has a very significant impact on NO X emission rates, with advanced timing settings being associated with higher NO X , the continued use of these algorithms could result in engines that appear to be very low NO X emitters for certification purposes but would not be nearly so low when operated in-use. The Agency would consider such algorithms used to meet the 1.5 g/bhp-hr standard to be defeat devices. They would not be an acceptable strategy. The Agency solicits comments on appropriate means of discouraging use of such design approaches. 111 ``Supplemental Deere & Company Comments on EPA Notice of Proposed Rulemaking: Control of Air Pollution; Emissions of Oxides of Nitrogen and Smoke From New Nonroad Compression-Ignition Engines at or above 50 Horsepower,'' July 23, 1993. Gasoline-fueled engines. Heavy-duty gasoline-fueled engines currently control NO X emissions to levels between 3 and 3.5 g/bhp-hr (in response to a 5.0 g/bhp-hr standard). The Agency sees no reason why these engines could not meet an exhaust emissions standard of 1.5 g/bhp-hr with the application of three-way catalysts and other technologies that are currently in use with light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks. Improvements may be needed in the area of high temperature three-way catalyst materials to withstand the broader range of exhaust temperatures that are typical of heavy-duty gasoline-fueled engines. Also, careful application and integration of exhaust gas recirculation, port fuel injection, more sophisticated ignition systems and increased emphasis on optimized air management may also be needed. Alternative-fueled engines. A methanol-fueled heavy-duty engine is currently certified at 1.7 g/bhp-hr NO X and the Agency believes that with additional development this engine could achieve a NO X emission level of 1.5 g/bhp-hr. The engine is a two-stroke engine. It is likely that with better fuel injection systems (for example, higher pressure injection), better air management (such as improvements in the blower by-pass control system), and other such optimization advances, this engine could achieve 1.5 g/bhp-hr or lower. Four-stroke engines using methanol have not yet been developed to the same extent, but it is likely that these engines could also show very low emissions. Methanol-fueled engines used in light-duty vehicle applications have already demonstrated the potential for achieving very low NO X levels. Ethanol-fueled engines can also produce low emissions. A limited amount of work has been done to optimize engines to operate at low emissions on ethanol, but there is the potential for much more improvement. The same two-stroke engine mentioned above was certified on denatured ethanol (95 percent ethanol, 5 percent gasoline) at 4.2 g/bhp-hr NO X . Whereas the injection system was calibrated for the higher energy density of ethanol, it was not optimized for ethanol use and thus there is room for significant improvement in NO X emissions performance. These improvements could result in achieving very low NO X levels. However, if gasoline is used as a denaturant (as it commonly is), flame temperature tends to increase and more NO X is produced. Thus, a different denaturant may have to be investigated. This same engine using a mixture of 80 percent ethanol, 20 percent distilled water (and no denaturant) produced NO X emissions results of 1.4 g/bhp-hr. 112 There are long-term injector durability concerns with such a fuel that would have to be resolved before the engine could be commercialized. Many of the issues mentioned above in the methanol discussion apply to ethanol use as well. 112 This result, as well as data cited in the following paragraph, can be found in ``Technical Feasibility of Reducing NO X and Particulate Emissions From Heavy-Duty Engines_Final Report'', Acurex Corporation, April 30, 1993. Natural gas engines using either compressed or liquified gas can also achieve very low emission levels. Even though the emission optimization of natural gas engines has been focused on only recently, they are already being shown to be low-emission power sources. Lean-burn, homogeneous-charge engines operating on natural gas (including engines made by Cummins, Caterpillar and General Motors) are already achieving NO X emissions less than 2.5 g/bhp-hr. With additional optimization, it is projected that these engines could achieve a level of 1.5 g/bhp-hr. Homogeneous-charge stoichiometric engines with three-way catalysts (including engines made by General Motors and Scania) are achieving emission levels lower than 1.5 g/bhp-hr NO X . However, as with the alcohol engines discussed above, extensive opportunities remain for further improvement and optimization for both of these engine types. As with heavy-duty gasoline engines, the natural gas engines operate with high exhaust gas temperatures that need to be accommodated to ensure three-way catalyst durability.
