FR940513-2-00195 FR940513-2-00092 University Democratization in South Africa Program AGENCY: United States Information Agency. ACTION: Notice_request for proposals. SUMMARY: The Office of Academic Programs (E/A) requests proposals from post-secondary institutions to develop a program to assist educational reform in South African post-secondary institutions as the country moves towards a nonracial democracy. The purpose of the project is to enable university student leaders and university student affairs officials to undertake a program in management skills and conflict resolution at a U.S. academic institution. The American institution should also plan to coordinate post training follow-up activities in South Africa. The institutional agreement will be for a period of two years. Interested applicants are urged to read the complete Federal Register announcement before requesting application packets from the Office of Academic Programs. DATES: Deadline for proposals: All copies must be received at the United States Information Agency by 5 p.m. Washington, DC time on June 10, 1994. Proposals received after this deadline will not be eligible for consideration. Faxed documents will not be accepted nor will documents postmarked on June 10, 1994 but received at a later date. It is the responsibility of each grant applicant to ensure that proposals are received by the above deadline. ADDRESSES: The original and 9 copies of the completed proposal application, including required forms, should be submitted by the deadline to: U.S. Information Agency, REF: University Democratization in South Africa Program/RFP, Office of Grants Management (E/XE), room 336, 301 4th Street SW., Washington, DC 20547. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For general information and requests for application packets which include all necessary forms and guidelines for preparing proposals, including specific budget preparation information, contact Nancy Searles, Branch Chief at (202) 619&hyph;5370, or Ellen Berelson, Deputy Branch Chief, Africa Branch at (202) 619&hyph;5376, Fax: (202) 619&hyph;6137 or write to the following address: Office of Academic Programs, rm. 232, U.S. Information Agency, 301 4th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20547. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Overview The University Democratization in South Africa Program focuses on education reform to enable students, faculty and administrators of selected South African universities to shift from the confrontation of an apartheid culture to the cooperation implicit in a democratic society. This project will provide university student leaders and university facility and administrative staff tasked with student affairs management with training in conflict resolution and in university administration. The South African institutions which will participate are the University of Fort Hare, the University of Zululand, the University of the North and the University of the Western Cape.
