FR940426-2-00086 FR940426-2-00057 3. The proposed change does not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. As identified above, these proposed changes increase the average RPS failure frequency from 4.6x10 ^6 /year to 5.4x10 ^6 /year. The NRC Staff's Safety Evaluation Report of NEDC&hyph;30851P concluded that this small average RPS failure frequency increase would contribute to a very small increase in core-melt frequency. This small increase in average RPS failure frequency would be offset by safety benefits such as a reduction in the number of inadvertent test-induced scrams, a reduction on wear due to excessive equipment test cycling, and better optimization of plant personnel resources. Hence, the net change in risk resulting from these proposed changes would be insignificant. In addition, RBS has confirmed that the proposed changes to the functional test intervals will not result in excessive instrument drift relative to the current established setpoints. Therefore, these proposed changes do not result in a significant reduction in a margin of safety. Emergency Core Cooling System (ECCS) 1. The proposed change does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. These proposed changes do not involve a change to the plant design or operation, they simply involve the frequency at which testing of the ECCS actuation Instrumentation is performed and the allowable outage time (AOT) for instruments. Failure of the ECCS actuation instrumentation itself cannot create an accident. As a result, these proposed changes cannot increase the probability of occurrence of any design basis accident previously evaluated. As identified in NEDC&hyph;30936P (Part 2), these proposed changes increase the calculated average water injection failure frequency from 1.952x10 ^5 to 1.992x10 ^5 per year for Case 5B and from 1.386x10 ^4 to 1.401x10 ^4 per year for Case 5C. This represents an increase of 4x10 ^7 for Case 5B (2.0%) and 1.5x10 ^6 for Case 5C (1.1%), which are well within the acceptance criteria (4%) provided in NEDC&hyph;30936P (Part 2). The small increase in average water injection failure frequency is offset by safety benefits such as a reduction in the number of inadvertent test-induced scrams, a reduction in wear due to excessive equipment test cycling, and better optimization of plant personnel resources. Hence, the net change in risk resulting from these proposed changes would be insignificant. Therefore, these proposed changes do not result in a significant increase in either the probability or the consequences of any accident previously evaluated. 2. The proposed change does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated. The proposed changes do not result in any change to the plant design or operation, only to the AOT and frequency at which testing of the ECCS actuation instrumentation is performed. Since failure of the ECCS actuation instrumentation itself cannot create an accident, these proposed changes can at most affect only accidents which have been previously evaluated. Therefore, these proposed changes cannot create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. 3. The proposed change does not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. As identified above, these proposed changes increase the calculated average water injection failure frequency from 1.952x10 ^5 to 1.992x10 ^5 per year for Case 5B and from 1.386x10 ^4 to 1.401x10 ^4 per year for Case 5C. This increase is well within the acceptance criteria found acceptable in the NRC Staff's Safety Evaluation Report for NEDC&hyph;30936P (Part 2). This small increase in average ECCS actuation failure frequency would be offset by safety benefits such as a reduction in the number of inadvertent test-induced scrams, a reduction on wear due to excessive equipment test cycling, and better optimization of plant personnel resources. Hence, the net change in risk resulting from these proposed changes would be insignificant. In addition, RBS has confirmed that the proposed changes to the functional test intervals will not result in excessive instrument drift relative to the current, established setpoints. Therefore, the proposed changes do not result in a significant reduction in a margin of safety. Control Rod Block Instrumentation 1. The proposed change does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. These proposed changes do not involve a change to the plant design or operation, only the Allowable Outage Time (AOT) and frequency at which testing of the Control Rod Block Instrumentation is performed. Failure of the Control Rod Block instrumentation itself cannot create an accident. As a result, these proposed changes cannot increase the probability of occurrence of any design basis accident previously evaluated.
