FR940913-1-00004 FR940913-1-00001 §1650.19 Spouse's waiver of survivor annuity. (a) The right of the spouse to a survivor annuity may be waived in writing by the spouse on the appropriate TSP form. (b) When required by the regulations in this subpart, the appropriate survivor annuity waiver shall be filed with the TSP Service Office prior to the date the participant's election of benefits is effective. 6. Section 1650.20 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §1650.20 Notice to spouse. (a) Wherever in the regulations in this subpart it is required that the Executive Director provide notice of an action affecting a participant's account to the spouse of a participant prior to taking the action, such requirements may be satisfied by the TSP Service Office's sending a notice describing the action by first class mail to the last address of the spouse on file with the Plan. * * * * * 7. Section 1650.21 is revised to read as follows: §1650.21 Executive Director's exception to requirement to notify the spouse. Whenever in the regulations in this subpart it is required that the Executive Director give notice of an action to the spouse of a participant, an exception to this requirement may be granted in cases in which the participant establishes to the satisfaction of the Executive Director that the spouse's whereabouts cannot be determined. A request for an exception based on whereabouts unknown must be submitted to the Executive Director on the appropriate TSP form accompanied by either_ (a) A judicial determination (court order) which states that the spouse's whereabouts cannot be determined; or (b) A police or Governmental agency determination that is signed by the appropriate department or division head which states that the spouse's whereabouts cannot be determined; or (c) Statements by the participant and two other persons. Each statement must be signed and dated and must state the following: I understand that a false statement or willful misrepresentation is punishable under Federal Law (18 U.S.C. 1001) by a fine or imprisonment or both. (1) The participant's statement must give the full name of his or her spouse, declare the inability to locate the spouse, and state the efforts made to locate the spouse. Negative statements such as ``I have not seen or heard from him/her'' or ``I have had no contact with him/her'' are not sufficient. Examples of attempting to locate the spouse include checking with relatives and mutual friends or using telephone directories or directory assistance for the city of last known address. (2) The statements from two other persons must support the participant's statement that the participant does not know the whereabouts of his or her spouse. (d) A withdrawal election received within one year of an approved exception may be processed so long as the spouse named on the form is the spouse for whom the exception has been approved. (e) The requirements for establishing an exception for a withdrawal and the one-year period of validity of an approved exception apply to exceptions for loans under 5 CFR 1655.18. 8. Section 1650.22 is revised to read as follows: §1650.22 Executive Director's exception to the requirement to obtain the spouse's signature. Wherever in the regulations in this subpart the spouse's signature is required, the Executive Director may grant an exception to this requirement if the participant can show that: (a) The spouse's whereabouts cannot be determined in accordance with the provisions of §1650.21; or (b) Due to exceptional circumstances, requiring the spouse's signature would otherwise be inappropriate. (1) An exception to the spousal signature requirement may be granted based on exceptional circumstances only when the participant presents a judicial determination (court order) or a governmental agency determination signed by the appropriate department or division head. A court order or a determination must contain a finding or a recitation of such exceptional circumstances regarding the spouse as would warrant an exception to the signature requirement. (2) Exceptional circumstances is narrowly construed and includes such circumstances as when a court order: (i) Indicates that the spouse and the participant have been maintaining separate residences with no financial relationship for three or more years; (ii) Indicates that the spouse abandoned the participant but, for religious or similarly compelling reasons, the parties chose not to divorce; or (iii) Expressly states that the participant may obtain a loan from his or her Thrift Savings Plan account or withdraw his or her thrift Savings Plan account balance notwithstanding the absence of the spouse's signature. (c) A withdrawal election received within one year of an approved exception may be processed so long as the spouse named on the form is the spouse for whom the exception has been approved. (d) The requirements for establishing an exception for a withdrawal and the one-year period of validity of an approved exception apply to exceptions for loans under 5 CFR 1655.18. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22482 Filed 9&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6760&hyph;01&hyph;M
