FR940817-2-00032 FR940817-2-00024 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission [Docket No. EC94&hyph;23&hyph;000, et al.] The Washington Water Power Company and Sierra Pacific Power Company, et al.; Electric Rate and Corporate Regulation Filings August 9, 1994. Take notice that the following filings have been made with the Commission: 1. The Washington Water Power Company and Sierra Pacific Power Company [Docket No. EC94&hyph;23&hyph;000] Take notice that on August 4, 1994, The Washington Water Power Company (Water Power) and Sierra Pacific Power Company (Sierra Power) (together Applicants) filed, pursuant to Section 203 of the Federal Power Act and Part 33 of the Commission's Regulations, a Joint Application requesting authorization to merge and reorganize Applicants' utility operations and to dispose of Applicants' jurisdictional facilities. Pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Reorganization and Merger, Sierra Pacific Resources Inc., Sierra Pacific and Water Power will merge into a new corporation, Resources West Energy Corporation (Resources West) and Water Power and Sierra Pacific will operate as separate utility divisions of Resource West. The subsidiaries of Water Power and Sierra Pacific Resources (excluding Sierra Pacific, but including Sierra Pacific's subsidiaries) will become subsidiaries of Resources West. The merger will be effected through an exchange of stock, with Sierra Pacific Resources and Water Power shareholders exchanging their shares for the right to receive shares in Resources West. Applicants have submitted the direct testimony of nine witnesses who provide, inter alia, a description of the merger, the projected benefits for ratepayers and shareholders, an explanation of how Resources West will provide comparable service to customers, and an analysis of the effects of the merger on competition in the relevant markets. Applicants also have submitted pro forma open-access point-to-point transmission and network integration service tariffs for Resources West's Water Power and Sierra Pacific Divisions which provide a range of flexible services at rates, terms and conditions designed to be comparable to Resources West's use of Applicants' systems. Applicants have requested, in a companion motion, that the Commission adopt an alternative procedural mechanism to expedite consideration of the Joint Application by providing for discovery and a technical conference, followed by a paper hearing if necessary. Copies of the Joint Application have been served on the state utility regulatory commissions in Washington, Idaho, Oregon, Montana, Nevada and California. Comment date: September 9, 1994, in accordance with Standard Paragraph E at the end of this notice. 2. North Carolina Electric Membership Corporation v. Carolina Power & Light Company [Docket No. EL94&hyph;84&hyph;000] Take notice that on August 1, 1994, North Carolina Electric Membership Corporation (NCEMC) and Brunswick Electric Membership Corporation (Brunswick) tendered for filing a complaint against Carolina Power & Light Company (CP&L) requesting the initiation of an investigation to determine whether CP&L's present rates for wholesale firm power to the cooperatives served under FERC Resale Service Schedule RS88&hyph;1C, are unjust, unreasonable and unduly discriminatory and, if so, to modify those rates to a just, reasonable and unduly discriminatory and, if so, to modify those rates to a just, reasonable level. NCEMC and Brunswick also request the Commission to set a refund effective date at the earliest date permitted by law. Comment date: September 8, 1994, in accordance with Standard Paragraph E at the end of this notice. 3. PSI Energy, Inc. [Docket No. ER93&hyph;700&hyph;001] Take notice that on August 1, 1994, PSI Energy, Inc. tendered for filing its compliance filing in the above- referenced docket pursuant to the Commission's Letter Order issued on July 1, 1994. Comment date: August 24, 1994, in accordance with Standard Paragraph E at the end of this notice.
