FR941007-1-00133 FR941007-1-00009 (iii) The number and amount of small business and small farm loans by size of loan; and (iv) At the bank's option, the number and amount of consumer loans to low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income individuals; (3) Community development lending. The bank's community development lending, including the number and amount of community development loans outstanding, their complexity and innovativeness, and the number and amount of lines of credit, commitments, and letters of credit for community development purposes; and (4) Innovative or flexible lending practices. The bank's use of innovative or flexible lending practices to address the credit needs of low- or moderate-income individuals or geographies. (c) Affiliate lending. (1) The FDIC shall, if the bank elects, consider in its assessment of a bank's lending performance under this section lending by an affiliate of the bank, if the bank, or its affiliate, reports or collects the lending data pursuant to ยง345.42 of this part. (2) The FDIC may consider in its assessment lending by a bank's affiliate even if the bank has chosen not to have the affiliate's lending considered if the FDIC determines that this lending is integral to the business of the bank. (3) Consideration of affiliate lending shall be subject to the following constraints: (i) No affiliate may claim the same loan as another institution; and (ii) If the FDIC considers loans within a particular lending category (e.g., home mortgage, small business, small farm, consumer or community development lending) made by one or more of the bank's affiliates in a particular service area, the FDIC shall consider all the loans within that lending category made by all of the bank's affiliates in that particular service area. (d) Consortia and third-party lending. Community development loans made through consortia in which the bank participates or through third parties in which the bank has invested: (1) Shall be considered under the lending test, if the bank elects, provided the data pertaining to these loans are reported by the bank under the applicable provisions of ยง345.42 of this part; and (2) May be allocated among participants or investors as they choose for purposes of the lending test, provided that no participant or investor claims the same loan or part of a loan as another participant or investor, or claims in the aggregate greater than its percentage share (based on the level of its participation or investment) of the total loans made by the consortium or third party. (e) Lending performance rating. The FDIC shall rate a bank's lending performance as provided in Appendix A to this part. ยง345.23 Investment test. (a) Scope of test. The investment test evaluates the degree to which a bank is helping to meet the credit needs of its service area(s) through qualified investments. To be considered under this test, the qualified investments of a bank must benefit its service area(s) or a broader statewide or regional geographic area that includes the bank's service area(s). (b) Qualified investments. (1) Qualified investments are lawful investments, deposits, membership shares in a credit union, or grants that: (i) Primarily benefit low- or moderate-income individuals, businesses or farms with gross annual revenues less than or equal to $1 million, or businesses or farms that qualify as small businesses under a Small Business Administration program; and (ii) Address affordable housing (including multifamily rental housing) or other community economic development needs that are not being met by the private market. (2) Donating, selling on favorable terms, or making available on a rent-free basis any branch of the bank that is located in any predominantly minority neighborhood to any minority depository institution or women's depository institution (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 2907(b)) shall be considered under the investment test. (3) Activities considered under the lending or service tests may not be considered under the investment test. (4) At a bank's option, the FDIC shall consider in its assessment of a bank's investment performance a qualified investment made by an affiliate of the bank, provided that the qualified investment is not claimed by any other institution. (c) Assessment criteria. The FDIC shall evaluate the investment performance of a bank pursuant to the following criteria: (1) The dollar amount of qualified investments that directly address credit needs; (2) The use of innovative or complex qualified investments to support community development initiatives; and (3) The degree of responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs. (d) Investment performance rating. The FDIC shall rate a bank's investment performance as provided in Appendix A of this part.
