FR940826-0-00125 FR940826-0-00020 24. Our rules, however, must also be flexible enough so that we can adjust our procedures to fit the circumstances of individual auctions. We will not know until we have gained some experience with simultaneous multiple round auctions exactly what values of such parameters as bidding increments and triggers for movement to the next auction phase work best under what circumstances. Consequently, we believe that it is important for those running the auctions to be able to use information generated in the early auctions and in the early rounds of individual auctions. Further, it may be important to be able to respond to the behavior of bidders in the course of particular auctions. We may find it desirable to allow more time for consultation between bidding rounds in complex auctions, for instance, or, in light of the statutory requirement to issue licenses expeditiously, to increase the bidding increment to hasten the conclusion of an auction if the auction is proceeding slowly. Clearly, notice and comment procedures would be unworkable in such cases. The flexibility that our rules permit us is analogous to the ad hoc decisional authority that may be exercised within other types licensing proceedings, and our discretion here is similarly constrained by the general framework and standards embodied in our rules. The latitude remaining to the Commission to alter auction procedures is, however, necessary to ensure that we can make improvements as we become aware of the need for them, and that we can manage auctions efficiently. The Commission will exercise its discretion in a manner consistent with our clearly articulated goals and the general procedures we have established. 25. We have also taken care to safeguard bidders' interests. During the course of an auction only minor adjustments in procedures are permitted that will necessitate no major changes of strategy on their part. Further, we have stated clearly which procedures are, and which are not, subject to change during the course of an auction, so that bidders will know what kinds of changes to expect and to prepare for. We have stated that when we announce auctions for particular services by public notice, we will also announce the procedures to be used in those auctions. 60 We believe that this approach will provide prospective bidders with ample information to plan rational bidding strategies. 60 Second Report and Order at ¶68. 26. Finally, although the Commission has never before used auctions as a licensing method, we note that our auction procedures afford as much, or more, detailed guidance to bidders than is usually provided in advance of an auction. For example, in conventional oral auctions the auctioneer customarily has the discretion to alter bid increments and other procedures at will in any manner and at any time during an auction. As in other types of auctions, we believe that it will be critically important to the success of our auctions to leave the Commission some discretion to fine-tune auction procedures between auctions and, in some cases, on an ad hoc basis, during the course of an auction. Accordingly, we affirm our original decisions to adopt rules that afford the Commission some flexibility to modify its procedures during the course of an auction, within the scope of the options we have delineated and under the circumstances described above. D. Treatment of Upfront Payments 27. In the Second Report and Order we required bidders to tender a substantial payment in advance of the auction in order to deter frivolous or insincere bidding. 61 Upfront payments were also intended to provide a source of funds for collection of penalties for bid withdrawal. 62 The amount of the upfront payment was related to the level of eligibility the bidder wished to establish, measured in terms of the population and amount of spectrum encompassed by the licenses on which the bidder was permitted to bid. In some cases the upfront payment could amount to millions of dollars. 63 We required that upfront payments be submitted prior to bidding, and we did not permit use of letters of credit or Treasury bills for upfront deposits due to administrative difficulties in accepting payment in such forms, at least until the Commission has more experience in conducting auctions. 64 We stated that upfront payments made by a winning bidder would be applied to satisfy its down payment obligations, and that losing bidders' upfront payments would be returned if they wished to withdraw from further bidding. 65 61 Second Report and Order at ¶171. 62 Id. at ¶176. 63 Id. at ¶172, 173. 64 Id. at ¶182, 184, 185. 65 Id. at ¶187, n.140. 28. Petitions. GTE asserts that the Commission should adopt an interest-bearing evergreen deposit procedure for upfront deposits. 66 GTE states that, since the Commission is not currently authorized to establish interest-bearing accounts, substantial sums of money could be tied up in upfront deposits without any accrual of interest for substantial periods of time. GTE asserts that maximum bidder flexibility can be achieved by allowing bidders to add or withdraw deposit funds during the course of the auction. GTE states that the Commission needs to ensure that it has the requisite authority to permit the accumulation and payment of interest. 66 GTE Petition at 11&hyph;13. 29. AIDE states that when a winning bidder's upfront payments, less bid withdrawal penalties, exceed the required deposit, the excess upfront payment should remain available for crediting to another auction or for refund to the winning bidder. 67 AIDE points out that, in the case of designated entities, the required deposit is only 10 percent. AIDE notes that the Commission has stated that it will apply this policy for losing bidders, and as a matter of equal protection the Commission should apply the same policy to winning bidders with excess upfront payments. 68 67 AIDE Petition at 15. 68 Id. at 16. 30. AIDE requests clarification of footnote 133 in the Second Report and Order . 69 Footnote 133 reads: 69 Id. at 13. For example, an entity that is interested in bidding on several 30 MHz PCS licenses with a goal of providing service to a population of at most 50 million should make an upfront payment of $30 million ($.02 x 30 MHz x 50,000,000). That bidder will not be permitted to bid (at any time) in the auction, or be permitted to win, 30 MHz licenses covering more than 50 million pops. 31. Discussion. Allowing bidders to add funds to upfront deposits in order to increase their eligibility level, or to withdraw funds from upfront deposits, as GTE recommends, would add greatly to the complexity of the Commission's administrative task. The Commission would have to keep track of changes in eligibility due to changes in upfront payments, as well as to changes in bidders' activity levels, and would have to ascertain that fund transfers had taken place before permitting bidders to bid at the levels to which the additional payments entitled them. Because of the short intervals between rounds, delays in the transfer of funds would likely create problems for both bidders and the Commission. For these reasons, we believe it is prudent to require bidders to submit upfront payments that represent the maximum level of bidding that they anticipate before the beginning of the auction. Bidders can always ensure that they will be able to expand their bidding above their originally anticipated level by submitting a sufficiently large upfront payment and maintaining a high activity level. 32. We agree with AIDE that winners' upfront deposits, in excess of their required down payment deposits and any penalties they may owe, should be refunded expeditiously. We intend to refund excess upfront deposits of all bidders as soon as possible. We will not apply excess upfront deposit balances to subsequent auctions, however, due to the additional administrative difficulty of tracking the funds. 33. With respect to AIDE's request for clarification, we clarify that footnote 133 means that in any round of the auction, a bidder who has made an upfront payment of $30 million may bid on, or hold the high bid from the previous round on, 30 MHz licenses in markets with a combined population totaling not more than 50 million. The specific licenses on which the bidder submits bids may vary from round to round, but the total MHz-pop ceiling cannot be exceeded in any single round. E. Default Penalty
