FR940926-2-00093 FR940926-2-00078 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration [Docket No. 79&hyph;17; Notice 40] New Car Assessment Program (NCAP) AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). ACTION: Notice of public meeting; Request for comments. SUMMARY: This notice announces that a public meeting will be held on NHTSA's New Car Assessment Program and other vehicle safety consumer information activities. The purpose of the meeting is to seek the public's guidance on how best to provide vehicle safety information to consumers and to ascertain the types of information consumers desire. DATES: Public Meeting _A public meeting will be held on Wednesday, November 9, 1994, beginning at 9 a.m., at the Public Meeting address listed below. Persons wishing to make oral presentations or serve on panels at the Public Meeting on one or more topics of the attached agenda should contact Vincent Quarles at the address or telephone number listed below by October 19, 1994. Persons making oral presentations are requested, but not required, to submit 25 written copies of the full text of their presentation no later than the day before the meeting. Written Comments: Written comments must be received on or before November 16, 1994. ADDRESSES: Public Meeting _The Public Meeting will be held in the Federal Aviation Administration Auditorium, third floor, 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591. Written Comments: All written comments must refer to the docket and notice numbers set forth above and be submitted (preferably in 10 copies) to the Docket Section, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, room 5109, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. Submissions containing information for which confidential treatment is requested should be submitted (three copies) to Chief Counsel, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, room 5219, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590, and seven additional copies from which the purportedly confidential information has been deleted should be sent to the Docket Section. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Vincent R. Quarles, Office of Market Incentives, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, room 5313, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590, 202&hyph;366&hyph;1708. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In 1972, Congress enacted the ``Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act'' which includes, among other things, requirements for the development and dissemination of comparative information on the crashworthiness of motor vehicles. In 1978, the New Car Assessment Program (NCAP) was created to partially fulfill this requirement. NCAP test results evaluate the degree or crash protection provided front seat occupants by the vehicle's structure and the occupant protection devices provided for those occupants. NCAP crash tests, through model year 1994, have evaluated frontal crash protection only. In this test, vehicles are crashed into a fixed barrier at 35 mph, which is equivalent to a head-on collision between two identical vehicles each moving at 35 mph. Instrumented dummies register forces and impacts during the crash. That information is, in turn, used by NHTSA to predict potential head, chest and femur injuries. Approximately 35&hyph;40 passenger vehicles are tested each year in the NCAP and the test results are made available to the public through the periodic issuance of news releases, through the agency's Hotline, and through other means. NCAP is NHTSA's most popular vehicle safety consumer information activity, as witnessed by the volume of calls to the agency, media attention to program results, and the use of NCAP data by numerous consumer and insurance organizations. In recent years, the travelling public has increased its concern about motor vehicle safety. Increased safety belt usage, reduced levels of alcohol-impaired driving, and attention to vehicle safety attributes such as air bags and antilock brakes are evidence of this trend. To take advantage of this heightened consumer awareness of safety, and to address technical and other issues associated with NCAP, the agency believes it is timely to convene a Public Meeting to discuss future activities under NCAP as well as how NCAP and other safety information activities conducted or required by NHTSA can best be integrated. Report to Congress On December 8, 1993, in response to the House and Senate Appropriations Committees, the agency submitted a report to Congress on NCAP. This report, which is in the docket, provides: •The results of an 18-month study to assess consumer and media needs and preferences for better understanding and more effective use of NCAP data. This included a summary of several consumer focus group and media studies. These studies indicated that consumers and the media desire comparative safety information on vehicles, a simplified NCAP format to better understand and utilize the crash test results, and expansion of NCAP to include other crash modes, such as side crashes and rollovers. Plans for implementing the findings of these studies are included in that report. •Studies of real-world crashes versus NCAP crash tests. These studies tentatively conclude that NCAP test conditions approximate real-world crash conditions covering a major segment of the frontal crash safety problem. NHTSA also tentatively concludes that there is a significant correlation between NCAP results and real-world fatality risks for restrained drivers. In high speed frontal crashes, fatality risks to restrained drivers of cars that perform well in NCAP may be as much as 30 percent lower than fatality risks to restrained drivers of cars that do not perform well in NCAP. A more detailed report on this subject titled Correlation of NCAP Performance With Fatality Risk in Actual Head-On Collisions has been published by the agency, and is available in the NHTSA docket, and public comments were separately sought on that report (see 59 FR 1586, January 11, 1994).
