FR940228-1-00099 FR940228-1-00010 In addition, the Secretary is proposing that an institution would not be considered administratively capable if it has a withdrawal rate of more than 33 percent. This change from the current regulations, under which the Secretary considers withdrawal rates of more than 33 percent as an indicator of problems in administrative capability, would become, like the other standards in this section, absolute requirements rather than mere indicators. The calculation of this withdrawal rate is currently made using the formula on the application for participation in the Title IV, HEA programs. The Secretary is proposing these changes to the current default rate and withdrawal rate requirements because the Secretary believes that these rates are appropriate measures of an institution's past administrative performance; an institution that administers the Title IV, HEA programs correctly will, absent mitigating circumstances for its Federal Stafford Loan and Federal SLS programs default rate, have default rates and withdrawal rates below these percentages. The Secretary understands that some currently participating institutions have rates in excess of these levels. Therefore, the Secretary anticipates that when these institutions next undergo a reevaluation of their institutional eligibility, administrative capability, and financial responsibility, some of them would be determined not to be administratively capable purely for failure to meet these standards, even if they meet all the other financial responsibility and administrative capability standards in these proposed regulations. In those cases, if there are no other significant problems, these institutions could be granted provisional certification so they could continue to participate in the Title IV, HEA programs for a limited time on a limited basis to allow them to bring their default or withdrawal rates or both down to an acceptable level. However, an institution with a high withdrawal rate applying for participation in the Title IV, HEA programs for the first time would not be approved to participate in the Title IV, HEA programs. In addition to these default rates the Secretary plans to establish an appropriate default rate applicable to the FDSL Program and solicits comments on what that should be. For example, comments are requested on whether FDSL Program default rate thresholds should be developed to take into consideration students who are using income contingent repayment. Section 668.17␣Default Reduction Measures Default Rates Because of the changes described above in proposed §668.16 concerning the effect of default and withdrawal rates on an institution's administrative capability, the remaining provisions in current §668.15 would address default reduction measures for institutions with high Federal Stafford loan and Federal SLS default rates. Therefore, the Secretary proposes to redesignate current §668.15 as §668.17 and rename it ``Default reduction measures.'' The Secretary proposes to clarify that the Secretary notifies an institution of its Federal Stafford loan and Federal SLS cohort default rate if that rate exceeds 20 percent for any fiscal year before the Secretary takes an action against the institution. This change merely reflects the Secretary's current practice.
