FR940617-2-00225 FR940617-2-00118 Minimum Requirements for Project Design: In order to successfully compete under the priority area, the applicant should: •Present a plan for community awareness and public information activities that clearly reflect how the applicant will coordinate with public agencies and with other community organizations and institutions active in the field of family violence prevention. •Describe, as an element of the plan, a proposed model approach to the development of a public information campaign and identify the specific audience(s), community(ies), and groups with the highest prevalence of domestic violence that will be educated in the prevention of family violence. •Include, as critical elements in the plan: •A set of achievable objectives and a description of the population groups, relevant geographic area, and the evaluation components to be used to measure progress and the overall effectiveness of the campaign; •Applicants must also describe their intended strategies for test marketing their development plans and give assurances that effectiveness criteria will be implemented prior to finalizing the plan; •The development and use of non-traditional sources as information providers (applicants should present specific plans for the use of local organizations, businesses and individuals in the distribution of information and materials); •The identification of the media to be used in the campaign and the geographic distribution of the campaign; •How the applicant would be responsive to and demonstrate its sensitivity towards minority communities and their cultural perspectives; and •Provide a description of the kind, volume, distribution, and timing of the proposed information with assurances that the public information campaign activities will not supplant or lower the current frequency of public service announcements. Project Duration: The length of the project should not exceed 12 months. Federal Share of the Project: The maximum Federal share of the project is not to exceed $35,000 for the 1-year project period. Applications for lesser amounts also will be considered under this priority area. Matching Requirement: Grantees must provide at least 25 percent of the total cost of the project. The total approved cost of the project is the sum of the ACF share and the non-Federal share. The non-Federal share maybe met by cash or in-kind contributions, although applicants are encouraged to meet their match requirements through cash contributions. Therefore, a project requesting $35,000 in Federal funds (based on an award of $35,000 per budget period), must include a match of at least $11,660 (25% of total project cost). Anticipated Number of Projects to be Funded: It is anticipated that three projects will be funded at the maximum level; more than three projects may be funded depending on the number of acceptable applications for lesser amounts which are received. CFDA: 93.671 Family Violence Prevention and Services: Family Violence Prevention and Services Act, as amended. 2. Priority Area Number FV02&hyph;94: Historical Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) Institutional Outreach Activities in Support of Comprehensive Family Violence Prevention Activities (Outreach and Prevention); Purpose: To assist in the development of public information materials, educational strategies, and community activities for families that will focus on family violence prevention as a part of a comprehensive approach to improve and enable family-focused interventions. It is expected that these interventions which are directed towards families will increase the awareness of violence and decrease its incidence and impact in minority communities. In these efforts the responding institutions should enlist the energy and cooperation of significant community institutions, community organizations, and individuals to serve as models and to provide information on resources, services, facilities, and alternatives to violence in the family. Eligible Applicants: The Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families invites Historically Black Universities and Colleges to submit applications for projects that will provide for the development, implementation and operation of comprehensive family violence prevention strategies and for the dissemination of informational and resource materials for the prevention of family violence in our minority communities. Successful applicants for this priority area will not be precluded from applying in response to a subsequent announcement.
