FR940527-2-00197 FR940527-2-00152 C. Eligibility 1. Eligible Applicants 2. Previous Grantees 3. Eligible Activities and National Objectives 4. Environmental Review Requirements D. Types of Grants 1. Comprehensive Grants a. General b. Funding Requirements 2. Single Purpose Grants a. General b. Funding Requirements c. Projects with Multiple Activities d. Applications with Multiple Projects 3. Final Selection E. Selection Criteria/Ranking Factors 1. General 2. Performance Evaluation a. Community Development Activities b. Compliance with Applicable Laws and Regulations c. Performance Assessment Reports 3. Four Factor Rating a. Need_Absolute Number of Persons in Poverty b. Need_Percent of Persons in Poverty c. Program Impact_General (1) Program Impact_Single Purpose Grants (a) Program Impact_Single Purpose_Housing (i) Housing Rehabilitation (ii) Creation of New Housing (iii) Direct Homeownership Assistance (b) Program Impact_Single Purpose_Public Facilities Affecting the Public Health and Safety (c) Program Impact_Single Purpose_Economic Development (i) The Appropriate Determination (ii) CDBG Assistance Must Minimize Business and Job Displacement (iii) Section 105(a)(17) requirements (iv) National Objectives (v) Application Requirements (vi) Review Criteria (vii) Scoring (2) Program Impact_Comprehensive Program Grants (a) Criterion 1 (b) Criterion 2 (c) Criterion 3 (d) Criterion 4 (e) Criterion 5 (f) Criterion 6 (g) Criterion 7 (h) Criterion 8 (i) Criterion 9 (j) Criterion 10 d. Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity Evaluation (1) Housing Achievements (a) Provision of Assisted Housing (b) Implementation of HUD-Approved New Horizons Fair Housing Assistance Project or a Fair Housing Strategy Equivalent in Scope to a New Horizons Project (2) Entrepreneurial Efforts and Local Equal Opportunity Performance (a) Minority Contracting (b) Equal Opportunity Employment II. Application and Funding Award Process A. Obtaining Applications B. Submitting Applications C. The Application D. Funding Award Process III. Technical Assistance IV. Checklist of Application Submission Requirements V. Corrections to Deficient Applications VI. Other Matters I. Purpose and Substantive Description A. Authority and Background 1. Authority Title I, Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301&hyph;5320); 24 CFR part 570, subpart F. 2. Background Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 authorizes the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program. Section 106 of Title I permits the States to elect to assume the administrative responsibility for the CDBG Program for nonentitled areas within their jurisdiction. Section 106 provides that HUD will administer the CDBG Program for nonentitled areas within any State that does not elect to assume the administrative responsibility for the program. Subpart F of 24 CFR part 570 sets out the requirements for HUD's administration of the CDBG Program in nonentitled areas (Small Cities Program). This NOFA supplements subpart F of 24 CFR part 570, which sets out the requirements applicable to the CDBG Program in nonentitled areas.
