FR940912-0-00027 FR940912-0-00006 After the FCA published the proposed rule, the General Accounting Office (GAO) issued a report entitled ``Farm Credit System: Repayment of Federal Assistance and Competitive Position'' (GAO/GGD&hyph;94&hyph;39, dated March 10, 1994), which recommended that the FCA require the System to exclude the Farm Credit Insurance Fund (Insurance Fund) from the System's combined financial statements because of the GAO's view that exclusion is the most appropriate accounting treatment. On May 10, 1994, the FCA responded to the GAO's recommendation in a letter to Congressional committees which described the FCA's approach to Insurance Fund reporting as reflected in this rulemaking. The final regulations require that the System prepare the Systemwide combined financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), provide supplemental financial statement data with and without the Insurance Fund, and give a thorough discussion and analysis of the fund in the report to investors. The FCA believes that these regulations, as adopted, will ensure that investors are provided with meaningful information regarding the Insurance Fund and the effect of the fund on the System's financial position. Provided below are a section-by-section analysis of changes to the proposed rule and FCA responses to the comments received. IV. Section-by-Section Analysis of Public Comments A. Section 630.2_Definitions 1. Section 630.2(b) and (h)_Definitions of ``Combined Financial Statements'' and ``Systemwide Combined Financial Statements'' For preparation of the Systemwide combined financial statements, the final rule requires that each bank provide the Funding Corporation with bank-only financial data as well as with combined financial data of the bank and its related associations. The FCC and the FCBB commented that the proposed regulations should be clarified to address how the consolidated financial data of a bank and its wholly-owned subsidiaries should be reported in the Systemwide disclosure. To distinguish financial data prepared on a combined basis from that prepared on a consolidated basis, a new definition of ``combined financial statements'' has been added in §630.2(b) of the final rule. The definition is added to clarify that combined financial statements are prepared by a group of affiliated entities that share the same financial interest regardless of whether any of the entities has the ability to exercise control over another. In contrast, consolidated financial statements are prepared by a parent-entity to include the financial data of subsidiaries that are under its ``control.'' To prevent this newly added definition of ``combined financial statements'' from being confused with the definition of ``Systemwide combined financial statements'' contained in §630.2(g) of the proposed rule, proposed §630.2(g) has been simplified to define ``Systemwide combined financial statements'' as the combined financial statements required by this part. Proposed §630.2(g) also is redesignated as §630.2(h). The proposed language specifying the purpose for which the Systemwide combined financial statements are prepared has been moved and combined with provisions pertinent to financial statements in §630.20(l). 2. Proposed Definition of ``Material'' Section 630.2(f) of the proposed regulations provided a definition of ``material'' similar to that found in Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule 405. The FCA received two comments on the proposed definition of ``material.'' The AICPA asserted that defining ``material'' other than as established in accounting literature would be confusing and inconsistent if audits of the Systemwide combined financial statements are required to be performed in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards (GAAS). The AICPA recommended either deleting the proposed definition of ``material'' or amending it to refer to the materiality definition in GAAS or in Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement of Financial Accounting Concepts No. 2, Qualitative Characteristics of Accounting Information (FAC No. 2). The FCA notes that the definition of ``material'' in the proposed rule was intended to govern information presented outside the basic financial statements. 2 Regardless of the proposed definition, the Systemwide combined financial statements required by this part are subject to materiality criteria established in GAAP. Specifically, pursuant to §630.3(c), 3 the Systemwide combined financial statements must be prepared in accordance with the accounting and reporting standards set forth in part 621 of this chapter. Because §621.2(g) defines the term ``material'' in accordance with FAC No. 2, the GAAP definition of ``material'' contained in part 621 of this chapter will govern the System's preparation of Systemwide combined financial statements. Consequently, materiality judgments for preparation of the Systemwide combined financial statements must be made in accordance with GAAP. 2 Information presented ``outside'' the basic financial statements refers to information that is not considered necessary for presentation of financial position, results of operations, or cashflows in conformity with GAAP, e.g., management's discussion and analysis. 3 Section 630.3(c) provides that ``All items of essentially the same character as items required to be reported in the reports of condition and performance pursuant to part 621 of this chapter shall be prepared in accordance with the rules set forth in part 621 of this chapter.''
