FR941219-0-00044 FR941219-0-00014 Service Response: Though Grizzly Bay and lower Suisun Bay are important areas of delta smelt habitat, habitat conditions elsewhere in Suisun Bay and upstream in the Estuary are just as important for spawning, larval and juvenile transport, rearing and adult migration. Habitat for each life stage is essential for the recovery of the species and is contained in this designation. Comment 13: One commenter thought additional flow requirements would not be needed in July or August to protect larval and juvenile delta smelt from being entrained in the State and Federal water projects since delta smelt remain in particular locations despite flow conditions. Service Response: The Service recognizes that juvenile and adult delta smelt, when given the opportunity, may remain in especially productive areas such as Suisun Bay, after the mixing zone has moved upstream. However, flows may be required in the July-August period to protect delta smelt present in the south and central Delta from being entrained in the State and Federal projects, and to avoid jeopardy to the species. Comment 14: One respondent noted that the distribution of delta smelt is not determined by flow alone. The commenter cited 1993 tow-net and fall midwater trawl collections that found delta smelt upstream of the mixing zone near Decker Island, and found delta smelt considerably downstream of the mixing zone in Suisun Bay. Service Response: The Service agrees that the distribution of delta smelt is not based exclusively on flow. When delta smelt are located in suitable, productive habitat, they may not travel with the mixing zone as it moves upstream, or downstream. After being transported to productive rearing habitat, delta smelt may remain and take advantage of safe and productive nursery areas. Delta smelt do not become ``trapped'' in the mixing zone, but may remain in particular areas. In the text of the final rule, the Service clarifies this point by referring to the salt and freshwater mixing area as the ``mixing zone,'' rather than the ``entrapment zone,'' to clear any misconception that delta smelt and other estuarine species are associated exclusively or somehow become trapped within the vertical circulation currents created by the saltwater-freshwater interface. This type of circulation pattern is important because it mixes nutrients from the ocean and inland areas, resulting in a productive estuarine ecosystem. The pattern of delta smelt distribution described by the commenter is consistent with distribution patterns in earlier years when dispersal of delta smelt was greater following wetter springs (Sweetnam and Stevens 1993). In 1993, about half the delta smelt population remained in Suisun Bay throughout the summer, even though the 2 ppt isohaline retreated upstream (Herbold 1994). Comment 15: One commenter objected to the Service's use of EPA's proposed water quality standards as the factual and scientific basis for the delta smelt's critical habitat. Service Response: The Service has not based critical habitat for the delta smelt on EPA's water quality standards. Space requirements for delta smelt population growth, cover, and shelter, as well as salinity, were described in detail and were included as primary constituent elements in the proposed rule to designate critical habitat for the delta smelt in 1991, well before EPA promulgated its proposed standards. Since 1991, the EPA and the Service have been working together to coordinate each agencies' actions. Comment 16: Another commenter thought the Service simply identified the delta smelt's entire geographic range as critical habitat without considering whether the designation was essential to the conservation of the species. Other respondents believed the Service did not distinguish between areas of critical habitat that are essential and nonessential for the conservation of the delta smelt, thereby including marginal areas not necessary for delta smelt recovery. Service Response: The Service agrees that critical habitat is limited to the specific areas within the geographic area that contain the physical and biological features needed by the species. As discussed in more detail at comment 37, below, the Service has described river, channel, slough and bay water habitats essential for the recovery of the smelt. Without these areas of habitat, the delta smelt cannot survive or reproduce, rear, or be transported between other suitable habitat areas. Neither the Act or its regulations requires the Service to rank or identify areas of habitat that are more ``essential'' than others when critical habitat is designated. In the ``Primary Constituent Elements'' section of this rule, the Service has specifically described the importance of habitat for each life stage of this annual species. Without adequate habitat for each of these life stages, the delta smelt would not survive or recover. The Service may highlight and propose specific management actions to protect and rehabilitate certain areas in the recovery planning process, such as areas in Cache Slough and the lower Sacramento River complex identified by one commenter. Finally, the Service did not simply designate critical habitat based on the entire geographic range of the delta smelt. At the time the Service expanded the critical habitat boundary in 1994, larval delta smelt had been located as far north as the confluence of the Sacramento River with the Feather River. This area was not included in the revised proposed critical habitat boundary. Based on recent unpublished data (and brought to our attention in a comment), delta smelt in these most upstream observations may have been misidentified as pond smelt ( Hypomesus nipponensis, or wakasagi). Portions of San Pablo Bay, the Napa River, and western Suisun Marsh known to support the species are not included in the critical habitat designation. In addition, California Department of Fish and Game biologists contacted the Service with new information that in 1993, delta smelt were found spawning as far upstream as Sacramento. Based on this new information and the importance of this spawning habitat in some years, the Service expanded critical habitat in the 1994 proposal to extend to these important areas. Comment 17: One commenter thought the Service did not identify areas currently occupied by the smelt. Service Response: Delta smelt presently occur throughout the range designated as critical habitat. Delta smelt also occur outside the legal boundary of the Delta, in the Sacramento, San Joaquin, and Mokelumne rivers. Comment 18: One respondent questioned the need for critical habitat, since delta smelt populations had increased seven-fold in 1993.
