FR940406-0-00078 FR940406-0-00005 (5) The Military Department concerned is authorized to negotiate an up-front settlement of projected recoupment revenues from a conveyance under this section when such settlement is requested by the redevelopment authority. (6) The provisions of this section may not be appropriate for some of the 1988 and 1991 base closures and realignments, because these bases are so far along in the property disposal process that certain actions have been taken or agreed to that are inconsistent with the new procedures. In cases where the new property disposal process is not appropriate, the Secretary concerned shall request a waiver from the ASD(ES) before proceeding with the disposition of the property. (g) Leasing of real property. (1) Leasing of real property is an effective way to quickly attract new jobs to replace those that have been lost by the base closing. In the past, the requirement to lease at fair market value discouraged the creation of new jobs. The new process of leasing, at less than fair market value, where appropriate, will provide new incentives for redevelopment authorities and businesses alike to spur job creation and speed economic redevelopment. (2) The Secretaries of the Military Departments are authorized by Pub. L. 103&hyph;160, section 2906 to lease real and personal property at closing or realigning bases for consideration of less than the estimated fair market value, if the Secretary concerned determines: (i) That a public interest will be served as a result of the lease. (ii) That securing the estimated fair market rental value from the lease is not compatible with such public interest. (3) The Military Departments shall determine the environmental suitability of property to be leased using the procedures in the DoD policy entitled ``Procedures for Finding of Suitability to Lease (FOSL)'' contained in the Deputy Secretary of Defense Memorandum, 2 ``Fast Track Cleanup at Closing Installations'', September 9, 1993, and any amendments thereto. Regulatory consultation (Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and State government) must be completed before entering into any leases, as specified in the FOSL guidance and when approved, the Memorandum of Understanding between DoD and EPA will confirm the FOSL process. 2 Document available from the Office of the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Environmental Security), Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301. (4) The Military Departments are encouraged to redelegate leasing authority to the level that can best respond to local redevelopment needs and still exercise prudent and consistent stewardship over these public assets. (h) Personal property. (1) Personal property located on closing bases is often very useful to the redevelopment of the real property. This section outlines procedures to allow transfer of personal property with the real property in many cases. It provides for completing an inventory soon after the base is approved for closure, consulting with local officials, and a walkthrough of the base. The community can then identify the personal property it wishes to retain in its redevelopment plan. The Department of Defense will keep a great deal of the personal property at the base while the redevelopment plan is being put together. Only valid exemptions will be made to this freeze, usually involving specific military requirements or property which the base does not own. Emissions trading procedures will be issued separately and are not covered by the part. (2) Each Military Department and Defense Agency, as appropriate, shall take an inventory of the personal property, to include its condition, at closing or realigning bases as early in the closure process as possible. At realigning bases, the inventory shall be limited to the personal property located on the real property to be disposed of by the Military Department or Defense Agency. The purpose of the inventory is to identify personal property_any property except land, fixed-in-place buildings, ships, and Federal records_that could enhance the reuse potential of real property that may be conveyed to the local redevelopment authority for supporting the economic redevelopment of the base. The exempted categories of personal property listed in paragraph (h)(5) of this section shall not be subject to review by the community. The inventory must be completed by June 1, 1994, for 1988, 1991 and 1993 closures and realignments or within 6 months after the date of approval of 1995 closures.
