FR940504-0-00024 FR940504-0-00009 Comment 3_Unavailability of Low Solvent Compounds: USEPA stated in its proposed disapproval of Ohio's Food Can End Regulation that the Lake article and the Van Camp data indicated ``possible feasibility'' of low solvent coatings. According to the article, Van Camp was successful at replacing ``9101'' compound with a water-based end sealing compound, ``480T''. The replacement compound was used by Van Camp to manufacture ends to be used for pet food cans. Van Camp continued to use the ``9101'' compound for its human consumption product line, tuna fish cans. Thus, Van Camp came into compliance with the 3.7 pounds of VOC per gallon limitation by averaging noncompliant VOC emissions from ``9101'' usage with water-based emissions from ``480T'' usage. The Van Camp facility continues to operate in this fashion. Before addressing the viability of the low solvent coating option, one must understand the distinction between a ``captive'' and a ``merchant'' can manufacturer. A ``captive'' can manufacturer supplies cans only for one customer, itself. Conversely, a ``merchant'' can manufacturer supplies cans for several customers according to the customer's varied requirements and individualized specifications. Thus, a ``merchant'' manufacturer has little control over the coatings it must use to fabricate the cans. Heekin is a ``merchant'' manufacturer. Van Camp was a ``captive'' manufacturer at the time of the Lake article. Thus, the feasibility of a lower solvent coating for Heekin is complicated by additional determining factors that Van Camp does not have (i.e., Heekin must satisfy the customer's manufacturing requirements and Heekin has no leverage or internal pressure by which to force a customer to make a change). Since the first promulgation of the RACT regulations, Heekin has made a concerted effort at advising and steering its customers to specifying coatings and compounds with low solvent formulations. With regard to end seal liner compounds, however, Heekin is serving several customers that have refused to accept a low solvent formulation as a replacement to the end seal liner compound with VOC contents exceeding 3.7 pounds per gallon. The major customer in this category is Ross Laboratories in Columbus, Ohio. Ross Laboratories is the nation's largest producer of milk and soy protein infant formulas. They also manufacture medical nutritional products for hospital and home use. Ross has made the determination that ``1105'' compound is the only suitable compound for fabricating cans for these highly sensitive products. Other national food processing customers specifying ``1105'' and ``9101'' end seal compounds include: Quaker Oats Company, American Home Foods, and Beatrice/Hunt-Wesson. Disallowing the food can end seal regulation will put Heekin at a disadvantage in the ``merchant'' can manufacturer's market. When approached by Heekin representatives regarding the possibility that Heekin may no longer be able to use ``1105'', the manager of the purchasing department stated that an option for Ross Laboratories, if the regulation is disapproved and Heekin no longer can supply ``1105'' ends, is to move its business to another ``merchant'' can manufacturer that is not restricted by the end seal liner RACT regulation. Thus, since low solvent end seal compounds are not an option for Heekin's customers, Heekin must have the ability to continue to use the ``9101'' and ``1105'' compounds for food can ends. USEPA Response: Heekin has not adequately demonstrated that 4.4 lbs VOC per gallon is RACT for food can end sealing compounds for the following reasons. 1. Other State regulations have a 3.7 lbs/gallon limit for end sealing compounds. 2. The South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) amended its can coating rules (in early 1990). These regulations specify 3.7 lbs/gallon for end sealing compounds for food cans. 3. Campbell Soup stated, in its comments, that in May 1989, Campbell converted to a compliant end sealing compound, following extensive research and development efforts funded by Campbell to develop and apply such a compound. This is ``evidence that a 3.7 pound standard became technically and commercially feasible for Campbell's Ohio facility.'' 4. There is no indication that 3.7 lbs/gallon end sealing compounds are unavailable for certain type food cans, e.g., pet food cans and fruit and vegetable cans. 5. Heekin has not demonstrated that it made a substantial effort to develop and/or locate complying end seal compounds. 6. In its June 27, 1989, letter, Ross Laboratories states that there are no qualified replacements, to Dewey and Almy's ``1105'' end seal compound, available. The letter falls short of saying that they would refuse to use any other suitable product, if it exists. 7. The fact that Heekin is a ``merchant'' manufacturer is not a sufficient reason for it to have a less stringent limit. Job shops are common in the coating industry and have not in the past been given special consideration because they have to deal with a number of customers. The feasibility of compliant end seal compounds for Heekin's customers' cans is more relevant than its status as a ``merchant'' manufacturer. However, USEPA does agree that 3.7 lbs/gallon end seal compounds for certain applications may not be available. A July 12, 1989, letter from Neil Moyer, (then) Director of Rule Development for the SCAQMD, states that compliant end seal compounds are a problem for cans used for tuna and other oily products. Heekin may, in fact, have a problem with end seal compounds for certain products. However, USEPA does not have the ability to create exemptions for Heekin. The State has not submitted such a rule. The State submitted relaxation (to 4.4 lbs/gallon) for all end seal compounds is overly broad and cannot be approved. Furthermore, Heekin has not adequately demonstrated the lowest VOC content feasible for its end seal compounds for specified applications.
