FR940429-0-00112 FR940429-0-00012 Section 667.4␣State Postsecondary Review Entity Comments: Many commenters believed strongly that this section of the regulations be amended to reflect unambiguously the NPRM preamble discussion that a SPRE merely represents certain State entities. Discussion: Under section 494A(b)(1) of the HEA, the SPRE must represent any State entity that is responsible for (1) providing the legal authorizations to institutions to operate in the State, for the purposes of 1201 of the HEA, and (2) ensuring that each institution in the State remains in compliance with the State's review standards developed pursuant to section 494C of the HEA. The Secretary simply repeated these statutory provisions in proposed §667.4. In the NPRM preamble, the Secretary indicated that these statutory provisions did not give a SPRE itself authority under this part to provide licenses to or legally authorize institutions to operate in a State, or ensure that all institutions in the State remain in compliance with the State's standards. The Secretary agrees to accommodate the commenters by including these statements in the regulations. Changes: Section 667.4(b) has been revised to indicate that under the SPRP, a SPRE is not authorized by the SPRP to (1) grant State authorization to provide postsecondary education in that State, or (2) require a nonreferred institution to comply with State review standards established under §667.21. Section 667.5␣Criteria the Secretary Uses To Refer Institutions to a SPRE for Review Comments: Many commenters objected strongly to the proposed procedures regarding the confirmation of the data used by the Secretary to refer an institution to a SPRE for review. These commenters urged the Secretary to discard those procedures and establish new procedures under which a referred institution would be provided an opportunity to challenge the referral data before the Secretary referred that institution to a SPRE. Under the suggested procedures, the Secretary would not refer an institution to a SPRE if that institution challenged the referral data within the time permitted by the Secretary. The Secretary would only refer an institution to a SPRE if the institution did not challenge the referral data or the Secretary confirmed the challenged referral data. Discussion: Based on public comment and further review, the Secretary agrees with the commenters that an institution should be given an opportunity to challenge the accuracy of referral data before the Secretary refers that institution to a SPRE for review. Similarly, the Secretary agrees with the commenters that an institution should be given an opportunity to challenge the accuracy of referral data before a State notifies the Secretary that it wishes to review an institution on the basis of having more current information that the institution satisfies one or more of the referral criteria. If an institution challenges the information on which the Secretary or the State based its referral, the Secretary and the State presume that records maintained in the normal course of business by ED, a guaranty agency under the FFEL programs, a SPRE, a State licensing agency, or another State agency are accurate unless the institution proves to the Secretary's satisfaction that the records are not properly maintained or are inaccurate. Thus, unless an institution can prove that the information on which its referral is based is inaccurate, the institution will be referred for SPRE review. Changes: Section 667.5 has been revised to allow an institution to challenge the accuracy of referral data before the Secretary refers that institution to a SPRE. Comments: With respect to the §667.5(b)(11), under which the Secretary refers an institution that has been subject to a pattern of complaints, several commenters urged the Secretary to remove references to complaints from faculty, or persons other than students. These commenters argued that the statute requires the Secretary to consider only complaints from students. In addition, some commenters contended that statute does not authorize the Secretary to use complaint information collected by the SPRE for referral purposes. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters regarding references to complaints from ``faculty, or others.'' Under section 494C(b)(11) of the HEA, the referral criterion makes specific reference to the complaint system a State is to develop.
