FR940110-1-00095 FR940110-1-00006 (2) The board of directors of each Bank shall have the authority to approve or disapprove AHP applications received, and may delegate such authority to the president or other senior officers of the Bank. (3) Within 30 calendar days of each Bank's approval of the AHP applications for a given AHP funding cycle, the Bank shall forward to the Board a summary of each approved AHP application. The summary shall: (i) Briefly describe the project, including the applicant, the loan fund or loan consortium, if applicable, and the sponsor_ whether nonprofit, for-profit or public agency, the type of housing, the location, the long-term period committed to, the number of housing units including the number of units affordable for very low-, low- or moderate-income households or for households at any other income levels committed to in the AHP application, the development cost, other financing sources, and special needs populations served; (ii) State the reason for the points awarded under each of the Bank's scoring criteria for the project; (iii) Indicate whether a subsidized advance or direct subsidy was approved by the Bank for the project, the use of such funds, and the amount of such funds approved; if a subsidized advance was approved, the summary shall indicate the amount of the advance, the advance rate, the amortization schedule for the advance, the term to maturity, the applicable cost of funds, and the date as of which the cost of funds was determined; (iv) Indicate whether the project received approval in a prior AHP funding cycle, or if the project is an extension, expansion, continuation or reconfiguration of a previously approved AHP project; (v) Describe how the project will be monitored and by what entity; (vi) Describe the legal mechanisms to be used to ensure compliance by the project with the long-term requirement contained in §960.5; (vii) Include a summary in chart form showing all AHP applications received by the Bank in the particular AHP funding cycle, with the score each application received for each scoring criterion, and the total score received by each project; and (viii) Include any other information required by the Board. Subpart E_Requirements for Approval of AHP Applications §960.8 General requirements for approval of AHP applications. (a) Each Bank shall evaluate the AHP applications received to determine if they satisfy the threshold criteria in §960.9. All applications that meet the threshold criteria shall be scored pursuant to the criteria contained in §960.10, as set forth in the Bank's approved AHP implementation plan. (b) The Bank shall approve the applications in descending order starting with the highest scoring application until the total AHP funding amount for the particular funding cycle, except for any amount insufficient to fund the next highest scoring project, has been allocated. The Bank also may approve the next four highest scoring applications as alternates and, within one year of approval by the Bank, may fund such alternates if any previously committed AHP funds become available. §960.9 Threshold criteria for approval of AHP applications. Threshold criteria. An AHP application must meet all of the threshold criteria set forth in this section in order to be considered for scoring under §960.10 and for AHP funding approval. (a) Authorized and required uses requirements. The AHP application must indicate that the use of the subsidized advance or direct subsidy set forth in the AHP application for the proposed project will comply with the requirements for authorized and required uses of such funds contained in §§960.3, 960.4 and 960.5. (b) Fair housing law requirements. The AHP application must indicate that the project sponsor will comply with any applicable fair housing law requirements and must indicate how the sponsor proposes to affirmatively further compliance with such requirements. (c) Twenty percent requirement and alternatives. _(1) General. (i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a Bank shall not offer subsidized advances or direct subsidies to applicants in excess of that amount needed to reduce the monthly housing costs (as defined in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section) for income-eligible households, as committed to in the AHP application, to 20 percent of the household's gross monthly income. In projects where other forms of federal, state, local or private subsidized assistance are being used in conjunction with AHP subsidized advances or direct subsidies, the total amount of subsidized assistance, including funds provided under the AHP, shall not be in excess of the amount needed to reduce the monthly housing costs (as defined in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section) for the income-eligible households, as committed to in the AHP application, to 20 percent of the household's gross monthly income. (ii) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, monthly housing costs are defined as: (A) For households in AHP-assisted owner-occupied housing units, mortgage principal and interest payments, real property taxes, homeowners' insurance, a reasonable estimate of utility costs excluding telephone service, and for households in AHP-assisted condominium, cooperative, mutual housing or other housing projects involving common ownership, those portions of any regular operating assessment or fee allocated for principal and interest payments, taxes, insurance and a reasonable estimate of utilities attributable to the household's share of the common area and/or the individual unit; and
