FR940405-1-00123 FR940405-1-00013 The appendices included with this regulation are intended to be informational and, unless otherwise expressly stated in this section, are not intended to create any additional obligations not otherwise imposed, or to detract or reduce any existing obligations. K. Specific Questions Posed OSHA solicits data, views and comment on all provisions proposed in this notice. The Agency sets forth questions below to highlight specific areas in the proposal upon which comment is sought. Regulatory Analysis Issues (1) Are there any comments on the method used by OSHA to estimate benefits resulting from IAQ provisions of the proposed standard? (2) Are there studies which document, in quantitative terms, the effectiveness of HVAC maintenance on the decline of indoor air related ailments? (3) OSHA has estimated a substantial productivity benefit resulting from this proposed standard. What additional studies and other information are available that demonstrate any effect on productivity? (4) OSHA has preliminarily determined that the direct costs of compliance with this standard will not unduly harm small entities. However, OSHA did not determine how the smoking restrictions in this regulation would affect demand, and therefore profitability, for establishments which provide services and commodities which would be affected by the proposal (e.g., restaurants and bars). OSHA requests comments, including empirical data regarding the demand elasticity of such establishments' patrons who will not be permitted to smoke in the presence of employees. If economic feasibility is shown to be an issue for establishments such as bars and restaurants, what alternative feasible methods of compliance would prevent workers from being exposed to tobacco smoke? What other workplaces have circumstances under which provisions of this standard may not be feasible? (5) During renovation and remodelling, what are the specific elements for implementing control measures to minimize degradation of the IAQ of employees performing such activities and employees in other areas of the building? What are the unit costs associated with the implementation of each control (capital and labor)? (6) Please describe practices in your workplace by providing answers to the following: _Describe the business, SIC code number and number of employees in the establishment. _What type of ventilation systems are presently being used? _If carbon dioxide monitoring is conducted, how often is it being done and by whom and what are the associated costs? _Does your establishment have a policy on IAQ? When and why was it implemented? What are the major components? How many employees are affected? What type of costs and cost savings have been associated with such a policy (e.g., operating, maintenance, retrofitting HVAC systems, property damage due to poor IAQ, employee productivity, cleaning, etc.)? _Is smoking allowed in your establishment? If yes, is it limited to designated smoking areas with separate ventilation? Scope and Application, Paragraph (a) (1) Is it necessary and feasible to extend coverage of the entire standard to industrial facilities as well as nonindustrial facilities? Why? Why not? Which provisions lend themselves to application to industrial environments? (2) Can coverage of the standard feasibly be extended to some industrial facilities but not others? If so, what characteristics distinguish those workplaces in which it is feasible or necessary to apply the standard from those in which it is not? (3) The regulation as drafted would require employers generally to prohibit smoking by their customers (such as in bars, restaurants, and stores) where not already banned by a government entity if employees would be exposed to ETS from customer smoking. Comment is requested on the appropriateness of this provision, possible alternatives, and feasibility issues. Definitions, Paragraph (b) (1) Is the proposed definition of ``air contaminants'' sufficiently descriptive to inform employers of the hazards which may adversely affect indoor air quality? If not, what additional information should be included in the definition? Which elements included in the definition are not reflective of hazards which affect indoor air quality? Can employers reasonably be expected to be able to detect the presence of air contaminants, as defined, and determine whether they present a significant risk of material impairment of employee health? What methods are available to detect indoor air contaminants? What criteria should be used to evaluate the degree of risk that the presence of air contaminants pose to employees? (2) Is the proposed definition of ``building systems'' sufficiently descriptive to indicate which systems the employer must attend to in order to assure acceptable indoor air quality? Are the systems listed in the definition those that directly affect indoor air quality? If not, why not? What other systems affect indoor air quality that are not specifically cited in the definition, and how do they influence indoor air quality? How must such systems be maintained and operated in order to assure adequate indoor air quality? (3) Is the term ``building-related illness'' sufficiently descriptive and inclusive of the medical conditions that can arise from poor indoor air quality? If not, what other medical conditions should be addressed under the definition and why? Which conditions listed in the definition, if any, should not be considered as ``building-related illness'' and why?
