FR941003-1-00066 FR941003-1-00006 7. Role of the Federal Preservation Officer Section 110(c) of the NHPA requires Federal agencies to designate an official to be responsible for coordinating the agency's activities under the NHPA. However, the position and function of the Federal Preservation Officer (FPO) vary widely from agency to agency and the revised regulations are currently silent on the issue. Given the key role the NHPA intends for the FPO to play as a central agency-wide coordinator, should the Section 106 regulations define a role for the FPO? If so, should it be with regard to all individual project review, terminations where Council member comment is sought (Section 800.11), the development of agency procedures (Subpart B) or something else? 8. Disputes Over Application of the Regulations When surveyed, users reported a serious shortcoming in the current regulations with the lack of any process to resolve disputes over when Section 106 applies and over the various determinations made in the Section 106 process. The proposed regulations authorize the Council to do this at several points. These include whether an action is an ``undertaking'' (Section 800.7(a)), what the area of potential effects is (Section 800.8(a)), whether historic properties are present (Section 800.8(e)) and whether documentation to support agency determinations is adequate (Section 800.14(f)). Such determinations would be legally binding for purposes of Section 106. Alternatives to Council resolution include giving the Federal agency the authority to make these determinations, referring the matter to a third party such as the Office of Management and Budget or the Justice Department or continuing the current situation where the absence of a recognized administrative decisionmaker leaves resolution to the Federal courts, but only if a formal legal challenge is made. Is the proposed system the best alternative? 9. Reviews and Appeals There are several points in the current Section 106 regulations which provide an opportunity for Council review of agency decisions and for public appeals to the Council. The proposed regulations expand the right to appeal Federal agency decisions to the Council by giving the public a broad right to request review of an agency decision, although the Council may determine that the request is not timely. (See Section 800.12(a)(1).) This expanded appeal process is intended to serve as a balance for the Council's withdrawal from regular involvement in agency-SHPO decisions in the Section 106 process. While the regulation (Section 800.12(a)(1)) allows an agency to go forward with an undertaking while the Council conducts its review, the open-endedness of the appeals process diminishes the finality of Section 106 compliance for Federal agencies. Is the appeals mechanism as proposed an effective means to balance the Council's reduced role in the review of individual undertakings? Should it be broader or narrower? Could the provision be revised to give a greater degree of finality to the process and also afford the public fair access to the Council? 10. Notice of Violation The proposed regulations authorize the Council to issue a preliminary or final notice of violation when the Council determines that a Federal agency has acted in violation of Section 106 or the Council's regulations. (See Section 800.12(d).) Under the current regulations, the Council may inform an agency when it finds the agency in violation, or in danger of violation, of Section 106 and the Council's regulations, but such action lacks any official sanction under the regulations and is viewed as purely advisory. The concept of a formal notice of violation, adapted from other Federal environmental protection processes, is in response to widespread concern that the current regulations lack effective means of enforcement. Is the proposed notice of violation an appropriate method? Are there other techniques or actions within the Council's legal authority to achieve this objective? Would the presence of stronger enforcement tools encourage the fulfillment of Section 106 responsibilities? 11. Treatment of Archeological Resources The revised regulations continue the policy of the current regulations with regard to providing expedited review for undertakings with effects limited to archeological resources. The current process allows such cases to be processed as No Adverse Effect Determinations, provided that the values of the resource are limited to scientific data and that data will be recovered in manner consistent with the Secretary of the Interior s standards and guidelines. The revised regulations would essentially continue this exception, but as a Conditional No Adverse Effect Agreement. The regulations further clarify that such treatment is not available if there is the potential for human remains to be affected or traditional cultural values are present. Should this approach be pursued or should undertakings that threaten to destroy archeological resources, regardless of the presence of human remains or traditional cultural values, be considered to have an adverse effect and processed according to Section 800.10? 12. Coordination With the National Environmental Policy Act An identified shortcoming in the current Section 106 regulations is the limited guidance provided for coordination between Section 106 reviews and those conducted under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). The revised regulations contain expanded provisions (Section 800.19). Is the content sufficient? Are there specific areas that warrant more or less detail? Should similar guidance be provided for other related laws, such as Section 4(f) of the Department of Transportation Act? 13. Use of Information Technology The rapid advances in information technology and the widespread access of Federal agencies and other Section 106 participants to it offers opportunities to improve Section 106 case processing. Electronic filing of certain agency notices and determinations with the Council is one example. Are there specific places in the process where this kind of innovation should be encouraged? Do the regulations need to be modified to facilitate the use of contemporary information technology? Should formats for electronic submission of information be specified in the regulations or related guidance documents? IV. Impact Analysis A. The Regulatory Flexibility Act The proposed rules will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The Council's regulations, in their current and revised form, only impose obligations on Federal agencies. If a Federal agency is legally authorized and chooses to delegate its responsibility to local governments, then that Federal agency must determine whether or not its delegation will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. B. The Paperwork Reduction Act The proposed rules do not impose reporting requirements or the collection of information as defined in the Paperwork Reduction Act.
