FR941102-1-00094 FR941102-1-00018 (ii) The pounds of butterfat received times the butterfat price for the month; (iii) The pounds of protein received times the protein price for the month; (iv) The pounds of other solids received times the other solids price for the month; (v) The hundredweight of milk received times the somatic cell adjustment for the month; (vi) Less any payment made pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; (vii) Less proper authorized deductions. (e) In making payments for producer milk pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) or (b)(2) of this section, each handler shall furnish each producer or cooperative association to whom such payment is made a supporting statement in such form that it may be retained by the recipient which shall show: (1) The month and the identity of the producer; (2) The daily and total pounds for each producer; (3) The total pounds of butterfat contained in the producer's milk; (4) The total pounds of protein contained in the producer's milk; (5) The total pounds of other solids contained in the producer's milk; (6) The somatic cell count of the producer's milk; (7) The minimum rate or rates at which payment to the producer is required pursuant to this order; (8) The rate that is used in making payment if such rate is other than the applicable minimum rate; (9) The amount, or the rate per hundredweight, or rate per pound of component, and the nature of each deduction claimed by the handler; and (10) The net amount of payment to such producer or cooperative. 10. Sections 1030.74 and 1030.75 are revised to read as follows: §1030.74 Butterfat differential. The butterfat differential, rounded to the nearest one-tenth cent, shall be 0.138 times the butter price less 0.0028 times the average price per hundredweight, at test, for manufacturing grade milk, f.o.b. plants in Minnesota and Wisconsin, as reported by the Department for the month. The butter price means the simple average for the month of the daily prices per pound of Grade A (92 score) butter. The prices used shall be those of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange as reported and published weekly by the Dairy Division, Agricultural Marketing Service. The average shall be computed by the Director of the Dairy Division using the price reported each week as the daily price for that day and for each following day until the next price is reported. §1030.75 Plant location adjustments for producers and on nonpool milk. (a) The producer price differential for producer milk received at a plant shall be adjusted according to the location of the plant at the rates set forth in §1030.52(a). (b) The producer price differential applicable to other source milk shall be reduced at the rates set forth in §1030.52(a). 11. Section 1030.76 is amended by revising paragraph (a)(4) and the third sentence of paragraph (b)(1)(ii), to read as follows: §1030.76 Payments by handler operating a partially regulated distributing plant. * * * * * (a) *␣*␣* (4) Multiply the remaining pounds by the amount by which the Class I differential price exceeds the producer price differential, both prices to be applicable at the location of the partially regulated distributing plant; and * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* (ii) *␣*␣* Any such transfers remaining after the above allocation which are classified in Class I and for which a value is computed for the handler operating the partially regulated distributing plant pursuant to §1030.60 shall be priced at the statistical uniform price (or at the weighted average price if such is provided) of the respective order regulating the handling of milk at the transferee plant, with such statistical uniform price adjusted to the location of the nonpool plant (but not to be less than the lowest class price of the respective order), except that transfers of reconstituted skim milk in filled milk shall be priced at the lowest class price of the respective order; and * * * * *
