FR940826-0-00059 FR940826-0-00015 NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION 45 CFR Part 615 Testimony and Production of Official Records and Information AGENCY: National Science Foundation. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule establishes procedures to be followed when a National Science Foundation (NSF) employee is issued a court demand or is requested to provide testimony or produce records in a legal proceeding. These procedures are designed to promote economy and efficiency in NSF's programs and operations, to minimize the possibility of involving NSF in controversial issues not related to its functions, to maintain the impartiality of NSF among private litigants, and to protect sensitive, confidential information and the deliberative process. EFFECTIVE DATE: August 26, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Miriam Leder, Assistant General Counsel, National Science Foundation, National Science Foundation, 4201 Wilson Boulevard, Room 1265, Arlington, Virginia 22230, (703) 306&hyph;1060. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On July 8, 1994, NSF published proposed procedures to be followed when a National Science Foundation (NSF) employee is issued a court demand or is requested to provide testimony or produce records in a legal proceeding. 59 FR 35079 (July 8, 1994). NSF received two comment letters, one from an individual who supported adoption of the procedures as proposed, and the other from a university concerned that the definition of the term ``employee'' could be interpreted to include university faculty who receive NSF awards and/or serve as peer reviewers on NSF panels. The term ``employee'' was not intended to cover investigators under NSF awards, and the definition has been revised to make this explicit. However, the rule was intended to reach peer reviewers, but only as to matters directly relating to their service for the Foundation. To the extent this was not clear in the proposed rule, Section 615.2 has been revised to specifically provide that the rule's procedures do not apply to requests or demands for testimony by peer reviewers that is directly related to their service as reviewers. In addition to these clarifications, the final rule includes the following four minor revisions: Section 615.2␣Applicability The phrase ``while in leave status'' was deleted from this provision because only Government employees can be ``in leave status'' but the provision is intended to apply to certain other individuals as well. Section 615.4␣Legal Proceedings Before NSF or in Which the United States Is a Party This provision was revised to provide that the General Counsel will arrange for testimony of current employees for the United States, rather than for the testimony of both past and current employees. Section 615.5␣Legal Proceedings Between Private Litigants Subsection (a) was intended to prevent employees from producing official records and information or providing testimony unless authorized to do so by the General Counsel. The proposed rule's inclusion of the phrase ``or by other applicable law'' at the end of the subsection created uncertainty as to the intent of the subsection, and, as a result, was deleted. Subsection (c) was revised to specifically provide that employees may testify as to any matter, if authorized to do so by the General Counsel. I have determined that this proposed rule is not an economically significant rule as that term is defined in Executive Order 12866. I have also determined that this proposed rule, if promulgated, will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities as that term is defined in the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;612, because it would affect only the conduct of NSF activities and actions of NSF personnel. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 605(b), the rule is therefore exempt from the initial and final regulatory flexibility analyses requirements of sections 603 and 604.
