FR941220-0-00003 FR941220-0-00001 General Summary of Comments The Board received 31 comments on its proposal. Those commenting included 17 banking organizations, eight trade associations, and five Reserve Banks. Commenters overwhelmingly supported the proposed amendment. One banking trade association opposed the Board's proposal because it believed that a blanket exception could have anti-competitive effects in small towns. This commenter recommended that the Board act on exemption requests on a case-by-case basis. Discussion The Board is adopting the amendment substantially as proposed. It is important to note that the amendment is not an exception to section 106, which applies only when a bank offers the tying product_that is, when a bank is varying the consideration or conditioning the availability of a product in order to create an incentive for the customer to purchase another product. 1 The amendment will apply only when nonbanks offer all of the packaged products_a case that would otherwise be covered by the Board's extension of section 106 to tying within a bank holding company organization. 1 The purpose of section 106 was to prevent banks from using their market power over certain products to gain an unfair competitive advantage in other products. See, e.g. , S. Rep. No. 1084, 91st Cong., 2d Sess., 16 (1970). Although banks, like their nonbank competitors, already were subject to general antitrust prohibitions on tying, Congress concluded that special restrictions were necessary given the unique role of banks in the economy. Section 106's restrictions on banks are broader than those of the antitrust laws, as no proof of economic power in the tying product or anti-competitive effects in the tied product market are required for a violation to occur. The amendment will not permit the types of anti-competitive practices that the Board's regulatory extension was designed to prevent. Neither bank holding companies nor their nonbanking subsidiaries generally appear to possess sufficient market power in the products that they offer to impair competition. 2 Moreover, bank holding companies and their nonbank subsidiaries will continue to be restricted by the antitrust laws_the same restrictions that bind their non-bank holding company competitors_and the Board will retain the authority to terminate or modify any arrangement that resulted in anti-competitive practices. Section 106 will continue to restrict tying by banks, and Regulation Y will continue to restrict tying by a nonbank when the tied product is offered by an affiliated bank. Finally, the amendment will rescind Regulation Y's restrictions on tying between nonbanks only where discounting is involved and the products are separately available. 2 For example, the ``laundry list'' activities in which bank holding companies and their nonbanking subsidiaries are permitted to engage are generally conducted in competitive national or regional markets that are characterized by large numbers of actual or potential competitors and low barriers to entry. See 12 CFR 225.25. The final rule is further justified by the competitive environment in which bank holding companies and their nonbank subsidiaries operate nationwide. The amendment will relieve bank holding companies of a competitive disadvantage, promote efficiency in the delivery of services, and provide benefits for consumers. In particular, the amendment will provide customers with greater choices and potentially lower costs by allowing bank holding companies to offer the same types of discounts that their competitors already offer. Other Issues The Board sought public comment on several particulars of the proposed amendment, including: (1) The Board's requirement that all products offered in a package arrangement be separately available for purchase; (2) that these products be separately available ``at competitive prices''; and (3) the Board's clarification that its authority to revoke an exception that is resulting in anti-competitive practices includes authority to halt such practices at an individual institution. Commenters were split on the proposed requirement that all products in a package arrangement be separately available for purchase, with five in favor and seven opposed. The requirement of separate availability, like the requirement that the arrangement involve a discount, effectively prevents a bank holding company from conditioning the availability of one product on the purchase of another. In a competitive market, a company should be unable to profit from such an arrangement_as customers are free to purchase the desired, tying product from a competitor without having to purchase the less desired, tied product. Although, as noted, the markets for products offered by bank holding company affiliates are generally competitive, there may be a few markets that are less competitive, and the discounting and separate availability restrictions would therefore act as a further safeguard to protect against anti-competitive practices in such markets. Accordingly, these requirements will be retained. 3 3 The proposed rule contained specific language emphasizing that all products in a package arrangement must be separately available for purchase by the customer. Because all anti-tying exceptions granted by the Board already are subject to this requirement, this language has been deleted in the final rule to avoid redundancy. See 12 CFR 225.7(c)(1).
