FR940429-0-00042 FR940429-0-00010 Friday April 29, 1994 Part III Department of Education 34 CFR Part 602 Secretary's Procedures and Criteria for Recognition of Accrediting Agencies; Final Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 82␣/␣Friday, April 29, 1994␣/␣Rules and Regulations DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 34 CFR Part 602 RIN 1840&hyph;AB82 Secretary's Procedures and Criteria for Recognition of Accrediting Agencies AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Final regulations. SUMMARY: The Secretary amends the regulations governing the Secretary's recognition of accrediting agencies in order to implement provisions added to the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA) by the Higher Education Amendments of 1992, and the Higher Education Technical Amendments of 1993. The purpose of the Secretary's recognition of accrediting agencies is to assure that those agencies are, for HEA and other Federal purposes, reliable authorities as to the quality of education or training offered by the institutions of higher education or higher education programs they accredit. EFFECTIVE DATE: These regulations take effect on July 1, 1994, with the exception of §§602.4, 602.10, and 602.27. These sections will become effective after the information collection requirements contained therein have been submitted by the Department of Education and approved by the Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. If you want to know the effective date of these regulations, call or write the Department of Education contact person. A document announcing the effective date will be published in the Federal Register . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Karen W. Kershenstein, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, SW., room 3036, ROB&hyph;3, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;5244. Telephone: (202) 708&hyph;7417. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In order to approve a postsecondary education institution to participate in the student financial assistance programs authorized under Title IV of the HEA (referred to as ``Title IV, HEA programs'') and many other Federal programs, the Secretary must determine, in part, that the institution satisfies the statutory definition of an ``institution of higher education.'' Under the HEA and many other Federal statutes, one element of that definition requires an eligible institution of higher education to be accredited or preaccredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary as a reliable authority as to the quality of the education or training provided by the institution. Another element requires an eligible institution to be legally authorized to provide an education program beyond the secondary level in the State in which it is located. In addition, to participate in the Title IV, HEA programs, the institution must be certified by the Secretary as administratively capable and financially responsible. Thus, the HEA provides the framework for a shared responsibility among accrediting agencies, States, and the Federal government to ensure that the ``gate'' to Title IV, HEA programs is opened only to those institutions that provide students with quality education or training worth the time, energy, and money they invest in it. The three ``gatekeepers'' sharing this responsibility have traditionally been referred to as ``the triad.'' While the concept of a triad of entities responsible for gatekeeping has had a long history, originating in 1952, the Higher Education Amendments of 1992, Public Law 102&hyph;325, significantly increased the gatekeeping responsibilities of each member of the triad. Specifically, Congress amended the HEA to provide for a new part H of Title IV entitled ``Program Integrity Triad.'' Under the new part H, the requirements that accrediting bodies must meet if they are to be recognized by the Secretary as ``gatekeepers'' for Title IV or other Federal purposes are specified in detail. Part H also provides a new oversight responsibility for States: The State Postsecondary Review Program. Altogether, part H establishes a set of responsibilities for accrediting agencies, States, and the Secretary that creates a stronger and more coordinated evaluation of institutions that participate, or wish to participate, in the Title IV, HEA programs.
