FR941027-2-00149 FR941027-2-00083 A. Upon written request, reviewers' comments will be mailed to unsuccessful applicants. Q. Is travel allowed under these projects? A. Travel associated with carrying out the project is allowed. Because we may request the project director of funded projects to attend an annual project directors meeting, you may also wish to include a trip or two to Washington, D.C. in the travel budget. Travel to conferences is sometimes allowed when it is for purposes of dissemination. Q. If my application receives high scores from the reviewers, does that mean that I will receive funding? A. Not necessarily. It is often the case that the number of applications scored highly by the reviewers exceeds the dollars available for funding projects under a particular competition. The order of selection, which is based on the scores of all the applications and other relevant factors, determines the applications that can be funded. Q. What happens during negotiations? A. During negotiations technical and budget issues may be raised. These are issues that have been identified during the panel and staff reviews that require clarification. Sometimes issues are stated as ``conditions.'' These are issues that have been identified as so critical that the award cannot be made unless those conditions are met. Questions may also be raised about the proposed budget. Generally, these issues are raised because there is inadequate justification or explanation of a particular budget item, or because the budget item seems unimportant to the successful completion of the project. If you are asked to make changes that you feel could seriously affect the project's success, you may provide reasons for not making the changes or provide alternative suggestions. Similarly, if proposed budget reductions will, in your opinion, seriously affect the project activities, you may explain why and provide additional justification for the proposed expenses. An award cannot be made until all negotiation issues have been resolved. Q. How do I provide an assurance? A. Except for SF&hyph;424B, ``Assurances_Non-Construction Programs,'' which must be completed, simply state in writing that you are meeting a prescribed requirement. Q. Where can copies of the Federal Register , a program's regulations, and Federal statutes be obtained? A. Copies of these materials can usually be found at your local library. If not, most can be obtained from the Government Printing Office by writing to: Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, Telephone: (202) 783&hyph;3238. When requesting copies of regulations or statutes, it is helpful to use the specific name, public law number, or part number. The material referenced in this notice would be referred to as follows: (1) Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act (Public Law 101&hyph;392) 104 Stat. 753 (1990). (2) State Vocational and Applied Technology Education Programs and National Discretionary Programs of Vocational Education Final Regulations, 34 CFR parts 400 and 428. (3) Education Department General Administrative Regulations, 34 CFR parts 74, 75, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85 and 86. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26660 Filed 10&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
