FR941005-1-00018 FR941005-1-00004 In the questions at the end of this section, comment is sought on the usefulness of these criteria in selecting an assessment-base definition, as well as on whether additional or alternative criteria should be applied. 1. Fairness This criterion refers to the extent to which institutions are neither systematically favored nor systematically disadvantaged due to factors such as size and geographic location. Under this concept of fairness, similar institutions operating under similar circumstances, and representing similar risks of failure and magnitude of potential loss to the insurance fund, would generally incur similar insurance costs. Fairness may suggest that claims receiving potentially equal protection in the event of a failure be assessed equally. Similarly, since there are varying degrees of protection for different categories of claims, it could be argued that fairness demands higher assessment payments for greater degrees of protection. Fairness may also refer to the extent to which abnormal occurrences, such as the receipt at quarter end of an unusually large deposit to be held only briefly by the institution, affect the amount of an institution's assessments. In this regard, fairness may suggest that the assessment base should be defined in terms of averages, which would help smooth out the effects of such abnormal occurrences, rather than on actual ``as-of'' report-date data. 2. Measurability This criterion refers to the extent to which the components of the assessment base can feasibly and objectively be calculated with a minimum degree of uncertainty and disagreement by separate, independent parties (such as the institution being assessed and the FDIC). For example, an assessment base that is limited to insured deposits might raise measurability concerns, since timely and reliable calculations of only those deposits (or portions of deposits) that actually would be covered by insurance in the event of a failure might not be feasible. (To the extent measurability is not an issue, the recordkeeping necessary to support such a calculation might be.) If measurability is a problem here, a possible solution might be to identify a ``proxy'' intended to provide a less precise (but related) substitute that is more readily available than actual insured deposits. 3. Relation to Risk
