FR940228-1-00165 FR940228-1-00010 •Acceptable third-party guarantees should include performance bonds, letters of credit, third-party escrow arrangements, and certificates of deposit. [San Francisco] 2. Under what conditions will each type of instrument be used? •These measures should be used for institutions that close or institutions that don't properly repay any required refunds. [New York] •These measures should be used only if the institution can find no other way to prove its financial status. The institution should have an opportunity to negotiate with the Department before the third-party guarantees are imposed. [Kansas City] •These measures should be used anytime the Secretary determines that the institution is not meeting its financial responsibilities. [San Francisco] •These measures should be used if an institution fails to satisfy a liability established by the Secretary after an administrative review process. [Atlanta] 3. How does the Secretary determine the amount equal to one-half of the annual potential liabilities of an institution, which is the minimum guarantee amount? •This should be determined based on the institution's retention or refund history. [New York] •The annual potential liability should be defined as the sum of the difference between charges paid by the student (regardless of the source of payment) and the pro rata amounts earned by the institution according to its applicable refund policy. [Atlanta] •The annual potential liability should be based upon the institution's annual Title IV funds multiplied by one-half of its withdrawal rate. [San Francisco] 4. What standards will be used to determine when guarantees in excess of the minimum amount will be required for an institution that fails to demonstrate financial responsibility? •Guarantees in excess of the minimum amount should be required if the institution must also have funds to make teach out arrangements. [New York] •Guarantees in excess of the minimum amount should not be imposed. [Kansas City, Atlanta] •Guarantees in excess of the minimum amount should be required when the institution cannot meet its current financial obligations. [Atlanta] 5. How can an institution that does not demonstrate financial responsibility otherwise show that it is capable of meeting all of its financial obligations. •All factors must be analyzed as a whole. [New York] •The Department should use the process used by accrediting agencies to determine financial responsibility. [New York] •Institutions should be considered financially responsible if they are on reimbursement. [Kansas City, Atlanta] •Institutions should be considered financially responsible if they are funded through an escrow arrangement. [San Francisco, Atlanta] E. Section 498(c)(4) provides that the determination that an institution has met certain standards of financial responsibility will be based on an audited and certified financial statement, done in accordance with standards of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Additional audits may be required. Issues that the community was asked to address and the community's views: 1. When would the Secretary require additional audits, and what additional items should be required for such audits? •The Department should be able to request a more detailed audit of a particular segment of the audited financial statement. [New York] •The Department should take into account the cost of requests for additional information. [New York] •The Department should be able to request the more frequent submission of audited financial statements in cases of fraud, abuse, or a negative program review finding. For additional submissions requested at the Secretary's discretion, it is suggested that the Secretary be willing to look at something other than a full audited financial statement. [Kansas City] •At the discretion of the Secretary, additional reports could include CPA prepared pro forma statements, cash forecasts, enrollment forecasts, and operating budgets with comparisons of actual to budget. [San Francisco] •There should be no need for interim reports since they are now required annually. If interim information is requested, it should be unaudited. However, if an institution is seeking relief from a previously imposed fiscal restriction before its next scheduled statement, the interim statement should be audited. [Atlanta]
