FR941011-1-00024 FR941011-1-00012 ยง31.001 Definitions. * * * * * Compensation system, as used in this part, means the contractor's system(s) for planning, administering, and controlling all remuneration paid currently or accrued, in whatever form and whether paid immediately or deferred, for services rendered by employees of a contractor during contract performance. * * * * * Job, as used in this part, means a homogeneous cluster of work tasks, the completion of which serves an enduring purpose for the organization. Taken as a whole, the collection of tasks, duties, and responsibilities constitutes the assignment for one or more individuals whose work is of the same nature and is performed at the same skill/responsibility level_as opposed to a position, which is a collection of tasks assigned to a specific individual. Within a job, there may be pay categories which are dependent on the degree of supervision required by the employee while performing assigned tasks which are performed by all persons with the same job. Job class of employees, as used in this part, means employees performing in positions within the same job. * * * * * Labor market, as used in this part, means an arena where individuals exchange their labor for compensation. Labor markets are identified and defined by some complex combination of the following factors: (1) geography, (2) education and/or technical background required, (3) experience required by the job, (4) licensing or certification requirements, (5) occupational membership, and (6) industry. * * * * * 4. Section 31.205&hyph;6 is amended by revising paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), and (i), to read as follows: 31.205&hyph;6 Compensation for personal services. (b) General. Compensation for personal services includes all remuneration paid currently or accrued, in whatever form and whether paid immediately or deferred, for services rendered by employees to the contractor during the period of contract performance (except as otherwise provided for in other paragraphs of this subsection). It includes, but is not limited to, salaries; wages; director's and executive committee members' fees; bonuses (including stock bonuses); incentive awards; employee stock options and stock appreciation rights; employee stock ownership plans; employee insurance; fringe benefits; contributions to pension, other post-retirement benefits, annuity, and employee incentive compensation plans; and allowances for off-site pay, incentive pay, location allowances, hardship pay, severance pay, and cost of living differential. Compensation for person services is allowable subject to the following general criteria and additional requirements contained in other parts of this cost principle: (1) Compensation for personal services must be for work performed by the employee in the current year and must not represent a retroactive adjustment of prior years' salaries or wages (but see 31.205&hyph;6(g), (h), (j), (k), (m), and (o) of this subsection). Each element of compensation has a net present value for the current year which expresses the cash value of the compensation paid to employees in the year that it is earned. (2) Compensation in total must be reasonable for the work performed; however, specific restrictions on individual compensation elements must be observed where they are prescribed. (3) Each element of compensation must be based upon and conform to the terms and conditions of the contractor's written compensation plan that is followed consistently. (4) No presumption of allowability will exist where the contractor introduces major revisions to existing compensation plans or systems or introduces new plans or systems (see 31.201&hyph;3). Advance agreements on the allowability of increased costs are recommended (see 31.109). (5) Costs that are otherwise unallowable under Subpart 31.2 shall not be allowable under this subsection 31.205&hyph;6 solely on the basis that they constitute compensation for personal services.
