FR940324-1-00048 FR940324-1-00018 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 24 RIN 1018&hyph;AC36 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Designated Ports for Listed Plants AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Fish and Wildlife Service (the Service) proposes to amend the regulations that establish designated ports for the importation, exportation, and reexportation of plants by adding the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) ports at Gulfport, MS, Portland, OR, and Vancouver, WA, as designated ports for the importation of logs and lumber from trees that are listed as endangered or threatened, under the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (the Act), or listed under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). The USDA has adequate facilities and personnel at these ports to qualify the ports as designated ports for the importation, exportation, and reexportation of plants under the terms of the Act and CITES. The addition of these three ports to the list of designated ports would facilitate trade and the enforcement of the Act and CITES. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before May 23, 1994. Requests for a public hearing must be received by May 9, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments and materials concerning this proposal should be sent to the Director, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Office of Management Authority, 1849 C Street NW. (MS 420 C ARLSQ), Washington, DC 20240. Comments and materials may be hand-delivered to 4401 North Fairfax Drive, room 420 C, Arlington, Virginia 22203 between the hours of 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Marshall P. Jones, Chief, Office of Management Authority, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 1849 C Street NW., (MS 420 C ARLSQ), Washington, DC 20240, telephone (703) 358&hyph;2095. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (the Act), requires, among other things, that plants be imported, exported, or reexported only at designated ports or, under certain limited circumstances, at nondesignated ports. Section 9(f) of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1538(f)) provides for the designation of ports. Under section 9(f)(1), the Secretary of the Interior (the Secretary) has the authority to establish designated ports based on a finding that such an action would facilitate enforcement of the Act and reduce the costs of that enforcement. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Secretary are responsible for enforcing provisions of the Act and the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) relating to the importation, exportation, and reexportation of plants listed as endangered or threatened under the Act or listed under CITES. The regulations contained in 50 CFR part 24, ``Importation and Exportation of Plants,'' are for the purpose of establishing ports for the importation, exportation, and reexportation of plants. Plants that are listed as endangered or threatened in 50 CFR 17.12 or in the appendices to CITES in 50 CFR 23.23 are required to be accompanied by documentation and may be imported, exported, or reexported only at one of the USDA ports listed in ยง24.12(a) of the regulations. Certain other USDA ports are designated for the importation, exportation, or reexportation of specific listed plants. Section 24.12(e) of the regulations contains a list of USDA ports that are, for the purposes of the Act and CITES, designated ports for the importation, exportation, and reexportation of plants that are not listed as endangered or threatened or under CITES. (The USDA regulations in 7 CFR 319.37 contain additional prohibitions and restrictions governing the importation of plants through those ports.) For the purposes of its enforcement of the Act and CITES, the Service requires that a port have personnel with expertise in identifying endangered or threatened plants, and CITES listed plants, to ensure that such plants are properly identified by their accompanying documentation. A port must also possess adequate facilities for holding live plants and plant material, since plants are subject to seizure if imported, exported, or reexported in violation of the Act or CITES. The Service further requires that, whenever possible, ports be located to coincide with established patterns of plant trade in order to help reduce shipping costs.
