FR940722-1-00057 FR940722-1-00012 The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) investigated a series of single model accidents that occurred between May 1989 and March 1991. During that period, five fatal accidents and a near fatal incident occurred in the United States. Two additional fatal accidents involving the same airplane model occurred in foreign countries. The NTSB's analysis indicated that four of the five U.S. accidents probably involved ice blockage of the pitot tubes because the pilots failed to activate pitot heat before flying into freezing instrument meteorological conditions. The Board recommended (A&hyph;92&hyph;86) that the FAA consider requiring a pitot heat operating light on small airplanes certificated to operate in icing conditions. A pitot heat indicating system would advise the pilots of any inoperative heating element in the pitot tube and that subsequent inaccuracies could result. The proposed provision would reduce the likelihood that pilots would rely on inaccurate airspeed information resulting from a blocked or partially blocked pitot tube. Section 23.1353␣Storage Battery Design and Installation Proposed new §23.1353(h) would require that, in the event of a complete loss of the primary electrical power generating system, airplane battery capacity must be sufficient to supply at least 30 minutes of electrical power to those loads essential to the continued safe flight and landing of the airplane. In some cases, manufacturers may need to install larger batteries with greater capacities to comply with the proposed requirements. The FAA estimates that the size and capacity of a larger battery would add no more than a few pounds (incremental operating costs of less than $10 per year) and $20 to $30 of additional cost for the battery. On some airplanes, a ``load shedding'' procedure, where the pilot would sequentially turn off certain equipment, could be required either in place of or in addition to a larger battery. The procedure would be provided in the pilot's operating handbook (POH). The FAA estimates that an aerospace engineer could establish a load shedding procedure in 10 hours at a burdened rate of $60 per hour, for a total cost of $600 per affected certification. Irrespective of the method of compliance, the proposal would increase the likelihood that sufficient electrical power would be available to safely land the airplane in the event of an electrical generating system failure. Section 23.1359␣Electrical System Fire Protection. Proposed §23.1359(c) would provide burn criteria for electrical wire and cables. A proposed revision to appendix F to part 23 would add appropriate wire testing criteria. Demonstrating and documenting that electrical wires and cables meet the requirements of this provision would take an aerospace engineer approximately 4 hours at a burdened rate of $60 per hour, for a total of $240 per certification. The requirement and testing criteria would increase the likelihood that necessary wires and cables would continue to function in the event of a fire. Section 23.1365␣Electrical Cables and Equipment Proposed §23.1365(d) would add a requirement for the identification of electrical cables, terminals, and connectors. Different colored wires and/or tags could be used in conjunction with a wiring diagram to identify the cables, terminals, and connectors. The FAA estimates that a draftsman could design and document this identification system in 80 hours at a burdened rate of $55 per hour, a total of $4,400 per certification. Incremental installation costs would be approximately $100 per airplane. The increasing use of electrical systems in part 23 airplanes has added to the difficultly of wiring installation. The proposed requirement for cable identification would increase the likelihood that cables would be correctly installed initially and would be correctly reinstalled as part of later maintenance or modification. Section 23.1401␣Anticollision Light System The proposal would revise §23.1401 to require the installation of an anticollision light system on all part 23 airplanes. Current §23.1401 requires an anticollision light system only if certification for night operations is requested. Many manufacturers currently install anticollision light systems on all airplanes they produce. Industry sources estimate that an aerospace engineer could design and document an anticollision light system in 40 hours at a burdened rate of $60 per hour, for a total of $2,400 per affected certification. The system would cost $500 and would take a mechanic approximately 20 hours to install at a burdened rate of $55 per hour, a total of $1,600 per affected airplane ($500 + (20 hours × $55 per hour) = $1,600). The weight penalty would be negligible. Only those future models that would not otherwise have anticollision light systems would actually incur incremental costs as a result of this provision. The number of airplanes that have been added to the small airplane fleet and the increasing speeds resulting from improved technology, especially turbine engines, warrant the use of anticollision lights for day operations as well as night. The FAA Accident and Incident data for the period 1984 through 1990 show that 269 aircraft were involved in midair collisions in which 108 fatalities occurred. When the data were filtered (to account for night operations, IFR conditions, and aircraft not affected by this proposal), it shows that at least 167 airplanes were involved in accidents or incidents that occurred in day VFR conditions. The reports do not reveal whether the airplanes were using anticollision lights at the time of the accident. The FAA holds that requiring the installation of anticollision lights on all newly certificated airplanes, and requiring their operation during day operations (as proposed by revised §91.209 and discussed later in this evaluation), would reduce the number of daylight, midair accidents. Even if the proposed requirement were only 25 percent effective, the 6-year accident history indicates that approximately 17 fatalities could be avoided during a similar 6-year period.
