FR941012-2-00179 FR941012-2-00116 Private non-profit organizations (NPOs) in communities provide a vital service to the families of missing and exploited children. These organizations were formed to play a role that is best fulfilled by community members who provide support to each other during the ordeal many parents and children experience in missing and exploited children cases. Over the last two years, private non-profit organizations have taken steps to further develop the quality and level services to include forming a national organization. This three year program, to be awarded in two 18 month budget periods, is designed to provide training and technical assistance that will support the continuing development of NPOs as a resource for providing services in communities that other agencies may not be best suited to provide. This training and technical assistance would focus on assisting NPOs in developing protocols that can be used to tailor their mission, goals, and services to the needs of communities. The project will support up to five demonstration sites that have active missing and exploited children programs in place and seek to strengthen the role of NPOs in providing services. Technical assistance will also be provided on a request basis to individual NPO's. The applicant should consider missing and exploited children programs in local community organizations as possible sites as well. Products that would be generated as a result of this project would include, but not be limited to, standardized intake forms, procedures for communication with other agencies, guidelines for establishing a multi-disciplinary board of directors, and an overall handbook for the operation of an NPO that is tailored to the delivery of services to missing and exploited children and their families. Continuation Programs National Alzheimer's Patient Alert Program $750,000 This project supports a national program to facilitate the identification and safe return of missing persons afflicted with Alzheimer's disease and related disorders. During its third year of operation, this project will expand its central registry of computerized information on memory impaired persons and a national toll-free telephone line to access the registry; produce new informational materials including a promotional poster for use in the training of law enforcement personnel and public education; and coordinate and enhance the case management efforts of existing community based organizations including local chapters. No additional applications will be solicited in Fiscal Year 1995. Missing and Exploited Children Comprehensive Action Program (M/CAP) $700,000 The Missing and Exploited Children Comprehensive Action Program (M/CAP) is a national demonstration project designed to promote the implementation of multi-agency community approaches for dealing with missing and exploited children cases. The grantee for the final year of this project is Public Administration Services of McLean, Virginia.
