FR940228-1-00054 FR940228-1-00007 (g) The PRO may allow the practitioner or other person 5 working days after the meeting to provide the PRO additional relevant information that may affect its decision; and (h) A verbatim record must be made of the meeting and must be made available to the practitioner or other person promptly. §1004.60 PRO determination of a violation. (a) On the basis of any additional information received, the PRO will affirm or modify its finding. If the PRO affirms its findings, it may suggest in writing a method for correcting the situation and a time period for corrective action. This CAP could correspond with, or be a continuation of, a prior CAP or be a new proposal based on additional information received by the PRO. If the issue has been resolved to the PRO's satisfaction, the PRO may modify its initial finding and close the case. (b) The PRO must give written notice to the practitioner or other person of any action it takes as a result of the additional information received, as specified in §1004.70. (c) At least one member of the PRO who is a participant in the finding to recommend to the OIG that a practitioner or other person be sanctioned should practice in a similar area, e.g. urban or rural, and at least one member of the panel must be in the same specialty. Both requirements could be met by a single individual. In addition, no one at the PRO who is a participant in such a finding may be in direct economic competition with, or have a substantial bias against, the practitioner or other person being recommended for sanction. §1004.70 PRO action on final determination of a violation. If the issue is not resolved to the PRO's satisfaction as specified in §1004.60(a), the PRO must_ (a) Submit its report and recommendation to the OIG; (b) Send the affected practitioner or other person a concurrent final notice, with a copy of all the material that is being forwarded to the OIG, advising that_ (1) The PRO recommendation has been submitted to the OIG; (2) The practitioner or other person has 30 days from receipt of this final notice to submit any additional written material or documentary evidence to the OIG at its headquarters location. The date of receipt is presumed to be 5 days after the date on the notice, unless there is a reasonable showing to the contrary; and (3) Due to the 120-day statutory requirement specified in §1004.100(e), the period for submitting additional information will not be extended and any material received by the OIG after the 30-day period will not be considered; and (c) Provide notice to the State medical board or to other appropriate licensing boards for other practitioner types when it submits a report and recommendation to the OIG with respect to a physician whom the board is responsible for licensing. §1004.80 PRO report to the OIG. (a) Manner of reporting. If the violation(s) identified by the PRO have not be resolved, it must submit a report and recommendation to the OIG at the field office with jurisdiction.
