FR941117-1-00038 FR941117-1-00004 (e) Standard: Pest control. The facility must maintain an effective pest control program so that the facility is free of pests and rodents. (f) Standard: Systems. The facility must maintain all essential mechanical, electrical, and other equipment in safe operating condition. ยง483.220 Condition of Participation: Health services. (a) Standard: Hospital services. The facility must have a written transfer agreement in effect with one or more hospitals approved for participation under the Medicaid program that reasonably assures that_ (1) A resident will be transferred from the facility to the hospital and admitted in a timely manner when transfer is medically necessary for medical care or acute psychiatric care; and (2) Medical and other information needed for care of the resident will be exchanged between the institutions, including any information needed to determine whether appropriate care can be provided in a less restrictive setting. (b) Standard: Medical services. Medical and emergency dental services must be available to each resident 24 hours a day. ยง483.222 Condition of participation: Dietary services. Each resident must receive a nourishing, well-balanced diet that meets the daily nutritional needs of the resident. Each resident must receive a minimum of 3 meals daily. (a) Standard: Dietitian. The facility must employ a qualified dietitian on at least a part-time or consultant basis. If a qualified dietitian is not employed on a full-time basis, the facility must designate a person to serve as the director of food service. (b) Standard: Menus. Menus must be prepared in advance and must be followed. (c) Standard: Nutrition. Each resident receives food that conserves nutritive value, flavor and appearance; is palatable, attractive and at the proper temperature, and is of sufficient quantity. Substitute food of similar nutritive value must be offered to residents who refuse standard food service. (d) Standard: Food procedures. The facility must_ (1) Procure food from sources approved by Federal, State or local authorities; and (2) Store, prepare, distribute and serve food under sanitary conditions.
