FR940318-2-00081 FR940318-2-00064 (L) Reporting practices of, and the significance to be accorded to, prior convictions (both felony and misdemeanor) and protection orders; (M) Use of interstate extradition in cases of domestic violence crimes; and (N) The use of statewide and regional planning. 3. Applicant coalition must provide a discussion of anticipated outcomes and a description of planned grant activities to be conducted in conjunction with family law judges, Child Protection Services agencies and children's advocates to develop appropriate responses to child custody and visitation issues in domestic violence cases and in cases where domestic violence and child abuse are both present, including the: (A) Inappropriateness of mutual protection orders; (B) Prohibition of mediation when domestic violence is involved; (C) Inappropriate use of marital or conjoint counseling in domestic violence cases; (D) Use of training and technical assistance for family law judges and court personnel; (E) Presumption of custody to domestic violence victims; (F) Use of comprehensive protection orders to grant fullest protection possible to victims of domestic violence, including temporary support and maintenance; (G) Development by Child Protective Services of supportive responses that enable victims to protect their children; (H) Implementation of supervised visitations that do not endanger victims and their children; and (I) The possibility of permitting domestic violence victims to remove children from the State when the safety of the children or the victim is at risk. 4. The applicant coalition must provide a thorough, narrative discussion of the proposed budget expenditures for the FY 1994 grant funds. 5. The following documentation will certify the status of the domestic violence coalition and must be included in the grant application: (A) A signed statement from the State agency responsible for the administration of the Family Violence Prevention and Services formula grant funds that certifies that the applicant coalition is the statewide domestic violence coalition for the State and that the applicant coalition has reached an agreement with the State agency that allows for implementation of the following cooperative activities: (i) The applicant coalition's participation in the planning and monitoring of the distribution of grants and grant funds provided in its State under section 303(a); and (ii) The participation of the State domestic violence coalition in compliance activities regarding the State's family violence prevention and services program grantees (sec. 303(a)(3)). (B) A copy of the coalition's 501(c)(3) certification letter from the Internal Revenue Service stating private non-profit tax-exempt status; (C) A copy of the articles of incorporation and bylaws of the applicant coalition; (D) A list of the organizations operating programs for victims of domestic violence programs in the State and the applicant coalition's membership list by organization; (E) A copy of the applicant coalition's current Board of Directors list, with Chairperson identified; and (F) A copy of the resume of any coalition or contractual staff to be supported by funds from this grant. (section 311(b)). 6. Assurances (include in application as an appendix) (A) Applicant coalition must provide documentation in the form of support letters, memoranda of agreement, or jointly signed statements, that the coalition: (i) Has actively sought and encouraged the participation of law enforcement agencies and other legal or judicial organizations in the preparation of the grant application; and (ii) Will actively seek and encourage the participation of such organizations in grant funded activities (Sec. 311(b)(4)(A)&(B)). (B) Prohibition on lobbying Provide documentation in the form of a signed statement that the coalition will not use grant funds, directly or indirectly, to influence the issuance, amendment, or revocation of any executive order or similar legal document by any Federal, State or local agency, or to undertake to influence the passage or defeat of any legislation by the Congress, or any State or local legislative body, or State proposals by initiative petition, except that the representatives of the State Domestic Violence Coalition may testify or make other appropriate communications: (i) When formally requested to do so by a legislative body, a committee, or a member of such organization; and (ii) In connection with legislation or appropriations directly affecting the activities of the State domestic violence coalition or any member of the coalition (Sec. 311(d)). (C) Prohibition on Discrimination Provide documentation in the form of a signed statement that the State Domestic Violence Coalition will prohibit discrimination on the basis of age, handicap, sex, race, color, national origin or religion. (section 307).
