FR941027-2-00048 FR941027-2-00027 Categories of individuals covered by the system: Candidates for nomination or election to the Office of President of the United States. Categories of records in the system: Certification forms and supporting data requesting matching funds or election funds. Authority for maintenance of the system: 26 U.S.C. 9003, 9006; 26 U.S.C. 9033, 9036, 9037. Routine use of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Certification of eligibility for funds by presidential candidates. These files are available for public inspection. Routine use for disclosure to the Department of Justice for use in litigation: It shall be a routine use of the records in this system of records to disclose them to the Department of Justice when: (a) The agency, or any component thereof; or (b) Any employee of the agency in his or her official capacity; or (c) Any employee of the agency in his or her individual capacity where the Department of Justice has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) The United States, where the agency determines that litigation is likely to affect the agency or any of its components. is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and the use of such reports by the Department of Justice is deemed by the Federal Election Commission to be relevant and necessary to the litigation provided, however, that in each case the agency determines that disclosure of the records to the Department of Justice is a use of the information contained in the records that is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected. Routine use for Agency disclosure in litigation: It shall be a routine use of records maintained by this agency to disclose them in a proceeding before a court or adjudicative body before which the agency is authorized to appear when: (a) The agency, or any component thereof; or (b) Any employee of the agency in his or her official capacity; or (c) Any employee of the agency in his or her individual capacity where the agency has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) The United States, where the agency determines that litigation is likely to affect the agency, or any of its components, is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and the Federal Election Commission determines that, on a case-by-case basis, use of such records is relevant and necessary to the litigation, provided, however, that the agency determines that disclosure of the records is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Paper records. Retrievability: Indexed by name of candidate. Safeguards: Locked filing cabinets. Retention and disposal: Indefinite. Systems manager(s) and address: Assistant Staff Director for Audit, Federal Election Commission, Washington, DC 20463 (202/219&hyph;3440).
