FR940325-2-00011 FR940325-2-00004 For both classes or kinds of merchandise, we relied on the submitted further manufacturing costs except in certain instances where the costs were not appropriately quantified or valued. We reclassified certain administrative expenses which were reported as indirect selling expenses as G&A expenses. We also recalculated financial expenses to exclude the claimed adjustment for short-term interest income. (See Comments 18 and 19, respectively, in the ``Interested Party Comments'' section of this notice.) For CA flux sales, we made an adjustment to U.S. price for the value-added tax (VAT) paid on the comparison sale in France. In Federal-Mogul Corporation and The Torrington Company v. United States, Slip Op. 93&hyph;194 (CIT October 7, 1993), the Court of International Trade (CIT) rejected our revised implementation of the Act's instructions on taxes and prohibited us from applying a purely tax neutral margin calculation methodology. Accordingly, we have again changed our practice, as instructed by the CIT, and adjusted USP for tax by multiplying the home market tax rate by the U.S. price at the point in the chain of commerce of the U.S. merchandise that is analogous to the point in the home market chain of commerce at which the foreign government applies the home market consumption tax. In this investigation, the tax levied on the subject merchandise in the home market is 18.6 percent. We calculated the appropriate tax adjustment to be 18.6 percent of USP net of adjustments reflected on the invoice at the time of sale (which, in this case, is the point in the chain of commerce of the U.S. merchandise that is analogous to the point in the home market chain of commerce at which the foreign government applies the home market consumption tax), and added this amount to the USP. We also calculated the amount of the tax adjustment that was due solely to the inclusion of price deductions in the original tax base ( i.e ., 18.6 percent of the sum of any adjustments, expenses and charges that were deducted from the tax base). We deducted this amount from the net USP after all other additions and deductions had been made. By making this additional tax adjustment, we avoid a distortion that would cause the creation of a dumping margin even when pre-tax dumping is zero. Foreign Market Value For CA cement and cement clinker, we based FMV on the CV data submitted for cement clinker because cement clinker was the only such or similar product within the cement and clinker class or kind which was imported into the United States during the POI, and there were no sales of this product in the home market or to unrelated customers in third countries during the POI. (See the ``Such or Similar Comparisons'' section of this notice.) For CA flux, we based FMV on home market sales prices because we found the home market to be viable for flux sales during the POI, and because the difference-in-merchandise adjustments between the flux products sold to the United States and those sold in the home market do not exceed 20 percent. (See Comment 12 in the ``Interested Party Comment'' sections of this notice.) CV-to-Price Comparisons We calculated CV for cement clinker based on the sum of Lafarge's cost of materials, fabrication, general expenses, U.S. packing costs and profit. We relied on the submitted CV information, except in the following instances where the costs were not appropriately quantified or valued: (1) We adjusted material costs for minor errors presented at verification. We also increased material costs for foreign exchange losses incurred when reporting raw materials. (See Comment 21 in the ``Interested Party Comments'' section of this notice.) (2) We adjusted variable overhead to correct minor errors found at verification. (3) We did not allow the annualization of fixed costs as we had done in the preliminary determination because respondent incorrectly reported labor costs as part of annualized fixed costs, rather than as variable costs for the POI in accordance with the Department's instructions; and because respondent failed to provide an itemization of fixed and variable costs that would allow us to appropriately reclassify labor costs from annualized fixed costs to POI variable costs. As BIA, we used the fixed costs, including the labor costs, incurred during the POI. (See Comment 22 in the ``Interested Party Comments'' section of this notice.) (4) We revised the COM reported to include an amount for depreciation on research and development (R&D) assets which was not originally reported. (See Comment 20 in the ``Interested Party Comments'' section of this notice.) (5) We recalculated financial expenses to exclude the claimed adjustment for short-term interest income. (See Comment 19 in the ``Interested Party Comments'' section of this notice.) (6) We also recalculated home market selling expenses on a class or kind basis. (See Comment 6 in the ``Interested Party Comments'' section of this notice.)
