FR941003-1-00089 FR941003-1-00006 (2) Procedure. The Council shall issue a preliminary Notice of Violation to an Agency Official when it believes that a violation of Section 106 or this part has occurred or is about to occur. The preliminary Notice of Violation shall apprise the Agency Official of the basis for the Council's action and request the views of the Agency Official on the issue. The Council membership may, at its discretion, decide to issue a final Notice of Violation to the Agency Official. The final Notice of Violation shall indicate the specific reasons for the Council membership's finding and shall also be provided to the head of the agency. (3) Effect. A Notice of Violation issued by the Council constitutes the opinion of the Council membership that an Agency Official has acted in violation of Section 106 of the Act and this part. (e) Reporting._ (1) Reports of agency performance. The Council may review the performance of agencies and other parties under this part and report its findings to the agency Federal Preservation Officer, the head of the agency, the Office of Management and Budget, the Department of Justice, and the Congress, as it deems appropriate. (2) Remedial actions. When the Council determines that an agency has failed to meet its Section 106 obligations in a manner consistent with this part, the Council may notify the appropriate Agency Official that the Council will participate in specific steps of the Section 106 process for review of the agency's undertakings. §800.13 Special requirements for protecting National Historic Landmarks. Section 110(f) of the Act requires that the Agency Official, to the maximum extent possible, undertake such planning and actions as may be necessary to minimize harm to any National Historic Landmark that may be directly and adversely affected by an undertaking. When commenting on such undertakings, the Council shall use the process set forth in §§800.7 through 800.11 and give special consideration to protecting National Historic Landmarks as follows: (a) Resolution of adverse effects. Any negotiation to resolve adverse effects conducted under §800.10 shall include the Council; (b) Involvement of the Secretary. The Council shall notify the Secretary of negotiations involving National Historic Landmarks and may request a report from the Secretary under Section 213 of the Act to assist in the negotiation; and (c) Report of outcome. The Council shall report the outcome of the Section 106 process, including its comments or any Memoranda of Agreement, to the President, the Congress, the Secretary, and the head of the agency responsible for the undertaking. §800.14 Documentation requirements. (a) Finding of no historic properties. The required documentation is: (1) A description of the undertaking, including photographs, maps, and drawings, as necessary; (2) A description of the undertaking's area of potential effects; (3) A description of the efforts used to identify historic properties; and (4) The basis for determining that no historic properties are present. (b) Finding of no adverse effect. The purpose of this documentation is to provide sufficient information to explain how the Agency Official reached the finding of no adverse effect, along with the basis for any Conditional No Adverse Effect Agreement. The required documentation is:
