FR940513-0-00166 FR940513-0-00034 D. Section 305.5_Determinations of Estimated Annual Energy Cost and Energy Efficiency Rating and of Water Use Rate This section specifies what test procedures are to be used for measuring the water use and energy consumption and efficiency of the various categories of products covered by the Rule. The Commission is adding to this section a new subsection for covered lamps specifying that manufacturers and private labelers of covered lamps must, for any representation of the design voltage, wattage, light output or life of any covered medium base compact fluorescent lamp or general service incandescent lamp, including any incandescent reflector lamp, or for any representation made by the encircled ``E'' that any covered general service fluorescent or incandescent reflector lamp is in compliance with a minimum energy efficiency standard, possess and rely upon a reasonable basis consisting of competent and reliable scientific tests that substantiate the representation. The new subsection also states that for establishing the light output and life ratings of covered compact fluorescent lamps and general service incandescent lamps, including incandescent reflector lamps, the Commission will accept as a reasonable basis the results of competent and reliable scientific tests conducted pursuant to certain IES testing protocols that substantiate those ratings. E. Section 305.6_Sampling This section specifies that any representation with respect to or based upon a measure or measures of energy consumption shall be based on certain DOE approved sampling procedures. Inasmuch as DOE has not yet adopted sampling procedures for the covered lamp products, the Commission is adding to this section a new subsection for covered lamps specifying that any representation of design voltage, wattage, light output or life, or any representation made by the encircled ``E'' that a lamp is in compliance with a minimum energy efficiency standard, shall be based upon testing using competent and reliable scientific sampling procedures. The new subsection also states that the Commission will accept sampling conducted in accordance with ``Military Standard 105_Sampling Procedures and Tables for Inspection by Attributes'' as competent and reliable scientific sampling procedures. F. Section 305.8_Submission of Data This section requires manufacturers of covered products to submit to the Commission, in the form of annual reports, certain information about their products. Section 326(b)(1) of EPCA, 42 U.S.C. 6296(b)(1), requires manufacturers to notify the Commission of all their existing product model numbers within 60 days after a rule covering them takes effect and all their future product model numbers prior to commencement of production. Section 326(b)(4) of EPCA, 42 U.S.C. 6296(b)(4), requires manufacturers to supply annually to the Commission, at times to be specified by the Commission, relevant data respecting their products' energy consumption. The Commission is amending ยง305.8 of the Rule to require manufacturers of covered lamp products for which DOE has issued test procedures under EPCA to submit to the Commission by March 1, 1996, and annually thereafter, reports disclosing each company's name and address and the trade names, the model numbers, and the energy consumption data ( i.e., for all covered lamps for which DOE has issued test procedures, the test results for the lamps' light output in lumens and energy usage in watts and, in addition, for all covered fluorescent lamps, the test results for the lamps' color rendering index) for each of its covered lamp products. This reporting requirement is, however, being stayed pending DOE's adoption of test procedures for these products. Manufacturers of covered lamp products are not being required to submit any more information than manufacturers of other products covered by the Rule. G. Section 305.11_Labeling For Covered Products This section contains five subsections specifying labeling requirements for the Rule's covered products. 277 The Commission is amending this provision by adding a new subsection to address the labeling requirements that EPA 92 has directed the Commission to issue for lamps. This new subsection is designated (e) and placed immediately after the existing subsection (d) that pertains to fluorescent lamp ballasts. The subsection that pertains to plumbing products, which was subsection (e), is being redesignated (f). 277 The first subsection applies to all the covered products heretofore included in the Rule except fluorescent lamp ballasts, showerheads, faucets, water closets and urinals; the second concerns only furnaces and central air conditioners; the third only central air conditioners; the fourth only fluorescent lamp ballasts; and the fifth only showerheads, faucets, water closets and urinals. The new subsection (e) specifies the information that must be disclosed on the labels of the three categories of lamps that EPA 92 has added to EPCA and consists of three subsections. Subsection (e)(1)(A) states that all covered compact fluorescent lamps and general service incandescent lamps, including incandescent reflector lamps ( i.e., all covered lamps other than general service fluorescent lamps) must disclose clearly and conspicuously on their labels' principal display panel the following information: (1) The number of lamps included in the package, if more than one; (2) The design voltage of each lamp included in the package, if other than 120 volts; (3) The light output of each lamp included in the package, expressed in average initial lumens; (4) The electrical power consumed (energy used) by each lamp included in the package, expressed in average initial wattage; and (5) The life of each lamp included in the package, expressed in hours. Subsection (e)(1)(B) specifies that the light output, energy usage, and life ratings of any covered compact fluorescent and general service incandescent lamp must appear in that order and with equal clarity and conspicuousness on the product's principal display panel. The light output, energy usage and life ratings must be disclosed in terms of ``lumens,'' ``watts,'' and ``hours'' respectively, with the lumens, watts and hours rating numbers each appearing in the same type style and size and with the words ``lumens,'' ``watts,'' and ``hours'' each appearing in the same type style and size. The words ``light output,'' ``energy used,'' and ``life'' must precede and have the same conspicuousness as both the rating numbers and the words ``lumens,'' ``watts,'' and ``hours,'' except that the letters of the words ``lumens,'' ``watts,'' and ``hours'' shall be approximately 50% of the sizes of those used for the words ``light output,'' ``energy used,'' and ``life.'' Subsection (e)(1)(C) specifies that a lamp's light output, energy usage, and life are to be measured at 120 volts, regardless of the lamps' design voltage. If a lamp's design voltage is other than 120 volts, the lamp's required disclosures of light output, energy usage, and life must in each instance be followed by the phrase ``at 120 volts.'' The rule amendment allows, but does not require, labels for lamps with design voltages other than 120 volts also to disclose the lamps' light output, energy usage, and life at the design voltage ( e.g., ``Light Output 1710 Lumens at 125 volts''). Subsection (e)(1)(D) specifies that for all covered general service incandescent reflector lamps the required disclosures of light output are to be given for the lamps' beam spread and followed clearly and conspicuously by the phrase ``at beam spread.''
