FR940406-0-00085 FR940406-0-00006 (A) Ceases to meet requirements for being considered an unmarried dependent child of a member or former member of the armed forces under 10 U.S.C. 1072(2)(D); (B) On the day before ceasing to meet those requirements, was covered under a health benefits plan under 10 U.S.C. chapter 55, or transitional health care under 10 U.S.C. 1145(a) as a dependent of the member or former member; and, (C) Would not otherwise be eligible for any benefits under 10 U.S.C. chapter 55, (iii) A person who: (A) Is an unremarried former spouse of a member or former member of the armed forces; (B) On the day before the date of the final decree of divorce, dissolution, or annulment was covered under a health benefits plan under 10 U.S.C. chapter 55, or transitional health care under 10 U.S.C. 1145(a) as a dependent of the member or former member; and, (C) Is not a dependent of the member or former member under 10 U.S.C. 1072 (2) (F) or (G) or ends a one-year period of dependency under 10 U.S.C. 1072(2)(H). (2) Notification of eligibility. (i) The Department of Defense will notify persons eligible to receive health benefits under the Continued Health Care Benefit Program. (ii) In the case of a member who becomes (or will become) eligible for continued coverage, the Department of Defense shall notify the member of their rights for coverage as part of preseparation counseling conducted under 10 U.S.C. 1142. (iii) In the case of a child of a member or former member who becomes eligible for continued coverage: (A) The member or former member may submit to the Department of Defense a notice of the child's change in status (including the child's name, address, and such other information needed; and (B) The Department, within 14 days after receiving such information, will inform the child of the child's rights under 10 U.S.C. 1142. (iv) In the case of a former spouse of a member or former member who becomes eligible for continued coverage, the Department of Defense will notify the individual of eligibility for CHCBP when he or she declares the change in marital status to a military personnel office. (3) Election of coverage. (i) In order to obtain continued coverage, written election by eligible beneficiary must be made, within a prescribed time period. In the case of a member discharged or released from active duty (or full time National Guard duty), whether voluntarily or involuntarily; an unremarried spouse of a member or former member; or a child emancipated from a member or former member, the written election shall be submitted to the Department of Defense before the end of the 60-day period beginning on the later of: (A) The date of the discharge or release of the member from active duty or full-time National Guard duty; (B) The date on which the period of transitional health care applicable to the member under 10 U.S.C. 1145(a) ends; or (C) The date the member receives the notification of eligibility. (ii) A member of the armed forces who is eligible for enrollment under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section may elect self-only or family coverage. Family members who may be included in such family coverage are the spouse and children of the member. (4) Enrollment. Enrollment in the Continued Health Care Benefit will be accomplished by submission of an application to a Third Party Administrator (TPA). Upon submittal of an application to the Third Party Administrator, the enrollee must submit proof of eligibility. (i) One of the following types of evidence will validate eligibility for care: (A) A Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS) printout which indicates the appropriate sponsor status and the sponsor's and dependent's eligibility dates''; (B) A copy of a verified and approved DD Form 1172, ``Application for Uniformed Services Identification and Privilege Card;'' and
