FR941107-2-00023 FR941107-2-00007 Scopes of Investigation A. Pure Magnesium The product covered by this investigation is pure primary magnesium regardless of chemistry, form or size, unless expressly excluded from the scope of this investigation. Primary magnesium is a metal or alloy containing by weight primarily the element magnesium and produced by decomposing raw materials into magnesium metal. Pure primary magnesium encompasses all products that contain at least 99.95% primary magnesium, by weight (generally referred to as ``ultra-pure'' magnesium), as well as products containing less than 99.95% but not less than 99.8% primary magnesium, by weight (generally referred to as ``pure'' magnesium). Products that have the aforementioned primary magnesium content, but that do not conform to ASTM specifications or other industry or customer-specific specifications, are included in the scope of this investigation. Pure primary magnesium is cast and sold in various physical forms and sizes, including ingots, slabs, rounds, billets and other shapes. Excluded from the scope of this investigation are primary magnesium anodes, granular primary magnesium (including turnings and powder), and secondary magnesium. Granular magnesium, turnings, and powder are currently classifiable under Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) subheading 8104.30.00. Magnesium granules and turnings (also referred to as chips) are produced by grinding and/or crushing primary magnesium and thus have the same chemistry as primary magnesium. Although not susceptible to precise measurement because of their irregular shapes, turnings or chips are typically produced in coarse shapes and have maximum length of less than 1 inch. Although sometimes produced in larger sizes, granules are more regularly shaped than turnings or chips, and have a typical size of 2mm in diameter or smaller. Powders are also produced from grinding and/or crushing primary magnesium and have the same chemistry as primary magnesium, but are even smaller than granules or turnings. Powders are defined by the Section Notes to Section XV, the section of the HTSUS in which subheading 8104.30.00 appears, as products of which 90 percent or more by weight will pass through a sieve having a mesh aperture of 1mm. (See HTSUS, Section XV, Base Metals and Articles of Base Metals, Note 6(b).) Accordingly, the exclusion of magnesium turnings, granules and powder from the scope include products having a maximum physical dimension ( i.e. , length or diameter) of 1 inch or less. The products subject to these investigations are currently classifiable under subheadings 8104.11.00 and 8104.20.00 of the HTSUS. Although the HTSUS subheadings are provided for convenience and customs purposes, our written description of the scope is dispositive. B. Alloy Magnesium The product covered by this investigation is alloy primary magnesium regardless of chemistry, form or size, unless expressly excluded from the scope of this investigation. Primary magnesium is a metal or alloy containing by weight primarily the element magnesium and produced by decomposing raw materials into magnesium metal. This investigation covers alloy primary magnesium products which contain 50% or greater, but less than 99.8%, primary magnesium, by weight. Products with the aforementioned primary magnesium content that do not conform to ASTM specifications or other industry or customer-specific specifications are included in the scope of this investigation. In addition to primary magnesium, ``alloy'' magnesium generally contains one or more of the following items in amounts less than the primary magnesium itself: (1) Other elements deliberately added to the primary magnesium; (2) magnesium scrap or secondary magnesium; (3) oxidized magnesium; and (4) other elements present as impurities. Alloy primary magnesium is cast and sold in various physical forms and sizes, including ingots, slabs, rounds, billets and other shapes. Excluded from the scope of this investigation are primary magnesium anodes, granular primary magnesium (including turnings and powder), and secondary magnesium. Granular magnesium, turnings, and powder are currently classifiable under Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) subheading 8104.30.00. Magnesium granules and turnings (also referred to as chips) are produced by grinding and/or crushing primary magnesium and thus have the same chemistry as primary magnesium. Although not susceptible to precise measurement because of their irregular shapes, turnings or chips are typically produced in coarse shapes and have maximum length of less than 1 inch. Although sometimes produced in larger sizes, granules are more regularly shaped than turnings or chips, and have a typical size of 2mm in diameter or smaller. Powders are also produced from grinding and/or crushing primary magnesium and have the same chemistry as primary magnesium, but are even smaller than granules or turnings. Powders are defined by the Section Notes to Section XV, the section of the HTSUS in which subheading 8104.30.00 appears, as products of which 90 percent or more by weight will pass through a sieve having a mesh aperture of 1mm. (See HTSUS, Section XV, Base Metals and Articles of Base Metals, Note 6(b).) Accordingly, the exclusion of magnesium turnings, granules and powder from the scope include products having a maximum physical dimension ( i.e. , length or diameter) of 1 inch or less. The products subject to these investigations are currently classifiable under subheadings 8104.19.00 and 8104.20.00 of the HTSUS. Although the HTSUS subheadings are provided for convenience and customs purposes, our written description of the scope is dispositive. Period of Investigation The POI in both proceedings is October 1, 1993, through March 31, 1994.
