FR940902-1-00089 FR940902-1-00012 (ii) Verification of family income from another governmental source; (iii) A signed financial aid application; or (iv) A signed United States or Puerto Rican income tax return. (c) For purposes of documenting potential first generation college student status, documentation consists of a signed statement from a dependent participant's parent, or a signed statement from an independent participant. (d) A grantee does not have to revalidate a participant's eligibility after the participant's initial selection. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070d, and 1070d&hyph;1a) ยง645.5 What regulations apply? The following regulations apply to the Upward Bound Program: (a) The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) as follows: (1) 34 CFR Part 74 (Administration of Grants to Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Nonprofit Organizations); (2) 34 CFR Part 75 (Direct Grant Programs), except for 34 CFR 75.511; (3) 34 CFR Part 77 (Definitions that Apply to Department Regulations), except for the definition of ``secondary school'' in 34 CFR 77.1; (4) 34 CFR Part 79 (Intergovernmental Review of Department of Education Programs and Activities); (5) 34 CFR Part 82 (New Restrictions on Lobbying); (6) 34 CFR Part 85 (Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants)); (7) 34 CFR Part 86 (Drug-Free Schools and Campuses); (b) The regulations in this Part 645. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070a&hyph;11 and 1070a&hyph;13) ยง645.6 What definitions apply to the Upward Bound Program? (a) Definitions in EDGAR. The following terms used in this part are defined in 34 CFR 77.1: Applicant Application Award Budget Budget period EDGAR Equipment Facilities Grant Grantee Project Project period Secretary State Supplies (b) Other Definitions. The following definitions also apply to this part: Family taxable income means_ (1) With regard to a dependent student, the taxable income of the individual's parents; (2) With regard to a dependent student who is an orphan or ward of the court, no taxable income. (3) With regard to an independent student, the taxable income of the student and his or her spouse. HEA means the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended. Independent student means a student who_ (1) Is an orphan or ward of the court; (2) Is a veteran of the Armed Forces of the United States (as defined in this section); (3) Is a married individual; or (4) Has legal dependents other than a spouse. Institution of higher education means an educational institution as defined in sections 1201(a) and 481 of the HEA. Limited English proficiency with reference to an individual, means an individual whose native language is other than English and who has sufficient difficulty speaking, reading, writing, or understanding the English language to deny that individual the opportunity to learn successfully in classrooms in which English is the language of instruction. Low-income individual means an individual whose family taxable income did not exceed 150 percent of the poverty level amount in the calendar year preceding the year in which the individual initially participates in the project. The poverty level amount is determined by using criteria of poverty established by the Bureau of the Census of the U.S. Department of Commerce. Organization/Agency means an entity that is legally authorized to operate programs such as Upward Bound in the State where it is located. Participant means an individual who_(1) Is determined to be eligible to participate in the project under ยง645.3; (2) Except for veterans, is enrolled in a target school; and (3) Has received more than one month of project services. Potential first-generation college student means_ (1) An individual neither of whose parents received a baccalaureate degree; or (2) A student who, prior to the age of 18, regularly resided with and received support from only one parent and whose supporting parent did not receive a baccalaureate degree. Secondary school means a school that provides secondary education as determined under State law. Target area means a discrete geographic area_as determined by the applicant_to be served by an Upward Bound project. Target school means a school designated by the applicant as a focus of project services.
