FR940830-0-00019 FR940830-0-00005 The OTS believes that federal statutes should be interpreted and applied in a manner consistent with their purpose. In so doing, the substance, not merely the form of a transaction, is key. It is clear that no federal statutory barrier exists to the ultimate accomplishment of conversions of depository institutions to Federal thrift charters, provided that all applicable chartering and insurance requirements are met. Thus, absent compelling reasons to the contrary, to read the HOLA as implicitly requiring a multi-step process to accomplish these types of charter conversions would impose unnecessary expenses and complications upon depository institutions that wish to operate as Federal savings associations. The classes of depository institutions that are permitted to convert to a Federal stock association charter under §552.2&hyph;6 is broader than set forth in the proposed version of the regulation, which addressed only conversions by FDIC-insured depository institutions. The OTS believes that there are no compelling legal or policy reasons why stock-form depository institutions not insured by the FDIC should not be permitted to convert directly to a Federal savings association. 18 However, these institutions must meet the requirements for Federal Home Loan Bank membership, receive FDIC insurance of accounts prior to consummation of the conversion, and otherwise comply with all applicable statutes and regulations. 18 The OTS is not, at this time, adopting a corresponding regulation that would authorize mutual-form depository institutions to convert to Federal mutual savings associations. The OTS may, in the future, consider promulgating a regulation authorizing such conversions. The OTS notes, however, that mutual-form state chartered savings banks that are insured by the Bank Insurance Fund are authorized to convert to Federal mutual savings banks, pursuant to section 5(o) of the HOLA. Applications filed under revised §552.2&hyph;6 must comply with §552.2&hyph;1 and other sections in part 552 regarding establishment of a Federal thrift charter. D. Application Processing As noted, the FDIA requires prior OTS approval of combinations between savings associations and other types of FDIC-insured depository institutions where the acquiring, assuming, or resulting institution is a savings association. In such transactions, the OTS will continue to require an application under amended §563.22(a). Under previous regulations, any savings association that proposed to convert to a bank in a Sasser transaction or be acquired by a bank in an Oakar transaction was required to file a transfer of assets application with the OTS. 19 The OTS continues to believe that an application process requiring prior written approval is necessary in certain situations, discussed below. However, with respect to Oakar transactions and other combinations between a thrift and a bank in which no savings association survives, the OTS's experience has indicated that a notification requirement would be sufficient. The OTS will advise the appropriate Federal banking agency of any supervisory concerns, enforcement actions and other relevant information regarding the institution. 19 12 CFR 563.22(b) (1993). Any savings association that proposes to convert to a bank charter in a Sasser conversion must file a notification or application with the OTS, depending on whether the savings association meets the requirements for expedited treatment under §516.3(a). Specifically, savings associations that qualify for expedited treatment under §516.3(a)(1) will be eligible to use the notification procedure set forth at §563.22(h)(1) in order to engage in a Sasser conversion. Savings associations that do not qualify for such treatment will be required to file an application in order to engage in a Sasser conversion. Such applications will be subject to the general application processing timeframes. 20 The OTS notes that this procedure represents a significant reduction in burden from the prior procedures, under which every savings association that proposed to undertake a Sasser conversion was required to file a detailed application. 20 The proposal included a notification requirement for all savings associations undertaking a Sasser transaction. Based on additional experience, the OTS is requiring an application from savings associations that fail to qualify for expedited processing and propose to undertake a Sasser transaction, because such associations may, in certain cases, present compliance or safety and soundness concerns that may warrant denial or conditioning of the application. In evaluating applications proposing Sasser conversions, the OTS will assess the applicable factors set forth in §563.22(d)(1), and whether the conversion may have a negative effect on the safety and soundness of the association or present a risk to the appropriate deposit insurance fund. Sections 563.22(b) and (c) have been amended and a new §563.22(h) has been added to the regulations setting forth special requirements and procedures for transactions subject to §§563.22 (b) and (c). Specifically, amended §563.22(b)(1) of the final rule requires prior notification to the OTS in accordance with new §563.22(h)(1) of Sasser conversions of savings associations that meet the criteria for expedited treatment under §516.3(a), and combinations between savings associations and FDIC-insured depository institutions (such as Oakar transactions) where no savings association will survive consummation of the transaction. The notification must be submitted at least 30 days prior to the effective date of the conversion or combination, but not later than the date on which an application relating to the proposed transaction is filed with the primary regulator of the resulting association. The rule also provides that, upon request or on its own initiative, the OTS may shorten the 30-day prior notification period. New §563.22(h)(1) requires the submission of either a letter describing material information regarding the transaction or a copy of a filing submitted to the regulatory agency of the resulting institution that must approve the transaction. The rule does not require OTS approval or clearance of such transactions prior to their consummation. Given the amendments to §563.22(b), the OTS has determined that it is appropriate to revise its application requirements for voluntary dissolutions of Federal associations set forth at 12 CFR 546.4. Amended §546.4 provides that Federal associations that combine with a bank in a purchase and assumption transaction will not be required to file a voluntary dissolution application where the transaction involves the transfer of all of the Federal association's assets and liabilities. The OTS has determined that requiring a voluntary dissolution application would have eliminated any streamlining arising from the notification process in those circumstances. The Federal stock association will still be required under §552.13 to surrender its charter upon completion of the transaction.
