FR941005-2-00022 FR941005-2-00018 Department of the Army Notice of Intent to Prepare a Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for the Cape Fear River Feasibility Study, New Hanover and Brunswick Counties, North Carolina AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Wilmington, District, DOD. ACTION: Notice of Intent. SUMMARY: Deepening of the existing channel from the ocean bar to the Port of Wilmington is the central feature of the proposed action. Other features included in the proposed action consist of widening three turning basins and extending the deep draft project about 1.5 miles further up the North East Cape Fear River. The total length of improvements is approximately 35 miles. Benefits which will accrue from deepening of Wilmington Harbor include reductions in lightloading of vessels and vessel delays. Shippers will also be able to use larger, more efficient vessels. ADDRESSES: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Wilmington, District, Environmental Resources Branch, PO Box 1890, Wilmington, North Carolina 28402&hyph;1890. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Frank Yelverton, Telephone: (910)251&hyph;4640. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Three alternative depths are being considered for the ocean bar channel (42, 44, and 46 feet plus overdepth) and generally three alternative depths for the river channels (40, 42, and 44 feet plus overdepth). Four types of dredging equipment may be used in this action. A hopper dredge may be used in the lowest end of the project and a bucket and barge dredge in the middle reaches of the river (up to about mile 25). A rock dredge with disposal in barges may be used where rock is present downstream of mile 25. The hopper, bucket and barge, and rock dredges will probably dispose of dredged material in the approved ocean dredged material disposal site (ODMDS). A standard hydraulic pipeline or rock dredge may be used from about mile 25 upstream. The dredged material upstream of mile 25 will be pumped to Eagle Island. In the project where rock is to hard to dredge, the rock will require blasting. This rock will then be removed and placed in the ODMDS or in Eagle Island. If suitable rock material is available downstream of mile 25, instead of placement of the rocky material in the ODMDS, an offshore fisheries enhancement structure may be created. All private parties and Federal, State, and local agencies having an interest in the study are hereby notified of the study and are invited to comment at this time. Also, scoping letter requesting input to the study was set to all known interested parties on September 18, 1992. Based on comments received to date, a scoping meeting will not be needed. All comments received as a result of this notice of intent and the scoping letter will be considered in the preparation of the DEIS. Significant issues to be analyzed in the DEIS include: (1) Dredging of benthic resources, (2) Blasting impacts on primary nursery areas, anadromous fish, the endangered shortnose sturgeon, sea turtles and marine mammals, (3) Potential Increased salinity especially in upstream areas, (4) Loss of wetlands due to widening of turning basins, (5) Impacts to cultural resources. The lead agency for this project is the U.S. Army Engineer District, Wilmington. Cooperating agency status has to been assigned to, nor requested by, any other agency. The DEIS is being prepared in accordance with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy of 1969, as amended, and will address the relationship of the proposed action to all other applicable Federal and State Laws and Executive Orders. The DEIS is currently scheduled to be available in January 1996. Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24664 Filed 10&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;GN&hyph;M
