FR941206-1-00077 FR941206-1-00007 3. Document that chemicals that are known or probable human carcinogens, the EPA type A and type B 1 /B 2 , are not present in cleaning or washoff solvents in concentrations subject to MSDS reporting as required by OSHA. The net cleaning and washoff solvent usage quantities, accounting for disposal and recycling of spent solvent, shall be calculated monthly. Actual copies of the logs should be made available to the Administrator or permitting authority upon request. The Committee agreed with the Work Practice Work Group's recommendation that an accounting system be implemented by affected sources. The Committee believed that once the accounting system was in place, the burden of maintaining it would not be too great. The Committee also believed that the accounting system would be an important first step for facilities to develop a broad-based, multimedia pollution prevention plan. Some Agency officials have expressed concern that the proposed rule only restricts the use of EPA type A and type B 1 /B 2 carcinogens in cleaning and washoff solvents. They are concerned that restricting the use of only these chemicals implies that they are worse than other HAP. They are also concerned that the rule draws a clear line between type B and C carcinogens, although the scientific evidence does not suggest such a clear distinction. For example, some pollutants on the HAP list are designated type B/C because the data cannot clearly support a designation of type B or C. The proposed rule does not address these pollutants. Finally, the Agency is planning to update their risk assessment guidelines. Under these revised guidelines, the terms type A and type B carcinogens are likely to be meaningless. The Committee agreed to restrict the use of type A and type B 1 /B 2 carcinogens only, so the EPA is proposing the rule using this approach. However, to address the concerns of some Agency officials, the EPA is specifically requesting comment on this issue including: 1. Should additional HAP, for example, all VHAP of potential concern, be restricted from use in cleaning and washoff solvents; 2. If the approach proposed in the rule is used, how should chemicals designated as type B/C carcinogens be addressed; and 3. If the approach proposed in the rule is used and the risk assessment guidelines are revised so that the terms type A and type B become obsolete, how could the rule be revised to maintain the intent of the proposed rule? c. General Work Practice Requirements. After reviewing the work practices to be included, the Committee concluded that in order for the proposed work practices to be successfully implemented, employees that would actually have to carry them out should be involved in their implementation. Therefore, an operator training program is included as a proposed work practice. The Committee believed that operator training was especially important for new employees and therefore proposed that new employees be trained upon hiring. The Committee agreed that the proposed rule should be flexible and allow sources to develop programs that work best for their facility or that could be coordinated with existing training programs. The proposed rule does require that, at a minimum, the employee training program address coating application, cleaning, and washoff techniques that minimize emissions; appropriate equipment operation; methods to reduce solvent usage; and proper management of cleanup wastes. The Committee also proposed that the rule require retraining of all employees on an annual basis. Members of the Work Practice Work Group proposed to the Committee that the standards should require affected sources to develop an Implementation Plan that describes how sources plan to comply with the work practice requirements on an on-going basis. Based on the proposed work practices, the Committee believed that any Implementation Plan should include, at a minimum, the following: 1. Checklists to document that: _all storage containers are covered when not in use; _solvents are not being used for spray booth cleaning except as allowed by the proposed rule; _conventional air spray guns are not in use except as allowed by the proposed rule;
