FR940727-2-00057 FR940727-2-00028 •Provide protective equipment for all members of the local medical response team. •Train members of the local medical response team in these measures: _Prevention of secondary contamination from chemically exposed patients. _Decontamination procedures. _Evaluation of the medical needs of chemically exposed patients. _Treatment of large groups of patients. _Transportation of victims to a medical facility. 1. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Chemical protective clothing and respiratory protection enable responders to care for patients exposed to chemicals while protecting themselves from secondary contamination. •Ensure that such equipment protects the skin, eyes, and respiratory tracts of the emergency responders. •Use DA battledress overgarments (BDOs) and portable air-purifying respirators (PAPRs) with an organic vapor cartridge to protect civilians from chemical warfare agents. BDOs can be used for up to 24 hours in an agent-contaminated environment at levels of up to 10 grams of agent per square meter of surface area. Notwithstanding this recommendation, however, civilian emergency responders should use the equipment with which they are most familiar, providing that the equipment used is at least as protective as the above CDC recommendations. •Train personnel required to use personal protective equipment when responding to chemical agent-related emergencies in accordance with the guidelines published by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). 2. First Responders •Ensure that all persons (e.g., medics, paramedics, fire fighters, or medical personnel) designated by the State or local disaster plans as members of the initial medical team that responds to a chemical warfare agent release have the appropriate level of PPE and are trained in its proper use (2). •Ensure that equipment of first responders is adequately maintained and available at all times. •Schedule regular drills and training sessions designed to maintain first responders' familiarity with equipment into State and local disaster plans. 3. The Public CDC does not recommend distributing PPE (e.g., gas masks or protective suits) to the public. In the unlikely event that a chemical agent release threatens the civilian population adjacent to a military facility, CDC recommends the following graded emergency response: •Evacuate the population at risk in accordance with State or local disaster management guidelines. If no local guidelines exist, follow the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and DA joint guidelines for evacuating civilian populations threatened by chemical warfare agents (3). •Follow FEMA and DA recommendations for sheltering the population in place (e.g., keep people in their homes, institutions, or places of business and seal windows and doors from an external vapor threat) if it is not practical to evacuate the population (3). 4. Decontamination Decontamination is the careful and systematic removal of hazardous substances from victims, equipment, and the environment. Transporting contaminated patients exposes emergency response personnel to chemical warfare agents and contaminates rescue vehicles. Proper decontamination prevents secondary contamination and chemical injury to medical and rescue personnel. Acceptable decontamination guidelines for persons who may possibly have been exposed to chemical warfare agents are published by FEMA and DA (3,4). •Decontamination of patients can be achieved by mechanically removing, diluting, absorbing, or neutralizing the chemical agent.
