FR940603-1-00164 FR940603-1-00009 A transformer assembly unit consists of the installation of the transformer, its protective equipment and its hardware and leads with their connectors and supporting insulators and pins. This unit does not include the installation of the pole top, secondary, service, or grounding assemblies. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit labor price ␣ l SECTION J_SECONDARY ASSEMBLY UNITS A secondary assembly unit consists of the installation of the hardware, insulators, etc., to support the secondary conductor or cable. It does not include the installation of the secondary conductor or cable, or of any hardware, insulators, etc., required to support service conductors or cable. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit labor price ␣ l SECTION K_SERVICE ASSEMBLY UNITS A service assembly unit consists of the installation of the hardware, insulators, etc. to support the service conductors or cable. It does not include the installation of the service conductor or cable, or of any hardware, insulators etc. required to support secondary conductors or cable. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit labor price ␣ l SECTION M_MISCELLANEOUS ASSEMBLY UNITS A miscellaneous assembly unit consists of the installation of an additional unit needed in the Project for new line construction but not otherwise listed in the Proposal. This section includes the installation of grounding assemblies, fuse cutouts, reclosers, sectionalizers, switches, capacitors, regulators, metering and other assembly units. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit labor price ␣ l SECTION R_RIGHT-OF-WAY CLEARING UNITS R1&hyph;10. The unit is 1,000 feet in length and 10 feet in width (to be measured on one side of the pole line) of actual clearing of right-of-way. This includes clearing of underbrush, tree removal, and such tree trimming as is required so that the right-of-way, except for tree stumps which shall not exceed XXXX in height, shall be clear from the ground up on one side of the line of poles carrying primary conductors. This unit does not include clearing or trimming associated with secondaries or services which is included with conductor units. The length of actual clearing shall be measured in a straight line parallel to the horizontal line between stakes and across the maximum dimension of foliage cleared projected to the ground line. All trees and underbrush across the width of the right-of-ways as designated by the Owner shall be considered to be grouped together as a single length in measuring the total length of clearing. Spaces along the right-of-way in which no trees are to be removed or trimmed or underbrush cleared shall be omitted from the total measurement. All length thus arrived at, added together and divided by 1,000, shall give the number of 1,000-foot R1&hyph;10 units of clearing. This unit includes the removal or topping, at the option of the Contractor, of danger trees outside of the right-of-way when so designated by the Owner. (Danger trees are defined as dead or leaning trees which, in falling, will affect the operation of the line.) The Contractor shall not remove or trim shade, fruit, or ornamental trees unless so directed by the Owner. R1&hyph;20. This unit is identical with R1&hyph;10 except that width is 20 feet (to be measured 10 feet on each side of the pole line). R1&hyph;30. This unit is identical with R1&hyph;10 except that width is 30 feet (to be measured 15 feet on each side of the pole line). R1&hyph;40. This unit is identical with R1&hyph;10 except that width is 40 feet (to be measured 20 feet on each side of the pole line). RC1&hyph;10, RC1&hyph;20, RC1&hyph;30, RC1&hyph;40. These units are identical to the respective R1 units except that chemical treatment of stumps is required in addition to the clearing of underbrush, tree removal and tree trimming. Additional Requirements (When specifying R1 units denote type of disposal (A or B).) A. Trees, brush, branches and refuse shall, without delay, be disposed of by such of the following methods as the Owner will direct (Owner to strike out methods not to be used): 1. Burned. 2. Piled on one side of right-of-way.
