FR941122-0-00015 FR941122-0-00005 (3) Office of Examinations. Headed by the Associate Commissioner for Examinations, the office is responsible for the planning, oversight, and advancement of examinations programs engaged in interpretation of the immigration and nationality laws, and the development of Service policies to assist examinations activities. The Office of Examinations is also responsible for all district and service center records and all records operations, except records policy. The Associate Commissioner for Examinations directly supervises the Headquarters: (i) Adjudications and Nationality Division; (ii) Inspections Division; (iii) Service Center Operations Division; (iv) Records Division; and (v) Administrative Appeals Office. (d) Office of the Executive Associate Commissioner for Field Operations_ (1) General. (i) Headed by the Executive Associate Commissioner for Field Operations, the office is responsible for implementing policies related to the Service's field operations. This office has primary responsibility for oversight and coordination of all field operations relating to the administration of immigration law, including: (A) The granting of benefits and privileges to those qualified to receive them; (B) Withholding of benefits from those ineligible; (C) Control of the borders and prevention of illegal entry into the United States; (D) Detection, apprehension, detention, and removal of illegal aliens; (E) Enforcement of employer sanctions and other provisions of immigration-related law; and (F) Refugee processing, adjudication of relative applications/petitions filed by citizens and legal permanent residents, and overseas deterrence of alien smuggling and fraud activities. (ii) The Executive Associate Commissioner for Field Operations provides direction to, and supervision of, the three Regional Directors (Eastern, Central, and Western), and the Director, International Affairs. (2) Offices of the Regional Directors. (i) General. Headed by regional directors, these offices are responsible for directing all aspects of the Service's field operations within their assigned geographic areas of activity. The regional directors provide general guidance and supervision to: (A) Service districts within their regions; and (B) Border Patrol sectors within their regions. (ii) Service districts. Headed by district directors, who may be assisted by deputy district directors, these offices are responsible for the administration and enforcement of the Act and all other laws relating to immigration and naturalization within their assigned geographic areas of activity, unless any such power and authority is either required to be exercised by higher authority or has been exclusively delegated to another immigration official or class of immigration officer. District directors are subject to the general supervision and direction of their respective regional director, except that district directors outside of the United States are subject to the general supervision and direction of the Director for International Affairs. (iii) Border Patrol Sectors. Headed by chief patrol agents who may be assisted by deputy chief patrol agents, these offices are responsible for the enforcement of the Act and all other laws relating to immigration and naturalization within their assigned geographic areas of activity, unless any such power and authority is required to be exercised by higher authority or has been exclusively delegated to another immigration official or class of immigration officer. Chief patrol agents are subject to the general supervision and direction of their respective regional director. (3) Office of International Affairs. Headed by a Director of International Affairs, the office is responsible for ensuring that the foreign affairs mission of the Service reflects a full partnership between the Service, the Executive Branch agencies, and the Congress, the administration of U.S. immigration law on foreign soil, and the U.S. domestic asylum program. The Director for International Affairs provides general guidance and supervision to: (i) Foreign districts; (ii) Asylum Division; and (iii) Refugee and Parole Division. (e) Office of the Executive Associate Commissioner for Policy and Planning. Headed by the Executive Associate Commissioner for Policy and Planning, the office is responsible for directing and coordinating Servicewide policy and planning activities, and conducting analysis of these as well as other issues which cross program lines or have national implications.
