FR940627-0-00182 FR940627-0-00019 (iii) In the case of such fuels and fuel additives which, pursuant to applicable special provisions in §79.58, are not subject to Tier 2 requirements, all other requirements (except Tier 3) must be submitted to EPA before May 27, 1997. (iv) In the event that Tier 3 testing is also required (under §79.54), EPA shall determine an appropriate timeline for completion of the additional requirements and shall communicate this schedule to the manufacturer according to the provisions of §79.54(b). (v) The manufacturer may at any time modify an existing fuel registration by submitting a request to EPA to add or delete a bulk additive to the existing registration information for such fuel product, provided that any additional additive must be registered by EPA for use in the specific fuel family to which the fuel product belongs. However, the addition or deletion of a bulk additive to a fuel registration may effect the grouping of such registered fuel under the criteria of §79.56, and thus may effect the testing responsibilities of the fuel manufacturer under this subpart. (2) Registrable fuels and fuel additives. (i) A fuel product which is not registered pursuant to subpart B of this part as of May 27, 1994 shall be considered registrable if, under the criteria established by §79.56, the fuel can be enrolled in the same fuel/additive group with one or more currently registered fuels. A fuel additive product which is not registered for a specific type of fuel pursuant to subpart C of this part as of May 27, 1994 shall be considered registrable for that type of fuel if, under the criteria established by § 79.56, the fuel/additive mixture resulting from use of the additive product in the specific type of fuel can be enrolled in the same fuel/additive group with one or more currently registered fuels or bulk fuel additives. For the purpose of this determination, currently registered fuels and bulk additives are those with existing registrations as of the date on which EPA receives the basic registration data (pursuant to §79.59(b)) for the product in question. (ii) A manufacturer seeking to register under subpart B of this part a fuel product which is deemed registrable under this section, or to register under subpart C of this part a fuel additive product for a specific type of fuel for which it is deemed registrable under this section, shall submit the basic registration data (pursuant to §79.59(b)) for that product as part of the application for registration. If the Administrator determines that the product is registrable under this section, then the Administrator shall promptly register the product, provided that the applicant has satisfied all of the other requirements for registration under subpart B or subpart C of this part, and contingent upon satisfactory submission of required information under paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section. (iii) Registration of a registrable fuel or additive shall be subject to the same requirements and compliance schedule as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for existing fuels and fuel additives. Accordingly, manufacturers of registrable fuels or additives may be granted and may retain registration for such products only if any applicable and due Tier 1, 2, and 3 requirements have also been satisfied by either the manufacturer of the product or the fuel/additive group to which the product belongs. (3) New fuels and fuel additives. A fuel product shall be considered new if it is not registered pursuant to subpart B of this part as of May 27, 1994 and if, under the criteria established by §79.56, it cannot be enrolled in the same fuel/additive group with one or more currently registered fuels. A fuel additive product shall be considered new with respect to a specific type of fuel if it is not expressly registered for that type of fuel pursuant to subpart C of this part as of May 27, 1994 and if, under the criteria established by §79.56, the fuel/additive mixture resulting from use of the additive product in the specific type of fuel cannot be enrolled in the same fuel/additive group with one or more currently registered fuels or bulk fuel additives. For the purpose of this determination, currently registered fuels and bulk additives are those with existing registrations as of the date on which EPA receives the basic registration data (pursuant to §79.59(b)) for the product in question. For such new product, the manufacturer must satisfactorily complete all applicable Tier 1 and Tier 2 requirements, followed by any Tier 3 testing which the Administrator may require, before registration will be granted. (d) Notifications. Upon receipt of a manufacturer's (or group's) submittal in compliance with the requirements of this subpart, EPA will notify such manufacturer (or group) that the application has been received and what, if any, information, testing, or retesting is necessary to bring the application into compliance with the requirements of this subpart. EPA intends to provide such notification of receipt in a timely manner for each such application. (1) Registered fuel and fuel additive notification. (i) The manufacturer of a registered fuel or fuel additive product who is notified that the submittal for such product contains adequate information pursuant to the Tier 1 and Tier 2 testing and reporting requirements (§§79.52, 79.53, and 79.59 (a) through (c)) may continue to sell, offer for sale, or introduce into commerce the registered product as permitted by the existing registration for the product under §79.4. (ii) If the manufacturer of a registered fuel or fuel additive product is notified that testing or retesting is necessary to bring the Tier 1 and/or Tier 2 submittal into compliance, the continued sale or importation of the product shall be conditional upon satisfactorily completing the requirements within the time frame specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. (iii) EPA intends to notify the manufacturer of the adequacy of the submitted data within two years of EPA's receipt of such data. However, EPA retains the right to require that adequate data be submitted to EPA if, upon subsequent review, EPA finds that the original Tier 1 and/or Tier 2 submittal is not consistent with the requirements of this subpart. If EPA does not notify the manufacturer of the adequacy of the Tier 1 and/or Tier 2 data within two years, EPA will not hold the manufacturer liable for penalties for violating this rule for the period beginning when the data was due until the time EPA notifies the manufacturer of the violation. (iv) If the manufacturer of a registered fuel or fuel additive product is notified (pursuant to §79.54(b)) that Tier 3 testing is required for its product, then the manufacturer may continue to sell, offer for sale, introduce into commerce the registered product as permitted by the existing registration for the product under §79.4. However, if the manufacturer fails to complete the specified Tier 3 requirements within the specified time, the registration of the product will be subject to cancellation under §79.51(f)(6).
