FR940505-1-00154 FR940505-1-00012 For this proposal the overall reduction targets are expressed as a range of percentages; EPA anticipates establishing a specific percentage reduction target in the final rule. EPA requests comment on whether these stationary source emission reduction targets are appropriate for use with the military air base control strategy. A military air base can utilize any of a variety of emission reduction options, at the discretion of the Department of Defense and the base commander, to meet the annual emissions target. For example, reductions in ground equipment could be obtained through GSE electrification and restrictions on ground traffic within base boundaries. If the final rule does include emissions from military aircraft, a base commander may choose to restrict aircraft taxi procedures, perhaps by mandating specific direct routes to and from runways, or by towing aircraft into takeoff position; certain training procedures could be altered to minimize the frequency of high-emission operating modes within the basin mixing zone. ( c ) Geographic Scope. The control program for military air bases will cover the three FIP areas: South Coast, Ventura, and Sacramento Air Basins. The Agency requests comments on the need to control air base emissions in each area based on air quality effects or equity considerations. In particular, EPA requests comments on exempting emissions from on or near San Clemente Island from the FIP control strategy, if aircraft are ultimately included in the final rule. ( d ) Control Period. EPA proposes to control military air base emissions only during the ozone season in each FIP area. Further, EPA proposes to require compliance with the program based on the season-long average of emissions. As already described, such operations may be highly variable. Although this variability tends to argue for a shorter compliance (e.g., a monthly period as in the stationary cap program), the longer period seems preferable to provide military commanders with the flexibility to conduct operations as necessary. EPA requests comment on the desirability of the seasonal compliance demonstration versus shorter periods. ( 2 ) Key Regulatory Elements. ( a ) Summary. EPA proposes to specify in the final FIP a linear declining cap on total mobile source emissions from military air bases in each FIP area, excluding emissions from aircraft themselves. This declining cap will be designed to achieve the emissions reduction targets for each area as described under ``Control Strategy.'' Military air bases will submit a baseline emissions report and annual compliance determination reports similar to those required for commercial airlines as discussed previously. Military air bases are defined for the purpose of this proposal as facilities owned and operated by the Department of Defense with a primary mission of aircraft operation. The Department of Defense also will be responsible for submitting baseline emissions reports and annual compliance reports for military operations that occur at civilian facilities in the control area. ( b ) Baseline Inventory and Emission Caps. EPA currently does not have sufficient data for all subject emission sources included in the proposed military air base control program to establish a reasonable baseline inventory. EPA, therefore, will require each military air base in the control area to calculate and report total subject emissions for the baseline year of 1990 within 180 days following finalization of this rule. Information to be included in the baseline report is described in ``Reporting and Recordkeeping'' below. The military bubble will be the sum of emission inventories from all air bases in the basin. EPA requests comment on the desirability of using an alternative baseline scheme, given the variability introduced by operations related to Desert Shield/Desert Storm during 1990. One alternative could be to require air bases to submit data for 1989 and 1990 so that a two-year average inventory can be calculated. The DOD working group recommended that installations have the option of identifying the baseline year, between the years 1989 and 1992, which resulted in the most representative total emissions. The DOD working group also requested a one time adjustment of the baseline inventory be allowed, based on actual inventory data, once the FIP requirements are in effect. The one time adjustment could help eliminate errors based on assumptions and estimates used in developing the baseline.
