FR940318-0-00133 FR940318-0-00023 c. Implications of other regulatory requirements. In evaluating substitutes, the SNAP program takes into consideration the regulatory requirements of other environmental and health protection statutes (e.g., the Clean Water Act or the Occupational Safety and Health Act). In considering the framework of existing regulatory constraints, the Agency's evaluation of alternatives will assume compliance with their provisions. However, it will not be possible to factor in regulatory requirements that are still under development (e.g., more stringent requirements to control volatile organic compounds and hazardous air pollutants under title I and title III of the CAA). In these instances, a substitute may be deemed acceptable under SNAP, but is not thereby excused from compliance with any future regulations. The Agency does not believe that it was the intent of Congress to use the authority under section 612 to compromise other regulatory requirements. Should future regulations severely limit the availability of the only acceptable substitute for a specific end-use, EPA would reconsider the advisability of keeping any other alternatives which could be used in that application on the list of unacceptable substitutes. 5. EPA-Generated Review of Substitutes In addition to SNAP notifications received under section 612 for substitute review, the Agency is authorized by section 612(c) to add or delete alternatives to the list of reviewed substitutes on its own initiative. EPA has many efforts under way to identify and communicate the availability of promising new alternatives. These include support for research efforts to study and focus attention on future substitutes, involvement in the United Nations Environment Programme's biannual assessment of technologies for key sectors currently using ozone-depleting chemicals, and technology transfer projects with industry, other federal agencies, and developing nations. Based on information available through these activities, EPA may initiate review of new substitutes under section 612. In each case, the next planned quarterly Federal Register notice updating the status of SNAP determinations will inform the public that EPA is initiating a review, subject to the provisions discussed in this final rule. Similarly, determinations ultimately reached as a result of these internally-generated reviews will be included in these quarterly updates. B. Joint Review of New Substitutes under SNAP and TSCA PMN 1. Applicability Any potential SNAP submitter who intends to introduce a new chemical (i.e., a chemical not currently included in the TSCA inventory) as an alternative for a class I or class II chemical must undergo review not only under section 612, but under section 5 of TSCA (the Premanufacture Notice program) as well. Because of the overlap in statutory authority, the Agency has established a joint review process between the SNAP and TSCA Premanufacture Notice (PMN) programs. This process has been structured to minimize reporting burden and to ensure consistency in decisions between the two programs. The following sections describe the joint review and decision-making process in more detail. 2. Data Submission Requirements and Process a. SNAP and PMN forms. The Agency has reviewed the data submission needs for the SNAP and PMN programs and found significant overlap. In general, the Agency has identified only a few additional data elements beyond those already required by the PMN program that should be included for review under the SNAP program. These elements are: •Ozone depletion potential. •Global warming potential. •Cost of using the substitute, including: _Chemical replacement data. _Chemical cost data. _Incremental equipment expenditures (either new or retrofit) needed to use substitute. _Information on the cost implications of changes in energy consumption (e.g., from the use of a less or more energy-efficient refrigerant). •Documentation of testing results regarding the flammability of substitutes, especially when proposed for consumer applications. Given this overlap, a submitter requesting a review under both the SNAP and PMN programs should provide the above information by following these steps: •Complete the PMN form (EPA Form 7710&hyph;25) following the Instructions Manual currently available through the TSCA Assistance Information Service. •Indicate on page 11 of the PMN form, ``Optional Pollution Prevention Information,'' that the chemical to be reviewed is also to be considered under the SNAP program. •Complete a SNAP addendum that requests information only on those items listed above. (The addendum can be obtained from the SNAP program, or EPA's Stratospheric Ozone Protection Hotline.) The completed PMN form (EPA Form 7710&hyph;25) will remain the basis for all information needed to complete review of the new chemical under section 5 of TSCA. The completed PMN form and the SNAP addendum together will comprise the data submission for section 612 review and listing decisions for new chemicals. This approach is intended to minimize the reporting burden on submitters. The Agency will modify the PMN Instructions Manual to provide more explicit direction on how to complete the SNAP addendum. A SNAP submitter may also consult the SNAP Guidance Manual, which is available from the Stratospheric Ozone Protection Hotline. Any questions regarding the completion of these forms can be directed to either the PMN Pre-notice Coordinator or the SNAP program.
