FR940228-1-00089 FR940228-1-00010 The Secretary proposes that a nonprofit institution is not financially responsible if it has had a decrease in total net assets at the end of its latest fiscal year of such significance that, if continued, would result in a ratio current assets to current liabilities of less than 1:1. Under this proposal, the Secretary could consider the effect of extraordinary gains or losses resulting from unusual and infrequent events, and could take into consideration the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, estimate or reporting entity to the extent that such a change results in a more accurate representation of the institution's financial position in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. For purposes of this proposed analysis, the Secretary could exclude unrealized gains and losses on investments that have been reported as changes in unrestricted net assets. The standard was revised to reflect the changes brought about with the issuance of FASB 117 and in order to provide parity with the for-profit institutions. The concept of net worth, as it applies to profit-seeking entities, does not exist for a not-for-profit entity. Upon implementation of FASB 117, fund accounting will no longer be used for colleges and universities, but these entities will adopt a format that is more similar to the format for-profit entities have been using. The term ``fund balance'' will no longer apply, but will be replaced by total net assets, divided into unrestricted, temporarily restricted and permanently restricted assets. For institutions not required to implement FAS 117 prior to the effective date of these regulations, the regulations applying to nonprofits currently found in 34 CFR 668.13(c), ``the institution shall not have a deficit current unrestricted fund balance'', will remain in effect until the institution adopts FAS 117. The Secretary requests comments on whether the Secretary should determine a nonprofit institution to be financially responsible even if it does not meet these requirements if the institution has an acceptable ``bond rating''. The Secretary suggests that a type of acceptable bond rating may be a current general obligation or general obligation equivalent debt rating (because such a rating is backed by the full resources of the institution) by a nationally recognized debt rating organization, approved by the Secretary, that is at least investment grade. The Secretary proposes that a public institution is financially responsible only if the institution has its liabilities backed by the full faith and credit of the State, or by an equivalent government. The Secretary is aware that accounting principles for public institutions differ from those for for-profit and nonprofit institutions. The Secretary solicits comments on other acceptable measures of a public institution's financial responsibility that take the applicable accounting principles into account.
