FR940104-0-00085 FR940104-0-00016 (7) Comply with other provisions that the Secretary determines are necessary to protect the interests of the United States and to promote the purposes of part D of the Act. (c) Origination. A school or consortium that originates loans in the Federal Direct Student Loan Program must have a supplemental agreement that_ (1) Provides that the institution or consortium will originate loans to eligible students and parents in accordance with part D of the Act; and (2) Provide that the note or evidence of obligation on the loan is the property of the Secretary. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq., 1094) §685.301 Certification by a Direct Loan Program school for a loan. (a)(1) A school participating in the Direct Loan Program shall ensure that any information it provides to the Secretary in connection with loan origination is complete and accurate. Except as provided in 34 CFR part 668, subpart E, a school may rely in good faith upon statements made on the application by the student. (2) The information to be provided to the Secretary by the school about the borrower receiving the loan includes but is not limited to_ (i) The borrower's eligibility for a loan, as determined in accordance with §685.200 and §685.203; (ii) The student's loan amount; and (iii) The anticipated and actual disbursement date or dates and disbursement amounts of the loan proceeds. (3) A school may not certify a Federal Direct Stafford, Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford, or Federal Direct PLUS loan, or a combination of loans, for an amount that_ (i) The school has reason to know would result in the borrower exceeding the annual or maximum loan amounts in §685.203; or (ii) Exceeds the student's estimated cost of attendance, less_ (A) The student's estimated financial assistance for that period; and (B) In the case of a Federal Direct Stafford Loan, the borrower's expected family contribution for that period. (4) In determining a Federal Direct Stafford or Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford loan amount in accordance with §685.203, for a borrower enrolled in a program of study of less than 900 clock hours or 24 semester or trimester hours, or 36 quarter hours (where the school defines its academic year to be at least 30 weeks in length), the school must determine the annual loan limit for the borrower by determining what portion of the academic year the program of study represents by calculating_ (i) Number of clock-hours in program 900 hours; or (ii) Credit hours in program 24 semester or 36 quarter hours. (5) In determining a Federal Direct Stafford or Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford loan amount in accordance with §685.203, for a borrower enrolled in a program of study of less than 900 clock hours or 24 semester or trimester hours, or 36 quarter hours (where the school defines its academic year to be less than 30 weeks in length), the school must determine the annual loan limit for the borrower by determining what portion of the academic year the program of study represents by calculating_ Number of weeks in program 30 weeks. (6) A school may refuse to certify a Federal Direct Stafford, Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford, or Federal Direct PLUS loan or may reduce the borrower's determination of need for the loan if the reason for that action is documented and provided to the student in writing, provided_ (i) The determination is made on a case-by-case basis; (ii) The documentation supporting the determination is retained in the student's file; and (iii) The school does not engage in any pattern or practice that results in a denial of a borrower's access to Direct Loans because of the borrower's race, sex, color, religion, national origin, age, disability status, or income. (7) A school may not assess a fee for the completion or certification of any Direct Loan Program loan forms or information. (b) Disbursing a loan. (1) Before disbursing a loan, a school must determine that all information required by the loan application and promissory note has been provided by the borrower and, if applicable, the student. (2) A school shall establish disbursement dates for any Direct Loan Program loan as follows: (i) Disbursements must be in two or more installments; (ii) No installment may exceed one-half the loan; and (iii) At least one-half of the loan period must elapse before the second installment is disbursed, except as necessary to permit the second installment to be disbursed at the beginning of the next semester, quarter, or similar division of the loan period. (c) Promissory note. (1) The Secretary provides promissory notes for use in the Direct Loan Program and a school may not modify, or make any additions to, the promissory note without the Secretary's prior written approval. (2) A school shall provide to the Secretary an executed legally enforceable promissory note as proof of the borrower's indebtedness. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq. )
