FR940817-2-00060 FR940817-2-00043 Ethyl and EPA both desired and intended to assure continuity between the proceedings concerning the July 12, 1991 waiver application, as remanded to EPA by the Court of Appeals, and Ethyl's resubmitted waiver application. The entire administrative record compiled by EPA in support of the original denial decision, as well as all submissions to the public docket concerning the remanded application, was incorporated in the record this final decision on the resubmitted application. The docket number for the resubmitted waiver application also remained the same. The additional 180 days that were provided by Ethyl's agreement to resubmit the waiver application were utilized by EPA to evaluate remaining issues that may have been relevant to today's decision. In particular, EPA continued to examine the effects on public health that might be associated with approval of Ethyl's application. EPA considered any additional underlying data concerning studies of occupational manganese exposure that were obtained by or submitted to EPA, as well as any additional data or information pertaining to the health effects of manganese submitted by Ethyl or other interested persons during the comment period. Any additional information that was submitted was also considered in exploring alternative candidate RfC estimates and their relationship to the verified revised RfC. EPA also used the additional time provided by the extension to make a decision on how the RfC should be utilized in assessing health effects that may be associated with MMT use, evaluate potential exposure to manganese compounds associated with MMT use, complete a risk assessment concerning Ethyl's application, and decide what additional data, if any, should be provided by Ethyl either before or after MMT is introduced into the market. On April 28, 1994, EPA provided Ethyl Corporation with a draft of the revised risk assessment, which updated the 1991 ORD assessment and incorporated further analyses performed during the 180-day extension period. Subsequent to providing Ethyl with this draft, Ethyl provided EPA with comments on the draft and some additional new data on ambient manganese concentrations in several Canadian cities. In order to allow the Agency time to consider this new data, Ethyl requested, and the Agency agreed to, an extension of the decision deadline until July 13, 1994. An agreement implementing this extension was executed by EPA and Ethyl counsel on May 24, 1994. II. Statutory Framework A. History of Statute Congress first added section 211(f) to the Clean Air Act in 1977 based primarily on concerns that fuels or additives might damage vehicle emission control devices. Thus, the original statute focused on vehicles designed to use unleaded gasoline, prohibiting the general use in fuels of materials not ``substantially similar'' to fuels used to certify vehicles to emissions standards. Section 211(f) also provided that the Administrator of EPA ``may waive the prohibitions *␣*␣* if he determines that the applicant has established that such fuel or fuel additive *␣*␣* will not cause or contribute to a failure of any emission control device or system *␣*␣* to achieve compliance by the vehicle with the emission standards with respect to which it has been certified pursuant to section 206.'' 7 Additionally, the statute provides that if the Administrator does not act to grant or deny the waiver request within 180 days of receipt of the application, the waiver request shall be treated as granted. 7 Section 206 of the Act sets forth the certification requirements with which vehicle manufacturers must comply in order to introduce into commerce new model year motor vehicles. Under §202 of the Act, standards for hydrocarbon (HC), carbon monoxide (CO), and oxides of nitrogen (NOx) emissions for gasoline, gaseous fuel, diesel and methanol-powered motor vehicles have been established. For gasoline, gaseous fuel and diesel-powered motor vehicles, standards have also been established for particulate emissions. Section 211(f) was initially interpreted by the Agency as applying only to unleaded gasoline. In the 1990 Amendments, section 211(f)(1) was broadly expanded to cover all other fuels and fuel additives, including leaded gasoline, diesel fuel, and consumer additives. 8 The 1990 Amendments also apply the provisions of this subsection to vehicles other than lightduty vehicles. Section 211(f)(1)(B) of the Act makes it unlawful, effective November 15, 1990, for any manufacturer of a fuel or fuel additive to first introduce into commerce, or to increase the concentration in use of, any fuel or fuel additive for use by any person in motor vehicles manufactured after model year 1974 which is not substantially similar to any fuel or fuel additive utilized in the certification of any model year 1975, or subsequent model year, vehicle or engine under section 206 of the Act. Thus, section 211(f)(1)(B) expands to all motor vehicles the fuel prohibitions of the original section 211(f)(1) (now redesignated as section 211(f)(1)(A)), which apply only to light- duty vehicles. 9 8 H.R. Rep. No. 490, Part 1, 101st Cong., 2d Sess. 313 (1990). 9 An interpretive rule defining the term ``substantially similar'' under section 211(f)(1)(A) was promulgated for unleaded gasoline at 46 FR 38582 (July 28, 1981), and revised at 56 FR 5352 (February 11, 1991). An advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPRM) has been published to begin the proces of promulgating an interpretive rule to define the term ``substantially similar'' under §211(f)(1)(B) for diesel fuel and diesel fuel additives. See 56 FR 24362 (May 30, 1991). In adding section 211, the first focus of Congress was to prevent the introduction of new additives which may prove harmful to emission control devices but to allow for the introduction of such additives if it could be demonstrated that they would not harm emission control devices. Furthermore, in framing the statute such that the Administrator was not required to grant a waiver, Congress provided authority to the Administrator to take into account other considerations associated with introduction of the new material into commerce. B. Two Stage Process Section 211(f)(4) of the Act provides the legal authority for this waiver decision. 10 The Agency interprets section 211(f)(4) of the Act as establishing a two stage process for the decision to grant or deny a waiver application. The first stage of the process focuses solely on whether a waiver applicant has met its burden to demonstrate that a fuel does not cause or contribute to a failure to meet emission standards. The second stage of the process reflects the discretionary authority provided to the Agency by the statute. 10 Section 211(f)(4) states that ``The Administrator, upon application of any manufacturer of any fuel or fuel additive, may waive the prohibitions established under paragraph (1) or (3) of this subsection, or the limitation specified in paragraph (2) of this subsection, if he determines that the applicant has established that such fuel or fuel additive or a specified concentration thereof, and the emission products of such fuel or additive or specified concentration thereof, will not cause or contribute to a failure of any emission control device or system (over the useful life of any vehicle in which such device or system is used) to achieve compliance by the vehicle with the emission standards with respect to which it has been certified pursuant to section 206. If the Administrator has not acted to grant or deny an application under this paragraph within one hundred and eighty days of receipt of such application, the waiver authorized by this paragraph shall be treated as granted.''
