FR940404-2-00024 FR940404-2-00019 Whirlpool raised concern about the New Harmony's machines having the capability of heating water higher than 140 ○F (60 ○C). The concern is that some consumers will choose a temperature that is higher than 140 ○F (60 ○C) and therefore use more energy than the test would predict. The Department agrees with this concern. However, the Department also realizes that with New Harmony's variable temperature capability that some consumers may choose to utilize a ``hot'' temperature setting that is lower than 140 ○F (60 ○C). Furthermore, Proctor and Gamble market survey data for 1975 and 1988/89 reveals that consumer's preference has changed over the 13 years to use cold washes more frequently. Therefore, the Department has decided that the test for water-heating clothes washers will be based on the following to reflect the comment received and to be as consistent as possible with the current test procedure. ␣ 1Temperature setting 1Percent of use Hottest possible on machine 5 140 ○F (60 ○C) 25 100 ○F (38 ○C) 55 Coldest possible on machine 15 The Department realizes that the ``5%'' use factor at the hottest setting was suggested by New Harmony without any firm basis, other than anticipated consumer habits. However, the Department believes that New Harmony's assessment of the anticipated usage factor is the best means of resolving this issue. Additionally, the Department, by deciding to test the water-heating clothes washers at their respective hottest and coldest settings, will enable the test procedure to be generic for various clothes washers. For example, if a particular clothes washer's coldest setting actually demands heat above the specified inlet water temperature, then the energy for this will be considered. Whereas, if a particular clothes washer's coldest setting prevented any water heating, then there would not be any energy used to heat the wash water. A second issue related to New Harmony's internal heater capability is the method to be used to measure the temperatures of the water used during the test. Whirlpool suggested that the wash water temperature should reach an equilibrium temperature prior to the start of the 10 minute wash time required in §2.10. The Department does not concur with this suggestion because the existing test procedure energy consumption calculations are based on a temperature rise of the clothes washer inlet water. The Department does not consider a ``traditional'' clothes washer's heat dissipation of the heated water into the internal clothes washer components. The Department requires the temperature in the New Harmony's clothes washer be verified to ensure that it at least meets the specified temperature for warm and hot during the wash cycle; it does not require the clothes washer to maintain the wash temperature. This is a performance issue for New Harmony and regardless of the operating heating cycle the energy consumption will be reflected in the energy reporting. Therefore, the Department has deleted the requirement for measuring the temperature at the drain pipe. A third issue related to New Harmony's internal heater capability is the tolerance requirement for temperatures. Whirlpool contended that the existing test procedure is based on calculations for temperature rises and recorded volumes, whereas the New Harmony's machines are actually supplying the energy to heat the water. Whirlpool further contended that a larger temperature tolerance will provide a significant difference in energy requirements. The Department concurs with the intent of Whirlpool's comment and has tightened the temperature tolerances to reduce variability in energy reporting. The Department has changed the tolerance for the various temperatures from # 5 ○F ( # 2.8 ○C) to a maximum and minimum temperature value with only a 5 ○F (2.8 ○C) range. For example, the inlet water temperature requirement for water-heating clothes washers has been changed to a maximum of 60 ○F (15.6 ○C) and a minimum of 55 ○F (12.8 ○C). This reduction in the tolerance range will reduce energy reporting variability while maintaining testing flexibility. This type of tolerance will also ensure that a minimum temperature rise is tested. The Interim Waiver had a revised requirement for the ``electrical energy supply'' to allow for the testing of New Harmony's clothes washers which utilize a higher voltage. In addition to the higher voltage change, the tolerance was changed from the existing test procedure requirement of `` # 2 volts'' to ``1 percent'' of the voltage. The Department believes that this increase in tolerance may be too burdensome, therefore the Department has changed the tolerance to ``1.7 percent'' of the voltage. The 1.7 percent value is equal to the existing procedure tolerance.
