FR940426-1-00062 FR940426-1-00006 Par. 55. Part 10 is amended by adding a new Subpart D to read as follows: Subpart D_Exclusion 10.51␣Exclusion, in general. 10.52␣Practices which put trade buyer independence at risk. 10.53␣Practices not resulting in exclusion. [Reserved] 10.54␣Criteria for determining retailer independence. Subpart D_Exclusion §10.51 Exclusion, in general. (a) Exclusion, in whole or in part occurs: (1) When a practice by an industry member, whether direct, indirect, or through an affiliate, places trade buyer independence at risk by means of a tie or link between the industry member and trade buyer or by any other means of industry member control over the trade buyer, and (2) Such practice results in the trade buyer purchasing less than it would have of a competitor's product. Section 10.52 lists practices that create a tie or link that places trade buyer independence at risk. (b) Section 10.53 is reserved and will list practices not resulting in exclusion. Section 10.54 lists the criteria used for determining whether other practices can put trade buyer independence at risk. §10.52 Practices which put trade buyer independence at risk. The practice specified in this section is deemed to place trade buyer independence at risk within the description of exclusion in §10.51 of the regulations. The practice enumerated here is an example and does not constitute a complete list of those situations which result in such control. (a) Industry member payments of money to the employee(s) of a trade buyer without the knowledge or consent of the trade buyer-employer in return for the employee agreeing to order distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages from the industry member. (b) [Reserved] §10.53 Practices not resulting in exclusion. [Reserved] §10.54 Criteria for determining trade buyer independence. The criteria specified in this section are indications that a particular practice, other than those in section 10.52, places trade buyer independence at risk. A practice need not meet all of the criteria specified in this section in order to place trade buyer independence at risk. (a) The practice restricts or hampers the free economic choice of a trade buyer to decide which products to purchase and the quantity in which to purchase them for sale to retailers and consumers. (b) The industry member obligates the trade buyer to participate in the promotion to obtain the industry member's product. (c) The trade buyer has a continuing obligation to purchase or otherwise promote the industry member's product. (d) The trade buyer has a commitment not to terminate its relationship with the industry member with respect to purchase of the industry member's products.
