FR940512-2-00123 FR940512-2-00065 If the final determination is that the amendment request involves a significant hazards consideration, any hearing held would take place before the issuance of any amendment. A request for a hearing or a petition for leave to intervene must be filed with the Secretary of the Commission, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, Attention: Docketing and Services Branch, or may be delivered to the Commission's Public Document Room, the Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington DC 20555, by the above date. Where petitions are filed during the last 10 days of the notice period, it is requested that the petitioner promptly so inform the Commission by a toll-free telephone call to Western Union at 1&hyph;(800) 248&hyph;5100 (in Missouri 1&hyph;(800) 342&hyph;6700). The Western Union operator should be given Datagram Identification Number N1023 and the following message addressed to (Project Director): petitioner's name and telephone number, date petition was mailed, plant name, and publication date and page number of this Federal Register notice. A copy of the petition should also be sent to the Office of the General Counsel, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, and to the attorney for the licensee. Nontimely filings of petitions for leave to intervene, amended petitions, supplemental petitions and/or requests for a hearing will not be entertained absent a determination by the Commission, the presiding officer or the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board that the petition and/or request should be granted based upon a balancing of factors specified in 10 CFR 2.714(a)(1)(i)&hyph;(v) and 2.714(d). For further details with respect to this action, see the application for amendment which is available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, the Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555, and at the local public document room for the particular facility involved. Commonwealth Edison Company, Docket Nos. STN 50&hyph;456 and STN 50&hyph;457, Braidwood Station, Unit Nos. 1 and 2, Will County, Illinois Date of amendment request: March 30, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment would revise Technical Specification (TS) 3/4.4.9, Pressure/Temperature Limits, and its associated Bases, by changing the Unit 1 heatup and cooldown curves to incorporate a newly determined reactor vessel reference nil-ductility temperature, RT NDT , and by updating the removal schedule of vessel surveillance capsules for both units in accordance with ASTM E185&hyph;82. Changes would also be made to the Unit 1 Low Temperature Overpressure Protection System (LTOPS) setpoint curve in TS 3.4.9.3 to reflect the new pressure/temperature limits. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: A. The proposed change does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The use of new pressure-temperature limit curves and low temperature overpressure protection curves will not change any postulated accident scenarios. The revised curves were developed using industry standards and regulations which are recognized as being inherently conservative. The pressure-temperature low temperature overpressure curves provide reactor coolant system (RCS) limits to protect the reactor pressure vessel from brittle fracture by clearly separating the region of normal operations from the region where the vessel is subject to brittle fracture. The heatup and cooldown limits are designed to ensure that the 10 CFR 50 Appendix G Pressure Temperature limits for the RCS are not exceeded during any condition of normal operation including anticipated operational occurrences. General Design Criterion 32 of 10 CFR 50 Appendix A requires that the reactor coolant boundary shall be designed with sufficient margin to assure that when stressed under operating, maintenance, testing, and postulated accident condition[s], (1) the boundary behaves in a nonbrittle manner and (2) the probability of rapidly propagating fracture is minimized. 10 CFR 50 Appendix G, ``Fracture Toughness Requirements,'' requires that the effects of changes in the fracture toughness of reactor vessel materials caused by neutron radiation throughout the service life of [a] nuclear reactor be considered in the pressure-temperature limits. The change is used in conjunction with the material initial reference temperature (RT NDT ) to establish the limiting pressure-temperature curves. Regulatory Guide 1.99, Rev. 2, contains procedures for calculating the effects of neutron radiation embrittlement of the low-alloy steels currently used for light-water-cooled reactor vessels. Using the Regulatory Guide 1.99, Revision 2, Braidwood Unit 1 Surveillance Capsule U results, and Appendix G to 10 CFR 50, new Pressure-Temperature curves [were] prepared for the projected reactor vessel exposure at 32 EFPY of operation. These new curves, in conjunction with the heatup and cooldown ranges and the revised Low-Temperature Overpressure Protection System setpoints, provide the required assurance that the reactor pressure vessel is protected from brittle fracture up 32 EFPY of operation. No changes to the design of the facility have been made and no new equipment has been added or removed. The revised analysis and resultant adjustment of the operating limitations provide assurance that the Reactor Coolant System is protected from brittle fracture. Revising the Reactor Vessel Material Surveillance Program Withdrawal Schedule does not result in the addition or removal of any equipment, or any design changes to the facility. Capsule lead times are revised and, for Braidwood Unit 2, Capsule X will be removed next vice Capsule W. The proposed removal schedules remain consistent with ASTM 185&hyph;82. Therefore, the proposed amendment to the pressure temperature limitations does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. B. The proposed change does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated.
