FR940512-0-00036 FR940512-0-00016 Although, there were a number of general comments opposing Federal regulation of recreational use of Kings Bay and the Crystal River National Wildlife Refuge and procedures used to implement the sanctuaries, very few people expressed specific concerns about the sanctuaries. After considering all the comments received, the Service concludes that the additional sanctuaries are needed to accommodate the increase in the number of manatees using the area each winter, and to offset harassment from increasing public use and that no changes to the proposed rule are necessary or warranted. Additional sanctuaries are essential to insure adequate undisturbed natural areas in Kings Bay where manatees meet their needs, including warm water, food and areas for resting and socializing. The sanctuaries were carefully selected to provide maximum benefits for manatees and minimum impact on human recreational activities in Kings Bay. The Crystal River National Wildlife Refuge in its 1993 Public Use Management Plan addressed many of the concerns of those recommending additional manatee protection around the main spring by (1) expanding the Banana Island sanctuary to coincide with the refuge boundary while establishing a ``swim only'' access corridor to the spring itself from November 15 to March 31, (2) prohibiting accessing to the spring during night hours from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. during the winter, and (3) coordinating commercial establishments catering to refuge visitors through a special use permit system to ensure the consistency of visitor educational and resource interpretation. References Cited Buckingham, C.A. 1989. Crystal River National Wildlife Refuge public use survey report. Technical Report No. 37. Fla. Coop. Fish & Wildl. Res. Unit. University of Florida, Gainesville. 61 pp. Buckingham, C.A. 1990. Manatee response to boating activity in a thermal refuge. MS Thesis. University of Florida, Gainesville, Fla. 84 pp. Campbell, H.W., and A.B. Irvine. 1981. Manatee mortality during the unusually cold winter of 1976&hyph;1977. pages 86&hyph;91 in R.L. Brownell, Jr., and K. Ralls, eds. The West Indian manatee in Florida. Fla. Dep. Nat. Resour., Tallahassee. Irvine, A.B. 1983. Manatee metabolism and its influence on distribution in Florida. Biol. Conserv. 25:315&hyph;334. Kochman, H.I., G.B. Rathbun and J.A. Powell. 1985. Temporal and spatial distribution of manatees in Kings Bay, Crystal River, Florida. J. Wildl. Manage. 49(4):921&hyph;924. Hartman, D.S. 1979. Ecology and behavior of the manatee ( Trichechus manatus ) in Florida. Am. Soc. Mamm. Special Publ. No. 5. 153 pp. Milon, W. In prep. Economic activity associated with recreational diving in Kings Bay, Crystal River, Florida. Powell, J.A. and G.B. Rathbun. 1984. Distribution and abundance of manatees along the northern coast of the Gulf of Mexico. Northeast Gulf Sci. 7:1&hyph;28. Regulatory Flexibility Act and Executive Order 12866 This rulemaking was not subject to Office of Management and Budget review under Executive Order 12866. These changes will not have a significant economic effect on a substantial number of small entities under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ). Based on the information discussed in this final rulemaking, it is not expected that significant economic impacts would result. Also, no direct costs, enforcement costs, information collection, or recordkeeping requirements are imposed on small entities by this final rulemaking. Further, the final rule contains no recordkeeping requirements as defined by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1990. National Environmental Policy Act The Environmental Assessment prepared in conjunction with this rule is on file in the Service's Jacksonville Field Office, 6620 Southpoint Drive South, Suite 310, Jacksonville, Florida 32216. It may be examined by appointment during regular business hours. This assessment forms the basis for a decision that this is not a major Federal action which would significantly affect the quality of the human environment within the meaning of section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. Author The primary author of this final rule is Robert O. Turner, Manatee Coordinator (see Addresses section above). List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and threatened species, Exports, Imports, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Transportation. Regulation Promulgation Subpart J of part 17, subchapter B of chapter I, title 50 of the Code of Federal Regulations, is amended as follows: 1. The authority citation of Part 17 continues to read as follows:
