FR940412-1-00090 FR940412-1-00012 (e) Bunkering or transferring of fuel may not be performed during cargo loading and unloading operations involving fertilizer to which this section applies. (f) Fertilizer to which this section applies must be segregated as prescribed in §§148.140 and 148.220(d). §148.225 Calcined pyrites (pyritic ash, fly ash). (a) This part does not apply to the shipment of calcined pyrites (pyritic ash, fly ash) that are the residual ash of oil or coal fired power stations. (b) This section applies to the stowage and transportation of calcined pyrites (pyritic ash, fly ash) that are the residual product of sulfuric acid production or elemental metal recovery operations. (c) Prior to loading calcined pyrites to which this section applies_ (1) The cargo space must be as clean and dry as reasonably practicable; (2) The calcined pyrites must be dry; and (3) Precautions must be taken to prevent the penetration of calcined pyrites into other cargo spaces, bilges, wells, and ceiling boards. (d) After calcined pyrites to which this section applies have been unloaded from a cargo space, the cargo space must be thoroughly cleaned, preferably by hosing it down and drying it completely. §148.227 Calcium nitrate fertilizers. This part does not apply to commercial grades of calcium nitrate fertilizers consisting mainly of a double salt (calcium nitrate and ammonium nitrate) and containing not more 15.5% nitrogen and at least 12% of water. §148.230 Lime, unslaked (calcium oxide). (a) When transported by barge, unslaked lime (calcium oxide), must be carried in an unmanned, all steel, double-hulled barge equipped with weathertight hatches or covers. The barge must not carry any other cargo while unslaked lime (calcium oxide) is on board. (b) The shipping paper requirements in §148.60 and the dangerous cargo manifest requirements in §148.70 do not apply to the transportation of unslaked lime (calcium oxide) under paragraph (a) of this section. §148.235 Castor beans. (a) This part applies only to the stowage and transportation of whole castor beans. Castor meal, castor pomace, and castor flakes may not be shipped in bulk. (b) Persons handling castor beans shall wear dust masks and goggles. (c) Care must be taken to prevent dust generated during cargo transfer operations of castor beans from entering accommodation, control or service spaces. §148.240 Coal. (a) The electrical equipment on each vessel carrying coal must meet the requirements of part 111, subpart 111.105 of this chapter or an equivalent standard approved by the administration of the vessel's flag state. (b) Prior to loading, each cargo hold in which coal is to be stowed must be free of any readily combustible material, including the residue of previous cargoes. (c) The master of each vessel carrying coal shall ensure that_ (1) The coal is not stowed adjacent to hot areas;
