FR940202-0-00074 FR940202-0-00006 (3) Modified debt instrument . In the case of a debt instrument issued in a debt-for-debt exchange that qualifies as an exchange under section 1001, the debt instrument is eligible for the election to be a cash method debt instrument if the other prerequisites to making the election in section 1274A(c) are met. However, if a principal purpose of the modification is to defer interest income or deductions through the use of the election, then the debt instrument is not eligible for the election. (4) Debt incurred or continued to purchase or carry a cash method debt instrument . If a debt instrument is incurred or continued to purchase or carry a cash method debt instrument, rules similar to those under section 1277 apply to determine the timing of the interest deductions for the debt instrument. For purposes of the preceding sentence, rules similar to those under section 265(a)(2) apply to determine whether a debt instrument is incurred or continued to purchase or carry a cash method debt instrument. §1.1275&hyph;1 Definitions. (a) Applicability . The definitions contained in this section apply for purposes of sections 163(e) and 1271 through 1275 and the regulations thereunder. (b) Adjusted issue price _(1) In general . The adjusted issue price of a debt instrument at the beginning of the first accrual period is the issue price. Thereafter, the adjusted issue price of the debt instrument is the issue price of the debt instrument_ (i) Increased by the amount of OID previously includible in the gross income of any holder (determined without regard to section 1272(a)(7) and section 1272(c)(1)); and (ii) Decreased by the amount of any payment previously made on the debt instrument other than a payment of qualified stated interest. See §1.1275&hyph;2(f) for rules regarding adjustments to adjusted issue price on a pro rata prepayment. (2) Adjusted issue price for subsequent holders . For purposes of calculating OID accruals, acquisition premium, or market discount, a holder (other than a purchaser at original issuance) determines adjusted issue price in any manner consistent with the regulations under sections 1271 through 1275. (c) OID . OID means original issue discount (as defined in section 1273(a) and §1.1273&hyph;1). (d) Debt instrument . Except as provided in section 1275(a)(1)(B) (relating to certain annuity contracts), debt instrument means any instrument or contractual arrangement that constitutes indebtedness under general principles of Federal income tax law (including, for example, a certificate of deposit or a loan). Nothing in the regulations under sections 163(e), 483, and 1271 through 1275, however, shall influence whether an instrument constitutes indebtedness for Federal income tax purposes. (e) Tax-exempt obligations . For purposes of section 1275(a)(3)(B), exempt from tax means exempt from Federal income tax. (f) Issue . Two or more debt instruments are part of the same issue if they have the same credit and payment terms and are sold reasonably close in time either pursuant to a common plan or as part of a single transaction or a series of related transactions. See §1.1275&hyph;2(d)(2) for special rules relating to reopenings of Treasury securities. (g) Debt instruments issued by a natural person . If an entity is a primary obligor under a debt instrument, the debt instrument is considered to be issued by the entity and not by a natural person even if a natural person is a co-maker and is jointly liable for the debt instrument's repayment. A debt instrument issued by a partnership is considered to be issued by the partnership as an entity even if the partnership is composed entirely of natural persons. (h) Publicly offered debt instrument . A debt instrument is publicly offered if it is part of an issue of debt instruments the initial offering of which_ (1) Is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission; or (2) Would be required to be registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.) but for an exemption from registration_ (i) Under section 3 of the Securities Act of 1933 (relating to exempted securities); (ii) Under any law (other than the Securities Act of 1933) because of the identity of the issuer or the nature of the security; or (iii) Because the issue is intended for distribution to persons who are not United States persons. §1.1275&hyph;2 Special rules relating to debt instruments. (a) Payment ordering rule_ (1) In general . Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, each payment under a debt instrument is treated first as a payment of OID to the extent of the OID that has accrued as of the date the payment is due and has not been allocated to prior payments, and second as a payment of principal. Thus, no portion of any payment is treated as prepaid interest. (2) Exceptions . The rule in paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not apply to_
