FR941004-1-00075 FR941004-1-00018 •Links the child and family continuum of services to other community child and family services and service delivery systems (e.g., mental health, education, housing, substance abuse) and the courts, to ensure that families have access to comprehensive services to meet their individual needs. That is, in addition to providing funds for expanding services, this new program offers States and eligible Indian tribes an extraordinary opportunity to assess and make changes in service delivery to children and families. The purpose of these changes is to assure safety and achieve improved well-being for vulnerable children and their families, particularly those experiencing, or at risk for, abuse and neglect. Because the multiple needs of these vulnerable children and families cannot be addressed adequately through categorical programs and fragmented service delivery systems, we encourage States and Indian tribes to use the planning process under the new program to help establish a continuum of coordinated and integrated, culturally relevant, family-focused services for children and families. Among the elements that would ideally be part of the child and family services continuum, depending on family needs, are family support and family preservation services; child welfare services, including child abuse and neglect prevention, intervention, and treatment services, and foster care; and services to support reunification, adoption, kinship care, independent living, or other permanent living arrangements. Linkages to other services and service systems such as health, mental health, housing, employment, education, and child care, complete the picture of a responsive service delivery system. Therefore, we expect that a major goal of the planning process States and Indian tribes will undertake in FY 1994&hyph;95 will be to examine the changes that are needed to make delivery of services more responsive to the needs of individuals and communities and more sensitive to the context in which they are to be delivered. II. Section by Section Discussion of the NPRM A. Highlights of the NPRM 1. Approach to Writing This NPRM In implementing this new legislation, our primary aim has been to follow closely the statutory requirements as mandated by Congress. Our approach reflects not only the recommendations we received based on a broad consultation process with many outside agencies, but also our commitment to flexibility; reducing administrative burden; and supporting State and Indian tribal efforts to improve the health, development, and well-being of children, youth, and families. Overall, we have emphasized the importance of a serious planning process and the development of a five-year plan that is a dynamic, operational document. The NPRM proposes considerable flexibility but also contains specific minimum requirements in several areas which we believe will assist States and Indian tribes to strengthen and expand services and improve service delivery. 2. Principles of Child and Family Services As guidance to States and Indian tribes, we have included principles of services most often identified by practitioners and others as helping to assure effective services for children, youth and families. (See §1355.25)
