FR940426-1-00048 FR940426-1-00006 Although the general prohibition against an industry member imposing conditions on receipt of items allowed in subpart D has been removed from §6.81, the proposed §6.83 states that giving or selling product displays may be conditioned upon the purchase of the distilled spirits, wine or malt beverage product advertised thereon in a quantity only necessary for the initial completion or use of the product display. The loan or rental of product displays would not be within the exception. Such a continuing tie would not be consistent with the intent of the Act. Industry members have long argued that they should be allowed to condition receipt of product displays on the purchase of a limited quantity of the product advertised. The dollar limit of $500 per brand, coupled with the requirements for permanently inscribed advertising and transfer of ownership of product displays to the retailer minimizes the inducement value to the retailer. The combination of these factors allows product displays to be excepted from the regulations of Part 6, and would be the basis for allowing the industry member to condition receipt of such materials as described above. Section 6.84, Point of Sale Advertising and Consumer Advertising Specialties Promotions and practices currently allowed under the regulatory exceptions to the tied-house provisions are safe harbors. This notice proposes a revision to those exceptions which would combine several of the current exceptions into one general regulatory section. The approach of having a single general section addressing all of the similar activities gives greater flexibility to the industry. The proposed regulations combine the exceptions listed in §§6.84, 6.85, 6.86 and 6.87, (inside signs, retailer advertising specialties, wine lists and consumer advertising specialties) into a revised §6.84, Point of sale advertising and consumer advertising specialties. Items intended for consumers currently identified in §6.47 are also included in the proposed listing of exceptions. The petitioners requested that ATF amend the dollar limitation to reflect the adjusted rates, but instead, under ATF's proposed revision there will be no limit to the specified point of sale (POS) materials furnished by an industry member to a retail establishment. The petitioners also requested that the term ``wine lists'' be expanded to include all alcoholic beverages. Instead, the proposed §6.84 permits all lists or menus, subject to the conditions in paragraph (c) of the section. Section 6.86, Temporary Retailers ATF proposes adding a new section which will allow furnishing things of value to a temporary retailer. Section 6.88, Glassware_Section 6.89, Tapping Accessories_ Section 6.90, Supplies_Section 6.97, Coil Cleaning Service The petitioners recommend that these four sections be combined in a new section 6.88, under the title ``Equipment and supplies,'' because they deal with similar types of merchandise and impose similar conditions. As with other subpart D exceptions which combine similar types of merchandise, (viz., §§6.83, 6.87 and 6.89), the petitioners feel that combining these items in one section will enhance the simplicity and clarity of the rules. The petitioners also recommend several other revisions to this consolidated section. They believe that the coverage of the coil cleaning service should be extended from ``a retailer of wine or malt beverages'' to ``a retailer.'' This amendment would provide equal treatment for wine, malt beverages and distilled spirits. The petitioners also recommend substituting the term ``dispensing accessories'' in section 6.88 for ``tapping accessories'' because the former term more accurately describes the modern type of accessories falling within this category and reflects present marketplace practices where, for example, wine also is served by dispensing equipment. The petitioners also feel that cold plates should be added to the list of examples of ``dispensing accessories'' and, as with the present requirements for glassware and tapping accessories, carbon dioxide gas or ice may be sold at a price not less than the cost to the industry member who initially purchased it. The petitioners' proposed §6.88 would read as follows: ``§6.88 Equipment and supplies. (a) Definition. Equipment and supplies means glassware, dispensing accessories, carbon dioxide gas or ice. Dispensing accessories include items such as standards, faucets, cold plates, rods, vents, taps, tap standards, hoses, washers, couplings, gas gauges, vent tongues, shanks and check valves. (b) Application. (1) An industry member may sell equipment or supplies to a retailer if the equipment or supplies are sold at a price not less than the cost to the industry member who initially purchased it, and if the price is collected within 30 days of the date of the sale. (2) If dispensing accessories are sold pursuant to (1), the industry member also may install them at the retailer's establishment. (c) Coil cleaning service may be furnished, given or sold to a retailer.'' While the petitioners' proposal to combine various sections into one all inclusive section covering equipment and supplies is structurally logical and the terminology change from tapping equipment to dispensing equipment has merit, some of the items listed in the proposed section have not in the past been recognized as exceptions by ATF.
