FR941216-1-00144 FR941216-1-00012 (a) Clearance, to be obtained before performing each test, shall be granted only by responsible contractor personnel with jurisdiction in the danger area where the test is to be performed. When reburied, air space clearances shall be obtained in accordance with local and Federal Aviation Administration Handbook 21 requirements. 21 Copies may be obtained from Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402. (b) The contractor personnel responsible for the test areas where the weapon system is located shall obtain the necessary coordination and clearance from their counterparts when a test may encroach upon other danger areas. (c) To ensure that danger areas are clear of personnel and ships, vessels, and other craft, clearance for impact and airburst danger areas shall be obtained before firing on or over water. §184.179 Warning and communication systems. A warming system shall be established for each testing program, comprising some combination of flags, lights, and sound signals. If personnel authorized to enter a test area are not familiar with the system, they shall be escorted by knowledgeable personnel. Test areas should be equipped with adequate communication facilities, such as telephone and radio. §184.180 Specific items for test. The safety requirements for testing specific items of ammunition vary according to the type of ammunition, design features, explosives characteristics, test facilities, climate and terrain environment, and other related factors. These factors shall be considered and specific test criteria included in the test plan. (a) Recoilless weapons. (1) All personnel shall be protected against breech blast and malfunction of the round. The danger area in open range firing shall extend to the rear of the weapon: 300 feet for calibers up to and including 75mm and 450 feet for all others. The danger zone may be reduced only when effective barricades confine the blast effect. (2) The safety switch on a rifle shall not be advanced to the firing position until the breechblock is closed and all preparations for firing are completed. (3) Because the blast from salvo firing can obscure a misfire, ripple firing is preferred. When salvo firing cannot be avoided, a wait of at least 2 minutes shall precede the opening of any breechblock after a one-volley salvo. (4) Unburned propellant from any test firing shall not accumulate in the surrounding area. Safe methods shall be developed for cleanup, decontamination, and disposal. (b) Pyrotechnics. Shielded enclosures should be used when testing pyrotechnic items inside a building. Enclosures should be vented to the outside, preferably through the roof, to prevent exposure of personnel to flame, toxic gases, and heat, and to prevent rupture of the enclosures. (c) Static tests of propellant motors and engines. Static test stands are used for solid propellant motors and liquid propellant engines in any combinations. Fire, blast, and fragments shall be considered in establishing safe distances. Static test stands shall be designed to restrain motors and engines undergoing tests. §184.181 Malfunctions. For the purposes of this part, malfunction applies to the ammunition and the weapon systems or pieces involved. (a) Cook-off. Automatic function, or cook-off, of a round left in a hot gun for an extended period is possible in tests involving a high rate of fire, particularly with machine guns and anti-aircraft guns. This possibility largely depends upon the gun's rate of heat dissipation. High air temperature, low wind velocity, low elevation of the gun, and confinement of the gun are also factors. To prevent cook-off, the barrel of the empty gun shall be frequently cooled. If a round is retained or remains in a hot gun with the breech closed, people in the vicinity shall remain under cover until the gun has cooled. If a round jams and the breech fails to close, personnel in the danger zone shall take cover and remain there until the gun has cooled. (1) Adequate cooling periods are: ␣ 1Type of cooling 1Time (minutes) Water 5 Air (machine guns) 15 Air (other guns) 30
