FR940805-2-00099 FR940805-2-00056 Letters In all cases, subsequent to an Agreement State program review, the findings would be recounted in a letter to senior level State management. In the event that the NRC finds that a State program is adequate and compatible, no further action would be required. In the case where minor deficiencies are noted, the State would be requested to describe their proposed corrective action. If the corrective action appears appropriate, no further NRC review is required. If additional clarification of the corrective actions is needed, additional correspondence may be necessary. Follow-up Reviews In the event that deficiencies are noted during the program review, NRC may increase the frequency of contacts with the State to keep abreast of developments and conduct onsite follow-up reviews to assure that progress is being made on correcting program deficiencies. If, during follow-up reviews, it is shown that the State has taken corrective actions, a letter finding the State adequate and compatible would be provided. Probationary Status There are three circumstances which can lead to a marginally adequate or incompatible State program being placed in a probationary status: (1) There are cases in which program deficiencies may be serious enough to require immediate heightened oversight; (2) In other cases, Agreement State program deficiencies previously identified may have been uncorrected for a significant period of time; and (3) If the NRC determines that a State program has been late in adopting either a significant item(s) of compatibility or has not adopted several of the required compatibility elements. If the NRC was not confident that the State would address the program deficiencies in an expeditious and effective manner, the Commission would place the State program on probation. As a result of placing a State program on probation, the NRC would communicate its findings to a higher level of State management. Notice of such probationary status would normally be addressed to the Governor of the State. Notice would also be published in the Federal Register . A copy of the letter to the Governor would be placed in the Public Document Room and a press release would be issued. Once a State program is placed on probation, the NRC would heighten its oversight of the program. This would include obtaining commitments from the State in the form of a management plan to describe actions to be taken by the State to address the program deficiencies, including specific goals and milestones. The NRC would increase observation of State program activities under the Agreement to assure adequate protection of the public health and safety. In some cases, the NRC would consider providing technical support for the maintenance of the regulatory program. The probationary period would last for a specified period of time. This period would not normally be more than one year, but could be extended based on extenuating circumstances. At the end of that time, if the State has not addressed the deficiencies, the NRC would institute suspension or termination proceedings. Suspension Section 274j of the Atomic Energy Act gives the Commission authority to suspend all or part of its agreement with a State if the suspension is required to protect the public health and safety, or if the State has not complied with one or more of the requirements of the Act. In cases where the Commission finds that program deficiencies related to either adequacy or compatibility are such that the Commission must take action due to a lack of confidence in the State's ability to protect the public health and safety, the Commission would suspend all or part of its agreement with the State. If the situation is not resolved, termination will be considered. Before reaching a final decision on suspension, the Commission will notify the State and provide the State an opportunity for a hearing on the proposed suspension. Notice of the proposed suspension will also be published in the Federal Register . Suspension, rather than termination, would be the preferred option in those cases where the State provides evidence that the program deficiencies are temporary and that the State is committed to correcting the deficiencies that led to the suspension. In addition to the normal suspension authority, Section 274j.(2) of the Act also addresses emergency situations and gives the Commission authority to temporarily suspend all or part of its agreement with a State without notice or hearing if, an emergency situation exists requiring immediate action to protect public health and safety, and the State has failed to take necessary action within a reasonable time. Termination Section 274j of the Atomic Energy Act gives the Commission authority to terminate its agreement with a State if such termination is required to protect the public health and safety, or if the State program has not complied with one or more of the requirements of the Act (e.g., is found to be not compatible with the Commission's program). When the Commission finds such significant program deficiencies, the Commission would institute proceedings to terminate its agreement with the State. In cases where a State has failed to respond in an acceptable manner during the probationary period and there is no prospect for improvement, termination will be considered. Before reaching a final decision on termination, the Commission will notify the State and provide the State an opportunity for a hearing on the proposed termination. Also, notice of the proposed termination will be published in the Federal Register . There may be cases where termination will be considered even though the State program has not been placed on probation.
