FR940822-0-00051 FR940822-0-00016 The cost allowance for a Scholar's books is $1000 per year. This figure may be increased by the Foundation with the new figure published in the Bulletin of Information. §1801.44 Allowance for room and board. The cost allowed for a Scholar's room and board is the amount the institution of higher education reports to the Foundation as the average cost of room and board for the Scholar's institution, given the type of housing the Scholar occupies. §1801.45 Deduction for benefits from other sources. The cost allowed for a Scholar's tuition, fees, books, room and board must be reduced to the extent that the cost is paid by another organization or provided for or waived by the Scholar's institution. Subpart F_Payment Conditions and Procedures §1801.50 Acceptance of the scholarship. To receive any payment, a Scholar must sign an acceptance of the scholarship and acknowledgment of the conditions of the award and submit it to the Foundation. §1801.51 Report at the beginning of each term. (a) To receive a Scholarship stipend, a Scholar must submit a current Payment Request Form containing the following: (1) A statement of the Scholar's costs for tuition, fees, books, room and board; (2) A certification by an authorized official of the institution that the statement of those costs is accurate; (3) A certification of the amounts of those costs that are paid or waived by the institution or paid by another organization. (4) A certification by an authorized official of the institution that the Scholar is a full-time student and is taking a course of study, training, or other educational activities to prepare for a career in public service; and is not engaged in gainful employment that interferes with the Scholar's studies. (5) A certification by an authorized official of the institution that the Scholar is in academic good standing. (b) At the beginning of the academic year, the Scholar must have his or her institution submit a certified Educational Expense Form showing the charges for tuition, fees, books, room and board and other expenses required for the academic year in which the Scholar will request Foundation support. §1801.52 Payment schedule. The Foundation will pay the Scholar a portion of the award after each report submitted under §1801.51. §1801.53 Postponement of payment. (a) A Scholar may request the Foundation to postpone one or more payments because of sickness or other circumstances. (b) If the Foundation grants a postponement, it may impose such conditions as necessary. §1801.54 Annual report. (a) Scholars with remaining eligibility for scholarship stipends must submit no later than July 15 an annual report to the Foundation. (b) The annual report should be in narrative form and cover: courses taken and grades earned; courses planned for the coming year if Foundation support will be requested; public service and school activities; part-time or full-time employment and summer employment or internships; public service career goals and ambitions; and achievements, awards and recognition, publications or significant developments. (c) Newly selected Scholars are required to submit an annual report updating the Foundation on their activities and accomplishments since the time they submitted their applications for the Truman Award. Subpart G_Duration of Scholarship §1801.60 Renewal of scholarship. It is the intent of the Foundation to provide scholarship awards for a period not to exceed a total of four academic years, only in accordance with the regulations established by its Board of Trustees, and subject to an annual review for compliance with the requirements of this part. §1801.61 Termination of scholarship. (a) The Foundation may suspend or terminate a scholarship under the following specific conditions. (1) Unsatisfactory academic performance for two terms, failure to pursue preparation for a career in public service, or loss of interest in a career in public service. Failure as an undergraduate to maintain a B or better term average for two terms is considered unsatisfactory academic performance. (2) Failure to meet the criteria in §1801.3(d), 1801.31(b), or 1801.51. (3) Providing false, misleading, or materially incomplete information on any report, payment request or other submission to the Foundation. (b) Before it terminates a scholarship, the Foundation will notify the Scholar of the proposed action and will provide an opportunity to be heard with respect to the grounds for termination. §1801.62 Recovery of scholarship funds. (a) When a Truman Scholarship is terminated for any reason, the Scholar must return to the Foundation any stipend funds which have not yet been spent or which the Scholar may recover. (b) A Scholar who fails for any reason to complete as a full-time student a school term for which he or she has received a Foundation stipend, must return the amount of that stipend to the Foundation. The Foundation may waive this requirement upon application by the Scholar showing goods cause for doing so. Dated: August 16, 1994. Louis H. Blair, Executive Secretary. Dated: August 16, 1994. Elmer B. Staats, Chairman. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20503 Filed 8&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;AB&hyph;M
