FR941003-0-00120 FR941003-0-00018 (2) Disclose any steps taken that were necessary or appropriate to comply with the Competency Provision of USPAP. (3) Be written and presented on the Uniform Residential Appraisal Report form, the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) Small Residential Income Property Appraisal Report form, the FNMA Individual Condominium Unit Appraisal Report form or any other format that is acceptable to the Secretary. (4) Analyze and report in reasonable detail all prior sales of the property being appraised that occurred within one year preceding the date when the appraisal is prepared. (5) Analyze and report data on current revenues, expenses, and vacancies for the property if it currently is, and will continue to be, income-producing. (6) Analyze and report on current market conditions and trends that will affect income or the absorption period, to the extent they affect the value of the property. (7) Contain sufficient supporting documentation with all pertinent information reported so that the appraiser's logic, reasoning, judgment, and analysis in arriving at a conclusion indicate to the reader the reasonableness of the value reported. (8) Include in the certification required by USPAP a statement that the appraisal is not based on a requested minimum valuation, a specific valuation or range of values, or the approval of the loan. The certification shall also include a statement that the racial/ethnic composition of the neighborhood surrounding the property in no way affected the appraisal determination. (9) Follow a reasonable valuation method that, except for an appraisal with respect to a mortgage to be insured under part 220 of this chapter, addresses the direct sales comparison, income, and cost approaches to market value required by the Secretary, reconciles or explains any differences those approaches yield in determining the value of the property in question, and gives the reason(s) for rejecting each approach that was not used. (b) Unavailable information. If information required by this section is not available, that fact shall be disclosed and explained in the appraisal report. (c) Additional standards. In addition to the minimum standards set forth in paragraph (a) of this section: (1) A Direct Endorsement mortgagee may adopt generally, or may impose in specific cases, such supplementary standards as are reasonable, appropriate, and consistent with this part 267. (2) HUD may, in instances where the Appraisal Subcommittee has determined that the policies, practices, and procedures of a certifying or licensing state are inconsistent with FIRREA, impose such supplementary requirements as may be appropriate. (3) HUD may, in instances where the Appraisal Subcommittee has determined that the requirements of FIRREA may be waived in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 3348(b), impose such supplementary requirements as may be appropriate. ยง267.8 Selection of appraisers by mortgagees; HUD Appraiser Roster; appraiser independence. (a) Selection method. (1) The method of selecting the appraiser depends upon the program involved. (i) For a mortgage insured under Title II of the National Housing Act, the appraiser may be: (A) Employed on the staff of the Direct Endorsement mortgagee or selected by the Direct Endorsement mortgagee (which includes being selected as an individual from the staff of a selected appraisal organization), provided the appraiser is listed on the Appraiser Roster provided under this ยง267.8; or (B) Assigned by HUD from membership on one of its fee panels. (ii) Reserved. (2) The criteria in paragraph (d) of this section govern the selection of the appraiser. (3) For the appraisal of a manufactured home which is to be insured under Title I of the National Housing Act and is classified as personal property, the appraisal shall be carried out under the terms and conditions of a contract between HUD and a contractor selected to perform such appraisals. (b) Direct Endorsement staff appraisers. An appraiser who is a staff employee of a Direct Endorsement mortgagee shall be independent of the loan officers and the loan production operations of the mortgagee.
