FR940816-1-00099 FR940816-1-00012 (12) The manual provided to test administrators containing procedures and instructions for the security and administration of the test and the forwarding of the test scoring data; (13) An analysis of the item-content of each edition, form, level, and (if applicable) sub-test to demonstrate compliance with the required secondary school level criterion specified in §668.145(b); (14) Recommended passing scores for each edition, form, level, and (if applicable) sub-test or partial battery for which approval is being sought, in accordance with §668.146; (15) For performance-based tests or tests containing performance-based sections, a description of the training or certification required of test administrators and scorers by the test publisher; (16) A description of retesting procedures; and (17) Other evidence establishing the test's compliance with the criteria for approval of tests as provided in §668.145. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1091(d)) §668.144 Test approval procedures. (a)(1) When the Secretary receives a complete application from a test publisher, the Secretary selects experts in the field of educational testing and assessment to determine whether the test meets the requirements for test approval contained in §§668.145, 668.146, 668.147, or 668.148, as appropriate, and to advise the Secretary of their determinations. (2) If the test involves a language other than English, the Secretary selects at least one individual described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section who is fluent in the language in which the test is written to advise the Secretary on whether the test meets the additional criteria, provisions, and conditions for test approval contained in §§668.147 and 668.148. (b) The Secretary determines whether the test publisher's test meets the criteria and requirements for approval after taking the advice of the experts into account. (c)(1) If the Secretary determines that a test does not satisfy the criteria and requirements for test approval, the Secretary notifies the test publisher of the Secretary's decision, and the reasons why the test did not meet those criteria and requirements. (2) The test publisher may request that the Secretary reevaluate the Secretary's decision. Such a request must be accompanied by_ (i) Documentation and information that addresses the reasons for the non-approval of the test; and (ii) An analysis of why the information and documentation submitted meets the criteria and requirements for test approval notwithstanding the Secretary's decision to the contrary. (d) The Secretary approves a test for a period not to exceed five years from the date of the Secretary's written notice to the test publisher. At least six months before the date on which the test approval is scheduled to lapse, the test publisher may re-submit the test for review and approval according to the procedures set forth in §668.143. (e) The approval of a test may be withdrawn if the Secretary determines that the publisher violated any terms of the agreement described in §668.149, or that the information the publisher submitted as a basis for approval of the test was inaccurate. (f) If the Secretary revokes approval of a previously approved test, the revocation is effective 120 days from the date the notice of revocation is published in the Federal Register . (g) For test batteries that contain multiple subtests measuring content domains other than verbal and quantitative domains, the Secretary reviews only those subtests covering verbal and quantitative domains. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1091(d)) §668.145 Criteria for approving tests. (a) Except as provided in §668.148, the Secretary approves a test under this subpart if the test meets the criteria set forth in paragraph (b) of this section and the test publisher satisfies the requirements set forth in paragraph (c) of this section. (b) To be approved under this subpart, a test shall_ (1) Assess secondary school level basic verbal and quantitative skills and knowledge, and general learned abilities; (2) Sample the major content domains of secondary school level verbal and quantitative skills with sufficient numbers of questions to_ (i) Adequately represent each domain; and (ii) Permit meaningful analyses of item-level performance by students who are representative of the contemporary population beyond the age of compulsory school attendance and have earned a high school diploma; (3) Require appropriate test-taking time to permit adequate sampling of the major content domains described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section; (4) Have all forms (including short forms) comparable in reliability; (5) If the test is revised, have new scales, scale values, and scores that are demonstrably comparable to the old scales, scale values and scores; and (6) Meet all primary, secondary, and applicable conditional standards for test construction provided in the 1985 edition of the Standards for Educational and Psychological Testing prepared by a joint committee of the American Educational Research Association, the American Psychological Association, and the National Council on Measurement in Education. (A copy of these standards may be obtained from the American Psychological Association, Inc., 1200 17th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036.)
