FR940324-2-00161 FR940324-2-00091 6. Multiple Submittals An applicant organization should not submit more than one application under this Program Announcement. Part C_Purpose and Project Requirements 1. Purpose The Department of Health and Human Services is committed to improving the health and physical fitness of young people, particularly those that are members of low-income families and residents of economically disadvantaged areas of the United States. The Department seeks to improve the lives of these young people through sports skill instruction, counseling in good health practices, and counseling related to anti-drug and anti-alcohol abuse. 2. Project Requirements Projects funded under this program must be carried out on a national or regional (multi-state) basis on the campuses of institutions of higher education and shall include all of the following legislatively-mandated elements: a. access to the facilities and resources of such institution; b. an initial medical examination and follow-up referral or treatment, without charge; c. at least one nutritional meal daily, without charge, for participating youth during each day of participation; d. high quality instruction in a variety of sports (that shall include swimming and that may include dance and any other high quality recreational activity) provided by coaches and teachers from institutions of higher education and from elementary and secondary schools (as defined in sections 1471(8) and 1471(21) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965); and e. enrichment instruction and information on matters relating to the well-being of youth, such as educational opportunities and study practices, the prevention of drug and alcohol abuse, health and nutrition, career opportunities, and job responsibilities. Part D_Review Criteria Applications which pass the initial screening and pre-rating review described in Part G 5. will be assessed and scored by reviewers. These numerical scores will be supported by explanatory statements on a formal rating form describing major strengths and weaknesses under each applicable criterion published in this announcement. The in-depth evaluation and review process will use the criteria set forth below coupled with the specific requirements described in Part G. Applicants should write their project narrative according to the review criteria using the same sequential order. Criteria for Review and Evaluation of Applications Submitted Under This Program Announcement 1. Criterion I: Location and number of institutions of Higher Education (Maximum: 20 points). a. Applicant must describe and document the number and location of Institutions of Higher Education committed to participation in this program, with special attention to documenting the accessibility of the schools to economically disadvantaged communities (0&hyph;12 points). b. Applicant must describe in the aggregate the facilities which will be available on the campuses of the institutions to be used in the program (swimming pools, medical facilities, food preparation facilities, etc.) (0&hyph;8 points). 2. Criterion II: Adequacy of Work Program (Maximum: 20 points). a. Applicant must set forth realistic weekly time targets (for the summer program) and quarterly time targets (for any extended-year program activities). The time targets should specify the tasks to be accomplished in the given timeframes. (0&hyph;8 points). b. Applicant must address the legislatively-mandated activities found in Part C.2., to include: (1) Project priorities and rationale for selecting them; (2) project goals and objectives; and (3) project activities. (0&hyph;12 points). 3. Criterion III: Significant and Beneficial Impact (Maximum: 20 points). a. Applicant proposes to improve nutritional services to the participating youths (0&hyph;5 points). b. Project incorporates health prevention activities with nutritional services (0&hyph;5 points). c. Project includes counseling related to anti-drug and anti-alcohol abuse by counselors with experience in those areas as a major element (0&hyph;5 points). d. Project makes use of an existing outreach activity of a community action agency or some other community-based organization (0&hyph;5 points).
