FR940919-2-00099 FR940919-2-00046 Any child who is engaging in substantial gainful activity will not be found disabled regardless of the severity of his or her physical or mental impairments. The guidelines for determining whether a child is engaging in substantial gainful activity will be identical to the guidelines for adults. Although the issue of work activity will arise infrequently in childhood claims, the step is warranted for two reasons: 1) the approach for adults and children should be as similar as possible; and 2) as a child approaches age 18, it is increasingly likely that work activity may be an issue. Step 2_Medically Determinable Impairment Because the statute requires that disability be the result of a medically determinable physical or mental impairment or combination of impairments, the absence of a medically determinable impairment will justify a finding that a child is not disabled. To establish the presence of a medically determinable impairment or combination of impairments, evidence must show an impairment that results from anatomical, physiological, or psychological abnormalities which are demonstrable by medically acceptable clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques. The same guidelines and rules that apply for adults will apply equally for children. SSA will continue to evaluate the existence of a medically determinable impairment based on a weighing of all evidence that is collected, recognizing that neither symptoms nor opinions of treating physicians alone will support a finding of disability. SSA will use the same exception for evidence collection in childhood claims that will be applied in adult claims. If a child has a medically determinable physical or mental impairment that is not an exception to further development, SSA will then evaluate whether the impairment(s) is included in the index of disabling impairments. Step 3_Index of Disabling Impairments If a child has a medically determinable physical or mental impairment or combination of impairments documented by medically acceptable clinical and laboratory techniques and the impairment(s) will meet the duration requirement, SSA will compare the child's impairment(s) against an index of disabling impairments. As with adults, the index for childhood claims will function to quickly identify severely disabling impairments. The index will describe impairments so severely debilitating that the impairment is of comparable severity to an impairment that would prevent an adult from engaging in substantial gainful activity without assessing the child's functional ability. As with adults, individual functional ability in childhood claims will be assessed in a consistent manner at Step 4 in the process. The index for childhood claims will consist of descriptions of specific impairments and the medical findings that are used to substantiate the existence and severity of the particular disease entity. The medical findings in the index will be as nontechnical as possible and will be simple enough so that laypersons will be able to understand what is required to substantiate a disabling impairment in the index. As with adults, SSA will draw no conclusions about the effect of a child's impairments on his or her ability to function merely because a child's impairment(s) is not included in the index. Additionally, SSA will no longer use the concept of ``medical equivalence'' or functional equivalence in relation to the childhood index. Step 4_Comparable Severity to an Impairment(s) That Would Prevent an Adult From Engaging in Substantial Gainful Activity Consistent with the approach for adult claims, SSA will develop, with the assistance of the medical community and educational experts, standardized instruments which can be used to measure a child's functional ability. These standardized measures of functional ability will be linked to clinical and laboratory findings to the extent that SSA needs to document the existence of a medically determinable impairment or combination of impairments. The functional assessment instruments will be designed to measure, as objectively as possible, a child's ability to function independently, appropriately, and effectively in an age-appropriate manner. Ultimately, the course of documenting and developing for functional abilities in childhood claims will, to the extent possible, mirror the adult approach. However, SSA will consider whether it is appropriate to defer the development of standardized functional assessment instruments for use in childhood claims until it gains experience in the development, refinement and use of such instruments for adults. SSA will use the results of the standardized functional assessments to determine whether a child has impairment(s) of comparable severity to an impairment(s) that would prevent an adult from engaging in substantial gainful activity, as in the current process. Medical Evidence Development Timely and Accurate Decisions SSA's ability to provide timely and accurate disability decisions depends to a significant degree on the quality of medical evidence it can obtain and the speed with which it can obtain it. The medical evidence collection process accounts for a considerable portion of the total time involved in processing disability claims. The new process will eliminate multiple, repetitive requests for information from health care providers. Health care providers will be relieved of requests for information that burden them with far too much paperwork and will be compensated for the time invested in providing information. Core Diagnostic and Functional Information Focus The goals of the evidence collection process will be to focus requests for evidence on the critical diagnostic and functional assessment information necessary for a disability decision and to form a new partnership with the sources of this information so that it can be obtained in the most efficient, cost-effective manner. Medical evidence development will be driven by the four-step approach used to decide disability. Two of the core elements of that approach are: (1) identifying an individual's medically determinable impairments (including those that meet the Index of Disabling Impairments criteria); and (2) assessing the functional consequences of those impairments. The decisionmaker will develop medical evidence that is sufficient to satisfy the core elements but target evidentiary development to obtain only the evidence necessary to reach an accurate decision on the ultimate question of disability.
