FR941222-0-00038 FR941222-0-00003 The NRC has not yet approved the use of burnup credit in criticality analyses for spent fuel storage and transportation casks. The applicant did, however, analyze credit for burnup as an alternative design acceptance basis for the NUHOMS&hyph;24P DSC, pending future acceptance of burnup credit by NRC. As discussed in the SER, the NUHOMS&hyph;24P DSC criticality safety is approved based on, among other assumptions, the key assumptions of loading with irradiated fuel assemblies with equivalent enrichment <1.45 wt% U-235, misloading unirradiated fuel with maximum enrichment of 4.0 wt% U-235, and soluble boron in water for wet loading and unloading. The NRC still considers the use of the burnup-enrichment curve, Certificate of Compliance Figure 1&hyph;1, as a fuel selection criteria, to be prudent. Its use adds additional unanalyzed conservatism in the criticality safety margin. It is comparable to previous NUHOMS&hyph;24P approvals. Its use would also be consistent with the requirement that storage cask designs be, to the extent practicable, compatible with removal of the stored spent fuel from the reactor site, transportation, and ultimate disposition by DOE. Therefore, the NRC disagrees with the commenters request to allow Standardized NUHOMS&hyph;24P users the option of using the burnup-enrichment curve. M.12. Comment. Several commenters stated that the listing of specific fuel types in the draft Certificate of Compliance is overly restrictive. Allowance should be made for very similar fuel types or a ``fuel qualification table'' as proposed by the vendor should replace the listing. Response. The NRC agrees that allowance should be made for very similar types of fuel to be stored. The Certificate of Compliance provides this flexibility. The ``fuel qualification table'' consideration at this time is not subject to this rulemaking. M.13. Comment. One commenter citing the first paragraph of page A&hyph;27 of the draft Certificate of Compliance states that the postulated adiabatic heatup would result in concrete temperatures being exceeded in approximately 40 hours. As a result, it is appropriate and conservative to perform the visual surveillance to verify no vent blockage on a daily basis to ensure that a blockage existed for less than 40 hours. The last sentence in the first paragraph should reflect that the module needs to be removed from service if it cannot be established that the blockage is less than 40 hours, not 24 hours. A 24-hour surveillance interval will adequately verify this. One commenter cited an inconsistency in Section 3 of the draft Certificate of Compliance. Section 3.1 indicates that a module must be removed from service if a vent blockage is in existence for longer than 24 hours. Surveillance Section 1.3.2 indicates that a module must be removed from service if the concrete accident temperature criterion has been exceeded for more than 24 hours. A vent blockage of less than 24 hours would not cause the temperature limit to be exceeded, as explained in Section 1.3 and the objective for the 24-hour frequency required by surveillance 1.3.1. The apparent conflict between Section 1.3 and the action for Surveillance Requirement 1.3.2 should be resolved. It appears that Surveillance Requirement 1.3.2 actions are appropriate. Response. The Certificate of Compliance has been clarified to reflect the comment. M.14. Comment. One commenter stated that Section 1.2.14 to Attachment A of the draft Certificate of Compliance is unnecessary because the time to transfer the DSC from the transfer cask to the HSM would normally require less than 8 hours. During this time, even with temperatures above 100 ○F without the solar shield, any increase in fuel clad temperature and neutron shield temperature would be small and therefore not detrimental. Additionally, the transfer cask is open to the atmosphere and would not pressurize. Response. The vendor, VECTRA, has proposed this limiting condition of operation in lieu of showing what detrimental effect might occur on the cladding or neutron shield, should the ambient conditions involve temperatures above 100 ○F. The NRC concurs with this condition as cited in Attachment A, Section 1.2.14 of the Certificate of Compliance. N. Several commenters raised safeguards/sabotage issues. N.1. Comment. One commenter cited the World Trade Center bombing and the ease with which a disturbed individual recently breached security and remained undetected at a U.S. reactor. Explosive technology has become very sophisticated in the last 15 years since the NRC and Sandia Laboratories studied the effect of sabotage on shipping casks in the March 1979, NUREG&hyph;0459, ``Generic Adversary Characteristics Summary Report.'' Another commenter made reference to an experiment with balloons which failed. Yet another commenter questioned the degree of protection in the spent fuel pool versus dry cask storage. Will the cask be in a vital area? Will safeguards be reviewed as part of the security plan? What is the effect on the security of these casks?
