FR941227-0-00046 FR941227-0-00012 3. Public Comments and the Final Regulations The IRS received written and oral comments from the public on the proposed regulations both in connection with the public hearing held on April 28, 1993, and otherwise. The issues raised by these comments are discussed below. A. Accounting Methods Commentators request guidance about the accounting methods an S corporation should use in determining its pre-limitation amount and taxable income limitation. The commentators suggest that an S corporation should be allowed to use any accounting method it could use if it were a C corporation. The final regulations do not adopt this suggestion because section 1374 applies only to items an S corporation actually takes into account during the recognition period. It does not apply to items the corporation would have taken into account under a hypothetical method of accounting. Accordingly, the final regulations require the S corporation to use the accounting methods it actually uses as an S corporation to make these taxable income determinations. B. Recognition Period Commentators request confirmation that the recognition period is the 10 calendar year period (and not the 10 taxable year period) beginning on the first day the corporation is an S corporation or the day the S corporation acquires C corporation assets in a carryover basis transaction. The final regulations confirm the commentators' interpretation of the Code. Commentators also request guidance on determining an S corporation's net recognized built-in gain where the recognition period ends during a taxable year (for example, because a corporation converting from C to S status was on a fiscal year as a C corporation and changed to a calendar year as an S corporation or because an S corporation acquired C corporation assets in a carryover basis transaction during a taxable year). The final regulations provide that the pre-limitation amount for the year is determined by a closing of the books at the end of the recognition period. C. Accrual Method Rule and Section 267(a)(2) or 404(a)(5) One commentator argues that the proposed regulations should not use the accrual method rule to determine if, and the extent to which, an item of income or deduction is included in net recognized built-in gain. Instead, this commentator argues that the approach the proposed regulations use to determine if, and the extent to which, an item of income or deduction is included in net unrealized built-in gain (that is, by valuation using a hypothetical sale of all the S corporation's assets to a buyer that assumes all the S corporation's liabilities) should also be used to determine if, and the extent to which, an item of income or deduction is included in net recognized built-in gain. The Treasury and the IRS believe that separately valuing each item of income and deduction for net recognized built-in gain purposes would be unduly burdensome both for taxpayers and for the IRS. Using a valuation approach for determining net unrealized built-in gain is not unduly burdensome because net unrealized built-in gain can be determined by valuing the S corporation's business using an aggregate approach where particular items of income and deduction are not valued individually. In addition, many S corporations subject to section 1374 will not need to know their net unrealized built-in gain because they will not approach their net unrealized built-in gain limitation in the recognition period. However, most S corporations subject to section 1374 will have items of income and deduction taken into account in the recognition period where a determination must be made if, and the extent to which, the item is included in net recognized built-in gain. Accordingly, the final regulations do not adopt the commentator's suggestion and generally retain the accrual method rule in the proposed regulations. Some commentators argue that the accrual method rule in the proposed regulations wrongly applies sections 267(a)(2), relating to accrued amounts payable to related persons, and 404(a)(5), relating to accrued amounts payable as deferred compensation, to determine whether an item of deduction should be treated as a recognized built-in loss. In general, those sections defer a deduction for an accrual method taxpayer that owes a payment to a cash method taxpayer until the payment is made. The commentators cite the following statement in the section 1374 legislative history in support of their position:
