FR940412-1-00083 FR940412-1-00012 §148.25 Special Permits; standard conditions. (a) Each person to whom a Special Permit has been issued under the terms of §148.15 shall comply with all the requirements of this part unless specifically exempted by the terms of the Special Permit. (b) Each Special Permit covers any shipment of the permitted material originated by the shipper noted on the Special Permit, and, also covers for each shipment_ (1) Each transfer operation; (2) Each vessel involved in the shipment; and (3) Each individual involved in any cargo handling operation. (c) Each person to whom a Special Permit has been issued shall provide a copy of the Special Permit to the master of each vessel or person in charge of each barge carrying the material for which the Special Permit was issued, along with the information required in §148.90. (d) The master of a vessel transporting a material for which a Special Permit has been issued shall ensure that a copy of the Special Permit is on board the vessel. The Special Permit must be kept with the dangerous cargo manifest if such a manifest is required by §148.70. (e) The person in charge of a barge transporting any material for which a Special Permit has been issued shall ensure that a copy of the Special Permit is on board the tug or towing vessel. When the barge is moored, the Special Permit must be kept on the barge with the shipping paper as prescribed in §148.60(b). (f) Each Special Permit is valid for a period, not to exceed two years, determined by the Commandant (G&hyph;MTH) and is subject to suspension or revocation before its expiration date. §148.30 List of Special Permits issued. A list of all materials for which Special Permits have been issued and copies of Special Permits are available from the Commandant (G&hyph;MTH). Subpart C_Minimum Transportation Requirements §148.50 General. (a) The regulations in this subpart apply to each bulk shipment of_ (1) A material listed in table 148.10 of this part; and (2) Any solid material shipped under the terms of a Coast Guard Special Permit. (b) When subpart D of this part sets a temperature limit for loading or transporting a material_ (1) The temperature of the material must be measured between 20 and 36 cm. (8 to 14 inches) below the surface at 3 meter (10 foot) intervals over the length and width of the stockpile or cargo hold; (2) The temperature must be measured at any spot in the stockpile or cargo hold that shows any evidence of heating; and (3) Prior to loading or transporting the material, all temperatures measured must be below the temperature limit as given in subpart D of this part. §148.55 International shipments. (a) Each person who imports a bulk solid cargo of a material requiring special handling into the United States shall provide the shipper in the country of origin and the agent at the place of entry with timely and complete information as to the requirements that will apply to the carriage, unloading, and handling of the material within the United States. (b) The foreign shipper shall furnish the information provided pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, as well as the shipper's certification required by §148.60(a), either on the shipping paper or dangerous cargo manifest. (c) Notwithstanding the requirements of this part, a bulk solid material may be transported in international commerce to or from the United States if it is classed, described, stowed, and segregated in accordance with Appendix B of the BC Code. §148.60 Shipping papers. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the master of a vessel may not accept for transportation, nor transport by vessel in bulk, any material listed in table 148.10 of this part unless the material offered for such shipment is accompanied by a shipping paper prepared by the shipper on which the following information is provided: (1) The shipping name and hazard class of the material as listed in table 148.10 of this part, or on the Special Permit under which the material is carried. (2) The quantity of the material to be transported. (3) The name and address of the U.S. shipper. (4) A certification which bears the following statement, signed by the shipper: ``This is to certify that the above named material is properly named, prepared, and otherwise in proper condition for bulk shipment by vessel in accordance with the applicable regulations of the U.S. Coast Guard''. (b) Whenever a provision of subpart E or F of this part requires the shipper to provide the master of a vessel or person in charge of a barge with a written certification or statement, the certification or statement must be on or attached to the shipping paper.
