FR940516-1-00068 FR940516-1-00005 Table 2._ Monitoring Requirements 1Emission source 1Parameter monitored 1Noncompliance BLR process and storage*: Carbon adsorber controlled Continuous measurement of outlet HAP concentration using Method 25A if possible or Method 18 if speciation necessary One-hour average outlet concentration is greater than the maximum concentration established during the compliance test. Uncontrolled Continuous measurement of outlet HAP concentration using Method 25A if possible or Method 18 if speciation necessary One-hour average outlet concentration is greater than the maximum concentration established during the compliance test. Condenser controlled Continuous measurement of outlet gas temperature One-hour average exhaust gas temperature is greater than the maximum temperature established during the compliance test. Scrubber controlled Continuous measurement of scrubber liquid flowrate One-hour average scrubber flowrate is below the minimum flowrate established during the compliance test. Flare controlled Continuous verification of pilot flame presence with heat sensing device such as a UV sensor or thermocouple Loss of pilot flame. Wastewater Flow rate, pH, and HAP concentration measured daily; TSS and BOD measured biweekly Monitored values are outside the range established during initial compliance. All air pollution control devices Flow diversion: if bypass lines that could divert flow from the control device to the atmosphere exist flow must be monitored continuously or the line must be secured with a car-seal or lock-and-key type configuration that is inspected daily Presence of flow detected in the line, rupture of the car-seal, or removed of the lock-and-key must be reported in the quarterly reporting requirement of ยง63.10. Occurrence does not establish noncompliance. Wet strength resin batch reactor: Condenser controlled Continuous measurement of outlet gas temperature during each step in batch process Average outlet gas temperature over the step is greater than the maximum temperature established from compliance calculations. Carbon adsorber controlled Uncontrolled Continuous measurement of outlet HAP concentration using Method 25A if possible or Method 18 if speciation necessary Average outlet HAP concentration over the step is greater than the maximum value established during the compliance test. Scrubber controlled Measurement of average outlet gas flowrate during each step in batch process Average scrubber flowrate over the step is below the acceptable minimum flowrate established during the compliance test. Wastewater pH, flow rate and HAP concentration measured daily; TSS and BOD measured bi-weekly Monitored values are outside the range established during compliance. *Monitoring of emissions from storage tanks is required only if emissions are combined with other tank or process emissions prior to discharge to the atmosphere.
