FR940104-0-00088 FR940104-0-00016 (3) Additional matters that the Secretary recommends that a school include in the exit counseling session or materials are set forth in appendix D to 34 CFR part 668. (4) The school shall maintain in the student borrower's file documents substantiating the school's compliance with paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section as to that borrower. (g) Treatment of excess loan proceeds. Before the delivery of any Federal Direct Stafford or Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford loan disbursement, if a school learns that the borrower would receive or has received financial aid for the period of enrollment for which the loan was intended that exceeds the amount of assistance for which the student is eligible, the school shall reduce or eliminate the overaward by either_ (1) Using the student's Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford, Federal Direct PLUS, or State-sponsored or private loan to cover the expected family contribution, if not already done; or (2) Reducing one or more disbursements to eliminate the overaward. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq .) ยง685.304 Determining the date of a student's withdrawal. (a) Purpose . This section establishes rules for how a school shall determine the withdrawal date for a student to whom or on whose behalf a loan has been made under this part for the purpose of reporting to the Secretary the date that the student has withdrawn from the school and for determining when a refund must be paid under ยง685.305. (b) The withdrawal date . (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, the student's withdrawal date is the earlier of_ (i) The date the student notifies the school of the student's withdrawal or the date of withdrawal specified by the student, whichever is later; or (ii) The date of withdrawal as determined by the school. The school must determine the student's date of withdrawal no later than_ (A) Forty-five days after the expiration date of the academic term in which the student was enrolled for a school that uses academic terms (e.g., semester, trimester, or quarter), except that 30 days after the first day of the next scheduled term may be used in the case of a summer break; or (B) Twenty-five days after a student's last date of attendance for a school that measures academic progress either in clock hours or credit hours but does not use a semester, trimester, or quarter system. (2) If the student has not returned to school at the expiration of a leave of absence approved under paragraph (c) of this section, the student's withdrawal date is the first day of the leave of absence. (3) If the student is enrolled in a program of study by correspondence, the student's withdrawal date is the date of the last lesson submitted if the student fails to submit the next scheduled lesson in accordance with the schedule of lessons established under ยง685.302. However, if the student establishes in writing, within 60 days of the date of the last lesson submitted, a desire to continue in the program and an understanding that the required lessons must be submitted on time, the school may restore that student to in-school status for purposes of the loan made under this part. The school may not grant the student more than one restoration to in-school status on this basis. (4) For the purpose of a school's reporting to the Secretary, a student's withdrawal date is the month, day, and year of the withdrawal date determined under paragraphs (b)(1)&hyph;(b)(3) of this section. (c) Leaves of absence . A student who has been absent from school and has been granted a leave of absence by a school in accordance with this paragraph is not considered to have withdrawn from school for purposes of paragraph (a) of this section. In any 12-month period, a school may grant no more than a single leave of absence to a student, provided that_ (1) The student has made a written request to be granted a leave of absence; (2) The leave of absence involves no additional charges by the school to the student; and (3) The leave of absence does not exceed_ (i) Sixty days; or
