FR940919-2-00167 FR940919-2-00069 The Commission believes that the listing and trading of REIT Portfolio MITTS should not unduly impact the market for the individual securities contained in the REIT Portfolio. First, as discussed above, the components of the REIT Portfolio are highly capitalized, liquid stocks. Second, as discussed above, because of the restriction that no component may account for more than 10% of the initial weight of the REIT Portfolio, no single component or group of components dominates the REIT Portfolio. Third, the issuers of the securities contained in the REIT Portfolio are subject to reporting requirements under the Act, and all of the portfolio securities are listed and traded on U.S. securities exchanges. Finally, the Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, dated July 14, 1983, as amended on January 29, 1990, will be applicable to the trading of REIT Portfolio MITTS and of the underlying component securities. 24 This, in addition to the NYSE's surveillance procedures, will serve to deter as well as detect any potential manipulation. 24 The Intermarket Surveillance Group (``ISG'') was formed on July 14, 1983 to, among other things, coordinate more effectively surveillance and investigative information sharing arrangements in the stock and options markets. See Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, July 14, 1983. The most recent amendment to the ISG Agreement, which incorporates the original agreement and all amendments made thereafter, was signed by ISG members on January 29, 1990. See Second Amendment to the Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, January 29, 1990. The members of the ISG are: the Amex; the Boston Stock Exchange, Inc.; the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc.; the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc.; the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.; the NYSE; the Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc.; and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. Because of potential opportunities for trading abuses involving stock index futures, stock options, and the underlying stock and the need for greater sharing of surveillance information for these potential intermarket trading abuses, the major stock index futures exchanges ( e.g., the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade) joined the ISG as affiliate members in 1990. The Commission finds good cause for approving Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of filing thereof in the Federal Register in order to allow the Exchange to list without delay REIT Portfolio MITTS as described herein. Specifically, in Amendment No. 1 to the proposal, the Exchange proposes to provide that all dividends paid on any component REIT after the date of issuance of the REIT Portfolio MITTS and prior to a corporate event which would effect the value of that component security shall be used in calculating both the daily values of the REIT Portfolio and the Total Return Portfolio Value. The Commission believes this is appropriate because it is consistent with the risks involved in the direct ownership of the individual component securities, i.e., the owner of a security generally will not be required to return dividends paid by the issuer prior to the insolvency of the issuer. The Exchange also proposes a modified weighting system in Amendment No. 1 whereby no component of the REIT Portfolio may account for more than 10% of the Original Portfolio Value. The effect of the weighting method in this case is merely to reduce the weight of one component from 10.22% to 10.00% and to raise the initial weights of the remaining components only marginally. 25 Additionally, for the full six-year term of the MITTS, the weights of the component REITS may move freely above the 10% level based on subsequent price changes among the components. As a result, the Commission believes that this weighting method has an immaterial effect on the valuation of the REIT Portfolio during the term of the MITTS and on the amount that holders of the REIT Portfolio MITTS will ultimately receive upon maturity of the MITTS. 25 See supra note 12 and accompanying text. For the reasons stated above, the Commission believes that good cause exists for approving Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change on an accelerated basis. It Is Therefore Ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 26 that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;28), as amended, is approved. 26 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 27 27 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1992). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23049 Filed 9&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
