FR940104-1-00017 FR940104-1-00004 B. Tariff And Reporting Requirements 1. Revisions To Coordinate With Other Regulatory Changes The reporting requirements currently apply to interstate pipelines transporting gas pursuant to subparts B, G, H, or K of part 284. The Commission proposes to remove the references to subparts H and K. Subpart H applies to capacity release transactions and is an unnecessary and duplicative reference, since, by its own terms, it applies only to pipelines transporting gas under subparts B and G. Subpart K, which applies to pipelines transporting gas on the outer continental shelf, is similarly unnecessary because, it too, requires such pipelines to transport gas pursuant to subpart G. 2. Tariff Provisions Current ยง250.16(b)(1) presently requires pipelines to include in their tariffs information about shared operating personnel and facilities, the information and format for a request for service, the procedures used to address complaints, and the procedures used to inform shippers about the availability and pricing of transportation service. Current ยง250.16(g)(1) requires pipelines to maintain and follow certain procedures to make the tariff information available to the public. The Commission proposes to eliminate the requirement, in current ยง250.16(b)(1)(ii), that pipelines include in their tariffs the information required for a valid request for service, including the information required for the Form No. 592 affiliate transportation log. This provision was intended to ensure that pipelines obtained from a shipper requesting service information known to the shipper, but not to the pipeline, which the pipeline was required to maintain by the regulations. 12 The information which pipelines needed to obtain included items such as the supplier of gas, the end-user, and whether or not the gas was subject to take-or-pay relief. The requirement for pipelines to include the request for service information in their tariff no longer appears necessary, because pipeline tariffs already include procedures for requesting service, and more important, this NOPR is proposing to eliminate the information which the pipelines previously had to obtain from the transportation request form. Under the proposed regulations, pipelines should know all the relevant information, without having to obtain additional information from the requesting shipper. 12 See Order No. 497, FERC Stats. & Regs. [Regulations Preambles 1986&hyph;1990] at 31,147 (transportation request must include the items to be disclosed). The Commission proposes to eliminate the requirement, in current ยง250.16(b)(1)(iv), that requires pipeline tariffs to include the procedures used to inform affiliated and nonaffiliated shippers of the availability and pricing of transportation service and of the capacity available for transportation. This requirement appears superfluous since pipelines are required under Order No. 636 to provide equal and timely access on their EBBs to information relevant to the availability of service on their systems. 13 13 18 CFR 284.8(b)(3), (4); 18 CFR 284.9(b)(3), (4).
