FR940513-0-00076 FR940513-0-00018 (h) Provisions preventing deficit capital account balances. A provision in the partnership agreement that allocates items of loss or deduction away from a qualified organization in instances where allocating those items to the qualified organization would cause or increase a deficit balance in its capital account that the qualified organization is not obligated to restore (within the meaning of ยง1.704&hyph;1(b)(2)(ii) ( b ) or ( d )), is disregarded for purposes of the fractions rule in taxable years of the partnership in which no such allocations are made pursuant to the provision. However, this exception applies only if, at the time the provision becomes part of the partnership agreement, all relevant facts, circumstances, and information (including bona fide financial projections) available to the partners reasonably indicate that it is unlikely that an allocation will be made pursuant to the provision during the life of the partnership. (i) [Reserved] (j) Exception for partner nonrecourse deductions _(1) Partner nonrecourse deductions disregarded until actually allocated . Items of partner nonrecourse deduction that may be allocated to a partner pursuant to ยง1.704&hyph;2, and compensating allocations of other items of loss, deduction, and section 705(a)(2)(B) expenditures that may be allocated to other partners, are not taken into account for purposes of the fractions rule until the taxable years in which they are allocated. (2) Disproportionate allocation of partner nonrecourse deductions to a qualified organization . A violation of the fractions rule will be disregarded if it arises because an allocation of partner nonrecourse deductions to a qualified organization that is not motivated by tax avoidance reduces another qualified organization's fractions rule percentage below what it would have been absent the allocation of the partner nonrecourse deductions. (k) Special rules _(1) Changes in partnership allocations arising from a change in the partners' interests . A qualified organization that acquires a partnership interest from another qualified organization is treated as a continuation of the prior qualified organization partner (to the extent of that acquired interest) for purposes of applying the fractions rule. Changes in partnership allocations that result from other transfers or shifts of partnership interests will be closely scrutinized (to determine whether the transfer or shift stems from a prior agreement, understanding, or plan or could otherwise be expected given the structure of the transaction), but generally will be taken into account only in determining whether the partnership satisfies the fractions rule in the taxable year of the change and subsequent taxable years. (2) De minimis interest rule _(i) In general . Section 514(c)(9)(B)(vi) does not apply to a partnership otherwise subject to that section if_ (A) Qualified organizations do not hold, in the aggregate, interests of greater than five percent in the capital or profits of the partnership; and (B) Taxable partners own substantial interests in the partnership through which they participate in the partnership on substantially the same terms as the qualified organization partners. (ii) Example . Partnership PRS has two types of limited partnership interests that participate in partnership profits and losses on different terms. Qualified organizations (QOs) only own one type of limited partnership interest and own no general partnership interests. In the aggregate, the QOs own less than five percent of the capital and profits of PRS . Taxable partners also own the same type of limited partnership interest that the QOs own. These limited partnership interests owned by the taxable partners are 30 percent of the capital and profits of PRS . Thirty percent is a substantial interest in the partnership. Therefore, PRS satisfies paragraph (k)(2) of this section and section 514(c)(9)(B)(vi) does not apply. (3) De minimis allocations disregarded . A qualified organization's fractions rule percentage of the partnership's items of loss and deduction, other than nonrecourse and partner nonrecourse deductions, that are allocated away from the qualified organization and to other partners in any taxable year are treated as having been allocated to the qualified organization for purposes of the fractions rule if_ (i) The allocation was neither planned nor motivated by tax avoidance; and
