FR940429-0-00133 FR940429-0-00013 (10) A statement of policy regarding the possession, use and sale of illegal drugs and enforcement of Federal and State drug laws. (11) A description of any drug or alcohol-abuse education programs, as required under section 1213 of the HEA. For the purpose of meeting this requirement, an institution may cross-reference the materials the institution uses to comply with section 1213 of the HEA. (12) A statement of policy regarding the institution's campus sexual assault programs to prevent sex offenses, and procedures to follow when a sex offense occurs. The statement must include_ (i) A description of educational programs to promote the awareness of rape, acquaintance rape, and other forcible and nonforcible sex offenses; (ii) Procedures students should follow if a sex offense occurs, including procedures concerning who should be contacted, the importance of preserving evidence for the proof of a criminal offense, and to whom the alleged offense should be reported; (iii) Information on a student's option to notify proper law enforcement authorities, including on-campus and local police, and a statement that institutional personnel will assist the student in notifying these authorities, if the student requests the assistance of these personnel; (iv) Notification to students of existing on- and off-campus counseling, mental health, or other student services for victims of sex offenses; (v) Notification to students that the institution will change a victim's academic and living situations after an alleged sex offense and of the options for those changes, if those changes are requested by the victim and are reasonably available; (vi) Procedures for campus disciplinary action in cases of an alleged sex offense, including a clear statement that_ (A) The accuser and the accused are entitled to the same opportunities to have others present during a disciplinary proceeding; and (B) Both the accuser and the accused shall be informed of the outcome of any institutional disciplinary proceeding brought alleging a sex offense. Compliance with this subsection does not constitute a violation of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (20 U.S.C. 1232g). For the purpose of this paragraph, the outcome of a disciplinary proceeding means only the institution's final determination with respect to the alleged sex offense and any sanction that is imposed against the accused; and (vii) Sanctions the institution may impose following a final determination of an institutional disciplinary proceeding regarding rape, acquaintance rape, or other forcible or nonforcible sex offenses. (b) An institution shall distribute the security report required by paragraph (a) of this section annually to all_ (1) Current and prospective students and employees by appropriate publication and mailings, through_ (i) Direct mailing to each individual through the U.S. Postal Service, campus mail, or computer network; and (ii) Publications provided directly to each individual; and (2) Prospective students as defined in ยง668.41(b) and prospective employees as defined in paragraph (f) of this section, upon request, provided that such individuals are informed of the availability of the security report, given a summary of its contents, and given the opportunity to request a copy. (c) An institution shall comply separately with the requirements of this section for each campus. A branch, school, or administrative division within an institution that is not within a reasonably contiguous geographic area with the institution's main campus is considered to be a separate campus. (d)(1)(i) An institution's first annual security report (due September 1, 1992) must contain the statistics described in paragraph (a)(6) of this section covering the period January 1, 1991, through December 31, 1991, and the two preceding calendar years, or the portion thereof for which data are reasonably available. The first annual security report must contain those statistics covering at least the period from August 1, 1991, through July 31, 1992. (ii) An institution's second and third annual security reports (due September 1, 1993 and September 1, 1994, respectively) must contain the statistics described in paragraph (a)(6) of this section covering the most recent calendar year and the two preceding calendar years, or the portion thereof for which data are reasonably available. The second annual security report must contain those statistics covering at least the period from August 1, 1991, through December 31, 1991, and calendar year 1992. The third annual security report must contain those statistics covering at least the period from August 1, 1991, through December 31, 1991, and calendar years 1992 and 1993. (iii) An institution's annual security report due September 1, 1995, and each subsequent report, must contain the statistics described in paragraph (a)(6) of this section covering the three calendar years preceding the year in which the report is disclosed. (iv) In each annual security report due on or after September 1, 1993, September 1, 1994, September 1, 1995, an institution must, in accordance with paragraphs (d)(1) (ii) and (iii) of this section, report statistics covering rape for periods of time prior to August 1, 1992, and statistics concerning sex offenses, forcible or nonforcible, for periods of time on or after August 1, 1992. (v) In all subsequent annual security reports, an institution shall report statistics for sex offenses, forcible and nonforcible. (2)(i) An institution's first annual security report (due September 1, 1992) must contain the statistics described in paragraph (a)(8) of this section covering the period January 1, 1991, through December 31, 1991, or the portion thereof for which those statistics are available. The first annual security report must contain that data covering at least the period August 1, 1991, through December 31, 1991. (ii) An institution's second annual security report (due September 1, 1993) and each subsequent report must contain the statistics described in paragraph (a)(8) of this section, covering the calendar year preceding the year during which the report is to be disclosed. (3) An institution shall compile crime statistics required under paragraph (a) (6) and (8) of this section in accordance with the definitions used in the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Uniform Crime Reporting Program as provided in Appendix E to this part. (4) Upon the request of the Secretary, an institution must submit to the Secretary the statistics required by paragraphs (a)(6) and (a)(8) of this section. (e) An institution shall, in a manner that is timely and will aid in the prevention of similar crimes, report to the campus community on crimes that are_ (1) Described in paragraph (a)(6) of this section;
