FR940303-0-00024 FR940303-0-00007 (d) Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy. Principal policy advisor to the Secretary and the Deputy Secretary. Public policy development, coordination, and evaluation for all aspects of transportation, with the goal of making the Nation's transportation resources function as an integrated national system; evaluation of private transportation sector operating and economic issues; evaluation of public transportation sector operating and economic issues; regulatory and legislative initiatives and review; energy, environmental, disability, and safety policy and program development and review; and transportation infrastructure assessment and review. (e) Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs. Public policy assessment and review; private sector evaluation; international transportation and transport-related trade policy and issues; regulatory and legislative initiatives and review of maritime/shipbuilding policies and programs; transport-related trade promotion; coordination of land transport relations with Canada and Mexico; technical assistance and science and technology cooperation; international visitors' programs; economic regulation of the airline industry; and essential air service program. (f) Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs. Preparation, review and presentation of Department budget estimates; liaison with OMB and Congressional Budget and Appropriations Committees; departmental financial plans, apportionments, reapportionments, reprogrammings, and allotments; program and systems evaluation and analysis; program evaluation criteria; program resource plans; analysis and review of legislative proposals and one-time reports and studies required by the Congress; budgetary and selected administrative matters relating to the Immediate Office of the Secretary. (g) Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs. Coordination of legislative and non-legislative relationships; congressional affairs; communications and coordination with Federal, State and local governments, industry and labor, and with citizens and organizations representing consumers. (h) Assistant Secretary for Administration. Organization; delegations of authority; personnel ceiling control; management studies; personnel management; acquisition and grant management (except for the responsibility listed for the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization in this section); information resource management; financial management; development and implementation of a Departmental Accounting and Financial Information System (DAFIS); property management information; security; computer support; telecommunications; and administrative support services for the Office of the Secretary and certain other components of the Department. (i) Inspector General. Conduct, supervise, and coordinate audits and investigations, review existing and proposed legislation and make recommendations to the Secretary and Congress (Semiannual reports) concerning their impact on the economy and efficiency of program administration, or the prevention and detection of fraud and abuse; recommend policies for and conduct, supervise, or coordinate other activities of the Department for the purpose of promoting economy and efficiency in program administration, or preventing and detecting fraud and abuse. (j) Executive Secretary. Central facilitative staff for the Immediate Office of the Secretary and the Secretarial Officers. (k) Board of Contract Appeals. Conducts trials and issues final decisions, which are appealable to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, on appeals from contracting officer decisions under contracts awarded by the Department and its constituent administrations in accordance with the Contract Disputes Act of l978, 41 U.S.C. 601 et seq.; sits as the Contract Adjustment Board with plenary authority to grant extraordinary contractual relief in accordance with 50 U.S.C. 1431&hyph;1435 and Executive Order 10789 (3 CFR, 1954&hyph;1958 comp., p. 426), as amended; hears and decides all contractor and subcontractor debarment, suspension, or ineligibility cases pursuant to the Federal Acquisition Regulation, 48 CFR 9.402; judges serve as ``neutrals'' under the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act, 5 U.S.C. 581 et seq., in contract-related matters; and performs such other adjudicatory functions assigned by the Secretary as are consistent with the duties and responsibilities of the Board as set forth in 41 U.S.C. 601 et seq. (l) Departmental Office of Civil Rights. DOT director of equal employment opportunity; Departmentwide compliance officer; Title VI (Civil Rights Act of l964) coordinator; Departmentwide compliance with related laws, Executive Orders, regulations, and policies, and formal complaints of discrimination. (m) Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization. Responsible for the Department's implementation and execution of the functions and duties under sections 8 and 15 of the Small Business Act, as amended, (15 U.S.C. 637 and 644), and for other departmental small and disadvantaged business policy direction. (n) Office of Commercial Space Transportation. Focal point within the Federal Government for private sector space launch contacts and licensing related to commercial expendable launch vehicle operations and for promotion and encouragement of commercial expendable launch vehicle industry. (o) Office of Intelligence and Security. Focal point within the Department of Transportation for intelligence and security matters which affect the safety of the traveling public. (p) Office of Public Affairs. Focal point for public information and departmental relations with the news media, the general public, and selected special publics. ยง1.25 [Amended] c. In ยง1.25(b), the words ``Assistant Secretary for Policy and International Affairs'' are revised to read ``Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy and the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs, as appropriate,''. d. Section 1.26 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows:
