FR940128-1-00069 FR940128-1-00006 The processing of these fish basically involves: (1) Cleaning and gutting followed by (2) immersion in a brine solution or dry salt in order to salt them, (3) drying in a cool temperature to avoid bacterial growth, (4) smoking in a smoking chamber at a temperature and for a time necessary to achieve the desired ``cold process'' or ``hot process'' effect, and (5) packaging and cooling. The taste and texture qualities attributable to ``cold process'' smoked fish require much lower temperatures during the smoking phase of the process than those attributable to ``hot process.'' Salted fish may not be smoked at all. As with virtually all fish, the species used to make smoked fish are exposed during their lives to C. botulinum , a spore- forming bacterium that is ubiquitous in the marine and freshwater environment. Type E is the predominant type of C. botulinum found in fish, other aquatic animals, water, and sediment, although other types such as A, proteolytic and nonproteolytic B, C, D, and F also have been found in fish (Refs. 148 through 152). The concentration of C. botulinum spores that may be expected in and on a naturally contaminated fish is unknown, although it is reported to vary from one spore per 16 g of fish to one spore per 200 g (Refs. 153 and 180). Under certain conditions, C. botulinum can produce a toxin that causes botulism, a disease that attacks the central nervous system of humans and can cause death within 3 to 6 days of ingestion if not properly treated (Ref. 193). C. botulinum's ability to form spores means that in a dormant state, it can survive environments that are otherwise hostile to it. C. botulinum is ``anaerobic,'' meaning that air constitutes a hostile environment. When conditions become favorable, that is, when no air is present, the spores experience ``outgrowth'' during which toxin can be produced. In fish, C. botulinum spores are found in the intestines and can also adhere to the surface of fish. For these reasons, C. botulinum can be found in the environment of most any fish processor and cannot be totally eliminated using reasonable means. Moreover, even though a fish might be cleaned, gutted, and air packaged, some risk will still exist because C. botulinum spores can find their way into muscle tissue during processing. Muscle tissue below the surface of the fish can provide an anaerobic environment where outgrowth and toxin production can occur if time and temperature permit. Although the processing procedures in Appendix 1 are based on studies of the time-temperature and salinity conditions required to prevent the outgrowth of botulinum spores, these practices are also effective in the elimination of risk from other pathogenic bacteria such as L. monocytogenes. L. monocytogenes is a pathogenic bacterium that is widespread in the environment and that is commonly isolated from surface waters and other environmental samples. Thus the likelihood of finding this pathogen on the exterior surfaces and viscera of fish is high. Since 1983, several large outbreaks of human listeriosis have been linked to the consumption of contaminated foods (Refs. 130, 131, and 132), thereby demonstrating the etiologic importance of foodborne transmission of this disease in humans. Although listeriosis is a relatively rare illness (approximately 2,000 reported cases per year in the United States), the exceptionally high mortality rate, as high as 34 percent, makes this illness one of the leading fatal foodborne diseases in the United States. The highest incidence of listeriosis generally occurs in neonates, the elderly, pregnant women, and individuals suffering from compromised immune systems. However, there are instances in which apparently healthy individuals have contracted listeriosis (Refs. 130 and 133). The incidence of Listeria species (including L. monocytogenes ) in frozen raw and cooked seafood products is reportedly as high as 61 percent (Ref. 136). Indeed, numerous seafood products have been shown to support growth of L. monocytogenes (Refs. 137 and 138). L. monocytogenes is capable of prolific growth on smoked salmon stored at 4 ○C, even when test inocula as low as 6 organisms per gram (g) are applied to the surface of fish samples (Ref. 139). Seafoods other than smoked or smoke-flavored fish have been epidemiologically linked to two outbreaks and one sporadic case of listeriosis (Ref. 140). Furthermore, several cooked seafood products have been recalled from the market in North America because of contamination with L. monocytogenes , but these crises did not involve smoked or smoke- flavored fish products.
