FR940927-2-00044 FR940927-2-00031 Fish and Wildlife Service Availability of a Draft Recovery Plan for the American Chaffseed for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service announces the availability for public review of a draft Recovery Plan for the American chaffseed ( Schwalbea americana ). The American chaffseed, which historically occurred in all the coastal states from Massachusetts to Louisiana as well as the inland states of Kentucky and Tennessee, is now limited to New Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. The species was listed as endangered in 1992 due to its extirpation from over half of its historical range and a decline in known occurrences. Although the number of known populations has increased substantially since the time of its listing, threats to the survival of the American chaffseed remain, primarily due to fire suppression and concomitant vegetational succession of the fire-maintained ecosystems where the species occurs. The recovery objective for this species is to be able to reclassify it to threatened status by protecting at least 50 distinct, self-sustaining American chaffseed populations. The Service solicits review and comment from the public on this draft Plan. DATES: Comments on the draft Recovery Plan must be received December 27, 1994, to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft Recovery Plan can obtain a copy from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, New Jersey Field Office, 927 North Main Street, Building D&hyph;1, Pleasantville, New Jersey 08232, telephone 609&hyph;646&hyph;0620. Comments should be sent to this address, to the attention of Dana Peters. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dana Peters (see Addresses ). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring an endangered or threatened animal or plant to the point where it is again a secure, self-sustaining member of its ecosystem is a primary goal of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare Recovery Plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery Plans describe actions considered necessary for conservation of the species, establish criteria for the recovery levels for downlisting or delisting them, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ), requires the development of Recovery Plans for listed species unless such a Plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during Recovery Plan development. The Service will consider all information presented during a public comment period prior to approval of each new or revised Recovery Plan. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comments into account in the course of implementing Recovery Plans. The document submitted for review is the draft American Chaffseed ( Schwalbea americana ) Recovery Plan. This perennial member of the figwort family, a montypic genus, is primarily a coastal plain species of the Atlantic and Gulf coasts. The few inland exceptions to its coastal distribution are historic records. Although the number of known extant occurrences of the American chaffseed has increased three-fold since the species' listing in 1992 (due mainly to intensive searches in South Carolina), its range has undergone a significant contraction since the species was first recognized in 1935: where it used to be found in 13 states from Massachusetts in the North to Texas in the South, it now occurs in 5 states, from New Jersey to Florida.
