FR940224-0-00018 FR940224-0-00002 As for concerns about a ``safe harbor,'' the Board believes that an implicit safe harbor exists for banks electing either one of the two recordkeeping options included in the final rule, and that following either of these options would allow the necessary certification to be made for purposes of section 112 of FDICIA. Furthermore, under the enforcement guidelines, the federal banking agencies should not assess civil money penalties for an inadvertent or accidental violation of their rules. Second, because the commenters did not identify any recordkeeping methods other than the two proposed by the Board, the Board has adopted a presumption in the final rule that a bank must use either one of the two identified methods unless it can demonstrate that another method is equally effective. The suitability of any alternative procedure for monitoring lending to insiders and their related interests must be determined, of course, on the basis of the effectiveness of the procedure in preventing violations of law and insider abuse. Any alternative recordkeeping procedure must sufficiently identify extensions of credit covered by Regulation O to ensure that proper monitoring of and compliance with insider lending restrictions is maintained. Finally, the Board has made an explicit exemption from the requirement that a bank keep records of, or inquire about related interests of insiders of the bank or its affiliates, for banks that are prohibited from making commercial loans in the first place. 3 Related interests consist only of companies or other similar entities, as a result of which a bank that is prohibited from making commercial loans is prohibited from making loans to any company or other entity that may be a related interest. When such a prohibition exists, recordkeeping or inquiries with respect to related interests is unnecessarily burdensome. 3 For example, a nonbank credit card bank, in order to maintain its exception from the definition of ``bank'' in the Bank Holding Company Act, may not engage in the business of making commercial loans. See 12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(E). IV. Definition of Extension of Credit The Board proposed three amendments to the definition of ``extension of credit'' in Regulation O: a clarification of the ``tangible economic benefit'' rule; a new exception for the discount by a bank of obligations sold by an insider without recourse; and an increase in the threshold for treating credit card debt as an extension of credit. See 58 FR 47400, September 9, 1993. A. ``Tangible Economic Benefit'' Rule Regulation O provides that an extension of credit is deemed to be made to an insider when the proceeds of the credit are used for the tangible economic benefit of, or are transferred to, the insider. 12 CFR 215.3(f). These extensions of credit are thereby counted toward the lending limits of Regulation O.
