FR941221-2-00003 FR941221-2-00001 3. Users of the Mendenhall Glacier Recreation Area do not have adequate parking and access to portions of the recreation area. At times this causes conflicts with local residents, such as along the Dredge Lake Road. 4. Vandalism is resulting in property and resource damage, causing increased maintenance costs, and public health and safety concerns. 5. Dogs not under voice control, or not on a leash, are causing conflicts and safety concerns with other recreationists. 6. Recreational use may result in negative impacts to fish and wildlife habitat and viewing opportunities. 7. Local people consider current MGRA management to be biased toward tourism rather than toward local resident use. People feel that continued development and growth of the tourism industry at the Visitor Center and in the MGRA will adversely affect local use of the recreation area. 8. Agency response to Special Use requests are resulting in inconsistent decisions and permits. A letter was mailed in May, 1993 to the public and organizations, and a series of public meetings were hosted to solicit public comments to help determine preliminary issues. Presentations were made to local groups interested in the recreation area. The Juneau Empire published an article on the plan update process, and KJNO carried a radio interview. The Juneau Ranger District received 79 written comments and one petition plus numerous comments during the public meetings. Comments will be accepted throughout the EIS process but, to be most useful, should be received by January 21, 1995. The draft environmental impact statement should be available for review by spring, 1995. The final environmental impact statement is scheduled to be completed by late summer, 1995. The comment period on the draft environmental impact statement will be 45 days from the date the Environmental Protection Agency publishes the notice of availability in the Federal Register . The Forest Service believes, at this early stage, it is important to give reviewers notice of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC, 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the draft environmental impact statement stage but that are not raised until after the completion of the final environmental impact statement may be waived or dismissed by the courts. City of Angoon v. Hodel, 803 F.2d. 1016, 1022 (9th Cir. 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. v. Harris, 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of these court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the 45 day comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in the final environmental impact statement. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues and concerns on the proposed action, comments on the draft environmental impact statement should be as specific as possible. It is also helpful if comments refer to specific pages or chapters of the draft statement. Comments may also address the adequacy of the draft environmental impact statement or the merits of the alternatives formulated and discussed in the statement. Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points. The Final EIS and Record of Decision is expected to be released in late summer, 1995. The Chatham Area Forest Supervisor, Chatham Area, Tongass National Forest will, as the responsible official for the EIS, make a decision regarding this proposal considering the comments, responses, and environmental consequences discussed in the Final EIS, and applicable laws, regulations, and policies. The decision and supporting reasons will be documented in the Record of Decision. Dated: November 22, 1994. Gary A. Morrison, Forest Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31177 Filed 12&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
