FR940505-2-00004 FR940505-2-00003 Forest Service Crane Mountain Salvage, Flathead National Forest, Swan Lake Ranger District, Lake County, Montana AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The Forest Service will prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) to analyze and disclose the environment impacts of a proposal to harvest timber, use prescribed fire, and implement travel management changes on Crane Mountain, on the Swan Lake Ranger District. This EIS will tier to the Flathead National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan (LRMP) and EIS of January 1986, which provides overall guidance in achieving the desired future condition for the area. The Proposed Action is designed to implement the Flathead Forest Plan within the context of Ecosystem Management principles. The primary purpose for development of the Proposed Action is to address an on-going Mountain Pine Beetle epidemic which is causing extensive mortality in lodgepole pine on Crane Mountain. The Proposed Action is designed to address the short- and long-term consequences of the epidemic. The Proposed Action will reduce the likelihood of a large intense fire by reducing the accumulation of dry fuels through salvage of dead lodgepole pine and treatment of residual slash, accelerate re-establishment of a variety of tree species in area of high mortality, contribute to the current demands for timber and provide for long-term sustainability of wood products and other resource elements. A portion of the Proposed Action is designed to address the effects of past fire suppression in fire-dependent forest communities where ponderosa pine was once a major tree species. Use of prescribed fire is proposed to begin to reverse the destabilizing effect of post-settlement fire suppression on dry sites, moving towards the relatively open stands dominated by ponderosa pine and western larch which historically existed in these areas. A third aspect of the Proposed Action is designed to improve on existing levels of grizzly bear habitat security. Changes in Travel Management would bring the area into compliance with LRMP standards for open road density in grizzly bear habitat, and take further steps to provide more effective road closures and increase, over time, the proportion of unroaded secure habitat on Crane Mountain. Preliminary scoping for this project began in the fall of 1992. At this time the Forest Service is seeking information and comments from Federal, State, and local agencies and other individuals or organizations who may now be interested in or affected by the Proposed Action. This input will be used in preparing the Draft EIS. This process will include: 1. Identification of potential issues. 2. Identification of issues to be analyzed in depth. 3. Elimination of insignificant issues or those which have been covered by a relevant previous environmental analysis. 4. Identification of additional reasonable alternatives.
