FR940803-1-00026 FR940803-1-00004 5. Paying on full balance. Credit unions must pay dividends on the full balance in the account once a member has met the required minimum balance. For example, if a credit union sets $300 as is minimum daily balance requirement to earn dividends, and a member share and deposits $500, the credit union must pay the stated dividend rate on the full $500 and not just on $200. 6. Negative balances prohibited. Credit unions must treat a negative account balance as zero to determine: The daily or average daily balance on which dividends will be paid Whether any minimum balance to earn dividends is met (See commentary to Appendix A, Part II, which prohibits credit unions from using negative balances in calculating the dividends figure for the annual percentage yield earned.) 7. Club accounts. Credit unions offering club accounts (such as ``holiday'' or ``vacation'' club accounts) cannot impose a minimum balance that is based on the total number or dollar amount of payments required under the club plan. For example, if a plan calls for $10 weekly payments for 50 weeks, the credit union cannot set a $500 minimum balance and then pay only if the member makes all 50 payments. 8. Minimum balances not affecting dividends. Credit unions may use the daily balance, average daily balance, or other computation method to calculate minimum balance requirements not involving the payment of dividends_such as to compute minimum balances for assessing fees. (b) Compounding and crediting policies 1. General. Credit unions that choose to compound dividends may compound or credit dividends annually, semi-annually, quarterly, monthly, daily, continuously, or on any other basis. 2. Withdrawals prior to crediting date. If members withdraw funds, without closing the account, prior to a scheduled crediting date, credit unions may delay paying the accrued dividends on the withdrawn amount until the scheduled crediting date, but may not avoid paying dividends. 3. Closed accounts. If members close accounts prior to the date dividends are credited, credit unions may choose not to pay accrued dividends as long as they have previously disclosed that fact to the member. If accrued dividends are paid, accrued dividends must be paid on funds up until the account is closed or the account is deemed closed. For example, if an account is closed on a Tuesday, accrued dividends on the funds through Monday would be paid. Whether (and the conditions under which) credit unions are permitted to deem an account closed by a member is determined by state or other law, if any. Credit unions are cautioned that bylaw requirements may prevent a credit union from deeming a member's account closed until certain time periods are extinguished. (See NCUA Standard FCU Bylaws, Art. III, ยง3 (members have at least 6 months to replenish membership share before membership can terminate and the account is deemed closed). Such bylaw requirements may not be overridden without proper agency approval. 4. Dormant account. Subject to state or other law defining when an account becomes dormant, a credit union may contract with a member not to pay accrued, but uncredited, dividends if the account becomes dormant prior to the regular dividend crediting date. (c) Date dividends begin to accrue 1. Relation to Regulation CC. Credit unions may rely on the Expedited Funds Availability Act (EFAA) and regulation CC (12 CFR part 229) to determine, for example, when a share is considered made for purposes of dividend accrual, or when dividends need not be paid on funds because a deposited check is later returned unpaid. 2. Ledger and collected balances. Credit unions may calculate dividends by using a ``ledger'' balance or ``collected'' balance method, as long as the crediting requirements of the EFAA are met. 3. Withdrawal of principal. Credit unions must accrue dividends on funds until the funds are withdrawn from the account. For example, if a check is debited to an account on a Tuesday, the credit union must accrue dividends on those funds through Monday. Section 707.8_Advertising. (a) Misleading or inaccurate advertisements 1. General. All advertisements must comply with the rule against misleading or inaccurate advertisements, even though the disclosures applicable to various media differ. The word ``profit'' may be used when referring to dividend-bearing share accounts, as it reflects the nature of dividends. The word ``profit'' may not be used when referring to interest-bearing deposit accounts. 2. Indoor signs. An indoor sign advertising an annual percentage yield is not misleading or inaccurate if: For a tiered-rate account, it also provides the upper and lower dollar amounts of the advertised tier corresponding to the annual percentage yield For a term, share account, it also provides the term required to obtain the advertised yield 3. ``Free'' or ``no cost'' accounts. For purposes of determining whether an account can be advertised as ``free'' or ``no cost,'' maintenance and activity fees include: Any fee imposed if a minimum balance requirement is not met, or if the member exceeds a specified number of transactions Transaction and service fees that members reasonably expect to be regularly imposed on an account Examples of maintenance and activity fees include:
