FR940413-2-00099 FR940413-2-00056 DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Employment and Training Administration Notice of Determinations Regarding Eligibility To Apply for Worker Adjustment Assistance and NAFTA Transitional Adjustment Assistance In accordance with section 223 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, the Department of Labor herein presents summaries of determinations regarding eligibility to apply for trade adjustment assistance for workers (TA&hyph;W) issued during the period of March, 1994. In order for an affirmative determination to be made and a certification of eligibility to apply for worker adjustment assistance to be issued, each of the group eligibility requirements of section 222 of the Act must be met. (1) That a significant number or proportion of the workers in the workers' firm, or an appropriate subdivision thereof, have become totally or partially separated, (2) That sales or production, or both, of the firm or subdivision have decreased absolutely, and (3) That increases of imports of articles like or directly competitive with articles produced by the firm or appropriate subdivision have contributed importantly to the separations, or threat thereof, and to the absolute decline in sales or production. Negative Determinations for Worker Adjustment Assistance In each of the following cases the investigation revealed that criterion (3) has not been met. A survey of customers indicated that increased imports did not contribute importantly to worker separations at the firm. TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,467; Pacific Western Forest Industries, St. Helens, OR TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,417; R.P. Nixon Operations, Inc., Hays, KS TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,416; Sonoco Fibre Drum, Saraland, AL TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,389; Aeroscientific Corp., Beaverton, OR TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,390; A.J. Electronics, Inc., Chatsworth, CA In the following cases, the investigation revealed that the criteria for eligibility have not been met for the reasons specified. TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,328; Tetra-Pak, Inc., Minneapolis, MN Increased imports did not contribute importantly to worker separations at the firm. TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,345; Camco Products & Services, Houston, TX Increased imports did not contribute importantly to worker separations at the firm. TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,492; Banister Shoe Co., U.S. Shoe Corp., Beloit, WI The importation of footwear did not negatively impact employment at the retail level. The corporation experienced increasing footwear sales during the relevant period. TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,505; Apertus Technology, Eden Prairie, MN The investigation revealed that criterion (2) has not been met. Sales or production did not decline during the relevant period for certification. TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,530; Northwest Alloys, Inc., Addy, WA The investigation revealed that criterion (2) has not been met. Sales or production did not decline during the relevant period for certification. TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,394; Martin Marietta, Projection Display Products, Syracuse, NY Bids awarded to foreign manufacturers represented an insignificant part of the subject firm's sales decline during the relevant period.
