FR940902-2-00159 FR940902-2-00069 Pavement Roughness Three SHAs suggested that the International Roughness Index (IRI), developed at the International Road Roughness Experiment, is not the appropriate measure of rideability. The FHWA recognizes that IRI does have some limitations. It does, however, provide a common quantitative basis with which to reference the different measures of roughness. Further, it is currently collected by SHAs and provided to FHWA under the Highway Performance Monitoring System (HPMS) submission requirements. Although the FHWA is open to use of improved pavement surface rideability measures, until such time that improved measures and equipment to measure them are accepted and readily available to SHA's, the FHWA will continue to rely on IRI as the ride indicator. Four SHAs commented that the specific IRI criteria of 240 cm/km (150 inches/mile) was too severe. The FHWA disagrees. The selection of the 240 cm/km upper limit criteria on pavement roughness was directly tied to the FHWA's desire to require Interstate pavement to be in fair or better condition. The interim policy noted that initial IRI to pavement serviceability rating 1 (PSR) conversion studies 2 indicated a 240 cm/km IRI is equivalent to a PSR range of 3.0 to 3.5. Pavements within this range are classified as fair in the FHWA's ``1992 Highway Statistics'' 3 report. Subsequent additional analysis of the IRI/PSR correlation indicates that a 240 cm/km IRI more accurately reflects a much lower PSR range of 2.5 to 2.8 (pavements in this range are classified as being in poor to mediocre condition 4 ). Based on this further analysis, the FHWA has established an upper limit of allowable IRI of 200 cm/km (127 ’ ’/mile). This converts to a PSR of between 2.8 and 3.2 which is more consistent with the FHWA's original objective that pavements be in fair or better condition 5 . 1 The PSR concept was developed at the 1956 American Association of State Highway Officials (AASHO) road test to relate the pavement serviceability index (PSI), computed from objectively measured pavement distress, with subjective serviceability ratings by panels of road users. 2 Bashar Al-Omari and Michael I. Darter, ``Relationships between IRI and PSR: A Report of the Findings of Pavement Model Enhancements for the Highway Performance Monitoring System (HPMS),'' Transportation Engineering Series No. 69, University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign, Report No. UILU&hyph;ENG&hyph;92&hyph;2013, September 1992. This document is available for inspection in FHWA Docket No. 93&hyph;10. 3 FHWA, ``Highway Statistics 1992,'' FHWA&hyph;PL&hyph;93&hyph;023. A copy of this document is available for inspection in FHWA Docket No. 93&hyph;10. 4 Ibid. 5 Ibid. Rutting Rutting comments were limited to data collection difficulties and reflected a degree of uncertainty about what data collection equipment and procedure would be considered acceptable. No comments were received concerning the appropriateness of the rutting indicator or the established criteria. Therefore the FHWA has retained 15 mm (5/8 inch) as the upper allowable limit of rutting. Concerns related to data collection equipment and procedures are addressed under ``Pavement Data Collection,'' later in the preamble. Faulting The SHA comments on the faulting criteria were split evenly; five SHAs thought that the faulting criteria were too restrictive, while five SHAs commented that the criteria were acceptable. In addition, the HUFSAM found the criteria acceptable.
