FR940620-0-00131 FR940620-0-00029 This provision requires that controls in accessible spaces and controls requiring regular or periodic maintenance or adjustments by residents and electric circuit breaker panels comply with ADAAG 4.27. This provision clarifies that controls may be inaccessible as long as accessible redundant controls are provided in close proximity. An exception to this provision provides that controls such as those on air distribution registers that are placed on or close to ceilings or floors are not required to be accessible. Comment. EPVA recommended that the guidelines permit inaccessible redundant controls such as switches for range hoods. They noted that certain building codes require range hood switches to be built into the unit face. In addition, they suggested that the guidelines specify that circuit breaker panels are ``controls'' as defined by this provision. Response. Redundant controls are permitted so that certain building codes are not violated by these guidelines. Additionally, electric circuit breaker panels are controls that must be accessible. The interim final guidelines have been amended to reflect these changes. 13.3.2(10)␣Alarms This provision requires that where emergency warning systems are provided, they must include both audible alarms complying with ADAAG 4.28.2 and visible alarms complying with ADAAG 4.28.3. Comment. The NPRM proposed to require auxiliary visible alarms complying with ADAAG 4.28.4. The National Center for Law and Deafness urged consideration of the fact that single station alarms, including smoke detectors, generally are provided in residential dwelling units. They suggested that the provisions of ADAAG 4.28.3 which address both single station alarms and building-wide systems are more appropriate for this section. They noted that the term ``auxiliary visible alarm'' implies that the alarm appliance is used in conjunction with or to supplement a building's alarm system. Response. Auxiliary visible alarms are used more appropriately to supplement another alarm system. They have particular characteristics that make them desirable in sleeping rooms in transient lodging facilities where the room occupant is presumed to be asleep during much of the time the room is occupied. This, however, is not the case in residential dwelling units where persons are awake much of the time. For this reason, the section is revised to reference ADAAG 4.28.3 (Visible Alarms). In addition, reference to single station alarms has been removed from this provision because ADAAG 4.28.3 covers both building-wide alarm systems and single station alarms which are not integrated into a building's alarm system. There appears to be some confusion regarding the difference between an emergency warning system and a building-wide alarm. Both a building-wide alarm system and an individual single station alarm are considered emergency warning systems and providing either would require compliance with this provision. 13.3.2(11)␣Bathrooms This provision requires at least one full bathroom to comply with ADAAG 13.3.3. It defines a full bathroom as having, at a minimum, a water closet, a lavatory, and a bathtub, a shower, or a combination tub and shower. Comment. A number of national, State and local organizations representing persons with disabilities indicated that all full bathrooms on accessible floors should be accessible. One commenter noted that two people using wheelchairs might share one dwelling unit which has two bathrooms. Response. Providing only one accessible full bathroom where more than one bathroom is provided inconveniences some families. However, where the Fair Housing Accessibility Guidelines are applicable, blocking is required in the walls to support grab bars and doors are required to provide sufficient clearance for entry into those additional bathrooms that are not covered by this provision. 13.3.2(12)␣Kitchens This provision requires kitchens to comply with ADAAG 13.3.4. No comments were received on this provision and no changes have been made. Comments regarding technical provisions for kitchens are discussed at ADAAG 13.3.4. 13.3.2(13)␣Living Spaces This provision requires the following spaces to be accessible and to be on an accessible route: living areas; dining areas; sleeping areas; and, if provided, patios, terraces, balconies, decks, carports, and garages. With respect to sleeping areas in a dwelling unit with one bedroom, that bedroom must be accessible. In dwelling units with more than one bedroom, at least two bedrooms must be accessible. An exception allows for a higher threshold at doors on patios, decks, terraces, or balconies when it is necessary to protect the integrity of the unit from wind or water damage if equivalent facilitation is provided. Comment. Some commenters requested that all living spaces on accessible floors be required to be on an accessible route. Other commenters requested that all bedrooms be required to be on an accessible route. Commenters reasoned that persons with disabilities should have full use and enjoyment of their dwelling units. Commenters cited the example that parents with disabilities would need to access children's bedrooms for a variety of reasons. Response. With respect to new construction of certain multifamily housing, ADAAG overlaps the requirements of the Fair Housing Accessibility Guidelines. Those guidelines address requirements for an accessible route into and through the covered dwelling unit. See 24 CFR 100.205. Elements and spaces which are addressed in ADAAG meet or exceed the requirements of the Fair Housing Accessibility Guidelines. Accessible living spaces should be designed to provide the required clearances when the dwelling unit is furnished. For example, the required accessible route in a master bedroom should not be obstructed by a full size bed. In addition, the design of the unit will, to a great degree, dictate furniture placement. If no wall space accommodates a sofa or couch in a living room due to the placement of doors then the furniture may, of necessity, obstruct maneuvering clearances. Comment. A number of commenters representing persons with disabilities, including DREDF, objected to the exception for patios, decks, terraces, or balconies. Independent Housing Services of San Francisco, California urged that these guidelines not allow an exception which gives people with disabilities less access than others to the open air portion of dwelling units.
