FR941222-1-00026 FR941222-1-00008 (5) Wastestreams where the calculated high-end individual cancer-risk level is between 1×10 ^4 and 1×10 ^6 fall in the category for which there is a presumption of candidacy for either listing (risk >10 ^5 ) or no listing (risk <10 ^5 ). However, this presumption is not as strong as when risks are outside this range. Therefore, listing determinations for wastestreams falling into this range would always involve assessment of the additional factors discussed below. b. Additional Factors. The following factors will be considered in making listing determinations, particularly for wastes falling into the risk range between 1×10 ^4 and 1×10 ^6 : (1) Certainty of waste characterization; (2) Certainty in risk assessment methodology; (3) Coverage by other regulatory programs; (4) Waste volume; (5) Evidence of co-occurrence; (6) Damage cases showing actual impact to human health or the environment; and (7) Presence of toxicant(s) of unknown or unquantifiable risk. (1) Certainty of Waste Characterization EPA compiles data on the amounts and composition of each wastestream. Different sources of variability in these data, variability between facilities, between production processes, between samples, and in analytical methodologies, exist. All such variability sources may influence the Agency's decision on how much weight to place on data collected as a basis for a listing decision. Budget constraints or sample availability constraints may limit the size of the database for any one wastestream. In such cases, the Agency generally assumes that the sample(s) taken are representative of each like wastestream from that category of generator and that the data, generated following a QA/QC plan, are ``good'' data. However, EPA will take uncertainty of the data into account in the listing process. The Agency sometimes relies on analytical measurements that fall below the level of an analyst's ability to quantify with certainty the concentration of the constituent involved (these measurements are referred to as ``estimated'' or ``J-values'' in listing determinations). Analytical methods used by the Agency have been developed with a goal of obtaining quantitative measurements ( i.e., # 25% uncertainty or less) at levels of regulatory concern. Frequently, analytical measurements may detect the presence of constituents of concern at levels at or below the analytical method's limit of quantitation. However, for some highly toxic substances measurements of constituents below the limit of quantitation may be of toxicological significance and, therefore, potential regulatory significance. The limit of quantitation is defined as the level above which results may be obtained with a specified degree of confidence. In the case of methods which use mass spectrometric measurements, quantitative uncertainty is assigned to measurements below the limit of quantitation (although a positive determination of presence is certain) as follows: •The uncertainty of measurements at the limit of detection (3 times the standard deviation estimation [ s ]) approaches # 100% (3 s # 3 s ). •At the point of reliable detection (6 s # 3 s ), the uncertainty of measurement approaches # 50%. •In the area of accurate quantitation (10 s to 12 s ), uncertainty approaches # 30% to # 25%, based on the 99% confidence level of the measurement uncertainty. In other words, when the analyte signal is 10 or more times larger than the standard deviation of the measurements, there is a 99% probability that the true concentration of the analyte is # 30% of the calculated concentration. 1 1 Keith, L.H., Environmental Sampling and Analysis: A Practical Guide (Chelsea, MI: Lewis Publishers, 1992). See Figure 12, page 110, for the relationship of limit of detection, reliable detection limit, and limit of quantitation. Although the uncertainty of analytical measurements increases as the limit of detection is approached, the calculated concentrations obtained may represent the best available measurement of the analyte present. It is the Agency's policy on listing determinations that measurements in the range below the level of quantification but above the level of detection will be used at the reported quantitation level for risk analysis purposes. However, the Agency generally will consider the uncertainty associated with measurements below the quantitation level and assess the impact of that level of uncertainty on a listing decision. Increasing uncertainty of a measurement may increase the importance of other factors in making a listing determination. (2) Certainty in Risk Assessment Methodology Uncertainty can exist in the methodologies and data used to conduct both the toxicity assessments and the fate and transport exposure models employed in risk assessments. Toxicity assessment methods sometimes rely on animal or cellular models to predict a chemical's effect on humans or animals. Direct toxicity testing of a chemical is not always available. For some of these chemicals, structure/activity relationships can be used to predict the toxicity of the substance involved. In these cases, the Agency considers what degree of uncertainty can exist in that analysis when making listing determinations. Similarly, some fate/transport models make use of an increased amount of input data or can involve actual verification. For those models, uncertainty in exposure analysis is decreased. The Agency weighs the relative uncertainty of the predictive models when generating risk assessments and making listing determinations.
