FR940224-2-00156 FR940224-2-00094 The USIS offices will facilitate the issuance of visas and other program-related materials. Programmatic Considerations Pursuant to the legislation authorizing the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, programs must maintain a nonpolitical character and should be balanced and representative of the diversity of American political, social and cultural life. USIA will give priority to proposals from U.S. organizations with relevant institutional contacts in the countries involved in the various projects described above. Partner institutions are encouraged to provide cost-sharing or significant in-kind contributions such as local housing and transportation, interpreting, translating and other local currency costs. These institutions are also encouraged to assist with the organization of various program activities. The grantee will be responsible for most arrangements associated with this program. These include selecting speakers, themes, and topics for discussion; organizing a coherent progression of activities; providing international and domestic travel arrangements for all foreign participants and U.S. domestic travel for escort-interpreters; making lodging and local transportation arrangements for visitors; orienting and debriefing participants; preparing any necessary support materials; and working with host institutions and individuals to achieve maximum program effectiveness. At the start of the U.S. portion of a program, the grantee should conduct an orientation session for the visiting delegation which addresses substantive details of the program as well as geographic, historical, and cross-cultural factors which they should consider to enhance program success. Upon conclusion of the program the grantee will be required to submit a report to E/P summarizing results of the entire program. Other Logistical Considerations Program monitoring and oversight will be provided by appropriate USIA elements. Per Diem support from host institutions during an internship component is strongly encouraged. However, for all programs which include internships, a nonprofit grantee institution which receives funds from corporate or other cosponsors should then use those monies to provide food, lodging, and pocket money for the participants. In no case could the intern receive a wage or ``be hired'' by the sponsoring institution. Internships should also have an American studies/values orientation component at the beginning of the exchange program in the U.S. Grantee institutions should try to maximize cost-sharing in all facets of their program design, and to stimulate U.S. private sector (foundation and corporate) support. Funding Organizations with less than four years of successful experience in managing international exchange programs are limited to $60,000. Competition for USIA funding support is keen. The final selection of a grantee institution will depend on assessment of proposals according to the review criteria delineated below. While applicants must provide on all-inclusive budget with the proposal, they are also encouraged to include separate sub-budgets for each program component, phase, location or activity. The recipient's proposal shall include the cost of an audit that: (1) Complies with the requirements of OMB Circular No. A&hyph;133, Audits of Institutions of Higher Education and Other Nonprofit Institutions; (2) complies with the requirements of American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement of Position (SOP) No. 92&hyph;9; and (3) includes review by the recipient's independent auditor of a recipient-prepared supplemental schedule of indirect cost rate computation, if such a rate is being proposed. The audit costs shall be identified separately for: (1) Preparation of basic financial statements and other accounting services; and (2) preparation of the supplemental reports and schedules required by OMB Circular No. A&hyph;133, AICPA SOP 92&hyph;9, and the review of the supplemental schedule of indirect cost rate computation.
