FR940616-2-00039 FR940616-2-00027 DELAWARE RIVER BASIN COMMISSION Notice of Commission Meeting and Public Hearing Notice is hereby given that the Delaware River Basin Commission will hold a public hearing on Wednesday, June 22, 1994. The hearing will be part of the Commission's regular business meeting which is open to the public and scheduled to begin at 2:00 p.m. in the Flying Bridge Room of the Harbour League Club at 800 Hudson Square, Camden, New Jersey. The subjects of the hearing will be as follows: Applications for Approval of the Following Projects Pursuant to Article 10.3, Article 11, and/or Section 3.8 of the Compact 1. Delaware County Solid Waste Disposal Authority D&hyph;89&hyph;18 CP. An application for construction of an on-site wastewater treatment facility to process up to 0.08 million gallons per day (mgd) of sanitary landfill leachate and non-hazardous liquid waste generated by facilities within the Delaware River Basin. After tertiary treatment, the effluent will be conveyed by pipeline from the existing Colebrookdale Landfill and discharged to Manatawny Creek in Oley Township, Berks County, Pennsylvania. The existing landfill project has no on-site treatment facilities and has been trucking collected leachate off-site for processing and disposal at two municipal sanitary treatment plants. The site is located along Schenkel Road in Earl Township, Berks County, Pennsylvania. 2. American Telephone and Telegraph (AT&T) D&hyph;91&hyph;79. AT&T proposes to expand the rating of its existing 3.0 mgd capacity industrial wastewater treatment plant (IWTP) to handle approximately 3.6 mgd. In addition, AT&T has requested a determination of the allowable limit for the concentration of total dissolved solids in the treated effluent, which will continue to discharge to Spring Run, a tributary of the Lehigh River. The project IWTP serves only the AT&T's electronic components manufacturing operation located at the plant site just north of Union Boulevard and east of the Lehigh River, in the City of Allentown, Lehigh County, Pennsylvania. 3. Hoffmann-LaRoche Inc. D&hyph;93&hyph;7. A project to improve the treatment capability of the applicant's existing 3.0 mgd capacity IWTP by constructing an additional secondary clarifier. The IWTP is located approximately 3000 feet north of the Town of Belvidere in White Township, Warren County, New Jersey. The IWTP will continue to serve the applicant's vitamin production facilities and discharge to the Delaware River via its existing outfall in Water Quality Zone 1D. 4. Borough of Woodstown D&hyph;93&hyph;17 CP. An application for approval of a ground water withdrawal project to supply up to 8.9 million gallons (mg)/30 days of water to the applicant's distribution system from new Well No. 4, and to increase the existing withdrawal limit of 12 mg/30 days from all wells to 18.1 mg/30 days. The project is located in Woodstown Borough, Salem County, New Jersey. 5. E. I. DuPont deNemours and Company, Inc. D&hyph;93&hyph;19. An application for approval of numerous ground water projects and a surface water withdrawal project to supply up to 540.14 mg/30 days of water from 14 production wells and 14 ground water remediation wells, and to supply up to 892.8 mg/30 of water for production purposes from the Salem Canal. The purpose is to consolidate the applicant's numerous existing and new withdrawals from the ground water and the Salem Canal for production and remediation purposes into one comprehensive docket. The project is located in Carneys Point Township, Salem County, New Jersey. 6. GROWS Inc. D&hyph;94&hyph;17. A project to withdraw up to 0.4 mgd on an average monthly basis from the tidal portion of the Delaware River to provide water primarily for dust control at the Eastern Expansion of the applicant's landfill facilities. The withdrawal will be located southeast of the GROWS landfill and across from Newbold Island on the Delaware River in Falls Township, Bucks County, Pennsylvania. 7. Moyer Packing Co. D&hyph;94&hyph;20. An application for approval of an expanded ground water withdrawal project to supply up to 1.51 mg/30 days of water from existing Well No. 1, and 5.4 mg/30 days from existing Well No. 2 to the applicant's Souderton Rendering (Division 1) Facility, and to limit the withdrawal from all wells to 6.57 mg/30 day. The project is located in Franconia Township, Montgomery County, in the Southeastern Pennsylvania Ground Water Protected Area. Documents relating to these items may be examined at the Commission's offices. Preliminary dockets are available in single copies upon request. Please contact George C. Elias concerning docket-related questions. Persons wishing to testify at this hearing are requested to register with the Secretary prior to the hearing. Dated: June 7, 1994. Susan M. Weisman, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14613 Filed 6&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6360&hyph;01&hyph;P
