FR940304-2-00096 FR940304-2-00040 (b) A record from this system of records may be disclosed as a ``routine use'' to a federal, state or local agency maintaining civil, criminal or other relevant enforcement information or other pertinent information, such as current licenses, if necessary to obtain information relevant to an agency decision concerning the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the letting of a contract or the issuance of a license, grant or other benefit. (c) A record from this system of records may be disclosed to a federal agency, in response to its request, in connection with the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the reporting of an investigation of an employee, the letting of a contact, or the issuance of a license, grantor or other benefit by the requesting agency, to the extent that the information is relevant and necessary to the requesting agency's decision in the matter. (d) A record from this system of records may be disclosed to an authorized appeal grievance examiner, formal complaints examiner, equal employment opportunity investigator, arbitrator or other duly authorized official engaged in investigation or settlement of a grievance, complaint, or appeal filed by an employee. A record from this system of records may be disclosed to the United States Civil Service Commission in accordance with the agency's responsibility for evaluation and oversight of federal personnel management. (e) A record from this system of records may be disclosed to officers and employees of a federal agency for purposes of audit. Policies, and practices for storing, retreiving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the systems: Storage: Paper and microfilm. Retrievability: Manual. Identifier_Social Security Number. Safeguards: Stored in guarded building; released only to authorized personnel. Retention and disposal: Disposition of records shall be in accordance with HB GSA Records Maintenance and Disposition System (OAD P 1820.2). System manager(s) and address: Personnel Office, Office of Personnel, Vice President for Operations, Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart Street, 10th Floor, Arlington, VA 22203. Notification procedure: Contact individual listed above, or Vice President for Operations. Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart Street, 10th Floor, Arlington, VA 22203. Record access procedures: IAF access procedures are contained in 22 CFR part 1003. Contesting records procedures: Contesting Record Procedures are contained in 22 CFR part 1003.
