FR940826-2-00076 FR940826-2-00055 B. The defendants are ordered and directed to advise their officers and other management personnel with significant responsibility for matters addressed in this Final Judgment of their obligations hereunder. AT&T shall undertake the following with respect to each such office or management employee: 1. The distribution to them, within 30 days of entry of this Final Judgment, or within 30 days of a person's becoming an officer or other management personnel with significant responsibility for matters addressed in this Final Judgment of a written directive setting forth AT&T's policy regarding compliance with this Final Judgment, with such directive to include: (a) An admonition that noncompliance with such policy and this Final Judgment will result in appropriate disciplinary action, which may include dismissal; and (b) advice that AT&T's legal advisors are available at all reasonable times to confer with such persons regarding any compliance questions or problems; 2. The imposition of a requirement that each of them sign and submit to AT&T a certificate in substantially the following form: The undersigned hereby (1) acknowledges receipt of a copy of the 1994 United States v. AT&T Corp. Final Judgment and a written directive setting forth AT&T's policy regarding compliance with such Final Judgment, (2) represents that the undersigned has read such Final Judgment and directive and understands those provisions for which the undersigned has responsibility, (3) acknowledges that the undersigned has been advised and understands that noncompliance with such policy and Final Judgment will result in appropriate disciplinary measures determined by AT&T, which may include dismissal, and (4) acknowledges that the undersigned has been advised and understands that non-compliance with the Final Judgment may also result in conviction for contempt of court and imprisonment and/or fine. VIII Visitation A. For the purpose of determining or securing compliance with this Final Judgment, and subject to any legally recognized privilege, from time to time: 1. Upon written request of the Attorney General or of the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division, and on reasonable notice to a defendant, made to its principal office, duly authorized representatives of the Department of Justice shall be permitted access during office hours of such defendant to depose or interview officers, employees, or agents, and inspect and copy all books, ledgers, accounts, correspondence, memoranda and other records and documents in the possession or under the control of such defendant, who may have counsel present, relating to any matters contained in this Final Judgment; and 2. Upon the written request of the Attorney General or of the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division made to a defendant's principal office, such defendant shall submit such written reports, under oath if requested, with respect to any of the matters contained in this Final Judgment as may be requested. B. No information or documents obtained by the means provided in this section shall be divulged by any representative of the Department of Justice to any person other than a duly authorized representative of the Executive Branch of the United States or the Commission, except in the course of legal proceedings to which the United States is a party, or for the purpose of securing compliance with this Final Judgment, or as otherwise required by law. C. If at the time information or documents are furnished by a defendant to plaintiff, such defendant represents and identifies in writing the material in any such information or documents to which a claim of protection may be asserted under Rule 26(c)(7) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, and said defendant marks each pertinent page of such material, ``Subject to claim of protection under Rule 26(c)(7) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure,'' then 10 days' notice shall be given by plaintiff to such defendant prior to divulging such material in any legal proceeding (other than a grand jury proceeding) to which that defendant is not a party.
