FR941205-1-00016 FR941205-1-00003 (i) An association that is deemed to be in ``troubled condition;'' (ii) A well or adequately capitalized association that wishes to make a capital distribution that would result in the association being undercapitalized; or (iii) An undercapitalized association. (3) Multi-purpose notices or applications. A separate notice or application for making a capital distribution is not necessary if a notice or application providing sufficient information is required under other OTS regulations. In such a case, the standards of this section shall govern whether the capital distribution is approved or disapproved or whether, under a notice, the OTS will object to the capital distribution. The association has the burden of stating clearly that the notice or application submitted for other purposes is also serving as its notice or application for purposes of this section. Associations may seek approval or provide notice of prospective capital distributions by submitting schedules of such prospective capital distributions in accordance with supervisory guidance on such procedures. (d) Prohibition of otherwise permitted capital distributions. The OTS may prohibit any capital distribution otherwise permitted under this section upon a determination that the making of a capital distribution would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. The circumstances posing such risk include, but are not limited to, a capital distribution by an adequately capitalized association whose capital is or may be impaired as a result of substantial losses. (e) Corporate reorganizations. The limits set forth in paragraph (c) of this section shall be applicable to any direct or indirect distributions of capital to affiliates, including those in connection with corporate reorganizations. (f) Less stringent prior provisions or conditions. The requirements of this section shall supersede the provisions of agreements or conditions to approved applications controlling an association's prospective capital distributions that were less stringent than the restrictions imposed under this rule. (g) More stringent prior provisions or conditions. An association may substitute the requirements of this rule for more stringent requirements imposed upon it by a previous written agreement or application condition after obtaining the written approval of the OTS. Dated: November 16, 1994. By the Office of Thrift Supervision. Jonathan L. Fiechter, Acting Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29761 Filed 12&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6720&hyph;01&hyph;P
