FR940426-0-00029 FR940426-0-00007 Studies have shown that the necessary conditions for death to take place are a 95&hyph;98 percent CO 2 concentration and an exposure time of 3.5 minutes. The death-to-bleeding interval should be no longer than 2 minutes to prevent pooling of blood in intestines and edible organs and no longer than 5 minutes to prevent the pooling of blood in muscle tissue. Under the FMIA, only those foreign establishments that have complied with inspection standards ``at least equal to'' those enforced domestically by the United States Government may export product to this country. An establishment in which slaughter methods are used that are prohibited by regulations under the FMIA is not eligible to export product to the United States. Without the change in the regulations effected by this final rule, an establishment using CO 2 to induce death in swine would be unable to export pork products to the United States. Comments on the Proposed Rule On September 10, 1993, FSIS published in the Federal Register (58 FR 47673) a proposed rule to amend the Federal meat inspection regulations to allow official establishments to induce death in swine by the use of carbon dioxide. The Agency received two comments, one from an industry consultant, and one from a swine processor. Both commenters supported the proposed change in the regulations, citing research indicating the process is safe and humane. One of the commenters expressed the belief that use of the carbon dioxide slaughter process would encourage operators and suppliers to develop improved methods of handling and slaughtering swine. Final Rule The Agency is, therefore, amending §313.5 of the Federal meat inspection regulations to remove the prohibition against the use of CO 2 as a direct cause of asphyxiation or death in swine and provide for monitoring of the conditions under which slaughter by use of CO 2 gas is administered. This amendment is consistent with the main purpose of the HSA, which is to render animals insensible to pain before slaughter. The change will not require swine to be asphyxiated by CO 2 before bleeding, but will permit exposure to concentrations of the gas for a sufficient amount of time for death to occur. In addition, the requirement for a suitable exhaust system (9 CFR 313.5 (b)(3)) has been amended to more accurately state the system's purpose, which is, in case of equipment breakdown, to prevent both nonuniform carbon dioxide concentrations in the gas tunnel and leakage of carbon dioxide gas into the ambient air of the establishment. List of Subjects in 9 CFR Part 313 Humane slaughter of livestock, Meat inspection. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 9 CFR part 313 of the Federal meat inspection regulations is amended as follows: PART 313_HUMANE SLAUGHTER OF LIVESTOCK 1. The authority citation for part 313 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 1901&hyph;1906; 21 U.S.C. 601&hyph;695; 7 CFR 2.17, 2.55. 2. Paragraph (a)(1) of §313.5 is amended by adding a new last sentence; paragraphs (a)(3), (b)(1)(i), and the last sentence of paragraph (b)(3) are revised to read as follows: §313.5 Chemical; carbon dioxide. * * * * * (a) ␣*␣*␣* (1) ␣*␣*␣*␣In swine, carbon dioxide may be administered to induce death in the animals before they are shackled, hoisted, thrown, cast, or cut. (2) *␣*␣* (3) On emerging from the carbon dioxide tunnel, the animals shall be in a state of surgical anaesthesia and shall remain in this condition throughout shackling, sticking, and bleeding, except for swine in which death has been induced by the administration of carbon dioxide. Asphyxia or death from any cause shall not be produced in animals before bleeding, except for swine in which death has been induced by the administration of carbon dioxide. (b) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* (i) The carbon dioxide gas shall be administered in a tunnel which is designed to permit the effective exposure of the animal. Two types of tunnels, based on the same principle, are in common use for carbon dioxide anesthesia. They are the ``U'' type tunnel and the ``Straight Line'' type tunnel, and are based on the principle that carbon dioxide gas has a higher specific gravity than air. The tunnels are open at both ends for entry and exit of animals and have a depressed central section. Anesthetizing, or, in the case of swine, death-inducing, carbon dioxide concentrations are maintained in the central sections of the tunnels. Effective anaesthetization is produced in these central sections. Animals are driven from holding pens through pathways constructed of large-diameter pipe or smooth metal and onto continuous conveyor devices that move the animals through the tunnels. The animals are either compartmentalized on the conveyors by mechanical impellers synchronized with the conveyor or they are otherwise prevented from crowding. While impellers are used to compartmentalize the animals, mechanically or manually operated gates are used to move the animals onto the conveyors. Surgically anaesthetized animals, or killed swine, are moved out of the tunnels by the same continuous conveyors that moved them into and through the carbon dioxide gas. (2) ␣*␣*␣* (3) ␣*␣*␣* An exhaust system must be provided so that, in case of equipment failure, non-uniform carbon dioxide concentrations in the gas tunnel or contamination of the ambient air of the establishment will be prevented. Done at Washington, DC, on April 19, 1994. Patricia Jensen, Acting Assistant Secretary, Marketing and Inspection Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10035 Filed 4&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;DM&hyph;M
