FR940207-2-00129 FR940207-2-00067 (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The NYSE believes that the proposed rule change will not impose a burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Written comments on the proposed rule change were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The Exchange has requested that the proposed rule change be given accelerated effectiveness pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act. 10 10 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). The Commission finds the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of section 6(b)(5). 11 Specifically, the Commission finds that allowing options to trade on ADRs, among other things, gives investors a better means to hedge their positions in the ADRs, as well as enhanced market timing opportunities. 12 Further, the pricing of the ADRs underlying ADR options may become more efficient and market makers in these ADRs, by virtue of enhanced hedging opportunities, may be able to provide deeper and more liquid markets. 13 In sum, options on ADRs likely engender the same benefits to investors and the market place that exist with respect to options on common stock. 14 11 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). 12 For example, if an investor wants to invest in ADRs but does not have sufficient cash available until a future date, he can purchase an ADR option now for less money and exercise the option to purchase the ADRs at a later date. 13 See e.g., Report of the Special Study of the Options Markets to the Securities and Exchange Commission, 96th Cong., lst Sess. (Comm. Print No. 96&hyph;IFC3, December 22, 1978). 14 Pursuant to section 6(b)(5) of the Act, the Commission must predicate approval of any new securities product upon a finding that the introduction of such new product is in the public interest. Such a finding would be difficult for a derivative instrument that served no hedging or other economic function, because any benefits that might be derived by market participants likely would be outweighed by the potential for manipulation, diminished public confidence in the integrity of the markets, and other valid regulatory concerns. The Commission also believes that it is appropriate to permit the NYSE to list and trade options on ADRs given that these options will be subject to specific requirements related to the protection of investors. First, NYSE rules require that the ADRs underlying these options meet the NYSE's uniform options listing standards in all respects. As described above, this would include the initial and maintenance criteria. These criteria ensure, among other things, that the underlying ADRs will maintain adequate price and float to prevent the ADR options from being readily susceptible to manipulation.
