FR940429-0-00064 FR940429-0-00010 Subpart A_General Provisions Section 602.1␣Purpose. Comments: The Secretary received several comments about the requirement that Secretarial recognition is now limited to those accrediting agencies that accredit institutions of higher education or higher education programs for the purpose of enabling those institutions or programs to establish eligibility to participate in programs administered either by the Secretary or by other Federal agencies. In general, commenters expressed concern that the requirement would cause many of the currently recognized specialized or programmatic accrediting agencies to lose recognition. Commenters believed that failure to include these agencies on the list of nationally recognized accrediting agencies was counter to the purpose of the list, which they believed was to inform the public of those accrediting agencies that the Secretary determined to be reliable authorities as to the quality of education or training provided by the institutions or programs they accredit. Commenters also believed that, in general, institutional accrediting agencies did not examine in depth the individual programs offered by an institution and that the only assurance of the quality of these programs was provided by the programmatic agencies that accredited them. It was suggested by some commenters that the Federal purpose would be better served if the specialized or programmatic accrediting agencies and the institutional accrediting agencies worked together to assess the quality of education. One commenter urged a broad interpretation of the phrase ``for other Federal purposes'' in section 496(a) of HEA to include a whole range of benefits that accrue to the Federal Government by virtue of the Secretary's recognition of an accrediting agency, including the use of an individual's graduation from a program accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency for entry-level qualifications for Federal employment. Some commenters expressed concern that the language in §602.1(b)(1) and (2) was misleading because the purpose of accreditation was not to enable institutions or programs to establish eligibility to participate in Federal programs. A number of these commenters provided specific suggestions for amending the language to address this concern. Finally, the Secretary received a suggestion to reorganize this paragraph so that it, rather than §602.3, provided a summary of the recognition requirements an accrediting agency must meet in order to be recognized by the Secretary. Discussion: The Secretary acknowledges that the many fine programmatic accrediting agencies currently on the list of nationally recognized accrediting agencies provide an excellent measure of quality assurance in their respective fields of specialization. However, section 496(m) of the HEA makes it clear that the Secretary may recognize only those agencies that accredit institutions of higher education or higher education programs for the purpose of enabling those institutions or programs to establish eligibility to participate in programs administered either by the Secretary or by other Federal agencies. The Secretary does not believe that the broader interpretation of the phrase ``for other Federal purposes'' in section 496(a) suggested by the one commenter is legally supportable because section 496(m) clearly defines the purpose an agency's accreditation must serve it if is to be recognized by the Secretary, namely the agency's accreditation must enable the institutions or programs it accredits to establish eligibility to participate in Federal programs. The Secretary understands that the purpose of accreditation is not to enable institutions or programs to establish eligibility to participate in Federal programs but rather to publicly recognize those institutions or programs that meet an accrediting agency's standards for educational quality. The Secretary appreciates the various suggestions for clarifying this in the regulations and has changed these regulations accordingly. Finally, the Secretary appreciates the suggestion for reorganizing this paragraph to summarize the recognition requirements and believes it is helpful. Change: The language in §602.1(b) has been modified to clarify that an agency's accreditation of an institution or program must be a required element in enabling the institution or program to establish eligibility to participate in Federal programs. The section has been reorganized to clarify the recognition requirements accrediting agencies must meet if they wish to be recognized by the Secretary. Section 602.2␣Definitions Accreditation
