FR940208-1-00033 FR940208-1-00011 H. Selection of Compliance Deadlines I. Solicitation of Comments VII. Administrative Requirements A. Public Hearing B. Docket C. Executive Order 12866 D. Paperwork Reduction Act E. Regulatory Flexibility Act F. Clean Air Act Section 117 G. Regulatory Review I. Description of the Source Category and Subcategories The 1990 amendments require, under Section 112, that the Agency evaluate and control emissions of HAP's. The control of HAP's is to be achieved through promulgation of emission standards under Sections 112(d) and (f) for categories of sources that emit HAP's. Pursuant to Section 112(c) of the Act, the Agency published in the Federal Register the initial list of source categories that emit HAP's on July 16, 1992 (57 FR 31576). This list includes major and area sources of HAP's that the Agency intends to regulate before November of the year 2000. The list reflects the Section 112(a) definition of major source as a source that emits 10 tons per year (tpy) or more of any individual HAP or 25 tpy or more of any combination of HAP's. Area sources are stationary sources that do not qualify as ``major.'' The initial list of major source categories includes the gasoline distribution source category. For purposes of the proposed standards, the gasoline distribution network refers to the storage and transfer of gasoline as it is moved from the production refinery process units to the service station storage tank. The gasoline distribution facility category is made up of several distinct facility types. During the analysis of this category, it was determined that this category should be subcategorized by facility type. Therefore, the following gasoline distribution subcategories were analyzed in the context of this proposed rulemaking: _Pipeline pumping stations _Pipeline breakout stations _Bulk gasoline terminals _Bulk plants _Service stations Gasoline is carried from production units at refineries to terminals by pipelines, which may span great distances, or be co-located or adjacent to refineries. The pipeline is made of sections of steel pipe, welded together, and usually buried underground. At the refinery, a pump sends the refined gasoline toward its destination. Since the primary pump is incapable of ``pushing'' the gasoline the entire distance, pumping stations are located along the pipeline to keep the gasoline flowing. Occasionally, flow may be interrupted as a quantity of gasoline is pumped out of the pipeline into storage tanks. These ``breakout'' stations usually are coincident with pumping stations. Bulk gasoline terminals are facilities that receive gasoline from refineries via pipeline, ship, or barge and place it in storage tanks until it is distributed. Also, bulk terminals can be located onsite or adjacent to refineries. At these terminals, gasoline is loaded into railcars (which typically transport gasoline between terminals) or tank trucks. From the terminal, the tank trucks normally deliver gasoline to service stations or intermediate storage and handling facilities known as bulk plants. Bulk plants, using smaller delivery tank trucks, primarily supply service stations and small accounts such as farms because they are long distances from terminals or are unable to accommodate the large terminal delivery tank trucks. At service stations, gasoline is transferred to storage tanks and ultimately to motor vehicles. Vehicle refueling (known as Stage II) and ship and barge handling of gasoline are being addressed by the Agency under separate programs. II. Background As noted above, section 112(b) of the 1990 amendments contains a list of HAP's to be regulated by Agency standards. Volatile organic compound (VOC) and HAP emission sources at gasoline distribution facilities have been studied and regulated by Federal, State, and local air pollution regulatory agencies for some time. Beginning in the mid 1970's, the Agency issued control techniques guideline documents (CTGs) for the control of VOC from sources at several gasoline production and distribution facilities. These CTGs recommended control techniques for gasoline vapor emissions from service stations (November 1975), tank truck loading terminals (October 1977), bulk plants (December 1977), fixed-roof petroleum storage tanks (December 1977), external floating roof petroleum storage tanks (December 1978), and tank trucks (December 1978). The Agency also developed a general volatile organic liquid storage tank CTG (June 1984), and is in the process of revising this document (July 1992 draft). In addition, there is a CTG pertaining to the control of VOC from leaking equipment at petroleum refineries (issued in June 1978, and later superseded by a CTG issued in 1984). Most State and local agencies have implemented rules reflecting the CTG recommended control technologies in areas with ozone nonattainment problems.
