FR940328-0-00019 FR940328-0-00011 II. Discussion of Final Rule and Response to Comments Only one comment letter was received. The comment supported the adoption of the rule as proposed. No comments were received objecting to the proposal. In view of the lack of objections, OSM is adopting the rule with only minor changes for clarity and for consistency with the existing regulations. A discussion of the rule and comments follows. Section 870.15(d)_Reclamation Fee Payment Under revised ยง870.15(d), an operator who owes total quarterly reclamation fees of $25,000 or more for one or more mines will be required to: Use an electronic fund transfer mechanism approved by the U.S. Department of the Treasury; forward its payments by electronic transfer, include the applicable Master Entity Number (Part 1, Block 4, on the OSM&hyph;1 form) and OSM Document No. (Part 1, upper right corner on the OSM&hyph;1 form) on the wire message; and use OSM's approved form to report coal tonnage sold, used, or for which ownership was transferred to the address indicated in the Instructions for Completing the OSM&hyph;1 Form. Operators who owe less than $25,000 in quarterly reclamation fees for one or more mines may either forward payments by an electronic fund transfer mechanism in accordance with the procedures specified in amended paragraph 870.15(d)(1); or submit a check or money order payable to the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, in the same envelope with OSM's approved form to: Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, P.O. Box 360095M, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15251. A new paragraph has been added to the rule at (d)(3) clarifying that operators who submit a payment of more than $25,000 by a method other than an electronic fund transfer mechanism approved by the U.S. Department of the Treasury would be in violation of the requirements of the Act, as amended. Changes to the Proposed Rule Certain changes have been made to the rule as originally proposed in the Federal Register on August 30, 1993. The changes were made to ensure consistency and accuracy with the existing regulations, and to provide flexibility in the mechanism used to transfer funds. OSM is adopting the language contained in the proposed rule with the following modifications. (1) The proposed rule at ยง870.15(d)(1)(i) would have required that any person transferring funds electronically use TFCS. OSM has replaced ``TFCS'' with the phrase ``an electronic fund transfer mechanism approved by the U.S. Department of the Treasury'' in order to allow for future developments and changes in the field of electronic communications. (2) At ยง870.15(d)(1)(iii), the language has been revised to clarify the identifying information (OSM Document No. from the OSM&hyph;1 form) that must be included on the wire message in order to insure that credit is given to the person making the payment. This revision will help insure accurate processing of quarterly coal reclamation fees. (3) In ยง870.15(d)(1)(iv), the word ``production'' has been changed to ``tonnage of coal sold, used, or for which ownership was transferred.'' The revised language has been added for clarity and accuracy. Response to Comment One comment letter was received during the comment period. The commenter was in favor of lowering the mandatory threshold for electronic transfer of reclamation fee payments in order to reduce transaction costs. The commenter stated that he opposed the electronic filing of the OSM&hyph;1 form without receipt of a hard copy because of the importance of signed certifications contained on hard copies. Neither the proposed rule, nor this final rule contain any provisions that would allow the electronic filing of the OSM&hyph;1 form. III. Procedural Matters Federal Paperwork Reduction Act This rule does not contain collections of information which require approval by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.
