FR941227-2-00136 FR941227-2-00088 Upon the execution of a U.S. customer's order on the ME, a customer report is sent from the ME specialist's book through the ME system to the BEACON system, with both systems logging in the details of the report. BEACON then sends the report to the U.S. broker-dealer's in-house system. The trades are cleared in Canada pursuant to the BSE member's agreement with a Canadian correspondent to clear and settle trades at the Canadian Depository for Securities (``CDS'') on its behalf. 13 13 BSE members will give up a valid CDS account at execution and will be treated like a customer of the Canadian correspondent. This is the clearing arrangement that U.S. broker-dealers currently utilize in clearing trades in Canadian stocks. IV. Discussion The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, with the requirements of Section 6(b). 14 In particular, the Commission believes the proposal is consistent with Section 6(b)(5), which requires that the rules of an exchange be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. 14 15 U.S.C. 78f(b). The Commission generally views agreements between the United States and foreign securities exchanges as positive developments that reflect and contribute to the increasing internationalization of the world's securities markets. 15 Linkages, in particular, facilitate the flow of capital and financial services across borders. Currently, when a BSE member has customer orders for Canadian securities to be traded on the ME, it must make arrangements with a Canadian broker-dealer (ME member) to place the orders on the ME for execution. The linkage proposed by the BSE will establish an order routing mechanism for the transmission of orders from BSE members to the ME involving Canadian securities traded on the ME and also registered under Section 12(b) of the Act. As a result, the linkage should improve the efficient handling of such orders routed by BSE members on behalf of their customers to the ME. 15 In addition to the BSE linkages with the ME, the Commission has previously approved a linkage between the Toronto Stock Exchange and the American Stock Exchange, see Securities Exchange Act Release No. 21441 (October 31, 1984), 49 FR 44575 (November 7, 1984), and a linkage between the Toronto Stock Exchange and the Midwest Stock Exchange (now the Chicago Stock Exchange), see Securities Exchange Act Release No. 23075 (March 28, 1986), 51 FR 11854 (April 7, 1986). Neither of these linkages with the Toronto Stock Exchange is currently in operation. The Commission notes that the northbound linkage is not intended to create a single market or to ``link'' the BSE and ME marketmaking functions for dually listed securities. 16 Although the northbound trading linkage uses the BSE's BEACON system to communicate orders to the ME, trading between the ME and BSE specialists will not be coordinated, nor will a BSE specialist be allowed to interact with U.S. customer orders entered by broker-dealers into the northbound linkage for routing to the ME. Nevertheless, agency duties will require BSE members to route orders to the market that will provide the best execution. 17 Accordingly, customers should not be disadvantaged by a BSE member's decision to route their orders to a particular market. 18 16 For example, as with trading in any security dually listed on a U.S. exchange and a foreign exchange, the BSE and ME specialists' books will not be consolidated, and there is no time or price priority in relation to orders placed on the other exchange. 17 A broker-dealer must seek to obtain the best execution for customer orders. Best execution generally means that a broker-dealer must obtain the most favorable terms available under the circumstances for a customer's transaction. A broker-dealer's duty to seek to obtain the best execution of customer orders derives from the common law agency duty of loyalty, which obligates an agent to act exclusively in the principal's best interest. This common law agency principle has been incorporated into case law and Commission decisions under the federal securities laws. See Division of Market Regulation, SEC, Market 2000: An Examination of Current Equity Market Developments (January 1994), at Study V. 18 The Commission expects the BSE to remind its members of their best execution obligation in entering orders through the northbound linkage.
