FR941027-2-00049 FR941027-2-00027 Notification procedures: Refer to Commission access regulations at 11 CFR 1.1 et seq., 41 FR 43064 (1976). Records access procedures: Same as above. Contesting record procedures: Same as above. Record source categories: Certification reports filed with the Commission. FEC 8 System name: Payroll records. System location: Federal Election Commission, Washington, DC 20463. Categories of records in the system: Varied payroll records, including, among other documents, time and attendance cards; payment vouchers; comprehensive listing of employees; health benefit records; requests for deductions; tax forms; W&hyph;2 forms; overtime requests; leave data; and retirement records. Records are used by Commission employees to maintain adequate payroll information for Commission employees, and otherwise by Commission employees who have a need for the record in the performance of their duties. Authority for maintenance of the system: 31 U.S.C., generally. Also, 2 U.S.C. 437c(f). Routine uses for records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In the event that a system of records maintained by this agency to carry out its functions indicated a violation or potential violation of law, whether civil, criminal or regulatory in nature, and whether arising by general statute or particular program statute, or by regulation, rule or order issued pursuant thereto, the relevant records in the system of records may be referred, as a routine use, to the appropriate agency, whether Federal, State, local or foreign, charged with the responsibility of investigating or prosecuting such violation or charged with enforcement or implementation of the statute or rule, regulation or order issued pursuant thereto. A record from this system of records may be disclosed as a ``routine use'' to a Federal, State, or local agency maintaining civil, criminal or other relevant enforcement information, such as current licenses, if necessary to obtain information relevant to an agency decision concerning the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the letting of a contract or the issuance of a license, grant or other benefit. A record from this system of records may be disclosed to a Federal agency, in response to its request, in connection with the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the reporting of an investigation of an employee, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant or other benefit by the requesting agency, to the extent that the information is relevant and necessary to the requesting agency's decision in the matter. A record from this system of records may be disclosed to an authorized appeal grievance examiner, formal complaints examiner, equal employment opportunity investigator, arbitrator or other duly authorized official engaged in investigation or settlement of a grievance, complaint, or appeal filed by an employee. A record from this system of records may be disclosed to the Office of Personnel Management in accordance with the agency's responsibility for evaluation and oversight of Federal personnel management. A record from this system of records may be disclosed to officers and employees of a Federal agency for purposes of audit. The information contained in this system of records will be disclosed to the Office of Management and Budget in connection with the review of private relief legislation as set forth in OMB Circular No. A&hyph;19 at any stage of the legislative coordination and clearance processes as set forth in that circular. Records also are disclosed to GAO for audits; to the Internal Revenue Service for investigation; and to private attorneys, pursuant to a power of attorney. A copy of an employee's Department of the Treasury form W&hyph;2, wage and tax statement, also is disclosed to the State and city, or other local jurisdiction which is authorized to tax the employee's compensation. The record will be provided in accordance with a withholding agreement between the State, city, or other local jurisdiction and the Department of the Treasury pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5516, 5517, or 5520, or, in the absence thereof, in response to a written request from an appropriate official of the taxing jurisdiction to the Assistant Director for Administration; Federal Election Commission, Washington, DC 20463. The request must include a copy of the applicable statute or ordinance authorizing the taxation of compensation and should indicate whether the authority of the jurisdiction to tax the employee is based on place of residence, place of employment, or both. Pursuant to a withholding agreement between a city and the Department of the Treasury (5 U.S.C. 5520), copies of executed city tax withholding certificates shall be furnished the city in response to a written request from an appropriate city official to the Assistant Staff Director for Administration.
