FR940105-2-00052 FR940105-2-00020 Analysis of Proposed Consent Order To Aid Public Comment The Federal Trade Commission has accepted an agreement to a proposed consent order from Personal Protective Armor Association (``PPAA''), which is located in Baltimore, Maryland. The agreement would settle charges by the Commission that the proposed respondent violated section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act by engaging in practices that restricted competition among PPAA members. The proposed consent order has been placed on the public record for sixty (60) days for reception of comments by interested persons. Comments received during this period will become part of the public record. After sixty (60) days, the Commission will again review the agreement and the comments received and will decide whether it should withdraw from the agreement or make final the agreement's proposed order. The Complaint The complaint prepared for issuance by the Commission along with the proposed order alleges that PPAA and its members have engaged in acts and practices that have unreasonably restrained competition among manufacturers of soft body armor. The complaint alleges that PPAA members have maintained a policy against comparative advertising and have adopted a policy not to compete in offering products liability insurance to law enforcement agencies. According to the complaint, advertising, including comparative advertising and advertising of warranties and products liability insurance, enables firms to inform consumers as to the quality, price, and terms of sale of the product. Consumers consider terms of sale such as products liability insurance and certification that the soft body armor passes applicable performance standards. Comparative advertising and advertising of warranties and products liability insurance enables firms to inform consumers about these factors and increases the information available to consumers. The complaint states that, during some periods, from 1986 to the present, PPAA has maintained a policy against comparative advertising, including a policy which declares it unethical for any member to make any representation that another member's vests have failed certification testing. The complaint also states that, during some periods, from 1986 to the present, PPAA adopted a policy to respond uniformly to bids by not offering products liability insurance in competing for contracts from law enforcement agencies. The complaint alleges that the purposes or effects of the challenged act or practice have been to restrain competition unreasonably: a. By frustrating and restraining competition in the marketing and sale of soft body armor on the basis of price, service, and quality; b. By depriving consumers of the benefits of truthful information about the performance of soft body armor; c. By depriving consumers of the potential value of warranties, including products liability insurance, in the purchase of soft body armor. The Proposed Consent Order Part I of the order covers definitions. These definitions make clear that the consent order applies to directors, trustees, councils, committees, officers, representatives, delegates, agents, employees, successors, or assigns of PPAA. The order also defines ``soft body armor'' as concealable bullet-resistant vests generally worn by civilians and law enforcement personnel. Part II of the order describes the conduct prohibited by the order. Part II prevents PPAA from entering into or carrying out any agreement between or among its members that restricts engaging in comparative advertising or restricts offering or providing products liability insurance. Part II also prevents PPAA from restricting or interfering with the advertising or dissemination of prices, terms, availability, characteristics, or conditions of sale of soft body armor by adopting a policy which restricts or prohibits a member from engaging in comparative advertising or offering or providing products liability insurance. Part III of the order requires PPAA to furnish a copy of the Commission's order to each of its members; to provide each new member who joins PPAA with a copy of the Order and complaint; and to file compliance reports for five years. Benjamin I. Berman, Acting Secretary.
