FR940419-0-00122 FR940419-0-00021 As discussed in the preamble of the proposed rule, the majority of recreational vessels do not operate outside of the inland or coastal waters of the United States. They usually are engaged in voyages of short duration and do not generate large amounts of garbage. Recreational vessels have a greater ability to retain garbage on board until returning to port, where they usually have access to trash receptacles at the marina. Additionally, there is no requirement for recreational vessels to maintain a log of any kind, making recordkeeping a greater burden. (8) One comment stated that there is no evidence that vessels are the problem and that the major cause of garbage in the water is sewage outflows. An increasing number of Coast Guard pollution cases clearly document a pattern of illegal garbage discharges from vessels. This is confirmed each year by the beach cleanups conducted under the guidance of the Center for Marine Conservation. While sewage outflows may be a significant cause of garbage in the marine environment, regulation of these outflows is outside of the scope of this rulemaking. (9) One comment stated that public vessels are a major cause of garbage in the water. Public vessels were not required to be in compliance with the Marine Plastic Pollution Research and Control Act of 1987 until December 31, 1993. Guidance has been, or will be, developed by the agencies responsible for these vessels. (10) One comment questioned why this rule applies to vessels of 40 feet or more, where the 1989 proposal applied to vessels of 79 feet or more. The Coast Guard lowered the size requirement in order to include classes of vessels that have been identified as possible polluters in a study conducted by the Coast Guard and submitted to Congress on the implementation of MARPOL, Annex V. This study, entitled ``Compliance with the Marine Plastic Pollution Research and Control Act of 1987'', was required by that Act. There is further discussion of the 40 foot threshold in the preamble to the May 20, 1993, notice of proposed rulemaking (58 FR 29483). III. Information on Discharge or Disposal Operations (Section 151.55(c)) (1) The MARPOL protocols request that the quantity of garbage disposed of at a shore reception facility be recorded in cubic meters. Therefore, §151.55(c)(5) has been changed to this standard. (2) One comment stated that the requirement to log the distance to shore in addition to recording the latitude and longitude was unnecessary. The comment stated that many vessels do not routinely keep track of the vessels's distance from shore. The provisions in §§151.51 through 151.77 that specify where each type of garbage can be discharged are based on the distance of the vessel from shore. Effective enforcement depends on knowing how far from shore a particular type of garbage was discharged. However, recognizing that calculating the precise distance from shore using the latitude and longitude is burdensome, the Coast Guard has changed §151.55(c)(4) to allow the distance from shore to be estimated. This alleviates the need for a specific calculation.
