FR941227-0-00035 FR941227-0-00008 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;205&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;9099; AD 94&hyph;26&hyph;03] Airworthiness Directives; Fokker Model F28 Mark 1000, 2000, 3000, and 4000 Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD), applicable to certain Fokker Model F28 series airplanes, that requires inspection to detect cracking in the area of the side stay attachment lugs of the fitting subassembly of the main landing gear (MLG), and replacement of cracked subassemblies with new or serviceable subassemblies. This amendment is prompted by reports of cracking in the subassembly of the MLG. The actions specified by this AD are intended to prevent damage to and/or failure of the support structure of the MLG. DATES: Effective January 26, 1995. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in the regulations is approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of January 26, 1995. ADDRESSES: The service information referenced in this AD may be obtained from Fokker Aircraft USA, Inc., 1199 North Fairfax Street, Alexandria, Virginia 22314. This information may be examined at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, Rules Docket, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mark Quam, Aerospace Engineer, Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2145; fax (206) 227&hyph;1320. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A proposal to amend part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 39) to include an airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain Fokker Model F&hyph;28 Mark 1000, 2000, 3000, and 4000 series airplanes was published in the Federal Register on April 5, 1994 (59 FR 15875). That action proposed to require a one-time inspection to detect cracking in the area of the side stay attachment lugs of the fitting subassembly of the main landing gear (MLG), and replacement of cracked subassemblies with new or serviceable subassemblies. Interested persons have been afforded an opportunity to participate in the making of this amendment. Due consideration has been given to the comments received. One commenter supports the proposal. One commenter requests that the proposed rule be withdrawn and that a supplemental notice be issued that would propose the accomplishment of a ``refurbishment'' program developed by the commenter. This commenter indicates that the inspection and rework proposed in the notice may actually aggravate, rather than prevent, damage to the subject fitting assemblies. This commenter reports that, within several days after reworking the lugs in accordance with the method proposed in the notice, corrosion damage indications reappeared. In order to ensure that all evidence of corrosion was removed, the commenter had to accomplish an intensive refurbishment of the main landing gear side stay attachment lugs. It is this refurbishment process that the commenter requests to be required by the proposed rule. The FAA does not agree with the commenter's request. The commenter did not provide sufficient data to establish that the procedure required by this rule (namely, a cleaning procedure that is necessary to remove surface corrosion in order to obtain an adequate eddy current inspection) contributes to any aggravation of a corrosion condition. The FAA has determined that the cleaning and eddy current inspection are sufficient, if no cracks are detected, to allow the main fitting sub-assembly to remain on the airplane until the next overhaul, when a thorough inspection, corrosion removal, and corrosion control process can be accomplished. This same commenter requests that the proposed AD be revised to provide ``credit'' for inspections accomplished during overhaul procedures that were performed prior to the effective date of the final rule. The commenter points out that Revision 2 of Fokker F28 Service Experience Digest 32&hyph;10, Subject No. 008, states that, if the inspection and restoration of the protective finish on the subject assembly are accomplished, as is recommended during the inspections called out in the referenced service bulletin or during normal overhaul, no repetitive inspections will be necessary between overhaul periods. The commenter considers that this implies that the damage to the anodic film is an isolated occurrence, and that stress corrosion cracking will not occur if the anodic film is intact when the unit enters service. The commenter states that, compared to a specialized shop environment, field inspections and rework operations (as proposed in the notice) are less likely to ensure that all corrosion is detected and removed. Further, rework that exposes end grains and increases stress levels can aggravate, rather than arrest, the propensity for further corrosion. In this commenter's overhaul shop, corrosion removal is verified after machining by a process beginning with a chemical etch treatment that removes the surfaced layer of metal smeared by machining, followed by a high-sensitivity fluorescent penetrant inspection. The FAA concurs in part. Although the Fokker F28 Service Experience Digest referenced by the commenter does state that accomplishment of normal overhaul ``will ensure that no repetitive inspections are required between overhaul periods,'' the overhaul instructions provided may not be entirely adequate to support that statement. Therefore, the FAA agrees with the commenter's suggestion to provide credit to operators for inspections that were accomplished during overhaul prior to the effective date of the AD, but only provided that: 1. The overhaul was accomplished within the normal overhaul period (12,000 cycles or 12 years, whichever comes first); and 2. The overhaul was accomplished in accordance with Dowty Aerospace Landing Gear (DALG) Component Maintenance Manual (CMM), dated September 1977 or later; and 3. Any resulting repairs were accomplished in accordance with the DALG CMM, dated November 25, 1992, or later; or, if repairs were accomplished after September 1977 but before November 25, 1992, they were performed with concurrence (concession) from DALG. The FAA has revised paragraph (a) of the final rule, to provide such ``credit'' to operators who have performed this procedure. One commenter requests that the proposed rule be revised to permit the installation of uninspected (non-identified) subassemblies after the effective date of the AD and until the compliance time for inspection, which is 3 months after the effective date. This commenter points out that the proposal would require that, as of the effective date of the final rule, no operator could install any subassembly that had not been previously inspected and identified in accordance with the requirements of proposed paragraph (a). The commenter is concerned that this would not allow the installation of an uninspected serviceable part during maintenance that was not related to the AD itself. The commenter states that this does not appear to be consistent with previous AD's that have dealt with affected parts not installed on an airplane.
