FR940927-0-00011 FR940927-0-00001 (c) Late Planting (1) For cotton acreage planted after the final planting date but on or before 25 days after the final planting date, the production guarantee for each acre will be reduced for each day planted after the final planting date by: (i) One percent (.01) for the first through the tenth day; and (ii) Two percent (.02) for the eleventh through the twenty-fifth day. (2) In addition to the requirements of section 6 (Report of Acreage) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (ยง457.8), you must report the dates the acreage is planted within the late planting period. (3) If planting of cotton continues after the final planting date, or you are prevented from planting during the late planting period, the acreage reporting date will be the later of: (i) The acreage reporting date contained in the Special Provisions; or (ii) Five (5) days after the end of the late planting period. (d) Prevented Planting (Including Planting After the Late Planting Period) (1) If you were prevented from planting cotton (see subsection 1.(n)), you may elect: (i) To plant cotton during the late planting period (The production guarantee for such acreage will be determined in accordance with paragraph 12.(c)(1)); (ii) Not to plant this acreage to any crop that is intended for harvest in the same crop year, (the production guarantee for such acreage will be thirty-five percent (0.35) of the production guarantee for timely planted acres. For example, if your production guarantee for timely planted acreage is 700 pounds per acre, your prevented planting production guarantee would be equivalent to 245 pounds per acre (700 pounds multiplied by 0.35). This subparagraph does not prohibit the preparation and care of the acreage for conservation practices, such as planting a cover crop, as long as such crop is not intended for harvest.); or (iii) To plant cotton after the late planting period, (the production guarantee for such acreage will be thirty-five percent (0.35) of the production guarantee for timely planted acres. For example, if your production guarantee for timely planted acreage is 700 pounds per acre, your prevented planting production guarantee would be equivalent to 245 pounds per acre (700 pounds multiplied by 0.35). Production to count for such acreage will be determined in accordance with subsections 11.(c) and (d)). (2) In addition to the provisions of section 11 (Insurance Period) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (ยง457.8), the insurance period for prevented planting coverage begins on the sales closing date contained in the Special Provisions for the insured crop in the county. (3) The acreage to which prevented planting coverage applies will be limited as follows: (i) If you participate in any program administered by the United States Department of Agriculture for the crop year which limits the number of acres that may be planted, prevented planting acreage will not exceed the ASCS base acreage for the insured crop, reduced by any acreage reduction applicable to the farm under such program. (ii) If you do not participate in any program administered by the United States Department of Agriculture which limits the number of acres that may be planted, unless a written agreement exists to the contrary, eligible acreage will not exceed the greater of: (A) The ASCS base acreage for the insured crop, if applicable; (B) The number of acres planted to cotton on each ASCS Farm Serial Number during the previous crop year (adjusted for any reconstitution which may have occurred prior to the sales closing date); or (C) One hundred percent (100%) of the simple average of the number of acres planted to cotton during the crop years that were used to determine your yield. (iii) Acreage intended to be planted under an irrigated practice will be limited to the number of acres properly prepared to carry out an irrigated practice. (iv) A prevented planting production guarantee will not be provided for: (A) Any acreage that does not constitute at least 20 acres or 20 percent (20%) of the acres in the unit, whichever is less; (B) Land for which the actuarial table does not designate a premium rate unless a written agreement is in place designating such premium rate; (C) Land used for conservation purposes or intended to be or considered to have been left unplanted under any program administered by the United States Department of Agriculture; (D) Land on which any crop, other than cotton, has been planted and is intended for harvest, or has been harvested in the same crop year; or (E) Land which planting history or conservation plans indicate would remain fallow for crop rotation purposes. (v) For the purpose of determining eligible acreage for prevented planting coverage, acreage for all units will be combined and reduced by the number of cotton acres timely planted after the final planting date. (For example, assume you have 100 acres eligible for prevented planting coverage in which you have a 100 percent (100%) share. The acreage is located in a single ASCS Farm Serial Number which you insure as two separate optional units consisting of 50 acres each. If you planted 60 acres of cotton on one optional unit and 40 acres of cotton on the second optional unit, your prevented planting eligible acreage would be reduced to zero. (100 acres eligible for prevented planting coverage minus 100 acres planted equals zero). If you report more cotton acreage under this contract than is eligible for prevented planting coverage, we will allocate the eligible acreage to insured units based on the number of prevented planting acres and share your report for each unit.) (4) When the ASCS Farm Serial Number covers more than one unit, or a unit consists of more than one ASCS Farm Serial Number, the covered acres will be pro-rated based on the number of acres in each unit or ASCS Farm Serial Number that could have been planted to cotton in the crop year. (5) In accordance with the provisions of section 6 (Report of Acreage) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (ยง457.8), you must report any insurable acreage you were prevented from planting. This report must be submitted on or before the acreage reporting date, even though you may elect to plant the acreage after the late planting period. Any acreage you report as eligible for prevented planting coverage which is not eligible will be deleted from prevented planting coverage. Done in Washington, DC on September 13, 1994. Kenneth D. Ackerman, Manager, Federal Crop Insurance Corporation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23833 Filed 9&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;08&hyph;M
