FR940513-2-00054 FR940513-2-00031 Record access procedures: Requests for access to a record shall be directed to: Privacy Act Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826, as provided in 12 CFR 1403.3. Contesting record procedures: Requests for amendments of a record shall be directed to: Privacy Act Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826, as provided in 12 CFR 1403.7. Record source categories: Individuals, corporations, or governmental entities who make bids or offers to the Corporation or enter into lease or other agreements with the Corporation. Employees who prepare contractual actions. FCSIC&hyph;7 System name: Personnel Security Files_FCSIC. System location: These records are located at the Farm Credit Administration, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;5090. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Current and former Corporation employees. Categories of records in the system: Case files compiled during background investigations of employees in sensitive positions. The files include: (a) Security forms (SF 86, ``Security Investigation Data for Sensitive Position''; and OPM Form 329&hyph;B, ``Authority for Release of Information and Redisclosure''); (b) Investigative report which includes credit check, check of police record, and interviews with neighbors, former supervisors, and coworkers; (c) Determination of suitability for security clearance by agency security officer; and (d) Issuance of clearance statement. Authority for maintenance of the system: Executive Order 10450. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Information in this system of records is used to determine suitability for holding a sensitive position within the Corporation and to issue security clearance. (1) In the event that information in this record system indicates a violation or potential violation of law, whether civil, criminal, or regulatory in nature, and whether arising by general statute or particular program statute, or by regulation, rule, or order issued pursuant thereto, the relevant records may be referred, as a routine use, to the appropriate agency, whether Federal, State, local, or foreign, charged with the responsibility of investigating or prosecuting such violation or charged with enforcing or implementing the statute, or rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant thereto. (2) Information in this record system may be disclosed as a routine use to a Federal, State, or local agency maintaining civil, criminal, or other relevant enforcement information or other pertinent information, such as current licenses, if necessary to obtain information relevant to a decision concerning the hiring or retention of an employee, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a grant or other benefit. (3) Information in this record system may be disclosed to a Federal agency, in response to its request, in connection with the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the reporting of and investigation of an employee, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant, or other benefit by the requesting agency, to the extent that the information is relevant and necessary to the requesting agency's decision on the matter. (4) Disclosure may be made to a congressional office from the record of an individual in response to an inquiry from the congressional office made at the request of that individual. (5) It shall be a routine use of the records in this system of records to disclose them to the Department of Justice or to disclose them in a proceeding before a court or adjudicative body before which the agency is authorized to appear, when
