FR940722-0-00143 FR940722-0-00019 (iii) Has a control group all of whose members and affiliates are considered in determining whether the entity meets the $40 million annual gross revenues and personal net worth standards; and (iv) Such control group holds 50.1 percent of the entity's voting interest, if a corporation, and at least 25 percent of the entity's equity on a fully diluted basis, except that a business owned by members of minority groups and/or women (as defined in paragraph(c) of this section) may also qualify as a small business if a control group that is 100 percent composed of members of minority groups and/or women holds 50.1 percent of the entity's voting interests, if a corporation, and 50.1 percent of the entity's total equity on a fully diluted basis and no single other investor holds more than 49.9 percent of passive equity in the entity. Ownership interests shall be calculated on a fully diluted basis; all agreements such as warrants, stock options and convertible debentures will generally be treated as if the rights thereunder already have been fully exercised, except that the such agreements may not be used to appear to terminate or divest ownership interests before they actually do so. (2) For purposes of determining whether an entity meets the $40 million gross revenues and $40 million personal net worth standards in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, gross revenues and personal net worth shall be attributed to the entity and aggregated as pro- vided in ยง24.709(b), except that ยง24.709(b)(4)(iii) shall not apply. (3) A small business consortium is a conglomerate organization formed as a joint venture between mutually-independent business firms, each of which individually satisfies the definition of a small business in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. (c) Business Owned by Members of Minority Groups and/or Women. A business owned by members of minority groups and/or women is an entity: (1) That has a control group composed 100 percent of members of minority groups and/or women who are United States Citizens, and (2) Such control group owns and holds 50.1 percent of the voting interests, if a corporation, and (i) Owns and holds 50.1 percent of the total equity in the entity, provided that all other investors hold passive interests; or (ii) Holds 25 percent of the total equity in the entity, provided that no single other investor holds more than 25 percent passive equity interests in the entity. Ownership interests shall be calculated on a fully diluted basis; all agreements such as warrants, stock options and convertible debentures will generally be treated as if the rights thereunder already have been fully exercised, except that such agreements may not be used to appear to terminate or divest ownership interests before they actually do so. (d) Small Business Owned by Members of Minority Groups and/or Women; Consortium of Small Businesses Owned by Members of Minority Groups and/or Women. A small business owned by members of minority groups and/or women is an entity that meets the definitions in both paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. A consortium of small businesses owned by members of minority groups and/or women a conglomerate organization formed as a joint venture between mutually-independent business firms, each of which individually satisfies the definition of a small business in paragraphs (b)(1) and (c) of this section. (e) Rural Telephone Company. A rural telephone company is a local exchange carrier having 100,000 or fewer access lines, including all affiliates. (f) Gross Revenues. Gross revenues shall mean all income received by an entity, whether earned or passive, before any deductions are made for costs of doing business ( e.g., cost of goods sold), as evidenced by audited quarterly financial statements for the relevant period. (g) Total Assets. Total assets shall mean the book value (except where generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require market valuation) of all property owned by an entity, whether real or personal, tangible or intangible, as evidenced by the most recent audited quarterly financial statements. (h) Personal Net Worth. Personal net worth shall mean the market value of all assets (real and personal, tangible and intangible) owned by an individual, less all liabilities (including personal guarantees) owned by the individual in his individual capacity or as a joint obligor. (i) Members of Minority Groups. Members of minority groups includes individuals of African American, Hispanic-surnamed, American Eskimo, Aleut, American Indian and Asian American extraction. (j) Passive Equity. Passive equity shall mean: (1) For corporations, non-voting stock or stock that includes no more than five percent of the voting equity; (2) For partnerships, joint ventures and other non-corporate entities, limited partnership interests and similar interests that do not afford the power to exercise control of the entity. (k) Control Group. A control group is an entity, or a group of individuals or entities that possesses de jure control and de facto control of an applicant or licensee, and as to which the applicant's or licensee's charters, bylaws, agreements and any other relevant documents (and amendments thereto) provide: (1) That the entity and/or its members own unconditionally at least 50.1 percent of the total voting interests of a corporation; (2) That the entity and/or its members receive at least 50.1 percent of the annual distribution of any dividends paid on the voting stock of a corporation; (3) That, in the event of dissolution or liquidation of a corporation, the entity and/or its members are entitled to receive 100 percent of the value of each share of stock in its possession and a percentage of the retained earnings of the concern that is equivalent to the amount of equity held in the corporation; and (4) That the entity and/or its members have the right to receive dividends, profits and regular and liquidating distributions from the business in proportion to its interest in the total equity of the applicant or licensee. Note: Voting control does not always assure de facto control, such as, for example, when the voting stock of the control group is widely dispersed ( see, e.g., ยง24.270(l)(2)(iii)). (l) Affiliate. (1) An individual or entity is an affiliate of: (i) An applicant; or (ii) A person holding an attributable interest in an applicant under ยง24.709 (both referred to herein as ``the applicant'') if such individual or entity_ (A) Directly or indirectly controls or has the power to control the applicant, or (B) Is directly or indirectly controlled by the applicant, or
