FR940527-1-00041 FR940527-1-00014 III. Proposed Changes to the Hospital Wage Index and Possible Refinements to Labor Market Areas A. Background Under the Medicare prospective payment system, different payment rates are calculated for hospitals located in rural, urban, and large urban areas. For purposes of the standardized payment amount, section 1886(d)(2)(D) of the Social Security Act requires that we use Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSAs) as defined by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to determine whether hospitals are located in rural, urban or large urban areas (areas with a population over 1 million). However, section 1886(d)(3)(A) of the Act provides for the elimination of separate urban and rural standardized payment amounts beginning in FY 1995. This change is discussed below in section IV.C. of this proposed rule. Section 1886(d)(3)(E) of the Act requires that, as part of the methodology for determining prospective payments to hospitals, the Secretary shall adjust the standardized amounts ``for area differences in hospital wage levels by a factor (established by the Secretary) reflecting the relative hospital wage level in the geographic area of the hospital compared to the national average hospital wage level.'' In accordance with the broad discretion conferred by this provision, we currently define hospital labor market areas based on the definitions of MSAs issued by OMB. Additionally, as discussed below, we adjust the wage index to take into account the geographic reclassification of hospitals in accordance with sections 1886(d)(8)(B) and 1886(d)(10) of the Act. Section 1886(d)(3)(E) of the Act also requires that the wage index be updated annually beginning October 1, 1993. This section further provides that the Secretary base the update on a survey of wages and wage-related costs of short-term acute care hospitals. The survey should measure, to the extent feasible, the earnings and paid hours of employment by occupational category and must exclude data with respect to the wages and wage-related costs incurred in furnishing skilled nursing services. For determining prospective payments to hospitals in FY 1994, the wage index is based on the data collected from the Medicare cost reports submitted by short-term acute care hospitals for cost reporting periods beginning in FY 1990 (that is, cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1989 and before October 1, 1990). The current wage index includes wages and salaries paid by a hospital, home office salaries, fringe benefits, and certain contract labor costs and hours. The current computation for the wage index excludes salaries and wages associated with non-hospital type services, such as skilled nursing facility services, home health agency services, or other subprovider components that are not subject to the prospective payment system. As discussed in detail below, we are proposing to use updated wage data to construct the wage index as required by section 1886(d)(3)(E) of the Act. The FY 1995 wage index would be based on data for hospital cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1990 and before October 1, 1991 (FY 1991). B. FY 1995 Wage Index Update We propose to base the FY 1995 wage index, effective for hospital discharges occurring on or after October 1, 1994 and before October 1, 1995, upon the data collected from the Medicare cost report (Worksheet S&hyph;3, Part II) submitted by hospitals for cost reporting periods beginning in FY 1991. We propose to use all of the categories of data collected from Worksheet S&hyph;3, Part II. Therefore, the proposed FY 1995 wage index reflects the following: •Total short-term acute care hospital salaries and hours. •Home office costs and hours. •Fringe benefits associated with hospital and home office salaries. •Direct patient care related contract labor cost and hours. •The exclusion of salaries and hours for non-hospital type services such as skilled nursing facility services, home health services, or other sub-provider components that are not subject to the prospective payment system. 1. Verification of Wage Data from the Medicare Cost Report The data for the proposed FY 1995 wage index was obtained from Worksheet S&hyph;3, Part II, of the HCFA&hyph;2552 submitted by short-term acute care hospitals for cost reporting periods beginning during FY 1991. The wage data are reported electronically to HCFA through the Hospital Cost Report Information System (HCRIS). Because of substantial deficiencies in the initial data reported by hospitals on the cost report (including missing data items such as excluded hours and total paid hours), we initiated an intensive review of the wage data and made numerous edits to ensure quality and accuracy. Medicare intermediaries were instructed to transmit any revisions through HCRIS by early January 1994. We subjected the revised cost report data to several edit checks. Of the 5,294 providers in the data base, over 1,400 providers had data elements that failed an edit; 53 of these involved mathematical errors and have been resolved.
