FR940627-0-00115 FR940627-0-00019 EPA estimates that the necessary toxicology laboratory capacity will begin to come on line within 8&hyph;15 months of the effective date of this rule, with expansion of capacity continuing for an additional 12&hyph;24 months thereafter. The initial period should coincide with the start-up time needed by the regulated industry prior to beginning the required Tier 2 testing. Manufacturers' start-up activities will include review and understanding of the requirements, formation and functional organization of groups, acquisition of required test fuel supplies, and contracting for data gathering and testing services. EPA estimates that these activities can generally be accomplished in 6&hyph;12 months. With six years provided for full Tier 2 completion, sufficient time should then be available for completion of all Tier 2 testing. However, this assumes that the regulated industry will not purposely delay the onset of testing. If all F/FA groups wait until the fourth and fifth years to begin the Tier 2 testing, it will again become likely that some will not be able to complete the requirements on time. In such instances, the responsible manufacturers will have failed to comply with the requirements of this rule and will be subject to enforcement action and/or loss of registration. Thus, in the case of registered F/FA products, this final rule requires the submission within three years from the effective date of all applicable Tier 1 requirements plus either: (1) Submittal of all Tier 2 requirements or (2) evidence of a contractual obligation with a qualified laboratory to conduct the required Tier 2 tests. 2 If, within the first three years, a contract for Tier 2 is submitted rather than the Tier 2 data itself, then the final Tier 2 report is due to EPA no later than six years of the effective date of this rule. Both Tiers 1 and 2 are mandatory. Failure to submit Tier 2 data for a registered F/FA within six years of the effective date of this rule will subject the manufacturer to enforcement action and/or revocation of the registration. In the case of F/FAs for which Tier 2 testing is not required because of special provisions, all applicable requirements are due to EPA within the initial three-year period after promulgation of this rule. 2 To be qualified, a laboratory must be able to perform inhalation toxicology tests in compliance with the Good Laboratory Practice requirement in this rule, including monitoring by an onsite Quality Assurance Unit. It must also be able to properly and safely store, transport, and use F/FAs. The study director must be a professional scientist with a doctoral degree in toxicology or equivalent. Other individuals engaged in the conduct of the studies shall have the education, training, and/or experience to enable proper performance of the assigned functions. The laboratory's animal handling facility must be registered and in good standing with the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Accreditation with a recognized independent organization which sets laboratory animal handling standards [e.g., the American Association for Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC)] is required. Existing F/FA registrations are also conditional on satisfaction of any Tier 3 requirements which might be prescribed by the Agency pursuant to CAA section 211(b). When Tier 3 testing is prescribed for a registered F/FA product, the existing registration will be extended for that time which EPA specifies as necessary for completion of the additional requirements. Maintenance of registration will depend upon satisfactory compliance with these requirements. EPA is promulgating Tier 2 testing requirements under the authority of both sections 211(b) and 211(e) of the CAA. The requirements for Tier 2 testing are all within EPA's discretion under section 211(b). Section 211(b) gives the Administrator broad authority ``for the purpose of registration of fuels and fuel additives'' to require manufacturers ``to conduct tests to determine potential public health effects of such fuel or fuel additive.'' EPA interprets ``for the purpose of registration'' to encompass both gaining and maintaining registration for F/FAs. This interpretation is supported by section 211(e), which requires implementation of section 211(b) authority with respect to both registered and new F/FAs and mandates that EPA require testing of F/FAs. The legislative history supports such a view. The 1977 House Report, 3 upon which section 211(e) was based, states: 3 H. Rept. No. 294, 95th Cong., 1st Sess. 308, reprinted in 1977, U.S. CODE CONG. & ADMIN. NEWS 1077, 1387. Section 220 of the Committee bill is intended to express the Committee's disapproval of EPA's past handling of its authority in this area and of its proposed future plans *␣*␣* Instead, an aggressive, preventative approach to the gathering of necessary information is mandated *␣*␣* The bill mandates the Administrator to promulgate regulations within one year after enactment. *␣*␣* These regulations must require testing by the manufacturer of the fuel or fuel additive, except insofar as paragraph (3) otherwise permits. All of these requirements are mandatory. Tier 2 involves testing ``to determine potential public health effects'' of F/FAs and, therefore, is within the type of testing that section 211(b) allows EPA to require. The timing requirements of Tier 2 are also within EPA's discretion under section 211(b), for section 211(b) leaves submission deadlines to EPA's discretion. The timing for Tier 2 submissions is also governed, at least in part, by section 211(e)(2). That section requires that, for F/FAs registered when the rule is promulgated, ``requisite information'' be submitted within three years of the promulgation date. ``Requisite information'' is not defined in the statute. EPA proposed to interpret ``requisite information'' as the data required by Tiers 1 and 2. In part this was based on EPA's understanding that Congress intended that the testing rule promulgated under section 211(e) would require manufacturers to conduct testing_not merely conduct a literature search and compile studies that had already been conducted. As a practical matter, however, EPA now believes that the Tier 2 tests cannot be completed for all F/FAs within three years. EPA believes this makes its proposed definition of ``requisite information'' unreasonable and requires a different interpretation of ``requisite information.''
