FR940621-1-00010 FR940621-1-00003 Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq .), the Coast Guard must consider whether this proposal, if adopted, will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. ``Small entities'' may include (1) small businesses and not-for-profit organizations that are independently owned and operated and are not dominant in their fields and (2) governmental jurisdictions with populations of less than 50,000. Owners of vessels that would be engaging in ballast water management in the affected area are large corporations. No small entities have been identified as being affected. The economic affect on all entities will be minimal. No U.S. vessels have been identified as being subject to the proposed regulations. The total cost per vessel has been determined to be $35 per visit for each vessel with a total annual cost in 1995 to $4,200 for all vessels. Therefore, the Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this proposal, if adopted, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. If, however, you think that your business or organization qualifies as a small entity and that this proposal will have a significant economic impact on your business or organization, please submit a comment (see ADDRESSES ) explaining why you think it qualifies and in what way and to what degree this proposal will economically affect it. Collection of Information Under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq .), the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) reviews each proposed rule that contains a collection-of-information requirement to determine whether the practical value of the information is worth the burden imposed by its collection. Collection-of-information requirements include reporting, recordkeeping, notification, and other, similar requirements. This proposal contains collection-of-information requirements in the following sections: ยง151.1516. The following particulars apply: DOT No: 2115. OMB Control No.: 2115&hyph;0598. Administration: U.S. Coast Guard. Title: Ballast Water Management for Vessels Entering the Hudson River Need for Information: No other method exists for the Coast Guard to determine compliance with the regulations. Recording of ballast water management will allow for review of this compliance and aid in establishing the sources of species introduced through ballast water. Proposed Use of Information: This information will be used to determine compliance with the regulations and for development of a statistical base for determining the possible sources of nonindigenous aquatic nuisance invasions. Frequency of Response: Upon each entry into the Hudson River, north of the George Washington Bridge, after operating beyond the EEZ, certain information must be available to provide to the COTP. Burden Estimate: 60 hours annually. Respondents: Approximately 120 visits by foreign vessels will be subject to this requirement. Form(s): No specific form is required by the proposed regulations. Average Burden Hours per Respondent: .5 hour. The Coast Guard has submitted the requirements to OMB for review under section 3504(h) of the Paperwork Reduction Act. Persons submitting comments on the requirements should submit their comments both to OMB and to the Coast Guard where indicated under ADDRESSES. Federalism The Coast Guard has analyzed this proposal under the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612 and has determined that this proposal does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. The authority to issue regulations requiring ballast water management practices for vessels navigating the Hudson River, north of the George Washington Bridge, after operating beyond the EEZ, has been committed to the Coast Guard by the Act. Standardizing the minimum requirements for these vessels is necessary to effectively prevent further introductions of nonindigenous species. Therefore, if the rule becomes final, the Coast Guard intends it to preempt state and local regulations that are inconsistent with the requirements of this proposed rule. These regulations were developed in consultation with the Task Force which is charged with coordinating among, and providing technical assistance to, regional, State, and local entities regarding environmentally sound approaches to prevention and control of aquatic nuisance species. Environment The Coast Guard considered the environmental impact of this proposal and concluded that preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement is not necessary. An Environmental Assessment and a draft Finding of No Significant Impact are available in the docket for inspection or copying where indicated under ADDRESSES . The exchange of ballast water in open ocean would benefit the Hudson River environment and the Great Lakes environment by helping to prevent potential infestations of nonindigenous species through ballast water emptied into the Hudson River north of the George Washington Bridge and transferred through the Hudson River and into the Great Lakes. Introduction of nonindigenous nuisance species through the ballast water of vessels has caused millions of dollars of damage to date in the Great Lakes area.
