FR940804-0-00055 FR940804-0-00022 (2) Highway Sanction Effectuation. The issues raised by the commenters are not a subject of this rulemaking. The DOT has primary responsibility for implementing the highway sanction and EPA is coordinating with DOT on the development of procedures for that purpose. 3. Sanction Clock Policy a. Summary of Proposal. In the proposal, EPA described its proposed policy with respect to the sanctions clock at pages 51272&hyph;51273. 11 Under that interpretation, once the sanctions clock has started upon EPA making a finding under section 179(a), in order to stop the clock, EPA must determine that the State has corrected the deficiency that prompted the finding. Similarly, to remove section 179(b) sanctions applied under section 179(a), EPA must determine that the State has come into compliance by correcting the deficiency that prompted the finding that resulted in the application of one or both sanctions. 11 For general guidance on EPA's interpretation, at the time of proposal, of how the sanctions clock functions and what is necessary to stop it, see the memorandum entitled ``Processing of State Implementation Plan (SIP) Submittals'' from John Calcagni to Air Division Directors, Regions I&hyph;X, July 9, 1992. A copy of this memorandum has been placed in the docket for this rulemaking. For a finding that a State has failed to submit a SIP or an element of a SIP, or that the SIP or SIP element submitted fails to meet the completeness criteria of section 110(k), the proposal provided that EPA will stop the sanctions clock or remove any sanctions applied upon EPA's determination that the State has submitted the missing plan or plan element and that the submittal meets the completeness criteria established pursuant to section 110(k)(1). Note that EPA's July 9, 1992 SIP processing guidance indicated that if the 18-month sanction clock elapses during a completeness review, sanctions would not be imposed unless and until EPA determined the plan to be incomplete. 12 In such a case, the 18-month clock would continue to run so that if EPA determined the plan to be incomplete after 18-months had elapsed, sanctions would immediately apply. 12 The policy also provided that, following findings of nonsubmittal and incompleteness, sanctions which had applied would continue to apply upon State submittal until the submittal was determined to be complete. The proposal provided that if EPA disapproves a SIP submission based on its failure to meet one or more plan elements required by the Act, to correct the deficiency for purposes of stopping the sanctions clock or removing the sanction, the State must submit a revised SIP to EPA and EPA must approve that submittal pursuant to section 110(k). For a finding that a requirement of an approved plan is not being implemented, the proposal provided that the sanctions clock would stop or sanctions would be removed through notice-and-comment rulemaking determining that the State is implementing the approved plan or part of a plan.
