FR940228-1-00086 FR940228-1-00010 Due to differences in legal and reporting entity, mission, and accounting format for nonprofit entities and for profit-seeking entities, there are differing tests of financial responsibility to be applied. Evaluating a nonprofit entity's overall financial condition is more complicated because there is no commonly accepted standard of acceptable financial condition. Generally, a measure of an institution's financial condition is a measure of an institution's solvency, or the ability of an institution to adequately cover its expenditures with revenues. In determining an institution's financial condition, the Secretary believes it is necessary to look at the institution's short-term solvency and long-term solvency, which is the ability of an institution to support an adequate level of services over the long run, withstanding economic disruption and meeting changing demands for services. With accounting for for-profit entities, analysis of financial statements provides an understanding of an institution's financial condition through comparisons of key financial ratios that measure the institution's ability to remain solvent while continuing to provide educational services at acceptable levels. Examination of financial information from nonprofit entities requires a review of other organizational factors that measure the ability of the institution to provide educational services using a larger and more complex source of funds. It is therefore necessary to differentiate the standards that are applicable to profit-seeking entities from the standards that are applicable to nonprofit entities. The Secretary will first address the specific standards for for-profit institutions. The Secretary proposes to require that a for-profit institution have, at the end of its latest fiscal year, a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of at least 1.25:1. One commonly used means of determining whether or not the institution has sufficient short-term solvency is use of the ratio of current assets to current liabilities. For the past fourteen years the Department has used a current assets to current liabilities ratio of at least 1:1 as an indicator of financial responsibility. This means that the institution has current assets at least equal to their current liabilities. In theory, this would indicate that an institution has sufficient resources to handle not only debt service, but also other liabilities for at least the coming fiscal year. The higher the amount of assets, the better the liquidity position of the institution and, therefore, the better the institution will be able to handle unforeseen economic conditions. The Secretary believes that the current 1:1 benchmark offers little or no indication of adequate short-term solvency. A 1.25:1 benchmark has, therefore, been proposed for for-profit institutions. Cash is now required to be a component. The Secretary believes that the proposed increase in current assets will help to ensure that institutions have sufficient resources to provide worthwhile education and training. The Secretary is proposing a higher ratio of current assets to current liabilities ratio for for-profit institutions than for nonprofit institutions. The Secretary believes that a higher current ratio is necessary for for-profit institutions because they will be less likely, in the event of hampered liquidity, to draw on fund-raising as a source of cash. This rationale is discussed later as part of the discussion of the proposed ratio of current assets to current liabilities for nonprofit institutions. The Secretary proposes to exclude from the calculation of this ratio for for-profit institutions, uncollateralized loans receivable from owners and related parties. Uncollateralized related party loans are loans that have been made to affiliates, officers, or employees and have not been secured by tangible assets. In accordance with Accounting Research Bulletin 43 (ARB43), chapter 3A, paragraph 6, the concept of current assets contemplates the exclusion from that classification of such resources as ``*␣*␣* (c) receivables arising from unusual transactions (such as the sale of capital assets, or loans or advances to affiliates, officers, or employees) that are not expected to be received within twelve (12) months''. In the event that certain financial statements present these types of loans on the balance sheet, they will be disregarded by the Secretary in computation of the current ratio. Further, because the proposed cash reserve requirement may cause a portion of the institution's cash reserves to be classified as a restricted asset, which would, under generally accepted accounting principles, be excluded from classification as current assets, the Secretary's proposal specifies that, for for-profit institutions, the cash reserves may be included in the institution's current assets in calculating the institution's current assets to current liabilities ratio. The Secretary believes that it is appropriate to permit for-profit institutions to treat the cash reserves as current assets because the funds are held for the benefit of the students, and inclusion of those amounts toward demonstrating a 1.25:1 current ratio still leaves the institution with sufficient unrestricted assets to pay all current expenses.
