FR940603-2-00172 FR940603-2-00092 All grant activities must be held in accessible facilities and must be available in formats accessible to individuals with communication disabilities. Materials to be Provided to DOJ. One thousand standard print copies, 100 audiotape copies, 100 large print copies, and 50 Braille copies of each publication produced under the grant must be provided to DOJ. One one-inch NCSC standard fully mixed and open-captioned edited master videotape, 25 other copies, and, where appropriate, 15 audiodescribed copies of each videotape produced under the grant must be provided to DOJ for use by the Federal government. A copy of the final text of each document or videotape script produced must be provided to DOJ on computer disk in ASCII or Wordperfect. Funds for the reproduction of the above materials should be included in the proposed grant budget. Application Requirements Under Section 506(d) of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Department is authorized to award grants to individuals and non-profit organizations to supplement its technical assistance efforts. All applicants must submit, in the order given, an original and two copies of the following information. 1. A signed SF 424 and SF 424A (Rev. 4/88) application form. 2. A one-page Abstract that summarizes the goals of the project, the nature and size of the population(s) to be reached through the project, and the project strategy; Applicants should state explicitly the number of people expected to be served in the course of the project's activities. Depending on the nature of the project, this may be indicated by the number of copies of print materials to be developed and disseminated, the number of people expected to be trained, the number of people expected to view audiovisual materials, or other appropriate indicators of the scale of the project. 3. A Project Strategy and Plan of Action (maximum length 15 pages) that: _Addresses each major component identified in the grant priorities specific to the project for which applicant is applying; _Describes all major activities, events, and/or products that are planned; _Provides a detailed plan for evaluating the effectiveness of the project, and how the proposed evaluation criteria will indicate to what degree the project succeeded in meeting its stated objectives and reaching the targeted audience; and _Provides a description of the applicant's plan for coordinating project activities with other Federal ADA programs and their grantees. 4. A Management Plan that includes a timeline for completion of all project objectives, activities, events, and products. 5. A Budget Narrative required by the SF 424 (Rev. 4/88), which includes the basis for all costs presented in the budget. 6. A brief statement identifying the facilities, equipment, and other resources available for carrying out the project. 7. Job descriptions for positions that are proposed to be funded under the grant. 8. Resumes or qualifications of the key individuals who will fill the grant positions, including consultants, if any (maximum length 3 pages each). 9. Letters of commitment from organizations that will be involved in the project, if any. 10. A certification regarding lobbying, debarment, suspension, other responsibility matters, and drug-free workplace requirements, OJP Form 4061/6. 11. A disclosure of lobbying activities, SF LLL. (Please Note: Non-profit applicants who have not previously received Federal financial assistance from the Department of Justice may also be required to submit a disclosure of financial capability statement or other documentation prior to the grant award) Dated: May 25, 1994. Deval L. Patrick, Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13514 Filed 6&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;01&hyph;P
