FR940106-0-00056 FR940106-0-00017 In the absence of a registry that indicates the actual number of cytotechnologists, their employment and age distribution, the amount and type of work they do, and the specific number of individuals that meet all the qualifications except the two years' experience, we cannot determine the cause of this shortage or predict when the shortage will end. Based on data projections from the Census Bureau and the National Health Interview Survey, the demand for Pap smears in women 18 and older was nearly 79 million in 1992 and is expected to increase. If there is an existing shortage of personnel and we anticipate the increased demand for cytology services, the impact of this regulation would be beneficial to laboratories because it will allow larger numbers of cytotechnologists to meet Federal personnel requirements. Although we cannot determine whether this final rule's provisions to allow a longer period of time for certain individuals to accumulate required experience will have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities or small rural hospitals, because of the lack of data, we have determined that its impact is beneficial. As stated previously, one of the new methods of qualifying as a cytotechnologist includes graduation, by September 1, 1994, from a CAHEA-approved school. In the event that CAHEA should cease to function as an accrediting agency prior to September 1, 1994, individuals may not be able to avail themselves of this method of qualifying as a cytotechnologist. To accommodate individuals seeking to qualify under this provision, we are extending the date of graduation to September 1, 1995. This should provide sufficient time for us to formally recognize another accrediting organization, if that becomes necessary. Collection of Information Requirements This document does not impose information collection and recordkeeping requirements. Consequently, it need not be reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget under the authority of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq .). List of Subjects in 42 CFR Part 493 Grant programs_health, Health facilities, Laboratories, Medicaid, Medicare, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
