FR940803-0-00055 FR940803-0-00019 (1) Added to funds committed to the project by the Federal awarding agency and recipient and used to further eligible project or program objectives. (2) Used to finance the non-Federal share of the project or program. (3) Deducted from the total project or program allowable cost in determining the net allowable costs on which the Federal share of costs is based. (c) When an agency authorizes the disposition of program income as described in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, program income in excess of any limits stipulated shall be used in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section. (d) In the event that the Federal awarding agency does not specify in its regulations or the terms and conditions of the award how program income is to be used, paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall apply automatically to all projects or programs except research. For awards that support research, paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall apply automatically unless the awarding agency indicates in the terms and conditions another alternative on the award or the recipient is subject to special award conditions, as indicated in §518.14. (e) Unless Federal awarding agency regulations or the terms and conditions of the award provide otherwise, recipients shall have no obligation to the Federal Government regarding program income earned after the end of the project period. (f) If authorized by Federal awarding agency regulations or the terms and conditions of the award, costs incident to the generation of program income may be deducted from gross income to determine program income, provided these costs have not been charged to the award. (g) Proceeds from the sale of property shall be handled in accordance with the requirements of the Property Standards (See §§518.30 through 518.37). (h) Unless Federal awarding agency regulations or the terms and condition of the award provide otherwise, recipients shall have no obligation to the Federal Government with respect to program income earned from license fees and royalties for copyrighted material, patents, patent applications, trademarks, and inventions produced under an award. However, Patent and Trademark Amendments (35 U.S.C. 18) apply to inventions made under an experimental, developmental, or research award. §518.25 Revision of budget and program plans. (a) The budget plan is the financial expression of the project or program as approved during the award process. It may include either the Federal and non-Federal share, or only the Federal share, depending upon Federal awarding agency requirements. It shall be related to performance for program evaluation purposes whenever appropriate. (b) Recipients are required to report deviations from budget and program plans, and request prior approvals for budget and program plan revisions, in accordance with this section. (c) For nonconstruction awards, recipients shall request prior approvals from Federal awarding agencies for one or more of the following program or budget related reasons. (1) Change in the scope or the objective of the project or program (even if there is no associated budget revision requiring prior written approval). (2) Change in a key person specified in the application or award document. (3) The absence for more than three months, or a 25 percent reduction in time devoted to the project, by the approved project director or principal investigator. (4) The need for additional Federal funding. (5) The transfer of amounts budgeted for indirect costs to absorb increases in direct costs, or vice versa, if approval is required by the Federal awarding agency. (6) The inclusion, unless waived by the Federal awarding agency, of costs that require prior approval in accordance with OMB Circular A&hyph;21, ``Cost Principles for Institutions of Higher Education,'' OMB Circular A&hyph;122, ``Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organizations,'' or 45 CFR part 74 Appendix E, ``Principles for Determining Costs Applicable to Research and Development under Grants and Contracts with Hospitals,'' or 48 CFR part 31, ``Contract Cost Principles and Procedures,'' as applicable. (7) The transfer of funds allotted for training allowances (direct payment to trainees) to other categories of expense. (8) Unless described in the application and funded in the approved awards, the subaward, transfer or contracting out of any work under an award. This provision does not apply to the purchase of supplies, material, equipment or general support services. (d) No other prior approval requirements for specific items may be imposed unless a deviation has been approved by OMB.
