FR941125-0-00044 FR941125-0-00019 Changes: None. Section 682.417(e)␣Third-Party Participation Comments: One commenter requested the Secretary to delete the provision for third-party participation in appeals, or at least to specify the information that third parties may provide. Discussion: Third-party participation was an important component of the consensus reached at the negotiated rulemaking proceeding. Students, schools, and lenders are the parties most affected by the financial condition of guaranty agencies, and they should not be denied an opportunity to provide information in these proceedings. The Secretary does not believe that it is appropriate to limit the information that third parties may provide. Changes: None. Section 682.417(f)␣Adverse Information Comments: Two commenters requested that all third-party information be provided to the guaranty agency without a formal request under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), not just adverse information considered by the deciding official. Discussion: This matter was also discussed at the negotiated rulemaking proceeding, and the guaranty agency negotiators agreed that the agencies would usually already be aware of any favorable information that was submitted by third parties. In any event, under §682.417(e)(2) all information submitted by third parties is available for public inspection and copying. No formal FOIA request is necessary. Changes: None. Executive Order 12866 These final regulations have been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866. Under the terms of the order the Secretary has assessed the potential costs and benefits of this regulatory action. The potential costs associated with the final regulations are those resulting from statutory requirements and those determined by the Secretary to be necessary for administering the Title IV, HEA programs effectively and efficiently. Burdens specifically associated with information collection requirements were identified and justified in the NPRM. In assessing the potential costs and benefits_both quantitative and qualitative_of these regulations, the Secretary has determined that the benefits of these regulations justify the costs. The Secretary has also determined that this regulatory action does not unduly interfere with State, local, and tribal governments in the exercise of their governmental functions. Assessment of Educational Impact In the NPRM, the Secretary requested comments on whether the proposed regulations would require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. Based on the response to the proposed rules and on its own review, the Department has determined that the regulations in this document do not require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. List of Subjects in 34 CFR Part 682 Administrative practice and procedure, Colleges and universities, Education, Loan programs-education, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Student aid, Vocational education. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.032, Federal Family Education Loan Program.) Dated: November 18, 1994. Richard W. Riley, Secretary of Education. The Secretary amends part 682 of title 34 of the Code of Federal Regulations as follows: PART 682_FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAMS 1. The authority citation for part 682 continues to read as follows: Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1071 to 1087&hyph;2, unless otherwise noted. 2. Section 682.410(a) is revised, and the OMB control number is republished to read as follows: §682.410 Fiscal, administrative, and enforcement requirements. (a) Fiscal requirements (1) Reserve fund assets. A guaranty agency shall establish and maintain a reserve fund to be used solely for its activities as a guaranty agency under the FFEL Program (``guaranty activities''). The guaranty agency shall credit to the reserve fund_ (i) The total amount of insurance premiums collected; (ii) Funds received from a State for the agency's guaranty activities, including matching funds under section 422(a) of the Act; (iii) Federal advances obtained under sections 422(a) and (c) of the Act; (iv) Federal payments for default, bankruptcy, death, disability, closed schools, and false certification claims; (v) Supplemental preclaims assistance payments; (vi) Administrative cost allowance payments received under §682.407 and transitional support payments received under section 458(a) of the Act; (vii) Funds collected by the guaranty agency on FFEL Program loans on which a claim has been paid; (viii) Investment earnings on the reserve fund; and (ix) Other funds received by the guaranty agency from any source for the agency's guaranty activities. (2) Uses of reserve fund assets. A guaranty agency may use the assets of the reserve fund established under paragraph (a)(1) of this section to pay only_ (i) Insurance claims; (ii) Operating costs for the agency's guaranty activities, including payments necessary in collecting loans, providing preclaims assistance, monitoring enrollment and repayment status, and carrying out any other guaranty activities; (iii) Lenders for their participation in a loan referral service under section 428(e) of the Act; (iv) The Secretary's equitable share of collections; (v) Federal advances and other funds owed to the Secretary; (vi) Reinsurance fees; (vii) Insurance premiums related to cancelled loans; (viii) Borrower refunds, including those arising out of student or other borrower claims and defenses; (ix) (A) The repayment, on or after December 29, 1993, of amounts credited under paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) or (a)(1)(ix) of this section, if the agency provides the Secretary 30 days prior notice of the repayment and demonstrates that_
