FR941017-2-00128 FR941017-2-00072 Federal Highway Administration Environmental Impact Statement: Douglas County, KS AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The FHWA is issuing this notice to advise the public that a supplement to a Final Environmental Impact Statement will be prepared for a segment of the South Lawrence Trafficway project in Douglas County, Kansas. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Johnny R. Dahl, P.E., Operations Engineer, FHWA, 3300 South Topeka Boulevard, Suite 1, Topeka, Kansas 66611&hyph;2237, Telephone: (913)267&hyph;7284. Larry W. Emig, Chief of Bureau of Local Projects, Kansas Department of Transportation, Docking State Office Building, 7th Floor, Topeka, Kansas 66612&hyph;1568, Telephone: (913)296&hyph;3861. Frank B. Hempen, Jr., P.E., Director of Public Works/County Engineer, Douglas County, Department of Public Works, 1242 Massachusetts Street, Lawrence, Kansas 66044, Telephone: (913)841&hyph;7700. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FHWA, in cooperation with the Kansas Department of Transportation and Douglas County will prepare a supplement to the Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) for a segment of the highway project known as the South Lawrence Trafficway (SLT). The original FEIS for the improvements (FHWA&hyph;KS&hyph;EIS&hyph;87&hyph;01&hyph;F) was approved on January 4, 1990. If this segment is constructed, the project would be primarily on new location, and developed initially as a two-lane road (ultimately as a four-lane roadway). The SLT Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement (SEIS) corridor runs from U.S. 59 east to K&hyph;10 near 31st Street in south Lawrence. The remaining section of the SLT is from I&hyph;70/Kansas Turnpike Authority (KTA) south and east to U.S. 59. The SLT is intended to provide for projected traffic demands and to alleviate traffic congestion on the two primary arterial streets in the south and west sections in the City of Lawrence and improve access to the University of Kansas and Clinton Lake. The location (preferred alternative) of the western portion of the South Lawrence Trafficway, from I&hyph;70/KTA then south and east to U.S. 59, has been approved and construction is underway. However, new information regarding the effects of the SLT on the cultural issues, spiritual sites, academic programs, and future development at Haskell Indian Nations University (HINU) which were not evaluated in the SLT FEIS have been raised. This segment of the proposed SLT facility, from U.S. 59 east to K&hyph;10, is now to be restudied to address concerns raised by HINU. Alternatives under consideration include (1) constructing a two-lane (ultimately a four-lane) limited access highway on the current preferred alternative; and (2) constructing a two-lane ((ultimately a four-lane) limited access highway on an alternate alignment. Design variations of grade and alignment will be incorporated into and studied with the various build alternatives. Letters describing the proposed action and soliciting comments will be sent to appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies. Letters will also be sent to the private organizations and citizens who have previously expressed or are known to have interest in this proposal. A public hearing will be held in Lawrence, Kansas, to provide opportunity for input into the SLT SEIS. Public notice will be given for the time and place of the public hearing. The Draft SEIS will be available for public and governmental agency review and comment prior to the public hearing. No formal scoping meeting will be held. To ensure that the full range of issues related to this proposed action are addressed and all significant issues identified, comments and suggestions are invited from all interested parties. Comments and questions concerning this proposed action and the SLT SEIS should be directed to the FHWA, Douglas County, or the Kansas Department of Transportation at the addresses provided above. Issued on: October 6, 1994. Johnny R. Dahl, Operations Engineer, Kansas Division, Federal Highway Administration, Topeka, Kansas. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25572 Filed 10&hyph;14&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;M
