FR940727-0-00089 FR940727-0-00025 1. Demand. Subpoena, order, or other demand of a court of competent jurisdiction, or other specific authority for the production, disclosure, or release of official DoD information or for the appearance and testimony of DoD personnel as witnesses. 2. DoD Personnel. Present and former U.S. military personnel; Service Academy cadets and midshipmen; and present and former civilian employees of any Component of the Department of Defense, including nonappropriated fund activity employees; non-U.S. nationals who perform services overseas, under the provisions of status of forces agreements, for the United States Armed Forces; and other specific individuals hired through contractual agreements by or on behalf of the Department of Defense. 3. Litigation. All pretrial, trial, and post-trial stages of all existing or reasonably anticipated judicial or administrative actions, hearings, investigations, or similar proceedings before civilian courts, commissions, boards (including the Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals), or other tribunals, foreign and domestic. This term includes responses to discovery requests, depositions, and other pretrial proceedings, as well as responses to formal or informal requests by attorneys or others in situations involving litigation. 4. Official Information. All information of any kind, however stored, that is in the custody and control of the Department of Defense, relates to information in the custody and control of the Department, or was acquired by DoD personnel as part of their official duties or because of their official status within the Department while such personnel were employed by or on behalf of the Department or on active duty with the United States Armed Forces. D. Policy It is DoD policy that official information should generally be made reasonably available for use in Federal and state courts and by other governmental bodies unless the information is classified, privileged, or otherwise protected from public disclosure. E. Responsibilities l. The General Counsel, Department of Defense (GC, DoD), shall provide general policy and procedural guidance by the issuance of supplemental instructions or specific orders concerning the release of official DoD information in litigation and the testimony of DoD personnel as witnesses during litigation. 2. The Heads of DoD Components shall issue appropriate regulations to implement this Directive and to identify official information that is involved in litigation. F. Procedures 1. Authority to Act a. In response to a litigation request or demand for official DoD information or the testimony of DoD personnel as witnesses, the General Counsels of DoD, Navy, and the Defense Agencies; the Judge Advocates General of the Military Departments; and the Chief Legal Advisors to the JCS and the Unified and Specified Commands, with regard to their respective Components, are authorized_after consulting and coordinating with the appropriate Department of Justice litigation attorneys, as required_to determine whether official information originated by the Component may be released in litigation; whether DoD personnel assigned to or affiliated with the Component may be interviewed, contacted, or used as witnesses concerning official DoD information or as expert witnesses; and what, if any, conditions will be imposed upon such release, interview, contact, or testimony. Delegation of this authority, to include the authority to invoke appropriate claims of privilege before any tribunal, is permitted. b. In the event that a DoD Component receives a litigation request or demand for official information originated by another Component, the receiving Component shall forward the appropriate portions of the request or demand to the originating Component for action in accordance with this Directive. The receiving Component shall also notify the requestor, court, or other authority of its transfer of the request or demand. c. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs F.1.a. and b., the GC, DoD, in litigation involving terrorism, espionage, nuclear weapons, intelligence means or sources, or otherwise as deemed necessary, may notify Components that GC, DoD, will assume primary responsibility for coordinating all litigation requests and demands for official DoD information or the testimony of DoD personnel, or both; consulting with the Department of Justice, as required; and taking final action on such requests and demands.
