FR941121-0-00122 FR941121-0-00011 (e) Commission records. A copy of every annual employment report, equal employment opportunity program statement, reports on complaints regarding violation of equal employment provisions of Federal, State, Territorial, or local law, and copies of all exhibits, letters, and other documents filed as part thereof, all amendments thereto, all correspondence between the licensee and the Commission pertaining to the reports after they have been filed and all documents incorporated therein by reference, are open for public inspection at the offices of the Commission. (f) Licensee records. Each licensee required to file annual employment reports (pursuant to §1.815(a) of this chapter), equal employment opportunity program statements, and annual reports on complaints regarding violations of equal employment provisions of Federal, State, Territorial, or local law shall maintain for public inspection a file containing a copy of each such report and copies of all exhibits, letters, and other documents filed as part thereto, all correspondence between the licensee and the Commission pertaining to the reports after they have been filed and all documents incorporated therein by reference. The documents must be retained for a period of two (2) years. §90.169 Construction prior to grant of application. Applicants may construct facilities prior to grant of their applications, subject to the provisions of this section, but must not operate such facilities until the Commission grants an authorization. If the conditions stated in this section are not met, applicants must not begin to construct facilities. (a) When applicants may begin construction. An applicant may begin construction of a facility thirty-five (35) days after the date of the Public Notice listing the application for that facility as acceptable for filing. (b) Notification to stop. If the Commission for any reason determines that construction should not be started or should be stopped while an application is pending, and so notifies the applicant, orally (followed by written confirmation) or in writing, the applicant must not begin construction or, if construction has begun, must stop construction immediately. (c) Assumption of risk. Applicants that begin construction pursuant to this section before receiving an authorization do so at their own risk and have no recourse against the United States for any losses resulting from: (1) Applications that are not granted; (2) Errors or delays in issuing Public Notices; (3) Having to alter, relocate, or dismantle the facility; or (4) Incurring whatever costs may be necessary to bring the facility into compliance with applicable laws, or Commission rules and orders. (d) Conditions. Except as indicated, all pre-grant construction is subject to the following conditions: (1) The application is not mutually exclusive with any other application; (2) No petitions to deny the application have been filed; (3) The application does not include a request for a waiver of one or more Commission rules; (4) For any construction or alteration that would exceed the requirements of §17.7 of this chapter, the licensee has notified the appropriate Regional Office of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA Form 7460&hyph;1), filed a request for antenna height clearance and obstruction marking and lighting specifications (FCC Form 854) with the Commission; (5) The applicant has indicated in the application that the proposed facility would not have a significant environmental effect, in accordance with §§1.1301 through 1.1319 of this chapter; and, (6) Under applicable international agreements and rules in this part, individual coordination of the proposed channel assignment(s) with a foreign administration is not required. 24. Section 90.179 is amended by adding a new paragraph (g) to read as follows: §90.179 Shared use of radio stations. * * * * * (g) The provisions of this section do not apply to licensees authorized to provide commercial mobile radio service under this part. 25. Section 90.403 is amended by revising paragraph (c) to read as follows: §90.403 General operating requirements. * * * * * (c) Except for stations that have been granted exclusive channels under this part and that are classified as commercial mobile radio service providers pursuant to part 20 of this chapter, each licensee must restrict all transmissions to the minimum practical transmission time and must employ an efficient operating procedure designed to maximize the utilization of the spectrum. * * * * * 26. Section 90.405 is amended by revising paragraph (b) to read as follows: §90.405 Permissible communications. * * * * * (b) The provisions contained in paragraph (a) of this section do not apply where a single base station licensee has been authorized to use a channel above 470 MHz on an exclusive basis, or to stations licensed under this part that are classified as CMRS providers under part 20 of this chapter.
