FR941026-0-00012 FR941026-0-00005 The Treasury supported the SEC changes to Rule 17a&hyph;11 and took action to relieve registered government securities brokers and dealers of the requirement to file supplemental financial reports under §405.3, pending the reauthorization of Treasury's rulemaking authority and the issuance of conforming amendments. Accordingly, on August 27, 1993, at the request of Department staff, the SEC staff issued to no-action letter 4 stating that no action would be recommended to the Commission if a DEA waived the financial report filing requirements of SEC Rule 17a&hyph;11, as modified and made applicable to registered government securities brokers and dealers by §405.3, provided that: 4 Letter from Michael A. Macchiaroli, Associate Director, Division of Market Regulation, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, to Raymond J. Hennessy, Vice President, New York Stock Exchange, and to John F. Pinto, Executive Vice President, National Association of Securities Dealers, dated August 27, 1993. (1) a registered government securities broker or dealer gives notice the same day of the event in accordance with Rule 17a&hyph;11: (a) if the liquid capital of a government securities broker-dealer subject to the financial responsibility requirements of §402.2 under the GSA declines below the minimum amount required by §402.2, or (b) if the net capital of a government securities interdealer broker subject to the financial responsibility requirements of §402.1(e) of the GSA declines below the minimum amount required by §402.1(e), or (c) if the net capital of a registered government securities broker or dealer that is also an FCM registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (``CFTC'') falls below the greater of (i) the minimum amount required by Rule 15c3&hyph;1 (17 CFR 240.15c3&hyph;1) or (ii) the minimum amount required by CFTC Rule 1.17 (17 CFR 1.17); or (2) a registered government securities broker or dealer gives notice promptly (within 24 hours) in accordance with Rule 17a&hyph;11 upon the occurrence of an event that would require under §405.3 the filing of a Report on Finances and Operations of Government Securities Brokers and Dealers (``FOGS Report'') or FOCUS Report. The no-action letter also noted that Treasury's rulemaking authority had expired, but that Treasury staff intended, upon reauthorization of its rulemaking authority, to amend its regulations under the GSA to conform to the SEC's amendments to Rule 17a&hyph;11. The Treasury's rulemaking authority was reauthorized on December 17, 1993, with the enactment of the Government Securities Act Amendments of 1993, 5 thus enabling the Department to make this rule change. 5 Pub. L. 103&hyph;202, 107 Stat. 2344 (1993). II. Amendments A. Section 405.3 The new rule eliminates the prior requirement that registered government securities brokers or dealers file financial reports within 24 hours after a liquid or net capital deficiency by adopting paragraph (b) of SEC Rule 17a&hyph;11. 6 Registered government securities brokers and dealers will remain obligated to transmit notice of a liquid or net capital deficiency on the same day of the occurrence. However, unlike the previous rule, the amendments require the notice to specify the registered government securities broker's or dealer's capital requirement and its current amount of capital. This latter requirement does not impose any additional burdens on registered government securities brokers and dealers because they are required to continually monitor their minimum capital requirement and their current amount of capital to ensure compliance with the Department's capital rule. 6 17 CFR 240.17a&hyph;11(b). Section 405.3 also adopts the requirement of SEC Rule 17a&hyph;11(b) that a broker or dealer must give notice of a capital deficiency when it is informed by its DEA or the Commission that it is, or has been, in violation of the capital requirements, even if it does not agree with that determination. In the event of such a dispute, the broker or dealer may state in its notice the arguments for its disagreement with the capital deficiency determination. The requirement that registered government securities brokers and dealers file Part II or Part IIA of the FOGS Report, or in limited cases the FOCUS Report, within 15 calendar days after the end of the next three months if their capital falls below certain early warning levels is also eliminated. In lieu of this requirement, and consistent with the SEC's Rule, §405.3(a)(5) requires that, in the event a registered government securities broker's or dealer's capital falls below certain early warning levels, it is required to file notice of such event promptly (within 24 hours). Section 405.3(a)(5) also adds a new early warning level based on minimum capital after haircuts for registered government securities brokers or dealers other than government securities interdealer brokers and government securities brokers and dealers that also are FCMs. In addition to sending prompt notice any time their liquid capital is less than 150 percent of haircuts, such government securities brokers and dealers also have to send a notice when their liquid capital after deducting total haircuts is less than 120 percent of their minimum capital requirement. This is consistent with the SEC early warning level for net capital and especially important for a registered government securities broker or dealer that may have no haircuts. These amendments to §405.3 of the GSA regulations conform the notification provisions applicable to registered government securities brokers and dealers to the requirements applicable to diversified brokers and dealers registered with the SEC. The Department is conforming the regulations under the GSA to SEC Rule 17a&hyph;11 to ensure consistent regulatory treatment for all classes of government securities brokers and dealers registered with the Commission and to reduce the reporting burdens on registered government securities brokers and dealers. The Department believes that there is no reason for registered government securities brokers or dealers to file reports in circumstances where other brokers or dealers registered with the SEC are not filing reports. Further, the same-day notice requirement provides the Commission and the DEAs adequate warning of financial or operational problems, thereby enabling them to increase the surveillance of a registered government securities broker or dealer experiencing difficulty and to obtain any additional information necessary to assess the broker's or dealer's financial condition. Due to the revisions of SEC Rule 17a&hyph;11, the Department is also making minor housekeeping changes to §405.3(a) by deleting paragraphs 405.3(a) (4) and (5), which are no longer applicable, and redesignating the remaining paragraphs. To correct an oversight, the Department is adding new paragraph 405.3(c)(7) that indicates that references in SEC Rule 17a&hyph;11 to §240.17a&hyph;3, relating to records, mean §404.2 of the GSA regulations. This provision, which appears in paragraphs 405.3 (a) and (b), was inadvertently excluded from paragraph 405.3(c) when the implementing GSA regulations were adopted in July 1987.
