FR940407-0-00047 FR940407-0-00009 2. Section 117.4 is added to read as follows: ยง117.4 Definitions. Certain terms used in this part are defined in this section. Appurtenance. The term ``appurtenance'' means an attachment or accessory extending beyond the hull or superstructure that is not an integral part of the vessel and is not needed for a vessel's piloting, propelling, controlling, or collision avoidance capabilities. Lowerable. The term ``lowerable'' means the nonstructural vessel appurtenance can be mechanically or manually lowered and raised again. The term ``lowerable'' also applies to a nonstructural vessel appurtenance which can be modified to make the item flexible, hinged, collapsible, or telescopic such that it can be mechanically or manually lowered and raised again. Failure to make the modification is considered equivalent to refusing to lower a lowerable nonstructural appurtenance that is not essential to navigation. Examples of appurtenances which are considered to be lowerable include, but are not limited to, fishing outriggers, radio antennae, television antennae, false stacks, and masts purely for ornamental purposes. Examples of appurtenances which are not considered to be lowerable include, but are not limited to, radar antennae, flying bridges, sailboat masts, piledriver leads, spud frames on hydraulic dredges, drilling derricks' substructures and buildings, cranes on drilling or construction vessels, or other items of permanent and fixed equipment. Nonstructural. The term ``nonstructural'' means that the item is not rigidly fixed to the vessel and is thus susceptible to relocation or alteration. Not essential to navigation. The term ``not essential to navigation'' means the nonstructural vessel appurtenance does not adversely affect the vessel's piloting, propulsion, control, or collision avoidance capabilities when in the lowered position. 3. Section 117.11 is revised to read as follows: ยง117.11 Unnecessary opening of the draw. No vessel owner or operator shall_ (a) Signal a drawbridge to open if the vertical clearance is sufficient to allow the vessel, after all lowerable nonstructural vessel appurtenances that are not essential to navigation have been lowered, to safely pass under the drawbridge in the closed position; or (b) Signal a drawbridge to open for any purpose other than to pass through the drawbridge opening. Dated: April 1, 1994. W.J. Ecker, Rear Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, Chief, Office of Navigation Safety and Waterway Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8371 Filed 4&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;14&hyph;M
