FR940927-2-00056 FR940927-2-00041 [TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,858] Wetterau/Supervalu, Bloomington, IN; Notice of Negative Determination Regarding Application for Reconsideration By an application dated August 11, 1994, the AFL&hyph;CIO Community Services on behalf of the workers requested administrative reconsideration of the subject petition for trade adjustment assistant (TAA). The denial notice was published in the Federal Register on July 19, 1994 (59 FR 36793). Pursuant to 29 CFR 90.18(c) reconsideration may be granted under the following circumstances: (1) If it appears on the basis of facts not previously considered that the determination complained of was erroneous; (2) If it appears that the determination complained of was based on a mistake in the determination of facts not previously considered; or (3) If in the opinion of the Certifying Officer, a misinterpretation of facts or of the law justified reconsideration of the decision. The investigation files show that the workers do not produce an article within the meaning of Section 222(3) of the Trade Act and this issue was fully addressed in the Department's negative determination. The workers performed wholesale and retail services. Only in very limited instances are service workers certified for TAA, namely, the worker separations must be caused by a reduced demand for their services from a parent or controlling firm whose workers produce an article and whose workers are currently under a certification for TAA. These conditions were not met for the subject workers. All other considerations which the union makes, i.e., declining net earnings and opening more stores to carry imported food, are moot because the workers do not produce an article and as such are outside the scope of the Trade Act. The Trade Act was not intended to provide TAA benefits to everyone who is in some way affected by foreign competition but only to those who experienced a decline in sales or production and employment and an increase in imports of like or directly competitive articles (not services) which contributed importantly to declines in sales or production and employment at the workers' firm. Conclusion After review of the application and investigative findings, I conclude that there has been no error or misinterpretation of the law or of the facts which would justify reconsideration of the Department of Labor's prior decision. Accordingly, the application is denied. Signed at Washington, D.C., this 15th day of September 1994. Victor J. Trunzo, Program Manager, Policy and Reemployment Service, Office of Trade Adjustment Assistance. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23859 Filed 9&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;30&hyph;M
