FR940104-0-00077 FR940104-0-00016 (v) Benefits paid under Public Law 96&hyph;342, section 903: Educational Assistance Pilot Program; (vi) Any educational benefits paid because of enrollment in a postsecondary education institution; (vii) The estimated amount of other Federal student financial aid, including, but not limited to, a Federal Direct Stafford loan eligible for interest subsidies, Federal Pell Grants, and to the extent funding is available, campus-based aid the student would be expected to receive if the student has applied or will apply for that aid; and (viii) In the case of a Federal Direct PLUS loan, the estimated amount of other Federal student financial aid, including but not limited to, a Federal Direct Stafford loan, Federal Pell grant, and campus-based aid that the student has been or will be awarded. (ix) If the student is applying for a loan to cover expenses incurred within the same enrollment period as that for which a prior Federal or conventional student loan was received, the amount of loan proceeds withheld by the Secretary, lender, or guaranty agency making or insuring the loan if those costs were included in computing the borrower's estimated cost of attendance for the prior loan. (2) The estimated amount of assistance does not include_ (i) Those amounts used to replace the expected family contribution, including_ (A) Federal Direct PLUS loan amounts; and (B) Private and State-sponsored loan program loan amounts; and (ii) Federal Perkins loan and Federal Work-Study funds that the school determines the student has declined for an acceptable reason. Federal Direct PLUS Program : A loan program authorized by title IV, part D of the Act that provides loans to parents of undergraduate students attending Direct Loan Program schools and one of the components of the Direct Loan Program. Federal Direct Stafford Loan Program : A loan program authorized by title IV, part D of the Act that provides loans to undergraduate, graduate, and professional students attending Direct Loan Program schools and one of the components of the Direct Loan Program. Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan Program : A loan program authorized by title IV, part D of the Act that provides loans to undergraduate, graduate, and professional students attending Direct Loan Program schools and one of the components of the Direct Loan Program. The interest that accrues during all periods is paid by the borrower. Grace period : The period that begins on the day after a Direct Loan Program borrower ceases to be enrolled as at least a half-time student at an eligible institution and ends on the day before the repayment period begins. Half-time student : A student enrolled in a school that is participating in the FFEL Program or the Direct Loan Program and is carrying an academic workload that amounts to at least one-half the workload of a full-time student, as determined by the school, and is not a full-time student. A student enrolled solely in an eligible program of study by correspondence as defined in 34 CFR 668.8 is considered a half-time student. Interest rate : The annual interest rate that is charged on a loan, under title IV, part D of the Act. Loan fee : A fee, payable by the borrower, that is used to help defray the costs of the Direct Loan Program. Originating school : A school that has an agreement with the Secretary under ยง685.300(b) to originate loans in the Direct Loan Program. An originating school requests and obtains funds to originate Direct Loans using a draw down process similar to the process for drawing down funds for other federal student aid programs. Period of enrollment : The period for which a Federal Direct Stafford, Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford, or Federal Direct PLUS loan is intended. The period of enrollment must coincide with a bona fide academic term ( i.e., semester trimester, quarter, academic year, and length of the program of study), established by the school, for which institutional charges are generally assessed. The period of enrollment is also referred to as the loan period. Repayment period : (1) For a Federal Direct Stafford Loan or Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan, the period beginning on the date following the expiration of the grace period and ending when the loan is paid-in-full, exclusive of any period of deferment or forbearance. (2) For a Federal Direct PLUS loan, the period that begins on the date the loan is fully disbursed and ends when the loan is paid-in-full, exclusive of any period of deferment or forbearance. Satisfactory repayment arrangement . The making of six consecutive voluntary on-time full monthly payments on a defaulted loan to regain further eligibility for Direct Loan Program loans. The required monthly payment amount may not be more than is reasonable and affordable based on the borrower's total financial circumstances. On-time means a payment made within fifteen days of the scheduled due date and voluntary payments are those payments made directly by the borrower, regardless of whether there is a judgment against the borrower, and do not include payments obtained by income tax offset, garnishment, or income or asset execution. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq .) ยง685.103 Applicability of subparts. (a) Subpart A contains general information regarding the purpose and scope of the Direct Loan Program. (b) Subpart B contains provisions that apply to borrowers in the Direct Loan Program. (c) Subpart C contains certain requirements that apply to schools in the Direct Loan Program. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq .)
