FR940504-1-00018 FR940504-1-00002 Authority: 7 U.S.C. 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480; 5 U.S.C. 301; 7 CFR 2.23; 7 CFR 2.70. Subpart E_Servicing of Community and Insured Business Programs Loans and Grants 31. Section 1951.230 is amended by adding paragraph (a)(13) to read as follows: §1951.230 Transfer of security and assumption of loans. (a) * * * (13) The transferee must not be delinquent on a Federal debt or have a Federal judgment lien against its property. (i) The District Office will check the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS), following the Forms Manual Insert for Form FmHA 1910&hyph;3, ``Record of Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS) Inquiry,'' to determine if the transferee is delinquent on a Federal debt. No decision to deny assistance can be based solely on the results of the CAIVRS inquiry. If CAIVRS identifies a delinquent Federal debt, the District Office will immediately suspend processing of the application. The transferee will be notified that processing has been suspended and will be asked to contact the appropriate Federal agency, at the telephone number provided by CAIVRS, to resolve the delinquency. When the transferee provides FmHA with official documentation that the delinquency has been paid in full or otherwise resolved, processing of the application will be continued. (ii) An outstanding judgment obtained by the United States in a Federal Court (other than the United States Tax Court), which has been recorded, shall cause the transferee to be ineligible to receive any grant or loan until the judgment is paid in full or otherwise satisfied. FmHA loan funds may not be used to satisfy the judgment. Questions about whether or not a judgment is still outstanding should be directed to the Office of the General Counsel. If the judgment remains unsatisfied, or if the transferee is delinquent on a Federal debt and is unable to resolve the delinquency, the application will be rejected and the transferee will be notified of its right for an appeal in accordance with subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter. The Administrator may waive the rejection upon specific determination that it is in the best interest of the Government to do so. * * * * * PART 1980_GENERAL 32. The authority citation for part 1980 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480; 5 U.S.C. 301; 7 CFR 2.23; 7 CFR 2.70. Subpart B_Farmer Program Loans 33. Section 1980.175 is amended in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(2)(iv)(A) in the fourth sentence by changing the reference from ``INS Form G&hyph;641, `Application for Verification of Information from Immigration and Naturalization Records,''' to ``INS Form G&hyph;639, `Verification Request Form,''' and in the last sentence by changing the reference from ``INS Form G&hyph;641'' to ``INS Form G&hyph;639,'' by revising the introductory text of paragraph (b), by revising paragraphs (b)(1)(iv), (b)(1)(v), (b)(2)(iv)(C) and (b)(2)(iv)(D), and by adding paragraph (b)(3) to read as follows: §1980.175 Operating loans. * * * * * (b) Loan eligibility requirements. Subject to the restrictions listed in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, an applicant is eligible for loan assistance if the following requirements are met: (1) *␣*␣* (iv) Have the character (emphasizing credit history, past record of debt repayment and reliability), and industry to carry out the proposed operation. Past record of debt repayment will not be cause for a determination that the applicant is not eligible if an honest attempt has been made to meet the obligation. If an applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt (other than a Farmer Program debt, in accordance with §1941.14 of subpart A of part 1941 of this chapter), it is automatically ineligible for loan assistance. (A) The County Office will use Form FmHA 1910&hyph;3, ``Record of Credit Alert Interactive Voice Response System (CAIVRS) Inquiry,'' to check the Department of Housing and Urban Development's CAIVRS to determine if the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt. No decision to deny credit can be based solely on the results of the CAIVRS inquiry. If CAIVRS identifies a delinquent Federal debt, the County Office will immediately suspend processing of the application. The applicant will be notified that processing has been suspended and will be asked to contact the appropriate Federal agency, at the telephone number provided by CAIVRS, to resolve the delinquency. When the applicant provides FmHA with official documentation that the delinquency has been paid in full or otherwise resolved, processing of the application will be continued. (B) If the applicant is delinquent on a Federal debt (other than a Farmer Program debt), and is unable to resolve the delinquency, the application will be rejected and the applicant will be notified of its right for an appeal in accordance with subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter. The Administrator may waive this restriction upon specific determination that it is in the best interest of the Government to do so. (v) Honestly endeavor to carry out the applicant's/borrower's undertakings and obligations. This would include, but is not limited to, providing current, complete, and truthful information when applying for assistance and making every reasonable effort to meet the conditions and terms of the proposed loan. * * * * * (2) *␣*␣*
