FR940812-0-00099 FR940812-0-00020 These regulations also include several minor technical modifications to reflect changes in organizations, contacts, and references that have occurred since the last revisions to part 58 in 1986. II. Revisions to Part 58_Ambient Air Quality Surveillance A. Section 58.1␣Definitions These regulations amend the definitions section by adding a definition for the new AIRS. The Agency has completed major enhancements to the new AIRS data base, which replaces the former SAROAD data base for ambient air quality data. These regulations will reflect this important program change by defining AIRS and replacing the technical references to SAROAD with references to AIRS. The definition of the SAROAD system would be maintained within this section because several organizations will continue to use certain parts of the SAROAD system as an interim interface with the new AIRS data base. No responder objected to adding the definition of AIRS to this section. B. Section 58.26␣Annual SLAMS Summary Report No regulatory changes were proposed for this existing requirement. However, comments and suggestions were solicited on whether this annual report would be necessary or whether any changes would be needed to this section to eliminate any redundancy in reporting requirements. The consensus of the comments received on this issue support deletion of the requirement for the hard copy form of the report but retention of the annual certification. Therefore, the current rule continues to require the annual summary report, but future revisions to these regulations may modify the format of this certification. C. Section 58.28␣SLAMS Data Submittal The EPA had solicited comments on the need to require submission of the SLAMS raw air quality data on a quarterly basis. Four responders concurred with the proposal and there were no negative comments to the proposal. These regulations require that all data from the SLAMS be submitted to AIRS under the same data reporting requirements as those for the NAMS. These regulatory changes reflect the actual operational practices of the majority of State and local agencies. For data processing purposes, EPA believes it is both inefficient and technically undesirable to maintain different reporting requirements for NAMS and SLAMS monitoring data. D. Section 58.35␣NAMS Data Submittal The previous monitoring regulations specify that all NAMS data be submitted in quarterly reports to the EPA Administrator (through the appropriate Regional Office) within 120 days of the end of each reporting period. The proposed regulations would have changed the data submittal requirement for NAMS to 60 days after the end of the calendar quarter for gaseous pollutants and 90 days for particulate and lead data. Four responders agreed with the 60/90 data submittal requirement, one responder recommended a compromise of 75 days for all pollutants, one responder recommended 75/90 days, two responders recommended 90 days, six responders recommended keeping the requirement at 120 days, and two responders recommended a 2-year transition period to phase in the 60/90-day requirement. These regulations modify the existing data reporting requirements for sites designated as NAMS and now also include the SLAMS as discussed above. The new requirement changes the existing data submittal for NAMS from 120 days after the end of the calendar quarter to a requirement whereby data for sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ), carbon monoxide (CO), ozone (O 3 ), nitrogen oxides (NO 2 ), lead (Pb), and particles with an aerodynamic diameter less than or equal to a nominal 10 micrometers (PM&hyph;10) from both NAMS and SLAMS will be submitted 90 days after the end of the calendar quarter. Also, the requirement that the State report the air quality data through the appropriate EPA Regional Office is changed to reflect the current practice of submitting data directly to the Administrator (i.e., into AIRS) from the State and local air pollution control agencies. E. Part 58, Appendix A ``Quality Assurance Requirements for State and Local Air Monitoring Stations (SLAMS)'' The revisions proposed to change section 4.1 of Appendix A to require that precision and accuracy data be submitted to AIRS under the same data reporting requirements as proposed for NAMS in §58.35. One responder recommended the precision and accuracy data be submitted 75 days after the end of the calendar quarter, two responders recommended 90 days, three responders recommended 120 days, and one recommended the schedule be the same as for the SLAMS data. The precision and accuracy data reporting requirement is changed from 120 to 90 days after the end of the calendar quarter. These revisions also would delete the forms for reporting precision and accuracy data in SAROAD format, along with the coding instructions for these forms. Procedures have been developed to input these data directly into AIRS along with the air quality data, and these forms will no longer be used. 1. Impact on Small Entities The Regulatory Flexibility Act requires that all Federal agencies consider the impacts of final regulations on small entities, which are defined to be small businesses, small organizations, and small governmental jurisdictions (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.). The EPA's consideration, pursuant to this Act, indicates that no small entity group would be significantly affected because no small entities are subject to the rule.
