FR941128-2-00089 FR941128-2-00047 [File No. 941&hyph;0102] Eli Lilly and Company, Inc.; Proposed Consent Agreement With Analysis to Aid Public Comment AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Proposed consent agreement. SUMMARY: In settlement of alleged violations of federal law prohibiting unfair acts and practices and unfair methods of competition, this consent agreement, accepted subject to final Commission approval, would require, among other things, an Indiana producer of pharmaceutical products to: Ensure that PCS Health Systems (PCS) maintains an open formulary; appoint an independent Pharmacy and Therapeutics (P&T) Committee of health care professionals to objectively evaluate drugs for inclusion in the PCS open formulary; ensure that PCS accepts all discounts, rebates or other concessions offered by Eli Lilly's competitors for drugs that are accepted for listing on the open formulary, and to accurately reflect such discounts in ranking the drugs on the formulary; and, for five years, obtain Commission approval before acquiring an interest in any firm that provides formulary services to more than 2 million people in the United States. In addition, the consent agreement would prohibit PCS and Eli Lilly from sharing proprietary or other non-public information, such as price data, from competitors whose drugs may be placed on a PCS formulary. DATES: Comments must be received on or before January 27, 1995. ADDRESSES: Comments should be directed to: FTC/Office of the Secretary, room 159, 6th St. and Pa. Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20580. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michael McNeely, FTC/S&hyph;3308, Washington, DC 20580. (202) 326&hyph;2904. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to section 6(f) of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 38 Stat. 721, 15 U.S.C. 46 and ยง2.34 of the Commission's rules of practice (16 CFR 2.34), notice is hereby given that the following consent agreement containing a consent order to cease and desist, having been filed with and accepted, subject to final approval, by the Commission, has been placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days. Public comment is invited. Such comments or views will be considered by the Commission and will be available for inspection and copying at its principal office in accordance with ยง4.9(b)(6)(ii) of the Commission's rules of practice (16 CFR 4.9(b)(6)(ii)). Agreement Containing Consent Order The Federal Trade Commission (``Commission''), having initiated an investigation of the acquisition by Eli Lilly and Company (``Lilly'') of the PCS Health Systems (``PCS'') business of McKesson Corporation (``McKesson''), and it now appearing that Lilly, hereinafter sometimes referred to as ``proposed respondent,'' is willing to enter into an agreement containing an Order to remedy the alleged lessening of competition resulting from such acquisition, and providing for other relief: It is hereby agreed by and between proposed respondent, by its duly authorized officer and its attorney, and counsel for the Commission that: 1. Proposed respondent Lilly is a corporation organized, existing and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Indiana, with its office and principal place of business located at Lilly Corporate Center, Indianapolis, Indiana 46285. 2. Proposed respondent admits all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the draft of complaint here attached. 3. Proposed respondent waives: a. Any further procedural steps; b. The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; c. All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the Order entered pursuant to this agreement; and d. Any claim under the Equal Access to Justice Act. 4. This agreement shall not become part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission it, together with the draft of complaint contemplated thereby, will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify the proposed respondent, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its complaint (in such form as the circumstances may require) and decision, in disposition of the proceeding. 5. This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by proposed respondent that the law has been violated as alleged in the draft of complaint here attached, or that the facts as alleged in the draft complaint, other than jurisdictional facts, are true.
