FR940511-0-00041 FR940511-0-00015 Consideration of Other National Marine Sanctuaries and National Estuarine Research Reserves (NERRS) Comment: Some commenters believed that NOAA should designate the estuaries as NERR's if they are not included in the boundary of the Sanctuary because of their natural resource values. Other commenters believed that NERR status is inadequate since it does not include the marine environment. Clarification is needed on the specific elements of the NERRS: (1) The degree of protection that the NERRS would provide to Grays Harbor and Willapa Bay; (2) The process of designation; (3) Timetable for designation; (4) Assurances that designation would occur; and (5) The degree of protection to the estuaries that would be provided in comparison to sanctuary status. Response: The terms of designation as a NERR are determined between the State and NOAA. The process begins with the nomination of an estuary, or portion thereof, to NOAA for inclusion in the NERRS by the Governor of the State. The State holds scoping meetings in the region nominated for inclusion to solicit public input. The State then prepares a draft environmental impact statement and management plan (DEIS/MP) where boundary, management, and regulatory alternatives are assessed and a preferred alternative is decided upon. The DEIS/MP must demonstrate that the key core land and water areas are adequately protected by the state. Once the DEIS/MP is completed, public hearings are held in the region. After a comment period of one month, the State must produce a Final Environmental Impact Statement/Management Plan (FEIS/MP) incorporating the public comments. Once NOAA approves the FEIS/MP the Reserve is officially designated. The entire process requires approximately three years. Designation is contingent upon available funding. Comment: NOAA should encourage sanctuary designations in Northern Puget Sound, Hood Canal, Southern Oregon and Northern California. Response: NOAA is working with the State of Washington to study the feasibility of a sanctuary in Northern Puget Sound. New candidates for sanctuary status are selected from NOAA's SEL. Sites in southern Oregon and Northern California are presently on the SEL. Harbor Exclusion/Inclusion Comment: How will sanctuary designation influence the disposal of dredge material from harbor maintenance and development activities that occur in the Port of La Push, the mouth of the Quilleute River, and Neah Bay? Response: No dredge spoil disposal will be permitted within the Sanctuary, except when used in connection with beach nourishment projects related to harbor maintenance activities. Harbors are excluded from the Sanctuary boundary. Therefore, maintenance and development activities can occur, but disposal of dredge material must be either on land or outside the boundary of the Sanctuary. Growth Management Comment: The Sanctuary should help to limit population growth. Response: The sanctuary program has no control over population growth adjacent to the Sanctuary boundary. Rather, the program exists to ensure that human uses resulting from growth do not have a negative impact on Sanctuary resources. Comment: Private land owners should not lose development rights to their land, nor should they have the value of their land significantly decreased by regulation without due compensation for that loss. Response: NOAA is issuing no regulations that will diminish the development rights of private property owners. Opposition to Sanctuary Designation Comment: The marine sanctuary should not be designated because: (1) It would shut down the fishing industry; (2) existing legislation and management regimes offer adequate protection; (3) potential industrial interests would be stifled because the sanctuary would over-regulate the local economy and its growth; (4) the ecological/aesthetic values of Washington's coastline are not permanently threatened; (5) local airports in Aberdeen and Ocean Shores would close due to insurance problems; and (6) the Olympic National Park has too much control over the Olympic Peninsula already. Response: The Sanctuary will not shut down the fishing industry. Fishing is not within the scope of Sanctuary regulation; the regulation of fishing would remain with existing management regimes. Further, the Sanctuary will ensure greater protection from risks due to oil, gas and mineral development and vessel traffic accidents. NOAA disagrees that existing legislation offers adequate protection of the offshore resources. The threats from such things as vessel traffic, oil and gas development, sand and gravel mining and Navy practice bombing of Sea Lion Rock have not been addressed through a comprehensive management regime that recognizes the value and fragility of the marine ecosystem off the Olympic Peninsula. NOAA does not believe that the Sanctuary will over-regulate the local economy since the main source of income in the region is from tourism, fishing and timber production-none of which will be negatively affected by the Sanctuary. Tourism and fishing will likely benefit from Sanctuary status due to the increased protection of the marine environment.
