FR940524-2-00131 FR940524-2-00068 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For further information, contact Ms. Heather Moxon, Office of Export Trading Company Affairs at the above address or at telephone (202) 482&hyph;5004. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Program Authority: Section 303(b)(4) of the FREEDOM Support Act, 22 U.S.C. 5823(b)(4). Program Objectives: CABNIS consortia are intended to strengthen the U.S. business presence in the NIS. They will provide direct trade facilitation support for their member firms, stimulating increased U.S. exports to the NIS. The consortia will be expected to support host country private sector development through assistance with finding markets for NIS products, promoting U.S. investment and U.S.&hyph;NIS joint ventures, providing technical training, and/or identifying and assisting with defense plant conversion projects. Funding Availability: Funding for the program will be provided by the U.S. Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration (ITA). The total amount of ITA Federal assistance funds available for CABNIS is $1.5 million for FY 1994. Commerce anticipates awarding a minimum of three awards prior to the end of FY 1994. Funding Instrument and Project Duration: The funding instrument will be a grant. The Federal funding contribution will not exceed 50 percent of proposed allowable project costs with a maximum funding amount of $500,000 per grantee. Applicants must commit non-Federal resources (cash and/or in-kind contribution) to match the remaining share of project costs. The award period will be up to three years. Eligibility: Eligible applicants for Federal assistance through the CABNIS program are private and public non-profit U.S. organizations that will represent the commercial interests of U.S. firms in furthering trade and economic relations with the NIS. Applicants should be able to show that there exists within the organization proven experience in trade and economic relations with the NIS. Only applicants proposing to open an office in one or more of the following Newly Independent States are eligible for CABNIS assistance: Armenia, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Membership in a consortium must be available on a non-discriminatory basis. For example, membership in a trade association cannot be a requirement for membership in a consortium. Selection Procedures: Each application will receive an independent, objective review by one or more review panels qualified to evaluate the applications submitted under the program. The review panel(s) will evaluate all applications on a competitive basis, in accordance with the evaluation criteria below, and make award recommendations to the Selecting Official. A minimum of six weeks will be necessary to complete the evaluation process. Awards will not necessarily be made to the highest ranked applicant. The Selection Official shall recommend awards based on the ranking of applications as determined by the review panel(s), geographic distribution among those NIS countries identified by CABNIS, distribution among industry sectors, and the availability of funds. Preference may also be given to private non-profit applicants. Evaluation Criteria: Consideration for financial assistance will be given to those CABNIS proposals that: 1. Demonstrate a realistic work plan detailing how the consortium will assist proposed U.S. member firms to promote and/or market their products and services in the NIS. Examples of the types of services that a consortium can provide include advertising and publicity, conducting technical and sales seminars, communicating business opportunities, identifying potential buyers and distributors, conducting market research, etc. Evidence of marketability of the U.S. products and/or services to be marketed in the NIS will be taken into account in evaluating applications. 2. Demonstrate a well-reasoned plan as to how the consortium will support private sector development in the NIS (e.g., through product marketing assistance, technical training, investment promotion, identifying and assisting with defense conversion projects, working with or helping to form indigenous counterpart trade organizations [such as trade associations], etc.). Evidence that the consortia activities in the NIS will be related to the proposed U.S. member firms' exports will be taken into account in evaluating applications (e.g., a consortium representing U.S. suppliers of medical equipment and supplies may choose to work with host country industry groups and arrange for training in western-style hospital administration and health services, bring technical trade missions to the U.S., and/or encourage U.S.&hyph;NIS business ventures for the joint production of medical equipment and supplies).
