FR940527-1-00208 FR940527-1-00014 •A discretionary adjustment factor of ^0.4 percent composed of an allowance of 0.3 percent for scientific and technological advancement and an allowance of ^0.7 percent for productivity improvement. •An adjustment for case-mix change of 0.0 percent. •A differential update of 3.1 percent for hospitals located in rural areas to reflect the phasing out of the differential in the standardized amounts between rural and other urban hospitals. Overall, the net increase employing the above factors is the percentage increase in the hospital market basket minus 1.5 percentage points for urban hospitals and the market basket percentage increase plus 1.6 percentage points for rural hospitals. Based on the market basket rate of increase estimate of 3.7 percent used in its March 1, 1994 report, ProPAC recommends that urban hospitals receive a 2.2 percent update and rural hospitals receive a 5.3 percent update. Response: We are recommending an update that is consistent with the Administration's budget proposal and the requirements of section 1886(b)(3)(B)(i) of the Act, as amended by section 13501(a) of Public Law 103&hyph;66. Our recommendation is that: 1) the average update for prospective payment system hospitals located in urban areas for FY 1995 be equal to market basket rate of increase forecast minus 2.5 percentage points, 2) the update to the rural standardized amounts be sufficient to equate the rural with the other urban standardized amounts. Based on HCFA's current forecast of the market basket rate of increase (3.6 percent), we recommend an update for FY 1995 for urban hospitals equal to 1.1 percent (the market basket rate of increase minus 2.5 percentage points), and for rural hospitals equal to 8.4 percent (the market basket percentage increase plus 4.8 percentage points). Under these recommendations, we now estimate that the average update for all prospective payment system hospitals would be the market basket minus 1.4 percentage points, or approximately 2.2 percent. As we have explained in section II of the Addendum to this proposed rule, our recommended updates would be applied to the unadjusted FY 1994 standardized payment amounts. That is, the FY 1994 standardized payment amounts published in our September 1, 1993 final rule (at 58 FR 46362) would be increased to remove the effects of adjustments made for outliers and geographic reclassification before the recommended updates would be applied. Our recommendation is supported by the following analyses that measure changes in hospital productivity, scientific and technological advances, practice pattern changes, and changes in case mix: • Productivity: Service level productivity is defined as the ratio of total service output to full time equivalent employees (FTEs). While we recognize that productivity is a function of many variables (for example, labor, non-labor material and capital inputs), we use a labor productivity measure in our framework, since the current update framework applies to operating payment. To recognize that we are apportioning the short run output changes to the labor input, we weight our productivity measure for operating costs by the appropriate share of labor input to total operating input to determine the expected effect on cost per case. Our recommendation for the service productivity component is based on historical trends in productivity and total output for both the hospital industry and the general economy, and projected levels of future hospital service output. ProPAC has also estimated cumulative service productivity growth to be 4.9 percent from 1985&hyph;1989 or 1.2 percent annually. At the same time, they estimate total service growth at 3.4 percent annually, implying a ratio of service productivity growth to output growth of 0.35. Our MedPAR analysis indicates total Medicare service output (charges per admission, adjusted for CPI change) increased 20.9 percent from 1985&hyph;1993, or an approximate average annual increase of 2.4 percent. Since it is not possible at this time to develop a productivity measure specific to Medicare patients, we examined productivity (output per hour) and output (gross domestic product) for the economy. Depending on the exact time period, annual changes in productivity range from 0.3 to 0.35 of the change in output (that is, a 1.0 percent increase in output would be correlated with an 0.3 to 0.35 percent change in output per hour). Under our framework, the recommended update is based in part on expected productivity_that is, projected service output during the year multiplied by the historical ratio of service productivity to total service output, multiplied by the share of labor in total operating inputs, as calculated in the hospital market basket rate of increase. This method estimates an expected labor productivity improvement in the same proportion to expected total service growth that has occurred in the past and assumes that, at a minimum, growth in FTEs changes proportionally to the growth in total service output. Thus, the recommendation allows for unit productivity to be smaller than the historical averages in years that output growth is relatively low, and higher in years that output growth is larger than the historical trend. Based on the above estimates from both the hospital industry and the economy, we have chosen to employ the range of ratios of productivity change to output change of 0.30 to 0.35.
