FR940412-1-00092 FR940412-1-00012 (j) When carrying a coal described in paragraph (e) of this section, or when observation of the cargo hold indicates that the temperature of the coal is rising, the temperature should be measured at regular time intervals sufficient to determine whether the temperature of the coal is increasing. (k) If the level of carbon monoxide monitored in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section continues to increase rapidly or the temperature of coal carried on board a vessel exceeds 55 ○C (131 ○F) and is increasing rapidly, the master must notify the nearest Coast Guard Captain of the Port of_ (1) The name, nationality, and position of the vessel; (2) The most recent temperature and levels of carbon monoxide and methane; (3) The port where the coal was loaded and the destination of the coal; (4) The last port of call of the vessel and its next port of call; and (5) What action has been taken. (l) When carrying a coal described in paragraph (f) of this section, the atmosphere above the coal must be monitored for the presence of methane as prescribed in paragraph (h) of this section. The results of this monitoring must be recorded at least twice in every 24 hour period, unless the conditions of paragraph (n) of this section are met. (m) If the level of methane as monitored in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section reaches 30% of the LFL or is increasing rapidly, ventilation of the cargo hold, as required by paragraph (f) of this section, must be initiated. If this ventilation is provided by opening the cargo hatches, care must be taken to avoid generating sparks. (n) The frequency of monitoring required by paragraph (l) of this section may be reduced at the discretion of the master provided that_ (1) The level of gas measured is less than 30% of the LFL; (2) The level of gas measured has remained steady or decreased over three consecutive readings; or has increased by less than 5% over four consecutive readings, spanning at least 48 hours; and (3) Monitoring continues at intervals sufficient to determine that the level of gas remains within the parameters of paragraphs (n)(1) and (n)(2) of this section. §148.245 Direct reduced iron (DRI); lumps, pellets and cold-molded briquets. (a) Before loading DRI lumps, pellets, or cold-molded briquets_ (1) The master must have a written certification from the National Cargo Bureau or a competent person appointed by the shipper and recognized by the Commandant (G&hyph;MTH) that the DRI, at the time of loading, is suitable for shipment; (2) The DRI must be aged for at least 72 hours, or be treated with an air passivation technique or some other equivalent method that reduces its reactivity to at least the same level as the aged DRI; and (3) Each hold and bilge must be as clean and dry as reasonably practicable. Where possible, adjacent ballast tanks, other than double bottom tanks, must be kept empty. All wooden fixtures, such as battens, must be removed from the hold. (b) Each boundary of a hold where DRI lumps, pellets, or cold-molded briquets are to be carried must be resistant to fire and passage of water. (c) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, DRI lumps, pellets, or cold-molded briquets that are wet, or that are known to have been wetted, may not be accepted for transport. (d) DRI lumps, pellets and cold-molded briquets must be protected at all times from contact with water, and must not be loaded or transferred from one vessel to another during periods of rain or snow. (e) DRI lumps, pellets, or cold-molded briquets may not be loaded if their temperature is greater than 65 ○C (150 ○F). (f) The shipper shall specify one of the two following methods for the shipment of DRI lumps, pellets, and cold-molded briquets in bulk: (1) Maintenance throughout the voyage of an inert atmosphere containing less than 5% oxygen, and less than 1% hydrogen by volume, in any hold containing DRI lumps, pellets, or cold-molded briquets. (2) Manufacture or treatment of the DRI lumps, pellets, or cold-molded briquets with an oxidation and corrosion inhibiting process which has been proven, to the satisfaction of the Commandant (G&hyph;MTH), to provide effective protection against dangerous reaction with seawater or air under shipping conditions. (g) When carbon dioxide is used to inert a cargo hold containing DRI lumps, pellets, or cold-molded briquets, no person may enter that hold until it has been tested and found to be free from carbon monoxide and to contain sufficient oxygen to support life. (h) Paragraph (f) of this section does not apply to_ (1) A voyage which meets the definition of ``short international voyage'' in §70.10&hyph;43 of this chapter; or (2) A voyage made entirely on the navigable waters of the U.S. (i) When DRI lumps, pellets, or cold-molded briquets are loaded, precautions must be taken to avoid the concentration of fines (pieces less than 4mm. in size) in any one location in the cargo hold. (j) Radar and RDF scanners must be protected against the dust generated during cargo transfer operations of DRI lumps, pellets, or cold-molded briquets. §148.250 Direct reduced iron (DRI); hot molded briquets. (a) Before loading DRI hot-molded briquets_ (1) The master must have a written certification from the National Cargo Bureau or a competent person appointed by the shipper and recognized by the Commandant (G&hyph;MTH) that the DRI hot molded briquets, at the time of loading, are suitable for shipment; and (2) Each hold and bilge must be as clean and dry as reasonably practicable. Where possible, adjacent ballast tanks, other than double bottom tanks, must be kept empty. All wooden fixtures, such as battens, must be removed. (b) Each boundary of a hold in which DRI hot-molded briquets are to be carried must be resistant to fire and passage of water. (c) DRI hot-molded briquets must be protected at all times from contact with water, and must not be loaded or transferred from one vessel to another during periods of rain or snow. (d) DRI hot-molded briquets may not be loaded if their temperature is greater than 65 ○C (150 ○F). (e) When loading DRI hot-molded briquets, precautions must be taken to avoid the concentration of fines (pieces less than 4mm. in size) in any one location in the cargo hold. (f) Adequate surface ventilation must be provided when carrying or loading DRI hot-molded briquets.
