FR940505-1-00409 FR940505-1-00012 (iv) The ppmv CO and VOC emission limits required by paragraphs (m)(3) (ii) and (iii) of this section, respectively, shall be established during the initial compliance test for NO X emissions. The CO and VOC emission limits established for determining subsequent compliance shall be documented in the applicable certification report required under paragraph (m)(6)(i)(C) of this section. (n) Biomass boilers or steam generators. (1) Applicability. Any owner or operator of a biomass boiler or steam generator with a rated heat input capacity equal to or greater than 5 million British thermal units per hour (mmBtu/hr) and an annual heat input equal to or greater than 9 billion British thermal units per year (10 9 Btu/yr) shall comply with the applicable requirements of paragraphs (n) (1) through (7) of this section. For the purposes of this paragraph, the affected area includes the Sacramento Metro Area as described for ozone in 40 CFR 81.305. (2) Definitions. For the purposes of paragraphs (n)(1) through (n)(7) of this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in §52.2950. Annual heat input means the actual amount of heat released by fuels burned in a unit during a 12 calendar month rolling period, based on the fuel's higher heating value. The annual heat input shall be calculated as the sum of the previous 12 monthly fuel use rates multiplied by the fuel's higher heating value. Biomass means any solid organic material used as a fuel source for boilers or steam generators including, but not limited to, wood, almond shells, or agricultural waste. Biomass boiler or steam generator means any combustion equipment used in any institutional, commercial, or industrial operation that is designed to burn biomass to produce steam, heat water and/or other fluids, and/or generate electricity. A biomass boiler or steam generator does not include any waste heat recovery boiler that is used to recover sensible heat from the exhaust of a combustion turbine or any unfired waste heat recovery boiler that is used to recover sensible heat from the exhaust of any combustion equipment. British thermal unit (Btu) means the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one pound of water from 59 ○F to 60 ○F at one atmosphere. Heat input means the chemical heat released due to fuel combustion in a unit, using the higher heating value of the fuel. This does not include the sensible heat of incoming combustion air. Higher heating value (HHV) means the total heat liberated per mass of fuel burned (Btu per pound), when fuel and dry air at standard conditions undergo complete combustion and all resultant products are brought to their standard states at standard conditions. If certification of the HHV is not provided by the third party fuel supplier, it shall be determined by one of the following test methods: ASTM D2015&hyph;85 for solid fuels; ASTM D240&hyph;87 or ASTM D2382&hyph;88 for liquid hydrocarbon fuels; or ASTM D1826&hyph;88 or ASTM D1945&hyph;81 in conjunction with ASTM D3588&hyph;89 for gaseous fuels. Municipal-type solid waste means household, commercial/retail, and/or institutional waste. Household waste includes material discarded by single and multiple residential dwellings, hotels, motels, and other similar permanent or temporary housing establishments or facilities. Commercial/retail waste includes material discarded by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses, nonmanufacturing activities at industrial facilities, and other similar establishments or facilities. Institutional waste includes material discarded by schools, hospitals, nonmanufacturing activities at prisons and government facilities and other similar establishments or facilities. NO X emissions means the sum of nitric oxides and nitrogen dioxide in the flue gas, collectively expressed as nitrogen dioxide. Rated heat input capacity means the heat input capacity specified on the nameplate of the combustion unit. If the combustion unit has been altered or modified such that its maximum heat input is different than the heat input capacity specified on the nameplate, the new maximum heat input shall be considered as the rated heat input capacity. Shutdown means the period of time a unit is cooled from its normal operating temperature to cold or ambient temperature. Startup means the period of time a unit is heated from cold or ambient temperature to its normal operating temperature as specified by the manufacturer. Unit means any biomass boiler or steam generator as defined in this paragraph. Wood means wood, wood residue, bark, or any derivative fuel or residue thereof, in any form, including but not limited to sawdust, sanderdust, wood chips, scraps, slabs, millings, shavings, and processed pellets made from wood or other forest residues. (3) Standards. (i) No owner or operator of a biomass boiler or steam generator shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere any gases that contain NO X in excess of one of the following standards, which ever is less stringent: (A) 70 parts per million (ppm) corrected to 12 percent volume stack gas carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) on a rolling 3 hour average dry basis; or (B) 50 percent (0.50) of the NO X concentration in the uncontrolled exhaust gas stream. A controlled ppm NO X limit shall be established in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (n)(7)(ii) of this section for the purpose of demonstrating continuous compliance with the 50 percent reduction. (ii) The owner or operator of any biomass boiler or steam generator subject to one of the standards in paragraph (n)(3)(i) of this section shall establish a controlled ppm carbon monoxide (CO) emission limit that represents good operating and combustion practices. No owner or operator shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere any gases that contain CO in excess of 120 percent of the CO ppm level established by an initial compliance test in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (n)(7)(iii) of this section. The owner or operator shall subsequently comply with the limit once it is established. The ppm CO emissions shall be corrected to 12 percent volume stack gas CO 2 on a rolling 3 hour average dry basis.
