FR940204-0-00046 FR940204-0-00020 In addition to these specific threats, the tidewater goby is vulnerable throughout its remaining range because of the loss of coastal marsh, as noted above, and because of other effects of water diversions as well. In addition to restricting the goby's overall range by altering downstream salinities, water diversions and alterations of water flows may negatively impact the species' breeding and foraging activities. Gobies in southern and central California breed primarily in sand/mud substrates and apparently avoid areas that contain large amounts of decaying vegetation (Holland 1991b). Reductions in water flows may allow aggressive plant species to colonize the otherwise bare sand/mud substrates of coastal lagoon margins, thus degrading the habitat quality for the goby. Decreases in stream flows also reduce the deep stream pools utilized by gobies venturing upstream from lagoons. In San Luis Obispo County alone, the effects of drought, either directly or exacerbated by upstream water diversions, have been responsible for the extirpation of at least three populations of gobies between 1986 to 1990 (K. Worcester, California Department of Fish and Game, pers. comm., 1991). The tidewater goby is also adversely affected by groundwater overdrafting and discharge of agricultural and sewage effluents. For example, in Santa Barbara County, increased groundwater pumpage and siltation from topsoil runoff in the San Antonio Creek drainage has significantly affected areas immediately upstream of occupied goby habitat (i.e., Barka Slough) (C. Swift, Los Angeles County Museum of Natural History, pers. comm., 1991). Enrichment by agricultural and sewage effluents may cause algal blooms and deoxygenation that restrict habitable areas of lagoons utilized by tidewater gobies, especially in summer (Swift et al. 1989). The potential for these factors to degrade remaining goby habitats has also been noted at all three extant localities south of Ventura County (D. Holland, pers. comm., 1991) and at several sites along the central California coast (T. Taylor, California State Parks and Recreation, pers. comm., 1991; K. Worcester, pers. comm., 1991). The tidewater goby is further threatened by channelization of the rivers it inhabits. Because most of the goby's localities have been moderately to extremely channelized, winter floods scour the species out of the restricted channelized areas where no protection is afforded from such high flows. This type of event was responsible for the disappearance of gobies from Waddell Creek lagoon in the winter 1972&hyph;73 (C. Swift, pers. comm., 1991). Finally, cattle grazing and feral pig activity present a threat to the existence of the tidewater goby. These activities have resulted in increased sedimentation of coastal lagoons and riparian habitats, removal of vegetative cover, increased ambient water temperatures, and elimination of plunge pools and collapsed undercut banks utilized by tidewater gobies. In San Luis Obispo County, increased sedimentation into Morro Bay has significantly accelerated the conversion of wetland habitats to upland habitats (Josselyn et al. 1989). Presently, cattle continue to graze freely both upstream and in many of the coastal lagoons supporting tidewater gobies (K. Worcester, pers. comm., 1991). B. Overutilization for commercial, recreational, scientific, or educational purposes. Not known to be applicable. C. Disease or predation. Over the past 20 years, at least 60 species of exotic fishes have been introduced to the western United States, 59 percent of which are predatory (Hayes and Jennings 1986, Jennings 1988). The introduction of exotic predators to southern California waters has been facilitated by the interbasin transport of water (e.g., California Aqueduct). Introduced predators, particularly centrarchid fishes, may have contributed to the elimination of the tidewater goby from several localities in California (Swift et al . 1989). The present day absence of the tidewater goby from the San Francisco delta area may well be explained by the presence of introduced predators such as striped bass (Morone saxatilis) and native predators including the Sacramento perch (Archoplites interruptus) (Swift et al. 1989, 1990). Two of the most recent disappearances of gobies from San Luis Obispo County (Old Creek) and San Diego County (San Onofre Creek) are likely due to the presence of exotic largemouth bass ( Micropterous salmoides ) and green sunfish ( Lepomis cyanellus ), respectively. Natural predation on gobies by rainbow trout ( Oncorhynchus mykiss ) has been documented (Swift et al . 1989). Other non-native predators, specifically crayfish ( Cambarus spp.) and mosquitofish ( Gambusia spp.), may also threaten goby populations through direct predation on adults, larvae, or eggs. D. The inadequacy of existing regulatory mechanisms. Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act and section 404 of the Clean Water Act regulate the placement of dredge and fill materials into waters of the United States. Under section 404, nationwide permits, which undergo minimal public and agency review, can be issued for projects involving less than 10 acres of waters of the United States and adjacent wetlands, unless a listed species may be adversely affected. Individual permits, which are subject to more extensive review, are required for projects that affect greater than 10 acres. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) is the agency responsible for administering the section 10 and section 404 programs. The Service, as part of the section 404 review process, provides comments on both predischarge notices for nationwide permits and public notices for individual permits. The Service's comments are only advisory, although procedures exist for elevation when disagreements between the agencies arise. In practice, the Corps' actions under section 10 and section 404 are insufficient to protect the tidewater goby. Most projects within the range of the tidewater goby considered in this proposal may require approval from the Corps as currently described in section 404 of the Clean Water Act. Projects proposed in coastal lagoons may also require a permit under section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act. Federal listing of this species requires Federal agencies to insure their actions are not likely to jeopardize the tidewater goby's continued existence or destroy or adversely modify any habitat that is designated as critical. The National Environmental Policy Act and California Environmental Quality Act require an intensive environmental review of projects that may adversely affect Federal candidate species. However, project proponents are not required to avoid impacts to these species, and proposed mitigation measures are frequently not adequately implemented. As with section 404 permits, the Service's comments through these environmental review processes are only advisory.
