FR940304-2-00095 FR940304-2-00040 Categories of records in the system: Individual employee pay records and official travel obligation/travel voucher records. Authority for maintenance of the system: 44 U.S.C. 3101. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Payroll records used for entry into IAF accounting system; travel documents used for expenditure of funds for travel advances, tickets, travel reimbursements. Notwithstanding the above, access may also be gained to these records under the following conditions: (a) In the event that a system of records maintained by this agency to carry out its functions indicates a violation or potential violation of law, whether civil, criminal or regulatory in nature, and whether arising by general statute or particular program statute, or by regulation, rule or order issued pursuant thereto, the relevant records in the system of records may be referred, as a routine use, to the appropriate agency, whether federal, state, local or foreign, charged with the responsibility of investigating or prosecuting such violation or charged with enforcing or implementing the statute, or rule, regulation or order issued pursuant thereto. (b) A record from the system of records may be disclosed as a ``routine use'' to a federal, state or local agency maintaining civil, criminal or other relevant enforcement information or other pertinent information, such as current licenses, if necessary to obtain information relevant to an agency decision concerning the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant or other benefit. (c) A record from this system of records may be disclosed to a federal agency, in response to its request, in connection with the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the reporting of an investigation of an employee, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant or other benefit by the requesting agency, to the extent that the information is relevant and necessary to the requesting agency's decision on the matter. Policies, and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Paper files. Retrievability: Manual. Identifier: Name. Safeguards: Records secured in locked files and made available only to authorized persons. Retention and disposal: Disposed of in accordance with the General Records Schedule issued by the Archivist of the United States. System manager(s) and address: Chief Accountant, Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart St., Arlington, VA 22203. Notification procedure: Contact individual listed above, or Vice President, Administration and Finance, Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart St., Arlington, VA 22203. Records access procedures: IAF access procedures are contained in Rules Safeguarding Personal Information in IAF records. Contesting record procedures: Contesting Records Procedures are contained in Rules Safeguarding Personal Information in IAF Records. Record source categories: Individual him/her self. IAF&hyph;7 System name: Inter-American Foundation_General Financial Records. System location: Department of Energy (DOE), Germantown, Md Office; copies held by the Inter-American Foundation. (DOE holds records for the Foundation under Inter-Agency Agreement.) Categories of individuals covered by the system: Past and present IAF employees. Categories of records in the system: Varied payroll records, including, among other documents, time and attendance sheets; payment vouchers; comprehensive listing of employees; health benefits records; requests for deductions; tax forms; W2 forms; overtime requests; leave data; retirement records. Records are used by the IAF and DOE employees to maintain adequate payroll information for IAF employees and otherwise by the IAF and DOE employees for IAF employees who have a need for the records in the performance of their duties. Authority for maintenance of the system: 31 U.S.C. generally and Pub. L. 91&hyph;175. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of uses: Records are released to GAO for audits, to the Internal Revenue Service for investigation, and to private attorneys, pursuant to a power of attorney. Notwithstanding the above, access may also be gained to these records under the following conditions: (a) In the event that a system of records maintained by this agency to carry out its functions indicates a violation or potential violation of law, whether civil, criminal or regulatory in nature, and whether arising by general statute or particular program statute, or by regulation, rule or order issued pursuant thereto, the relevant records in the system of records may be referred, as a routine use, to the appropriate agency, whether federal, state, local or foreign, charged with the responsibility of investigating or prosecuting such violation or charged with enforcing or implementing the statute, or rule, regulation or order issued pursuant thereto.
