FR940516-0-00002 FR940516-0-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 7 CFR Part 301 [Docket No. 93&hyph;153&hyph;2] Citrus Canker Regulations; Quarantined Areas and Survey Areas AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: We are amending the citrus canker regulations by removing the areas in Highlands and Manatee Counties, FL, from the list of quarantined areas and by removing the area in Hillsborough County, FL, from the list of survey areas. No evidence of citrus canker has been found in these areas for at least 2 years. This action is necessary to relieve regulatory restrictions which are no longer necessary. EFFECTIVE DATE: May 16, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Stephen Poe, Operations Officer, Domestic and Emergency Operations, Plant Protection and Quarantine, APHIS, USDA, room 661, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;6365. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Citrus canker is a plant disease caused by strains of the bacterium Xanthomonas campestris pv. citri. The disease is known to affect plants and plant parts, including fresh fruit, of citrus and citrus relatives (Family Rutaceae). It can cause defoliation and other serious damage to the leaves and twigs of susceptible plants. It may also make the fruit of infected plants unmarketable by causing lesions on the fruit. Infected fruit may also drop from trees before reaching maturity. The Asiatic strains of Xanthomonas campestris pv. citri (A strains) are aggressive strains. In the United States, Florida is the only State where citrus canker has been present in recent years. Regulations to prevent the interstate spread of citrus canker from Florida are contained in 7 CFR 301.75&hyph;1 through 301.75&hyph;14, ``Subpart_Citrus Canker'' (referred to below as ``the regulations''). The regulations designate certain areas in Florida as quarantined areas and impose restrictions on the interstate movement of regulated articles from and through quarantined areas. The regulations also designate survey areas, which surround the quarantined areas. Survey areas undergo close monitoring by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) and State inspectors. On March 17, 1993, we published in the Federal Register (58 FR 12553&hyph;12554, Docket No. 93&hyph;153&hyph;1) a proposal to amend the regulations by removing the areas in Highlands and Manatee Counties, FL, from the list of quarantined areas, and by removing the area in Hillsborough County, FL, from the list of survey areas. We solicited comments concerning our proposal for a 30-day comment period ending April 18, 1994. We received three comments, two from State agriculture departments and one from an organization of farmers. All the commenters supported our proposal. However, one commenter pointed out that some States also impose restrictions on the movement of citrus plants into their States to prevent the introduction of diseases and pests other than citrus canker. The commenter is correct. Some citrus-producing states restrict the movement of citrus plants into their States to prevent the introduction of citrus diseases or pests, other than citrus canker, into the State. For this reason, although we are removing the Federally-imposed citrus canker quarantines in Florida, anyone shipping citrus plants interstate should be aware that State-imposed restrictions may apply. The facts presented in the proposed rule still provide the basis for this final rule. Therefore, based on the rationale set forth in the proposed rule, we are adopting the provisions of the proposal as a final rule without change. This is a substantive rule that relieves restrictions and, pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 553, may be made effective less than 30 days after publication in the Federal Register . This rule removes the areas in Highlands and Manatee Counties, FL, from the list of quarantined areas and removes the area in Hillsborough County, FL, from the list of survey areas. This will eliminate the requirement for regular inspection of groves in the former survey areas in which regulated fruit, trees, and plants are produced, thus reducing the burden on the operators of the groves and on APHIS and Florida State agencies, which provide inspectors to perform the inspections. Therefore, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this rule should be made effective upon publication in the Federal Register . This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. For this action, the Office of Management and Budget has waived its review process required by Executive Order 12866.
