FR940106-0-00024 FR940106-0-00007 (d) In the final step, referred to as ``selection of awardees,'' the Selecting Official selects funding recipients from among the finalists, based upon (1) the rank order of the applications on the basis of all selection criteria (§295.6); (2) assuring an appropriate distribution of funds among technologies and activities, and (3) the availability of funds. The Program reserves the right to withhold awards in any case where a search of Federal records discloses information that raises a reasonable doubt as to the responsibility of the applicant. The decision of the Selecting Official is final. (e) If a joint venture is ranked as a finalist, but the Program determines that the joint venture contains weaknesses in its structure or cohesiveness that may substantially lessen the probability of the proposed program being completed successfully, the Program may inform the applicant of the deficiencies and enter into negotiations with the applicant in an effort to remedy the deficiencies. If appropriate, funding up to 10 percent of the amount originally requested by the applicant may be awarded by the Program to the applicant to assist in overcoming the organizational deficiencies. If the Program determines within six months of this award that the organizational deficiencies have been corrected, the Program may award the remaining funds requested by the applicant to that applicant. (f) NIST reserves the right to negotiate with applicants selected to receive awards the cost and scope of the proposed work, e.g., to add or delete a task to improve the probability of success. §295.5 Use of abbreviated proposals in the selection process. To reduce proposal preparation costs incurred by applicants and to make the selection process more efficient, NIST may use a preliminary qualification process based on abbreviated proposals. Announcements requesting abbreviated proposals will be published as indicated in §295.7, seeking proposals that address all of the selection criteria, but in considerably less detail than full proposals. The Program will review the abbreviated proposals and select those that best meet the selection criteria. Submitters of abbreviated proposals will be notified in writing whether their proposals are recommended for full proposal, or, not recommended for full proposal. Those whose proposals are recommended for full proposal submission will be invited to prepare and submit full proposals. Those not invited to submit proposals may nonetheless elect to do so, and will have an equal opportunity for selection. When the full proposals are received, the review and selection process will continue as described in §295.4. 10. Section 295.6 is revised to read as follows: §295.6 Criteria for selection. The evaluation criteria to be used in selecting any proposal for funding under this program, and their respective weights, are listed in this section. No proposal will be funded unless the Program determines via the technical review that it has high scientific and technical merit, no matter how meritorious the proposal might be with respect to the other selection criteria. (a) Scientific and Technical Merit of the Proposal (30 Percent) (1) Quality, innovativeness, and cost-effectiveness of the proposed technical program, i.e. uniqueness with respect to current industry practice. Applicants shall compare and contrast their approaches with those taken by other domestic and foreign companies working in the same field. (2) Appropriateness of the technical risk and feasibility of the project; that is, is there a sufficient knowledge base to justify the level of technical risk involved, and is the risk commensurate with the potential payoff. Projects should press the state of the art while still demonstrating feasibility. (3) Coherency of technical plan and clarity of vision of technical objectives, and the degree the technical plan meets Program goals.
