FR941003-0-00044 FR941003-0-00013 26. One comment objected to proposed §314.53(c)(2) and (c)(3). Proposed §314.53(c)(2) would have required an applicant to provide a patent certification for each formulation or composition patent in addition to certain, general patent information. Proposed §314.53(c)(3) would have required applicants to provide similar certifications for method of use patents. The comment said that a patent may contain formulation, composition, and method of use claims. The comment suggested deleting the proposed rule's classification of patents and replacing it with a general certification that the patents listed by the applicant contain claims with respect to which the applicant could reasonably assert a claim of infringement against a person engaged in the unlicensed manufacture, use, or sale of the drug for which the application was submitted. FDA acknowledges that a patent may contain a variety of claims, and has revised proposed §314.53(c)(2) by creating a single certification statement. The new certification statement would have an applicant state that, ``The undersigned declares that Patent No. XXXX covers the formulation, composition, and/or method of use of ( name of drug product ). This product is ( currently approved under section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act ) [or] ( the subject of this application for which approval is being sought ): XXXXXXXX .'' However, because section 505(b)(1) of the act specifically requires applicants to ``file with the application the patent number and the expiration date of any patent which claims the drug for which the applicant submitted the application or which claims a method of using such drug,'' and because FDA lacks patent law expertise, the agency strongly encourages applicants to identify, to the best of their ability, the type of patent covering the drug or drug product. This information will help FDA determine which claims cover the drug or drug product and which claims cover a method of use. 27. One comment said FDA should not list formulation patents. Proposed §314.53(c)(2) would require applicants under section 505(b) of the act to provide information on formulation or composition patents, and FDA would publish this information under §314.53(e). The comment said this would increase the number of generic drug applications by avoiding difficult questions of exclusivity for ``patentably distinct formulations'' and noted that patent owners can always resort to patent law to halt possible patent infringement. FDA disagrees with the comment. The statute expressly requires applicants to file ``the patent number and the expiration date of any patent which claims the drug for which the applicant submitted the application *␣*␣*'' (section 505(b)(1) of the act). Thus, if the formulation patent claimed the drug product in the application, the applicant must file information on that patent. 28. One comment would revise proposed §314.53(c)(2)(i), (c)(3)(i), and (c)(4) to refer to a ``declaration'' rather than ``certification.'' The comment explained that the 1984 amendments used the word ``certification'' with respect to patent information to be submitted by applicants under section 505(b)(2)(A) and (j)(2)(A)(vii) of the act, so use of the word ``certification'' in proposed §314.53(c) would be confusing. The agency agrees and has revised these and other sections of the rule accordingly. 29. One comment would delete proposed §314.53(c)(2)(ii) and (c)(3)(ii). The comment said that the provision for the correction of patent information at proposed §314.53(f) would ensure that patent information is correct. The provisions cited by the comment serve different purposes. As revised, §314.53(c)(2)(ii) requires an applicant to provide patent information about a product within 30 days after the date of approval; these provisions contemplate the possibility that the patents pertaining to a product's formulation, composition, and uses may change between the time the application is initially submitted and the time the application is approved (see 54 FR 28872 at 28909). Although §314.53(f) enables any person to dispute the accuracy or relevance of the patent information submitted to FDA, it is the responsibility of the applicant, not the general public or the applicant's competitors, to ensure that the information provided by the applicant is accurate. These provisions for amending patent information are necessary for maintaining an accurate list of patent information and useful for applicants who must comply with the patent certification requirements. Therefore, FDA declines to adopt the comment. 30. FDA received two comments on proposed §314.53(c)(4) (now renumbered as §314.53(c)(3)), which would enable an applicant to claim that there are no relevant patents that claim the drug product or a method of using the drug product. One comment supported the provision; the other recommended deleting it entirely, stating that the only party that would be injured by the failure to list a patent is the NDA applicant. FDA declines to delete the provision as suggested. The agency disagrees with the assertion that the NDA applicant would be the only party injured by the failure to list a patent. The patent holder may be a person other than the NDA applicant and may be injured if the patented invention is made, sold, or used without the patent owner's knowledge or consent. Failure to list a patent may also result in injury to other applicants who devote resources towards submitting applications for duplicate products without realizing that those products may be covered by the patent. 31. FDA, on its own initiative, has reorganized §314.53(d) to clarify further when and where patent information should be submitted. As revised, §314.53(d)(1) pertains to patent information requirements for original applications. New §314.53(d)(2), formerly §314.53(d)(2)(ii), applies to patent information requirements for supplements, and a new §314.53(d)(3), formerly §314.53(d)(2)(i), applies to patent information submitted after an application has been approved. The agency has renumbered the remaining paragraphs accordingly.
