FR941025-2-00118 FR941025-2-00065 III. Limited Section 406(b) and Section 407(a) Relief for Sales ABS represents that in some cases a trust sponsor, trustee, servicer, insurer, and obligor with respect to receivables contained in a trust, or an underwriter of certificates may be a pre-existing party in interest with respect to an investing plan. 11 In these cases, a direct or indirect sale of certificates by that party in interest to the plan would be a prohibited sale or exchange of property under section 406(a)(1)(A) of the Act. 12 Likewise, issues are raised under section 406(a)(1)(D) of the Act where a plan fiduciary causes a plan to purchase certificates where trust funds will be used to benefit a party in interest. 11 In this regard, we note that the exemptive relief proposed herein is limited to certificates with respect to which ABS or any of its affiliates is either (a) the sole underwriter or manager or co-manager of the underwriting syndicate, or (b) a selling or placement agent. 12 The applicant represents that where a trust sponsor is an affiliate of ABS, sales to plans by the sponsor may be exempt under PTE 75&hyph;1, Part II (relating to purchases and sales of securities by broker-dealers and their affiliates), if ABS is not a fiduciary with respect to plan assets to be invested in certificates. Additionally, ABS represents that a trust sponsor, servicer, trustee, insurer, and obligor with respect to receivables contained in a trust, or an underwriter of certificates representing an interest in a trust may be a fiduciary with respect to an investing plan. ABS represents that the exercise of fiduciary authority by any of these parties to cause the plan to invest in certificates representing an interest in the trust would violate section 406(b)(1), and in some cases section 406(b)(2), of the Act. Moreover, ABS represents that to the extent there is a plan asset ``look through'' to the underlying assets of a trust, the investment in certificates by a plan covering employees of an obligor under receivables contained in a trust may be prohibited by sections 406(a) and 407(a) of the Act. After consideration of the issues involved, the Department has determined to provide the limited sections 406(b) and 407(a) relief as specified in the proposed exemption. Notice to Interested Persons The applicant represents that because those potentially interested participants and beneficiaries cannot all be identified, the only practical means of notifying such participants and beneficiaries of this proposed exemption is by the publication of this notice in the Federal Register . Comments and requests for a hearing must be received by the Department not later than 30 days from the date of publication of this notice of proposed exemption in the Federal Register . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gary Lefkowitz of the Department, telephone (202) 219&hyph;8881. (This is not a toll-free number.)
