FR941003-1-00088 FR941003-1-00006 (iii) Any information regarding mitigating circumstances or other justification for granting the assistance; and (iv) Any views or information provided to the Agency Official by the applicant. (6) Agency determination regarding justifying circumstances. The Council shall provide the Agency Official with its written views regarding justifying circumstances. If, after consulting with the Council, the Agency Official determines that circumstances justify granting the assistance, despite the adverse effect, the Agency Official shall notify the Council, the State Historic Preservation Officer and interested parties of its decision and provide documentation on the basis of its finding. (7) Review of undertaking. If the Agency Official decides to grant the assistance, the Agency Official shall complete the Section 106 process for the undertaking in accordance with §§800.7 through 800.11. (d) Notice of Violation. _(1) Basis for notice. If the Council membership determines that the actions of an Agency Official constitute a violation of Section 106 of the Act or this part, the Council may issue a Notice of Violation to the Agency Official and the head of the agency advising that the agency has failed to meet the requirements of Federal law. The Council membership may determine that a violation of Section 106 has occurred under the following circumstances: (i) An Agency Official has proceeded with the planning and approval of an undertaking without adequate compliance with Section 106 of the Act and this part; (ii) An Agency Official or an applicant has failed to carry out the terms of a no adverse effect determination, a Conditional No Adverse Effect Agreement, a Memorandum of Agreement, a Programmatic Agreement, or a counterpart regulation, or failed to comply with a process or requirement originating under such document; (iii) An Agency Official has taken or sanctioned an action that has resulted in adverse effects to a historic property, including demolition by neglect, prior to completion of the Section 106 process; or (iv) An Agency Official has foreclosed the Council's opportunity to comment.
