FR940505-1-00359 FR940505-1-00012 Structural pesticide means a pesticide intended for use in the protection of structures, buildings or building materials, including but not limited to fumigants, termiticides, and wood preservatives. Volatile organic vompound (VOC) means any compound of carbon excluding carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, carbonic acid, metallic carbides or carbonates, and ammonium carbonate, which participates in atmospheric photochemical reactions other than those defined as exempt compounds. These exempt compounds have been determined to have negligible photochemical reactivity. For purposes of determining compliance with this section, VOC will be measured by test methods given in this section. (c) Specific provisions. (1) Required submission of data. (i) By June 1, 1996 or 120 (one hundred and twenty) days after the effective date of this section, whichever is later, all persons who produce agricultural and/or structural pesticides that are registered in California must submit reports in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section that identify the VOC content of each pesticide. The VOC content will be determined according to the methodology provided in paragraph (f) of this section. (ii) If EPA determines that a report does not affirmatively demonstrate compliance with the methodology in paragraph (f) of this section, EPA may assign the pesticide a VOC content value equal to the highest VOC content reported for any pesticide. (2) Establish VOC limit. Upon compilation of the data received pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, EPA will determine a pesticide VOC limit based on the following criteria: (i) EPA will establish a base-year inventory for each registered pesticide. This inventory will be based on the amount of each pesticide used in the affected area. These amounts will be based on data from the 1990 pesticide use report (PUR) and the inerts database, which are both maintained by the California Department of Pesticide Regulation (DPR), unless EPA determines that another year or years of PUR data or other information provides a more appropriate basis for the inventory. (ii) EPA will rank all registered pesticides according to their VOC content as determined by the data submitted pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The pesticide with the largest VOC content will be ranked ``1''.
