FR941220-0-00065 FR941220-0-00011 IAS 29 permits two methods of adjusting for the effects of changing prices: (a) Restatement of historical cost amounts into units of currency that have the same general purchasing power (historical cost/constant currency method), or (b) measurement as current cost, with amounts for prior periods restated for changes in the general level of prices (current cost method). In response to a request for comments concerning the appropriateness of accepting either method under IAS 29, two commenters indicated that the flexibility permitted by IAS 29 would not promote consistency or an understanding of the financial statements. In recognition of this concern, the adopted rule does not allow the use of the current cost approach. The Commission believes that the historical cost/constant currency method is the preferable choice of the two because it is more likely to facilitate comparison among similarly situated companies. Under the historical cost/constant currency method, amounts in the financial statements of the hyperinflationary operation are restated for the effects of changing prices, and then translated to the reporting currency. The elimination of the alternative of using the current cost method is not expected to have a significant effect on many registrants. Issuers from several countries currently prepare financial statements filed with the Commission that are adjusted for inflation. With the exception of Mexico, it is the predominant practice in most of these countries to use a method consistent with the historical cost/constant currency method in IAS 29. 12 The elimination of the availability of using the current cost method does not apply to situations in which the issuer's reporting currency comprehensively includes the effects of price level changes. Such entities can continue to use the current cost method. That is, the current cost method is eliminated only for those issuers whose reporting currency is not adjusted for inflation (stable reporting currency), but have operations in a hyperinflationary economy. Issuers that use the current cost method for operations in a hyperinflationary economy should discuss their particular circumstances with the staff. 12 The Commission has been advised that the Mexican Institute of Public Accountants recently approved an amendment to eliminate the use of the current cost method. As proposed, a hyperinflationary environment is defined in the adopted rule as one experiencing cumulative inflation of approximately 100% or more over the most recent three year period, as measured using an appropriate inflation index which measures general price levels in the country. This definition is consistent with that used to define a hyperinflationary entity under SFAS 52. 13 Accordingly, foreign private issuers may omit reconciliation of accounting differences arising from the use of IAS 21 for hyperinflationary operations only when they would have been required to comply with the comparable provisions of SFAS 52. 13 See paragraph 11 of SFAS 52. Consistent with the rule prior to amendment, foreign private issuers that prepare their financial statements in a reporting currency that comprehensively includes the effects of price level changes are not required to eliminate such effects in the reconciliation to US GAAP. Item 17(c)(2)(iv)(A) and Item 18(c)(2)(iv)(A) of Form 20&hyph;F does not require that the entity operate in a hyperinflationary environment. One commenter questioned whether the proposed rule only applies to a subsidiary that operates in a hyperinflationary environment, or if it would apply equally to a parent company that operated in a hyperinflationary environment. The adopted rules would apply equally to the parent company. It would also be acceptable for a parent company to apply the remeasurement principles of SFAS 52. The legal structure of an entity should not affect the financial statements. IV. Cost-Benefit Analysis No specific data were provided in response to the Commission's request regarding the costs and benefits of the amendment being adopted today. Several issuers did indicate, however, that if the Commission adopted the method to measure transactions described as Approach B in the Proposing Release that significant additional recordkeeping would be required. In addition, commenters supporting the proposal with respect to hyperinflationary accounting noted that the current reconciliation requirements did not meet the cost benefit test because of the complexities of preparation. The Commission believes that the amendments will reduce costs and that the adoption of these rules will be beneficial to U.S. investors, as it will encourage more foreign companies to list their securities and raise capital in the United States and will be consistent with investor protection. V. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification Pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), the Chairman of the Commission has certified that the revisions to rules and forms will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Members of the public who wish to obtain a copy of the Regulatory Flexibility Certification should contact Wayne E. Carnall, (202) 942&hyph;2960, Deputy Chief Accountant, Division of Corporation Finance, Mail Stop 3&hyph;13, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549.
