FR940412-1-00054 FR940412-1-00008 Step 7.B._Calculation of Charges for Unspecified Trips (1) For transits which are not specified in §401.405 and §401.410 of this chapter, the Director bases basic pilotage rates on the hourly charge developed in Step 7.A., above. This hourly charge for basic pilotage service is assessed for each hour that a registered pilot is aboard a vessel, subject to a six-hour minimum each time a pilot is assigned, with three-hour increments thereafter. Step 7.C._Calculation of Charges for Specified Trips (1) For transits which are specified in §401.405 and §401.410 of this chapter, the Director periodically reviews the average time for each individual transit, using the travel time in both directions. This review will be accomplished at least once every five years. The proposed basic pilotage fee listed for specified transits in §401.405 and §401.410 of this chapter is based on the result of multiplying the hourly basic pilotage fee by the average transit time calculated for that transit. (2) During ratemaking proceedings which occur between periodic reviews of average vessel transit times, the rates for specified transits are adjusted as a group. The pilotage rate for specified transits in each area is adjusted by subtracting the ``projection of revenue'' from the ``projection of revenue needed'' and dividing by the ``projection of revenue,'' with the resultant deficit or surplus expressed in percentage terms, rounded to the nearest whole number. The proposed basic pilotage rates for specified transits are determined by multiplying the existing rates by the resultant percentage. Step 7.D._Calculation of Charges for Ancillary Services (1) Ancillary charges are equalized between districts. These charges need not be adjusted during every ratemaking. These charges are reviewed at intervals of not more than five years, during the periodic review of average vessel transit time for specified trips discussed in Step 7.C., above. Each of these charges is discussed below. (A) Docking, Undocking and Harbor Movement Charges_ For consistency, these charges are set at the same level in all districts. The charges are determined by the Director, subject to the requirements of the Memorandum of Arrangements between the United States and Canada. (B) Moveage_ The charge for moveage in a harbor for all three districts is twice the docking charge. (C) Delay Charges_ Delay charges, per hour, whether for trip interruption or departure or moveage delays, are set at the rate determined in the pilot compensation phase discussed in Step 2 above, as adjusted for ship size. The maximum delay charge for any 24-hour period is the per hour delay charge, as adjusted for ship size, times 16 hours. (D) Cancellation Charges_ Cancellation charges are set at the rate determined in the pilot compensation phase discussed in Step 2 above, and are not adjusted for ship size. If the cancellation occurs less than six hours after the pilot reports, the maximum charge is the basic pilot compensation charge for a six-hour period. If the cancellation occurs more than six hours after the pilot reports, the charge is the basic pilot compensation charge for each hour or fraction of an hour, to a maximum of 16 hours. (E) Lock Passage Charges_ For consistency, these charges are set at the same level in all districts. The level will be determined by the Director, subject to the requirements of the Memorandum of Arrangements between the United States and Canada. Step 7.E._Adjustment for Ship Size (1) The hourly charge for basic pilotage services discussed in Step 7.A., above, is adjusted by dividing the basic charge by the average weighting factor of the preceding year, as determined from charges adjusted in accordance with §401.400 of this chapter. Appendix B to Part 404_Ratemaking Definitions and Formulas The following definitions apply to the ratemaking formula contained in this appendix. The account numbers correspond to the account numbers in Appendix A to part 403 of this chapter. (1) Operating Revenue_means the sum of all operating revenues received by the Association for pilotage services, less ancillary revenues that are offset against operating expenses.
