FR940203-2-00146 FR940203-2-00069 DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Department of Labor [CFDA No. 84.199&hyph;H] Cooperative Demonstration_School-to-Work Opportunities State Implementation Grants Program; Notice Inviting Applications for New Awards for Fiscal Year (FY) 1994 Note to Applicants: This notice is a complete application package. Together with the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act (the statute authorizing the program), the applicable regulations governing the program, including the Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), and the notice of final priority, selection criteria, and other requirements, published elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register , this notice contains all of the information, application forms, and instructions needed to apply for a grant under this competition. Purpose of Program: The Cooperative Demonstration_School-to-Work Opportunities State Implementation Grants Program provides financial assistance to States to establish comprehensive, statewide, School-to-Work Opportunities systems. These systems will offer young Americans access to education and training programs designed to prepare them for a first job in high-skill, high-wage careers, and to increase their opportunities for further education. The Secretaries wish to highlight, for potential applicants, that this program can help to further National Education Goals 3 and 5_Goal 3, American students will leave grades four, eight, and twelve having demonstrated competency in challenging subject matter including English, mathematics, science, history, and geography; and every school in America will ensure that all students learn to use their minds well, so they may be prepared for responsible citizenship, further learning, and productive employment in our modern economy. The School-to-Work Opportunities initiative also meets Goal 5 by helping to ensure that every adult American will be literate and will possess the knowledge and skills necessary to compete in a global economy and exercise the rights and responsibilities of citizenship. Eligible Applicants: States are eligible to apply for Implementation Grants under this competition. Deadline for Transmittal of Applications: April 1, 1994. Deadline for Intergovernmental Review: May 31, 1994. Available Funds: $36,000,000 (funding for first 12 months). Estimated Average Size of Awards: The amount of an award under this competition will be determined on a case by case basis and will depend upon the scope and quality of the application and the relative size of the State. Estimated Number of Awards: 4&hyph;8. Note: The Department is not bound by any estimates in this notice. Project Period: Up to 5 years (5 twelve-month grant periods). Applicable Regulations: (a) The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) as follows: (1) 34 CFR Part 75 (Direct Grant Programs) (2) 34 CFR Part 77 (Definitions that Apply to Department Regulations). (3) 34 CFR Part 79 (Intergovernmental Review of Department of Education Programs and Activities). (4) 34 CFR Part 80 (Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments). (5) 34 CFR Part 81 (General Education Provisions Act-Enforcement). (6) 34 CFR Part 82 (New Restrictions on Lobbying). (7) 34 CFR Part 85 (Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants)). (8) 34 CFR Part 86 (Drug-Free Schools and Campuses). (b) The regulations for this program in 34 CFR parts 400 and 426. Priority and Selection Criteria: The priority and selection criteria in the notice of final priority, selection criteria, and other requirements for this program, as published elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register , apply to this competition. Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs: This program is subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 (Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs) and the regulations in 34 CFR Part 79.
