FR941007-1-00098 FR941007-1-00009 Appendix B to Part 25_CRA Notice Community Reinvestment Act Notice Under the Federal Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), the Comptroller of the Currency evaluates and enforces our compliance with our obligation to help meet the credit needs of this community consistent with safe and sound operations. The Comptroller also takes our CRA performance into account when the Comptroller decides on certain applications submitted by us. Your involvement is encouraged. You should know that: You may look at and obtain in this office information on our performance in this community. This information includes a file that includes: copies of all signed, written comments received by us, and any responses we have made to those comments; a map showing our service area; a list of our branches and ATMs in our service area; a list of services we provide at those locations; evaluations by the Comptroller of our CRA performance; and data on the loans we have made in this community during the last two years. [Current CRA information on our performance in other communities served by us is available at our main office, located at XXXXXXXX . You may send signed, written comments about our CRA performance in helping to meet community credit needs to (title and address of State member bank official) and to Deputy Comptroller (address). Your letter, together with any response by us, will be considered by the Comptroller in evaluating our CRA performance and may be made public. You may ask to look at any comments received by the Deputy Comptroller. You may also request from the Deputy Comptroller an announcement of our applications covered by the CRA filed with the Comptroller. We are an affiliate of (name of holding company), a bank holding company. You may request from the Federal Reserve Bank of XXXXXXXX (address) an announcement of applications covered by the CRA filed by bank holding companies. Appendix C to Part 25_CRA Loan Data Format Instructions for the Small Business and Small Farm Loan Register This form contains the instructions for completion of the Loan Register for Small Business and Small Farm Loans. This register is used in conjunction with the reporting of this information as part of the CRA data collection process. The register and these instructions are to be used to provide the format in which the data should be reported. The actual data are to be submitted in machine-readable form in accordance with the instructions for submission of data pursuant to 12 CFR Part 203 (Regulation C). I. Who Must File a Register All independent insured banks and thrifts with $250 million or more in total assets and all insured banks and thrifts that are members of holding companies with $250 million or more in bank and thrift assets must report this information for small business and small farm loans outstanding beginning December 31, 1995. Banks and thrifts with fewer assets that wish to be evaluated under 12 CFR §§25.22 through 25.24 must also report this information. Only provide information on business or farm location and borrower information for loans for which applications were submitted after July 1, 1995. For loans for which applications were submitted before that date, enter ``N/A'' for all information relating to location or borrower. II. Types of Loans to be Reported The loan register should contain individual loan data on each small business or small farm loan as defined on schedule RC-C of the December 31 Report of Condition and Income. Include data on individual small business loans with original loan amounts of $1 million or less and individual small farm loans with original loan amounts of $500,000 or less that had an outstanding balance as of December 31. III. Submission of Data The data must be submitted in machine-readable form consistent with requirements for submission of data pursuant to 12 CFR Part 203 (Regulation C). The format must conform exactly to the form, including the order of columns, column headings, etc. Contact your federal supervisory agency for information regarding procedures and technical specifications for automated data submission. Your institution should decide on the procedure it wants to follow for collection of the data consistent with the Supplemental Instructions For Collection Of Data In Connection with Small Business and Small Farm Loans. Keep in mind that data reported on the register are outstandings as of December 31 and not originations as are reported for some other regulatory purposes. Your institution may collect the data on separate registers at different branches or on separate registers for different loan types (small business or small farm), but make sure each loan number is unique. Entries need not be grouped on your registers by MSA, or chronologically, or by census tract, or in any other particular order. IV. Instructions for Completion of Register Loan Information 1. Loan Number_Enter an identifying number that can be used to retrieve the loan file. It can be any number (not exceeding 25 characters). Use letters, numerals, or a combination of both. Make sure that all numbers are unique within the institution. If registers contains data for branch offices, for example, use a letter or a numerical code to identify the loans of different branches or assign a certain series of numbers to particular branches to avoid duplicate numbers. The use of the borrower's tax-payer identification number or social security number is strongly discouraged for privacy reasons. 2. Outstanding Loan Amount_Enter the outstanding loan amount (balance) as of December 31. Show the amount in thousands rounding to the nearest thousand. Do not report loans with balances below $500. For example, a loan with a balance of $500 would be rounded to $1,000; a loan balance of $50,300 would be rounded to $50,000; and a balance of $15,700 would be rounded to $16,000.
