FR940106-0-00162 FR940106-0-00022 (2) Registering adversely affected workers for work; (3) Informing adversely affected workers of the reemployment services and allowances available under the Act and this Part 617, the application procedures, the filing date requirements for such reemployment services and the training requirement for receiving TRA; (4) Determining whether suitable employment, as defined in §617.22(a)(1), is available; (5) Providing counseling, testing, placement, and supportive services; (6) Providing or procuring self-directed job search training, when necessary; (7) Providing training, job search and relocation assistance; (8) Developing a training plan with the individual; (9) Determining which training institutions offer training programs at a reasonable cost and with a reasonable expectation of employment following the completion of such training, and procuring such training; (10) Documenting the standards and procedures used to select occupations and training institutions in which training is approved; (11) Making referrals and approving training programs; (12) Monitoring the progress of workers in approved training programs; (13) Developing, and periodically reviewing and updating reemployment plans for adversely affected workers; (14) Developing and implementing a procedure for reviewing training waivers and revocations at least every 30 days to determine whether the conditions under which they are issued have changed; and (15) Coordinating the administration and delivery of employment services, benefits, training, and supplemental assistance for adversely affected workers with programs under the Act and under Title III of the Job Training Partnership Act. 15. The introductory text and paragraphs (e) and (g) of §617.21 are revised to read as follows: §617.21 Reemployment services and allowances. Reemployment services and allowances shall include, as appropriate, the services and allowances as set forth in this section, provided that those services included within the scope of paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section shall be provided for under any other Federal law other than the Act. * * * * * (e) Supportive services. Supportive services shall be provided so individuals can obtain or retain employment or participate in employment and training programs leading to eventual placement in permanent employment. Such services may include work orientation, basic education, communication skills, child care, and any other services necessary to prepare an individual for full employment in accordance with the individual's capabilities and employment opportunities. * * * * * (g) Classroom training. This training activity is any training of the type normally conducted in a classroom setting, including vocational education, and may be provided to individuals when the conditions for approval of training are met, as provided in §617.22(a), to impart technical skills and information required to perform a specific job or group of jobs. Training designed to enhance the employability of individuals by upgrading basic skills, through the provision of courses such as remedial education or English-as-a-second-language, shall be considered as remedial education approvable under §617.22(a) if the criteria for approval of training under §617.22(a) are met. * * * * * 16. Paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (f) (2), (3), and (4) of §617.22 are amended to read as follows: §617.22 Approval of training. (a) Conditions for approval. Training shall be approved for an adversely affected worker if the State agency determines that: (1) There is no suitable employment (which may include technical and professional employment) available for an adversely affected worker. (i) This means that for the worker for whom approval of training is being considered under this section, no suitable employment is available at that time for that worker, either in the commuting area, as defined in §617.3(k), or outside the commuting area in an area in which the worker desires to relocate with the assistance of a relocation allowance under subpart E of this part, and there is no reasonable prospect of such suitable employment becoming available for the worker in the foreseeable future. For the purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section only, the term ``suitable employment'' means, with respect to a worker, work of a substantially equal or higher skill level than the worker's past adversely affected employment, and wages for such work at not less that 80 percent of the worker's average weekly wage. (2) The worker would benefit from appropriate training. (i) This means that there is a direct relationship between the needs of the worker for skills training or remedial education and what would be provided by the training program under consideration for the worker, and that the worker has the mental and physical capabilities to undertake, make satisfactory progress in, and complete the training. This includes the further criterion that the individual will be job ready on completion of the training program.
