FR940106-0-00094 FR940106-0-00021 ยง XXX .302 Definitions. For the purposes of subparts D and E of this part: Accepted for filing means that the attestation and supporting documentation submitted by the health care facility have been received by the Employment and Training Administration of the Department of Labor (DOL) and have been found to be in compliance with the attestation requirements in ยง XX .310 of this part. Act and INA mean the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended, 8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq. Administrative law judge means an official appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105. Administrator means the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration, Department of Labor, and such authorized representatives as may be designated to perform any of the functions of the Administrator under subparts D and E of this part. Attorney General means the chief official of the U.S. Department of Justice or the Attorney General's designee. Board of Alien Labor Certification Appeals (BALCA) means a panel of one or more administrative law judges who serve on the permanent Board of Alien Labor Certification Appeals established by 20 CFR Part 656. BALCA consists of administrative law judges assigned to the Department of Labor and designated by the Chief Administrative Law Judge to be members of the Board of Alien Labor Certification Appeals. Bona fide medical emergency means a situation in which the services of one or more H&hyph;1A contract nurses are necessary at a worksite facility (which itself does not employ an H&hyph;1A nurse) to prevent death or serious impairment of health, and, because of the danger to life or health, nursing services for such situation are not elsewhere available in the geographic area. Certifying Officer means a Department of Labor official, or such official's designee, who makes determinations about whether or not H&hyph;1A attestations are acceptable for filing. Chief Administrative Law Judge means the chief official of the Office of the Administrative Law Judges of the Department of Labor or the Chief Administrative Law Judge's designee. Chief, Division of Foreign Labor Certifications, USES means the chief official of the Division of Foreign Labor Certifications within the United States Employment Service, Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor, or the designee of the Chief, Division of Foreign Labor Certifications, USES. Date of filing means the date an attestation is ``accepted for filing'' by ETA.
