FR940511-2-00171 FR940511-2-00109 [Release No. 34&hyph;34016; International Series Release No. 663; File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;05] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the American Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to Warrants Based on Foreign Government Bonds May 5, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on March 2, 1994, the American Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Amex'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the Amex. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Amex proposes to approve for listing and trading under Section 106 of the Amex Company Guide warrants tied to changes in the prices of foreign government bonds. The text of the proposed rule change is available at the Office of the Secretary, the Amex, and at the Commission. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B) and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The Exchange proposes to list and trade under Section 106 of the Amex Company Guide warrants that can be expected to fluctuate in value based on changes in prices of foreign government bonds. 1 Such issues may relate to a single bond issue or several bond issues of one or more foreign countries. 2 1 The size required for an individual government bond issue relating to a warrant based thereon shall not be less than the equivalent of U.S. $100,000,000. In addition, such warrant issues shall be based on only those government bonds for which prices are readily available from independent vendors of financial information. 2 For purposes of this rule change, the Exchange intends to limit such issues to warrants based on government bonds of the following countries: Australia, Austria, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. The Exchange will consult with Commission staff prior to listing warrants based on bonds issued by governments other than those specified above. Warrants based on prices of foreign government bonds will conform to the listing guidelines under Section 106 of the Amex Company Guide which currently provide that: (1) The issuer shall have assets in excess of U.S. $100,000,000 and otherwise substantially exceed the size and earnings requirements of Section 101(A) of the Amex Company Guide; (2) The term of the warrants shall be for a period ranging from one to five years from date of issuance; and (3) The minimum public distribution of such issues shall be 1,000,000 warrants together with a minimum of 400 public holders, and an aggregate market value of U.S. $4,000,000.
