FR940523-2-00082 FR940523-2-00042 A2.2␣Consequences If the Information Was Not Collected If the Department were not to collect this information it would be considered unresponsive to the President's request, it would continue to lack the necessary information to understand the nature and extent of potential liability and to assist housing authorities in negotiating for a comparable level of local government law enforcement services. A3.0␣Use of Improved Information Technologies The required information can be submitted to HUD Headquarters in two formats. The first will be a bulletin board format with direct on-land access from HAs to HUD Headquarters. The bulletin board format will be the same as the hard copy form seen in Attachment 2. The second and alternative format will be a one-page hard copy form as attached in Attachment 2. The form will be machine-readable and will be submitted directly to the Office of Public and Indian Housing at HUD Headquarters in Washington, D.C. where the form will be scanned electronically and the information stored in a database for future use. A4.0␣Efforts to Identify Duplication The Department has examined existing data sources, such as the grant applications and semi-annual reports for public housing competitive programs including PHDEP, CIAP, and Comp Grant, as well as Operating Subsidy reports. The required data are not consistently available in any of these sources because none require the reporting of law enforcement and security expenditures specifically (see A1.0 above). In the pretest conducted by the Office of Public and Indian Housing with nine housing authorities, most respondents indicated that housing authorities have the necessary information, but do not keep the information in a central location. A5.0␣Why Similar Already Available Data Cannot Be Used As discussed in Section A1.0 above, similar, already available data does not exist. Current HUD-required reports from HAs do not capture security and law enforcement personnel information as required by the department. A6.0␣Effort to Minimize the Burden for Small Entities The set of indicators in the form represents funding sources and budgets most commonly used by housing authorities, including small housing authorities. Review of the drug elimination grants (DEGs) by the Office of Public and Indian Housing shows that smaller housing authorities with DEGs are just as likely to have DEG funds targeted to law enforcement or security costs. The likelihood of smaller housing authorities using other HUD grant fund to support law enforcement or security costs is unknown because of the lack of information as outlined in Section A1.0. A7.0␣Consequences of Less Frequent Data Collection Because the Domestic Policy Council has asked the Department to report on its annual contribution to the President's pledge of 100,000 more law enforcement officers, annual reporting should be sufficient, and less frequent reporting would not allow the Department to report as required. A8.0␣Circumstances Requiring Deviation From Guidelines In 5 CFR 1310.6 The proposed monitoring system is consistent with the guidelines set forth in 5 CFR 1310.6 (Controlling Paperwork Burdens on the Public_General Information Collection Guidelines). There are not circumstances that require deviation from these guidelines. A9.0␣Consultations Outside of the Agency To aid in the preparation of the PHDEP Outcome Monitoring System, the Department has conferred with Carroll Buracker of Fredericksburg, VA, leading authority in law enforcement services. Mr. Buracker provided valuable comments in the definition of different types of security and law enforcement officers more suitable for public housing authorities, and those changes have been incorporated into the document. The Department has also conferred with several public housing authorities, receiving suggestions for clearer instructions and use of terms including definitions of FTE, time frames, and local government. These have been incorporated into the document, and will be incorporated into the instructions. A10.0␣Arrangements and Assurances Regarding Confidentiality The Department will develop a HUD Notice to accompany the form explaining that the information reported will be used by HUD to measure HUD support of national law enforcement and security personnel costs. A11.0␣Sensitive Questions No questions of a sensitive nature are included in the proposed report. A12.0␣Estimated Costs to the Federal Government
