FR941206-1-00130 FR941206-1-00012 INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION 49 CFR Parts 1043 and 1084 [Ex Parte No. MC&hyph;223] Electronic Filing of Surety Bonds, Trust Fund Agreements, Insurance Certificates, and Cancellations AGENCY: Interstate Commerce Commission. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: We propose to modify our regulations to provide for the electronic filing of surety bonds, trust fund agreements, certificates of insurance and cancellations. We currently receive approximately 102,000 such filings each year on prescribed printed forms, most of which are filed by a relatively small number of insurers. As compared to the printed forms and mailed filings, we believe that electronic filing will result in greater time and cost efficiencies for both the ICC and insurers. 1 Electronic filing will be optional, and insurers may continue to file the printed forms. 1 In Ex Parte No. 55 (Sub-No. 94), Revision of Application Procedures and Corresponding Regulations, (59 FR 51546, October 12, 1994), we requested comments on our proposal that would permit motor carrier applicants to include proof of insurance in their applications. Currently the Commission only accepts proof of insurance from the insurance company. Electronic filing of the initial insurance form will enhance the expedited compliance objectives contemplated in that proceeding. DATES: Comments are due January 5, 1995. ADDRESSES: Send comments (an original and 10 copies) referring to Ex Parte No. MC&hyph;223 to: Interstate Commerce Commission, Office of the Secretary, Case Control Branch, 1201 Constitution Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20423. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patricia A. Burke, (202) 927&hyph;5520 or James W. Greene, (202) 927&hyph;5612. [TDD for the hearing impaired: (202) 927&hyph;5721.] SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: We automated our receipt of insurance certificates and cancellation notices in 1983. Since that time, the Commission's computer system has remained unchanged in the face of staff cuts and increased insurance filings. The current system is maintained on a contracted time-sharing system (Interactive Services, Inc.) DEC 20/60 mainframe computer. Insurance filings are processed manually, with visual inspection of each item and keying in the data. If the insurance filing is not complete or the computer rejects the entry, a rejection letter is generated and mailed to the insurance company. An insurance master file is used to generate monthly billings to insurance companies. Because the Commission's current insurance system is labor intensive, and thus vulnerable to human error, the potential exists for legal liability due to incomplete or inaccurate insurance data on file at the Commission. Thus, it is crucial that we develop more efficient ways to handle our insurance responsibilities. We expect a significant percentage of filings to be made electronically. For example, one insurer, which accounts for a large number of the agency's monthly insurance filings, already has a compatible automated system, and must reduce the filings to printed form for filing with the Commission. This proposal eventually will improve the accuracy and timeliness of our processing and reduce the overall cost to the Commission and the public. Accordingly, we propose to modify our regulations to permit the electronic filing of all surety bonds, trust fund agreements, insurance certificates and cancellations. Electronic filing would be done through the transmission of ASCII delimited files (i.e., all records must have the same number of fields separated by commas) by way of dial-up access to a local telephone number in the Washington, D.C., metropolitan area. We welcome comments on whether the ability to file electronically should be extended to all of these forms and request comments specifically on electronic filing of property broker security instruments (BMC 84 surety bond and BMC 85 trust fund agreement). In that regard, we note that the BMC 84's and BMC 85's filed are the actual security, whereas the other forms certify that the underlying policy or bond has been executed. We currently maintain a data base of regulated carriers that includes insurance information and other data. The electronic filing capability we propose will allow us to maintain electronically the insurance information on that data base, rather than input it manually from the printed forms, without requiring a major rewrite of the entire system. While a more sophisticated system could offer additional advantages, such as immediate, two-way electronic communication of the status of individual insurance transactions, our limited financial resources do not permit the development of such a system at this time. We believe the basic system we propose here will allow us to achieve the more important advantages, while staying within our resource limitations. However, we invite public comment on how this limitation might be overcome, perhaps by industry initiative, and invite comment on other alternative approaches. Commenters should discuss whether such industry involvement would be ethical.
