FR940106-0-00114 FR940106-0-00021 (d) The request for such hearing shall be received by the Chief Administrative Law Judge, at the address stated in the Administrator's notice of determination, no later than 10 days after the date of the determination. An interested party which fails to meet this 10-day deadline for requesting a hearing may thereafter participate in the proceedings only by consent of the administrative law judge, either through intervention as a party pursuant to 29 CFR 18.10 (b) through (d) or through participation as an amicus curiae pursuant to 29 CFR 18.12. (e) The request may be filed in person, by facsimile transmission, by certified or regular mail, or by courier service. For the requesting party's protection, if the request is filed by mail, it should be certified mail. If the request is filed by facsimile transmission, the original of the request, signed by the requestor or authorized representative, shall be filed within 10 days of the date of the Administrator's notice of determination. (f) Copies of the request for a hearing shall be sent by the requestor to the Wage and Hour Division official who issued the Administrator's notice of determination, to the representative(s) of the Solicitor of Labor identified in the notice of determination, and to all known interested parties. ยง XXX .425 Rules of practice for administrative law judge proceedings. (a) Except as specifically provided in this subpart, and to the extent they do not conflict with the provisions of this subpart, the ``Rules of Practice and Procedure for Administrative Hearings Before the Office of Administrative Law Judges'' established by the Secretary at 29 CFR part 18 shall apply to administrative proceedings under this subpart. (b) As provided in the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 556, any oral or documentary evidence may be received in proceedings under this part. The Federal Rules of Evidence and subpart B of the Rules of Practice and Procedure for Administrative Hearings Before the Office of Administrative Law Judges (29 CFR part 18, subpart B) shall not apply, but principles designed to ensure production of relevant and probative evidence shall guide the admission of evidence. The administrative law judge may exclude evidence which is inmaterial, irrelevant, or unduly repetitive. ยง XXX .430 Service and computation of time. (a) Under this subpart, a party may serve any pleading or document by regular mail. Service is complete upon mailing to the last known address. No additional time for filing or response is authorized where service is by mail. In the interest of expeditious proceedings, the administrative law judge may direct the parties to serve pleadings or documents by a method other than regular mail. (b) Two (2) copies of all pleadings and other documents in any administrative law judge proceeding shall be served on the attorneys for the Administrator. One copy shall be served on the Associate Solicitor, Division of Fair Labor Standards, Office of the Solicitor, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20210, and one copy on the attorney representing the Administrator in the proceeding. (c) Time will be computed beginning with the day following the action and includes the last day of the period unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or federally-observed holiday, in which case the time period includes the next business day. ยง XXX .435 Administrative law judge proceedings. (a) Upon receipt of a timely request for a hearing filed pursuant to and in accordance with ยง XXX .420, the Chief Administrative Law Judge shall appoint an administrative law judge to hear the case. (b) Within 7 days following the assignment of the case, the administrative law judge shall notify all interested parties of the date, time and place of the hearing. All parties shall be given at least 5 days notice of such hearing.
