FR940318-2-00094 FR940318-2-00065 (4) That in distributing the funds, the States will give special emphasis to the support of community-based projects of demonstrated effectiveness carried out by non-profit private organizations [particularly those projects the primary purpose of which is to operate shelters for victims of family violence and their dependents and those which provide counseling, advocacy, and self-help services to victims and their children (section 303(a)(2)(B)(ii))]. (5) That grants funded by the State will meet the matching requirements in section 303(e), i.e., 20 percent of the total funds provided under this title in the first year, 35 percent in the second year, and 50 percent in the third and subsequent year(s); that, except in the case of a public entity, not less than 25 percent of the local matching share will be raised from private sources; that the local share will be cash or in-kind; and that the local share will not include any Federal funds provided under any authority other than this program (section 303(e)). (6) That grant funds made available under this program by the State will not be used as direct payment to any victim or dependent of a victim of family violence (section 303(c)). (7) That no income eligibility standard will be imposed on individuals receiving assistance or services supported with funds appropriated to carry out the Act (section 303(d)). (8) That the address or location of any shelter-facility assisted under the Act will not be made public, except with written authorization of the person or persons responsible for the operation of such shelter (section 303(a)(2)(E)). (9) That all grants made by the State under the Act will prohibit discrimination on the basis of age, handicap, sex, race, color, national origin or religion (section 307). (10) That States will comply with applicable Departmental recordkeeping and reporting requirements and general requirements for the administration of grants under 45 CFR parts 74 and 92. J. Indian Tribe and Tribal Organization Application Requirements We have cited each requirement to the specific section of the law. The Secretary will approve any application that meets the requirements of the Act and this Announcement, and will not disapprove an application unless the Indian Tribe or Tribal organization has been given reasonable notice of the Department's intention to disapprove and an opportunity to correct any deficiencies (section 303(b)(2)). All applications must meet the following requirement: The application from the Indian Tribe, Tribal organization, or nonprofit private organization approved by an eligible Indian Tribe, must be signed by the Chief Executive Officer of the Indian Tribe or Tribal organization. Applications from Indian Tribes/Organizations not included in Appendix B: Each application must contain documentation which supports the Tribe's/Organization's contention that it has the capacity to carry out a family violence prevention and services program (see section E. Eligibility). All applications must contain the following information/documents: (1) The name of the organization or agency designated as responsible for programs and activities relating to family violence to be carried out by the Indian Tribe or Tribal organization and the name of a contact person in the designated organization or agency.
