FR940228-1-00152 FR940228-1-00010 Note: This appendix will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations. Appendix to Preamble Subparts A and B of the Student Assistance General Provisions Regulations I. Academic Year A. Section 481(d)(2) of the HEA provides that an ``academic year'' must require a minimum of 30 weeks of instruction time in which a student is expected to complete at least 24 semester or trimester hours or 36 quarter hours at an institution that measures program length in credit hours or at least 900 clock hours at an institution that measures program length in clock hours. Issues that the community was asked to address and the community's views: 1. How should prorations be calculated? For example, if 22 weeks are offered, how does an institution determine the portion of an academic year that applies? •Prorations of an academic year in educational programs shorter than an academic year should be based solely on the number of credit or clock hours provided, without regard to the number of weeks required. Proration should not be used for educational programs of one academic year or longer. Attempts to prorate the length of an academic year using both weeks and credit or clock hours would be inconsistent and confusing, because credit or clock hours are not always evenly distributed over the calendar length of an educational program. [Kansas City] •Prorations should be based on the minimum number of clock or credit hours that a full-time student in an eligible program is scheduled to take in an academic year. Prorations should not be based on the number of weeks in the academic year. A minority opposed inclusion of a reference to ``eligible program'' in this recommendation. [Atlanta] 2. What is a week? How should portions of a week be treated? •A week should include any week during a portion of which the educational process takes place. [Kansas City] •A majority of participants recommended that an instructional week be defined in terms of a fixed standard of clock hours of instruction. Thus, for example, if regulations define an instructional week as the completion of 30 clock hours, a student who completes 90 clock hours of instruction in two calendar weeks should be considered to have completed the equivalent of three instructional weeks. [New York] •A week should be defined as a seven-day period that can begin on any day of the week. The seven-day periods continue for 30 periods of time. [San Francisco] •A ``week'' should be defined as either each seven-day period within an enrollment period; or each seven-day period (within an enrollment period) during which any instruction occurred. [Atlanta] 3. What is instructional time? Should periods provided for orientation, testing, and vacation count? •Instructional time should be measured on the basis of calendar weeks that begin on Monday and end on Sunday. Instructional time should consist of a period of continuous enrollment beginning with the first week of classes and ending with the conclusion of the period of enrollment, including any normally scheduled breaks in the academic calendar. [Kansas City] •Instructional time should include time spent reading and taking examinations. [New York] •The interests of students, institutions, and other constituents need to be considered in determining instructional time. Some participants recommended that the determination be left to accrediting agencies. Other participants recommended that the determination be left to the Secretary. [San Francisco] 4. What consideration should be given to programs with condensed class schedules, or to weekend programs? •Because instructional time should be measured on the basis of periods of continuous enrollment, special consideration for condensed schedules or weekend programs is unnecessary. [Kansas City] •The interests of students, institutions, and other constituents need to be considered in determining how to treat condensed schedules and weekend programs. Some participants recommended that the determination be left to accrediting agencies. Other participants recommended that the determination be left to the Secretary. [San Francisco] •Condensed programs that include the equivalent of the workload of a regular academic-year program should be considered to meet the definition of academic year. [Atlanta]
