FR941128-2-00033 FR941128-2-00023 Department of the Army Intent To Prepare a Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for the Coast of Florida Erosion and Storm Effects Study in Palm Beach, Broward, and Dade Counties, Florida AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, DOD. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The Jacksonville District, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers intends to prepare a Draft Environmental Impact Statement for Region III of the Coast of Florida Erosion and Storm Effects Study. The study is a cooperative effort between the Corps of Engineers and the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, the study sponsor, to investigate coastal processes on a regional basis to recommend modifications for existing shore protection and navigation projects. ADDRESSES: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Jacksonsville District, Environmental Branch, Planning Division, P.O. Box 4970, Jacksonville, Florida 32232&hyph;0019. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Michael Dupes, (904) 232&hyph;1689. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 1. The Coast of Florida Erosion and Storm Effects Study was authorized on 16 July 1984, by Section 104 of the 1985 Appropriations Act (Public Law 98&hyph;360). The study area includes most of the Atlantic and Gulf coast of Florida and has been divided into five coastal regions. The region currently being studied, and is the focus of the DEIS, is Region III which consists of 92 miles of Atlantic Ocean coastline within Palm beach, Broward, and Dade counties. Several alternatives are being considered in the study and will be addressed in the DEIS. These include: a. Continued renourishment of existing projects, b. Design modifications to existing projects where needed, c. Sand bypassing at inlets using sand transfer plants and/or conventional dredging, d. Nearshore placement of suitable maintenance dredged material to feed adjacent beaches, 5. Use of suitable maintenance dredged material as beach fill, 6. Construction of groins and/or offshore breakwaters, 7. Dune construction, 8. Construction of sand traps at inlets to aid in sand bypassing, 9. Sand tightening existing jetties where the need has been identified. Sources of sand that have been identified include offshore borrow areas, upland sand sources, suitable material from maintenance dredging and the possible use of Bahamian aragonite. 2. Scoping: The scoping process will involve Federal, State, county and municipal agencies, and other interested persons and organizations. A scoping letter (November 8, 1994) has been sent to interested Federal, State, county and municipal agencies requesting their comments and concerns. Any persons and organizations wishing to participate in the scoping process should contact the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers at the above address. Significant issues that are anticipated include concern for offshore hard bottom communities, fisheries, water quality, sea turtles and cultural resources. 3. Coordination with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Marine Fisheries Service will be accomplished in compliance with section 7 of the Endangered Species Act. Coordination required by applicable Federal and State laws and policies will be conducted. Since the project will require the discharge of material into waters of the United States, the discharge will comply with the provisions of section 404 of the Clean Water Act as amended. 4. DEIS Preparation: It is estimated that the DEIS will be available to the public during May of 1995. Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29135 Filed 11&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;AJ&hyph;M
