FR940503-0-00013 FR940503-0-00003 When merger conversions were first allowed by the FHLBB in the 1980s, they were perceived to be a useful supervisory tool by which significantly undercapitalized or marginally capitalized savings associations could improve their capital positions. In recent years, however, the OTS began to have increasing concern about merger conversions involving healthy associations. In Thrift Bulletin 58 (April 19, 1993), the OTS established increased disclosure requirements for merger conversion proxy statements to ensure that account holders received adequate and accurate disclosure about proposed merger conversion transactions. In so doing, the OTS asserted its view that merger conversions provide more opportunity than standard conversions for insider abuse. 15 In addition, the OTS voiced concerns that institutions participating in merger conversions were not providing sufficient disclosure to account holders regarding this more complex form of conversion transaction. 16 15 OTS Thrift Bulletin 58, at 1 (April 19, 1993). 16 Id . In addition, there have been numerous complaints recently by account holders and others that permitting healthy mutual savings associations to be acquired by means of a merger conversion has resulted in some thrift insiders putting their self interest ahead of the interests of the converting association and its account holders. As a result of these concerns, the OTS recently imposed a moratorium on healthy savings associations entering into these transactions. In its announcement, the OTS stated that the moratorium would not prohibit the acquisition of an undercapitalized thrift by a healthy acquiror. In undertaking the moratorium, the OTS noted that in many cases, management of the converting mutual savings associations engaging in merger conversions were receiving extremely generous compensation and benefit packages. While OTS rules limit many forms of excessive compensation in merger conversions, 17 there is still an issue as to whether management is opting for a merger conversion instead of a standard conversion based on the best interests of the association and its depositors or in response to the level of benefits offered to management by the acquiring entity. 17 For example, the OTS policy statement on mergers, 12 CFR 571.5, in pertinent part, specifically provides that compensation, including deferred compensation to officers, directors and controlling persons of a merging association may not be in excess of that which is reasonable and commensurate with their duties and responsibilities. The rule provides that mergers will be particularly scrutinized where any such persons will receive a material increase in compensation above that paid by the merging association prior to the commencement of merger negotiations. In this regard, an increase in compensation in excess of the greater of 15% or $10,000 gives rise to presumptions of unreasonableness and sale of control. See 12 CFR 571.5(d)(3). In addition, merger conversions are perceived as being overly generous to the acquiring entities since they are essentially able to acquire the mutual association at no cost. Unlike other corporate acquisitions, the acquiror pays nothing for the converting association's stock. Rather, simultaneous with the acquisition, the acquiror's primary obligation is to make an equity offering of its own stock to depositors of the converting association, retaining all proceeds of the offering. The OTS conversion regulations are based upon the principle that a conversion cannot be equitable unless the potential for ``windfall'' gains is virtually eliminated. In a standard conversion, the pro forma market value of the converting savings association is an appropriate means for determining the price of the stock to be sold. In a merger conversion, however, the acquiring entity is obtaining control and should pay a premium for the pro forma value of the stock. In essence, the acquiring entity is obtaining control and receiving a ``windfall'' gain. As a result, there is tremendous incentive for an acquirer to offer excessive benefits to the management of a mutual savings association to participate in a merger conversion. Upon further review of this issue, the OTS has been unable to resolve the valuation and ``windfall'' gains problem that the OTS currently believes is inherent in merger conversion transactions. The OTS therefore has concluded that in nonsupervisory cases, there should be a two step process. The account holders at the mutual association should be given the opportunity to purchase stock in a mutual to stock conversion. This assures the account holders that they will have the opportunity to more directly participate in any appreciation of the converting association's stock price following the conversion. After the conversion to stock form, stockholders can vote on whether to merge with another institution, subject to the rules governing post-conversion transactions.
