FR940124-2-00007 FR940124-2-00004 Proposed Millwood Timber Sale Within the Council Mountain Roadless Area, Payette National Forest, Adams County, ID AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The Forest Service will prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed Millwood Timber Sale, Council Ranger District, Payette National Forest, Idaho. The proposed sale would construct road and harvest timber within a portion of the Council Mountain Roadless Area that the Payette National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan (1988) allocated to multiple use management. The agency gives notice of the environmental analysis and decision-making process that is beginning on the proposal so that interested and affected people know how they may participate and contribute to the final decision. The agency invites comments and suggestions on the scope of the analysis, including issues to be addressed during the analysis. A scoping meeting will be held to gather comments from the public on the proposed action. The meeting will be Thursday, February 3, at 7 p.m. at the Council Ranger District office conference room in Council, Idaho. Forest Service officials will explain the proposed action and planning process, and accept public input. A scoping document explaining the proposed action and analysis process is also available from the contacts identified below. DATES: Comments on the scope of the analysis must be received by March 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to Pete L. Johnston, District Ranger, Council Ranger District, Payette National Forest, P.O. Box 567, Council, ID 83629. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Pete Johnston, District Ranger, or Tracy Beck, EIS Team Leader, phone 208&hyph;253&hyph;4215. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The USDA Forest Service is proposing to construct 18.8 miles of road and harvest about 17.5 million board feet of timber from 1,847 acres of suitable timber lands within the Millwood timber sale area. A mix of silvicultural treatments is proposed, including 209 acres of commercial thinning, 467 acres of shelterwood (about 35 percent crown canopy closure), 351 acres of irregular shelterwood (50&hyph;60 percent crown canopy closure), 452 acres of reserve tree (about 5 trees per acre), 306 acres of sanitation/salvage, and 62 acres of strata 21 rehabilitation. This mix of silvicultural prescriptions seeks to retain suitable habitat for sensitive species within all treatment units where it currently exists, improve forest health (resilience and resistance to insect and disease), and increase dominance of seral ponderosa pine and Douglas-fir. Helicopter logging is proposed for 150 acres (8 percent of the treatment acreage). Skyline logging is proposed for 894 acres (48 percent of the treatment acreage). Tractor logging is proposed for 803 acres (44 percent of the treatment acreage). The proposed mix of logging systems seeks to protect leave stands and regenerate stands in a cost efficient and cost effective manner. This sale lies within the Council Mountain Roadless Area, Adams County, Idaho. Mill Creek and Cottonwood Creek are the two drainages within the proposed timber sale area; both are tributaries of the Weiser River.
