FR941128-0-00026 FR941128-0-00007 Comment: Three groups provided a generic comment on all actions exempting areas from the NO X requirements of the conformity rules that such exemptions waive only the requirements of section 182(b)(1) to contribute to specific annual reductions, not the requirement that conformity SIPs contain information showing the maximum amount of motor vehicle NO X emissions allowed under the transportation conformity rules and, similarly, the maximum allowable amounts of any such NO X emissions under the general conformity rules. The commenters admit that, in prior guidance, the EPA has acknowledged the need to amend a drafting error in the existing transportation conformity rules to ensure consistency with motor vehicle emissions budgets for NO X . The commenters, however, want the EPA to explicitly affirm this obligation in FR actions on NO X exemptions and to avoid granting waivers until a budget controlling future NO X increases is in place. Response: In its ``Conformity; General Preamble for Exemption From Nitrogen Oxides Provisions,'' 59 FR 31238, 31241 (June 17, 1994), the EPA reiterated its view that in order to conform, nonattainment and maintenance areas must demonstrate that their transportation plans and transportation improvement plans are consistent with the motor vehicle emissions budget for NO X even where a conformity NO X waiver has been granted. Due to a drafting error, that view is not reflected in the current transportation conformity rules. As the commenters correctly note, the EPA states in its June 17 notice that it intends to remedy the problem by amending the conformity rule. Although that notice specifically mentions only requiring consistency with the approved maintenance plan's NO X motor vehicle emissions budget, the EPA also intends to require consistency with the attainment demonstration's NO X motor vehicle emissions budget. The DFW and El Paso exemptions, however, were submitted pursuant to section 182(f)(3), and the EPA does not believe it is appropriate to delay the statutory deadline for acting on these petitions until the conformity rule is amended. As noted earlier in response to a previous issue raised by these commenters, this issue has also been raised in a formal petition for reconsideration of the EPA's final transportation conformity rule and in litigation pending before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit on the substance of both the transportation and general conformity rules. This issue, thus, is under consideration within the EPA, but at this time remains unresolved. The EPA, therefore, believes that until a resolution of this issue is achieved, the applicable rules governing this issue are those that appear in the EPA's final conformity regulations, and the EPA remains bound by their existing terms. Comment: Three groups provided a generic comment on all section 182(f) actions that the CAA does not authorize delaying implementation of NO X controls if modeling is not complete. Response: The EPA does not believe that this comment is applicable to the DFW or El Paso actions because complete attainment modeling has been submitted for both areas, as part of the attainment SIPs, in conjunction with the section 182(f) petitions. VI. Effective Date This rulemaking is effective as of November 21, 1994. The Administrative Procedure Act (APA) 5 U.S.C. 553(d)(1), permits the effective date of a substantive rule to be less than thirty days after publication of the rule if the rule ``relieves a restriction.'' Since the approval of the section 182(f) exemptions for the DFW and El Paso areas, is a substantive rule that relieves the restrictions associated with the CAA title I requirements to control NO X emissions, the NO X exemption approval may be made effective upon signature by the EPA Administrator. VII. Final Action In this action, the EPA is conditionally approving 1 the 182(f) NO X exemption petitions submitted by the State of Texas for the DFW and El Paso ozone nonattainment areas, conditioned upon the EPA approving the modeling portion of the attainment demonstration SIPs. If the EPA proposes to disapprove the modeling portion of the SIPs, the EPA will also propose disapproval of the section 182(f) NO X exemption petitions, based on the fact that the technical basis for the exemption is no longer valid. Upon final disapproval of the modeling portion of the attainment SIPs, the EPA will issue a final disapproval of the section 182(f) NO X exemption petitions as well. 1 This conditional approval is distinct from the conditional approval authority granted under section 110(k)(4), which pertains to SIP actions. As discussed in the previously cited John S. Seitz memorandum dated May 27, 1994, concerning the EPA's processing of section 182(f) petitions, these NO X exemptions petitions are not revisions to the SIP. There are several consequences if the EPA disapproves the section 182(f) NO X exemption petitions based on the conclusion that the attainment SIPs were not approved by the EPA. The State would be required to submit NO X RACT rules and implement the relevant NO X conformity, NSR, and vehicle inspection and maintenance requirements for the DFW and El Paso areas. The EPA would issue a finding of nonsubmittal of the NO X RACT rules. As provided under section 179(a) of the CAA, if the State did not make a complete submittal within 18 months after the finding of failure to submit, the EPA would be required to impose the requirement to provide two-to-one NSR offsets. If the State had not corrected its deficiency within six months after imposing the offset sanction, the EPA would impose a second sanction, on highway funding. Any sanction the EPA imposes must remain in place until the EPA determines that the State has corrected the deficiency. In addition, the finding of failure to submit would trigger the 24-month clock for the EPA to impose a Federal Implementation Plan as required by section 110(c)(1) of the CAA. The EPA believes that all section 182(f) exemptions that are approved, should be approved only on a contingent basis. As described in the EPA's NO X Supplement to the General Preamble (57 FR 55628, November 25, 1992), the EPA would rescind a NO X exemption in cases where NO X reductions were later found to be beneficial in the area's attainment plan. That is, a modeling based exemption would last for only as long as the area's modeling continued to demonstrate attainment without the additional NO X reductions required by section 182(f).
