FR940407-2-00149 FR940407-2-00081 Part I_Preamble A. Legislative Authority The Senate Committee on Appropriations, in its recommendations, provides $5,500,000 for job creation demonstration activities authorized under section 505 of the Family Support Act of 1988, Public Law 100&hyph;485. Sen. Rep. No. 143, 103d Cong., 1st Sess. 170 (1993). Section 505 of the Family Support Act of 1988 authorizes the Secretary to enter into agreements with not less than 5 nor more than 10 non-profit organizations (including community development corporations) for the purpose of conducting demonstration projects to create employment and business opportunities for certain low-income individuals. B. Eligible Applicants The organizations eligible to apply for funding under this program is any non-profit organization (including community development corporations) that is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 by reason of paragraph (3) or (4) of section 501(c) of such Code. Applicants must provide documentation of their tax exempt status. Any of the following is acceptable evidence of non-profit status: (1) A copy of the applicant organization's list in the Internal Revenue Service's most recent list of tax-exempt organizations described in section 501(c)(3) of the IRS code; or (2) a copy of the currently valid IRS tax exemption certificate. Failure to provide evidence of non-profit status will result in rejection of the application. C. Definition of Terms For purposes of this Program Announcement the following definitions apply: _Budget Period: The interval of time into which a multi-year period of assistance (project period) is divided for budgetary and funding purposes. _Community-Level Data: Key information to be collected by each grantee that will allow for a national-level analysis of common features of JOLI projects. This includes data on the population of the target area, the percentage on public assistance, the percentage whose incomes fall below the poverty line, the unemployment rate, the number of new business starts and business closings, and a description of the major employers and average wage rates. _Community Development Corporation: A private, locally initiated, nonprofit entity, governed by a board consisting of residents of the community and business and civic leaders, which has a record of implementing economic development projects or whose Articles of Incorporation and/or By-Laws indicate that it has a focus in the area of economic development. _Hypothesis: An assumption made in order to test its validity. It should assert a cause-and-effect relationship between a program intervention and its expected result. Both the intervention and result must be measured in order to confirm the hypothesis. For example: Eighty hours of classroom training in small business planning will be sufficient for participants to prepare a successful loan application. In this example, data would be obtained on the number of hours of training actually received by participants (the intervention), and the quality of loan applications (the result). _Intervention: Any planned activity within a project that is intended to produce changes in the target population and/or the environment and can be formally evaluated. For example, assistance in the preparation of a business plan and loan package are planned interventions. _Job Creation: To bring about, by activities and services funded under this program, new jobs. Jobs that were not in existence before the start of the project. These activities can include self-employment/entrepreneurial training, the development of new businesses or the expansion of existing businesses. _Non-profit Organizations: Any organization (including a community development corporation) exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 by reason of paragraph (3) or (4) of section 501(c) of such Code. _Private employers: Third-party private non-profit organizations or third-party for-profit businesses operating in the same community as the applicant. _Process Evaluation: The ongoing examination of the implementation of a program. It focuses on the effectiveness and efficiency of the program's activities and interventions (for example, methods of recruiting participants, quality of training activities, or usefulness of follow-up procedures). It should answer questions such as: Who is receiving what services?, are the services being delivered as planned?, and are client competencies improving? It is also known as formative evaluation because it gathers information that can be used to improve the way a program operates while the program is in progress. _Program Participant/Beneficiary: Any individual eligible to receive Aid to Families with Dependent Children under Part A of Title IV of the Social Security Act and any other individual whose income level does not exceed 100 percent of the official poverty line as found in the most recent Annual Revision of Poverty Income Guidelines published by the Department of Health and Human Services. (See Attachment A.) _Project Period: The total time a project is approved for support, including any extensions. _Self-Sufficiency: A condition where an individual or family, by reason of employment, does not need and is not eligible for public assistance.
