FR941216-1-00075 FR941216-1-00012 (b) During the pre-award safety survey, the contractor, as a minimum, shall provide the following for review: (1) Site plans conforming to the requirements of §184.7 (d)(1) through (d)(8). (2) Safety program, organization, and training. (3) Fire prevention program and available firefighting resources, including local agreements; (4) Description of facilities, including size, construction design and materials, fire resistive capability, utilities, and current compliance with existing building regulations and codes; (5) Operational compliance with applicable Federal, state, and local requirements; (6) Required licenses or capability to obtain those required to perform proposed contract work; (7) Past safety history, including reports of safety surveys by Federal, state, or local safety, fire prevention, insurance, or other authorities; current status of waivers or exemptions issued by Federal, state, or local authorities; and mishap experience; (8) A&E collection and disposal systems and procedures (The contractor may wish to request specific clarification of A&E residue/reject item disposition at this time); and (9) Hazard analysis, as appropriate. §184.9 Pre-operational survey. After contract award, a significant mishap or completion of new construction or major modifications, DoD review and evaluation of the facilities and operations may be necessary before startup of production or services. The contractor shall contact the ACO to offer an opportunity for a pre-operational review by authorized DoD personnel. Subpart B_Mishap Investigation and Reporting §184.11 General. This subpart sets forth requirements to be followed for mishaps involving ammunition and explosives. §184.12 Reporting criteria. All mishaps involving ammunition and explosives that result in one or more of the following shall be investigated by the contractor and reported to the ACO. (a) One or more fatalities; (b) One or more lost-workday cases (Refer to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Blue Book. ); 2 2 Copies may be obtained from Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402. (c) Ten or more nonfatal injuries without lost workdays (Refer to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Blue Book. ); (d) Damage to Government property exceeding $10,000; (e) Delay in delivery schedule exceeding 24 hours: (f) Mishaps that are reportable in accordance with specific contractual requirements other than paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section; or (g) Any mishap that may degrade operational or production capability or likely to arouse unusual media interest because of exceptional circumstances. Note: Based upon the seriousness of the mishap and the criticality of the munitions or explosives involved, the ACO may determine that an additional, more comprehensive mishap investigation and report is desired. §184.13 Mishap scene. In the event of an ammunition or explosives mishap, the contractor shall implement emergency procedures, such as controlling the spread of fire and attending to the injured. The contractor shall also secure the scene of the mishap, preventing unauthorized persons from entering the area in order to preserve evidence for the investigation. §184.14 Telephone report. The contractor shall report any mishap described in §184.12, by telephone to the ACO as soon as practicable, but not later than 3 hours after the incident. The format provided for the written report will serve as a guide for the telephone report. §184.15 Written report.
