FR941110-0-00147 FR941110-0-00016 Response: The secondary factors are not less important; they just come later in the process of selecting an appropriate remedy or remedies. However, we are replacing the word ``secondary'' with the word ``other'' to avoid any further confusion. The first step is to assess the seriousness of the deficiency(ies), including the presence or absence of immediate jeopardy, to determine the minimum recommended categories of remedies to impose, as well as the suggested optional categories from which to choose. The other factors (that is, the relationship of one deficiency to other deficiencies, and the facility's prior compliance history in general and specifically with reference to the cited deficiencies) assist in making choices from among all remedies available in any of the categories applicable to specific deficiencies. Comment: Other commenters want the compliance history of the facility to remain secondary because facilities with a change of ownership and/or personnel may not be able to otherwise emerge positively due to poor compliance in the past. It was suggested that we change §408.404 (proposed at §488.208) accordingly. Response: We did not revise the regulations text to reflect this suggestion. A facility's prior compliance history should be considered regardless of a change in ownership. A facility is purchased ``as is.'' The new owner acquires the compliance history, good or bad, as well as the assets. While we agree that after consideration of the facility's compliance history, HCFA or the State may conclude that such history is no longer a valid predictive factor of the facility's ability to achieve and maintain compliance (for example, following a change of ownership where the new owner ``cleans house'') the burden of proof is on the new owner to demonstrate that poor past performance no longer is a predictive factor. Comment: Other commenters wanted additional factors to be considered in addition to those outlined in §488.404 (proposed at §488.208). The suggestions for additional factors are: •Whether the deficiency or deficiencies are directly related to resident care; •The corrective, long-term compliance, resident protective, and non-punitive outcomes sought by the agency; •The facility's degree of culpability; •The accuracy, extent, and availability of facility records; •The facility's financial condition; •Any adverse effect that the remedy would have on the health and safety of facility residents; •Whether there has been a change in ownership or operation of the facility; •The facility's action to correct the deficiency prior to the conclusion of the survey. Response: While we are not expanding §488.404 to include these additional factors, there is nothing to preclude HCFA or the State from considering any other factors they believe to be relevant in the decision-making process. We are, however, revising §488.404(b) to clarify that the other factors that HCFA and the State may consider include, but are not limited to, only those factors listed. Because we do not want to limit valid assessment considerations unnecessarily, we do not desire to provide an all-inclusive list. We realize that it is impossible to predict every factor that would have a bearing on every particular case. The two factors that we have included in the regulatory model have a direct bearing on the determination of the most appropriate remedy or remedies. We have explained above how the interrelationships among deficiencies can impact the decision to impose one as opposed to several remedies. The second factor, the facility's prior compliance history, is pertinent because sections 1819(h)(2)(B), 1919(h)(2)(A), and 1919(h)(3)(C) of the Act provide for increased penalty amounts for uncorrected or repeated noncompliance. Moreover, sections 1819(h)(2)(E) and 1919(h)(2)(D) of the Act require the imposition of the denial of payment remedy for repeated substandard quality of care. Comment: One commenter didn't believe that surveyors should make binding decisions regarding remedies, but rather this authority should be retained by the surveyors' supervisor in order to promote centralization as well as consistency in decision making.
