FR940425-0-00034 FR940425-0-00018 AAMA recommended that testing be conducted between 60 ○ and 70 ○F. Blue Bird commented that the test conditions specify a permissible temperature range of between 0 ○C and 32 ○C (32 ○ to 90 ○F) to eliminate testing at unusually low or high temperatures. It believed that controlling such temperature extremes could reduce variables that affect vehicle and fuel system reactions to crash tests. After reviewing the comments and other available information, NHTSA has decided that prohibiting ambient temperature variation by more than 10 ○F during the 60-minute period after testing will be sufficient to minimize pressure drop variability due to temperature change. However, the agency has decided not to specify a minimum or maximum temperature for the 60-minute period after testing. This will facilitate the combining of tests for various standards. In addition, specifying a range like the one recommended by AAMA would be inappropriate for those vehicle manufacturers that conduct their compliance crash testing outdoors throughout the year. e. Leakage from fuel system components. In the NPRM, NHTSA discussed two alternatives regarding measurement of CNG leakage after a barrier crash test. Under the first alternative, the allowable CNG leakage level would apply to the vehicle's entire fuel system, instead of the fuel storage containers only. The agency proposed that the term ``fuel system'' be defined as ``all components used to store or supply CNG to the vehicle's engine.'' This approach would have required a manufacturer to measure the internal volume of the vehicle's entire fuel system, including the lines, components, and fuel storage containers as the basis for evaluating allowable leakage. Under the second alternative, the allowable CNG leakage would only apply to the CNG fuel container or containers. This approach would have required a manufacturer to measure the volume of the fuel storage containers only. The agency tentatively preferred the first alternative, believing that it would more closely reflect a real world crash. The agency was concerned that the second alternative would permit unlimited leakage from the vehicle's plumbing system including fuel lines and other components downstream from the fuel containers during a crash test. Nine commenters addressed the issue of what components of a fuel system should be evaluated for leakage. Navistar, NGV Systems, Flxible, CNG Pittsburgh, Washington, and Amoco supported measuring leakage from the entire fuel system. AAMA, Thomas, and Minnesota Gas stated that leakage should be measured from the fuel containers to the first pressure regulator, an area which is known as the high pressure side of the fuel system. Minnesota Gas stated that, while the fuel lines, connections, and valves may be the most vulnerable part of a fuel system, the volume of gas in these parts is small when compared to the gas volume stored in the fuel containers. Thomas stated that the volume of the gas in the fuel lines and valves between the containers and engine is negligible. AAMA stated that adding pressure transducers to points in the fuel lines solely for purposes of conducting the test would produce points of potential leakage that would not exist on a non-test vehicle. This would make the test vehicles potentially unrepresentative of the vehicle population. AAMA recommended that to minimize the potential leakage points, one pressure check point be used immediately upstream from the high pressure regulator, or at a location specified by the manufacturer. After reviewing the comments and other information, NHTSA has decided to measure leakage only from the high pressure portion of the fuel system. By ``high pressure portion'' of a CNG fuel system, the agency means all the components from and including the CNG fuel container or containers up to, but not including, the first pressure regulator. The agency notes that as CNG flows from the vehicle fuel containers to the engine, it passes through one or two pressure regulators that reduce the pressure of the gas before it enters the engine. On a carbureted type vehicle, there may be one or two pressure regulators. For systems with two pressure regulators, the first pressure regulator typically reduces service fuel line pressure from 3000 psi to approximately 300 psi, while the second regulator reduces pressure from this level to approximately ambient pressure. When the agency proposed to regulate leakage from the entire fuel system, it was not aware of the significant difficulty involved in accurately measuring small amounts of leakage. In addition, the volume of gas in the fuel lines and valves is very small when compared to the volume of the fuel containers. For instance, Thomas stated that a school bus with six CNG fuel containers has 822 liters of CNG (137 liters per container x 6). By comparison, the volume of that bus' plumbing system (e.g., fuel lines, valves, etc.) is 0.62 liters. Thus, the volume of CNG in the plumbing system is approximately 0.075 percent of the entire fuel system. Therefore, possible leakage from the plumbing system would be minimal and therefore not a significant safety concern. Thus, contrary to the agency's belief in the NPRM, measuring the entire fuel system would not be much more representative of real world crashes than measuring the fuel system's high pressure portion. Another reason that the agency decided not to measure leakage from the entire fuel system is that using additional transducers would have resulted in the test vehicles having more points of potential leakage than non-test vehicles, as pointed out by AAMA.
