FR941206-1-00101 FR941206-1-00008 1. Reduce the volume of, or eliminate emissions of, such pollutants through process changes, substitution of materials, or other modifications; 2. Enclose systems or processes to eliminate emissions; 3. Collect, capture, or treat such pollutants when released from a process, stack, storage, or fugitive emission point; 4. Are design, equipment, work practice, or operational standards including requirements for operator training or certification as provided in section 112(h); or 5. Any combination of the above [section 112(d)(2)]. To develop NESHAP, the EPA collects information about the industry, including information on emission source characteristics, control technologies, data from HAP emission tests at well-controlled facilities, and information on the cost, energy, and other environmental impacts of emission control techniques. The EPA uses this information to analyze possible regulatory approaches. Although NESHAP are normally structured in terms of numerical emission limits, alternative approaches are sometimes necessary. In some cases, physically measuring emissions from a source may be impossible or at least impracticable due to technological and economic limitations. Section 112(h) authorizes the Administrator to promulgate a design, equipment, work practice, or operational standard or combination thereof, in those cases where it is not feasible to prescribe or enforce an emissions standard. If any sources in the source category are considered major (based on their emissions), then a MACT standard is required. To establish a MACT standard, the level of control corresponding to the MACT floor needs to be determined as a starting point for developing the regulatory alternatives. C. Categorization/Subcategorization: Determining MACT ``Floors'' Section 112 of the Act provides certain very specific directives to guide the EPA in the process for establishing MACT standards. It states that the EPA shall establish standards that require ``the maximum degree of reduction in emissions of the hazardous air pollutants * ␣9* ␣9* that the Administrator, taking into consideration the cost of achieving such emission reduction, and any nonair quality health and environmental impacts and energy requirements, determines is achievable * ␣9* ␣9*'' [section 112(d)(2)]. In addition, a minimum baseline or ``floor'' for a standard is specified. For new sources, the standard for a source category or subcategory ``shall not be less stringent than the emission control that is achieved in practice by the best controlled similar source, as determined by the Administrator'' [section 112(d)(3)]. Further, standards for existing sources shall be no less stringent than: (1) the average emission limitation achieved by the best performing 12 percent of the existing sources in the category or subcategory for categories and subcategories with 30 or more sources; or (2) the best performing five sources for categories or subcategories with fewer than 30 sources [section 112(d)(3)]. Once the floor has been determined for new or existing sources for a category or subcategory, the Administrator must set MACT standards no less stringent. Such standards must then be met by all sources within the category or subcategory. However, in establishing standards, the Administrator may distinguish among classes, types, and sizes of sources within a category or subcategory and establish a different emission standard for each class, provided all standards are at least as stringent as the MACT floor. The EPA has determined that there are less than 30 major shipbuilding sources. Consequently, the MACT floor for existing categories or subcategories was calculated to be the arithmetic average (the mean) of the emission limitation achieved by the best performing five sources. D. Regulatory Approach and Regulatory Alternatives The next step in establishing standards is the investigation of regulatory alternatives. With MACT standards, only alternatives at least as stringent as the floor may be considered. Information about the industry is analyzed to develop model plant populations for projecting national impacts, including HAP emission reduction levels, costs, energy, and secondary impacts. Several regulatory alternative levels (which may be different levels of emissions control or different levels of applicability or both) are then evaluated to determine the most appropriate regulatory alternative to serve as the basis for the standard. The regulatory alternatives for new versus existing sources may be different, and separate regulatory decisions must be made for new and existing sources. For both source types, the selected alternative may be more stringent than the MACT floor. However, the control level selected as the name maximum achievable control technology indicates, must be available, i.e., technically achievable. In selecting a regulatory alternative, the Agency considers the achievable reduction in emissions of HAP (and possibly other pollutants that are co-controlled), the cost and economic impacts, the energy requirements, and other environmental impacts. The selected regulatory alternative is then translated into a proposed regulation. The regulation implementing the decision typically includes the following sections: applicability, standards, test methods, compliance demonstration, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping. The preamble to the proposed regulation provides an explanation of the rationale for the decisions embodied in the rule. The public is invited to comment on the proposed regulation. Based on an evaluation of these comments, the EPA promulgates the final standard.
