FR940825-1-00089 FR940825-1-00008 (i) That financial assistance will be denied or terminated, and provide a brief explanation of the reasons for the proposed denial or termination of assistance; (ii) That the family may be eligible for proration of assistance as provided in paragraph (s) of this section; (iii) In the case of a tenant, the criteria and procedures for obtaining relief under the preservation of families provisions in paragraph (r) of this section; (iv) That the family has a right to request an appeal to the INS of the results of the secondary verification of immigration status, and to submit additional documentation or a written explanation in support of the appeal, in accordance with the procedures of paragraph (n) this section; (v) That the family has a right to request an informal hearing with the IHA either upon completion of the INS appeal or in lieu of the INS appeal, as provided in paragraph (n) of this section; (vi) For applicants, the notice shall advise that assistance may not be delayed until the conclusion of the INS appeal process, but assistance may be delayed during the pendency of the IHA informal hearing process. (n) Appeal to the INS_ (1) Submission of request for appeal to IHA. Upon receipt of notification by the IHA that INS secondary verification failed to confirm eligible immigration status, the family may request an appeal to the INS by communicating that request to the IHA within 14 days of the date the IHA mails or delivers the notice under paragraph (m)(4) of this section. (2) Extension of time to request an appeal. The IHA shall extend the period of time for requesting an appeal (for a specified period) upon good cause shown. (3) Forwarding the appeal to INS. If the family requests an appeal to the INS, the IHA shall forward to the designated INS office any additional documentation or written explanation provided by the family in support of the appeal. This material must include a copy of the INS document verification request form G&hyph;845S (used to process the secondary verification request) and a cover letter indicating that the family is requesting an appeal of the INS immigration status verification results. (Form G&hyph;845S is available from the local INS Office.) (4) Decision by INS_ (i) When decision will be issued. The INS will issue to the IHA a decision within 30 days of its receipt of documentation concerning the family's appeal of the verification of immigration status. If, for any reason, the INS is unable to issue a decision within the 30 day time period, the INS will inform the IHA of the reasons for the delay, and the IHA will inform the family of the reasons for the delay. (ii) Notification of INS decision and of informal hearing procedures. When the IHA receives the INS decision, the IHA shall notify the family of the INS determination, of the reasons for the determination, and of the family's right to request an informal hearing on the IHA's ineligibility determination in accordance with the procedures of paragraph (o) of this section. (5) No delay, denial or termination of assistance until completion of INS appeal process; direct appeal to INS. Pending the completion of the INS appeal under this section, assistance may not be delayed, denied or terminated on the basis of immigration status. (o) Informal hearing._ (1) When request for hearing is to be made. After notification of the INS decision, or in lieu of request of appeal to the INS, the family may request that the IHA provide a hearing. This request must be made either within 14 days of the date the IHA mails or delivers the notice under paragraph (m)(4) of this section, or within 14 days of the mailing of the INS appeal decision issued in accordance with paragraph (n)(4) of this section (established by the date of postmark). (2) Extension of time to request hearing. The IHA shall extend the period of time for requesting a hearing (for a specified period) upon good cause shown. (3) Informal hearing procedures. (i) For tenants, the procedures for the hearing before the IHA are set forth in ยง905.340. (ii) For applicants, the procedures for the informal hearing before the IHA are as follows: (A) Hearing before an impartial individual. The applicant shall be provided a hearing before any person(s) designated by the IHA (including an officer or employee of the IHA), other than a person who made or approved the decision under review, and other than a person who is a subordinate of the person who made or approved the decision; (B) Examination of evidence. The applicant shall be provided the opportunity to examine and copy, at the applicant's expense and at a reasonable time in advance of the hearing, any documents in the possession of the IHA pertaining to the applicant's eligibility status, or in the possession of the INS (as permitted by INS requirements), including any records and regulations that may be relevant to the hearing; (C) Presentation of evidence and arguments in support of eligible status. The applicant shall be provided the opportunity to present evidence and arguments in support of eligible status. Evidence may be considered without regard to admissibility under the rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings; (D) Controverting evidence of the project owner. The applicant shall be provided the opportunity to controvert evidence relied upon by the IHA and to confront and cross-examine all witnesses on whose testimony or information the IHA relies; (E) Representation. The applicant shall be entitled to be represented by an attorney, or other designee, at the applicant's expense, and to have such person make statements on the applicant's behalf; (F) Interpretive services. The applicant shall be entitled to arrange for an interpreter to attend the hearing, at the expense of the applicant or the IHA, as may be agreed upon by both parties;
