FR940318-2-00187 FR940318-2-00108 The environmental assessment includes an estimate of potential exposure from all accident types combined. Regulatory Guide 1.49 requires calculation of accident doses at 102% of uprated thermal power, or 3510 MWt. Although direct comparison with the original analyses is not meaningful because of changes in methodology, a comparison on a consistent basis would show that the expected dose is approximately proportional to power. The original calculation was done at 3439 MWt. The estimated potential exposure from all accident types combined will therefore change by about the ratio of 3510/3439, or about 2 percent, which is not a significant change compared to the uncertainty in the probability estimates. No revision of these analyses is therefore required. (Liquid radwaste throughput may increase up to 5% to a level which is within the processing capability of the system.) The activity levels of some radwaste streams containing coolant activation products may increase up to 10%, due to the 4.5% core flux increase and a 5% crud increase to the reactor which are assumed to occur. Since the power uprate level of 3441 MWt is not significantly different from that analyzed previously, it is not anticipated there will be a significant increase in radiological effluents. Also, pre-power uprate technical specification limits will be maintained. The NRC staff has concluded that the NRC's FES (NUREG&hyph;0564) is valid for operation at the proposed uprated power conditions. The staff also concluded that the plant operating parameters impacted by the proposed power uprate would remain within the bounding conditions on which the conclusions of the FES are based. The NRS staff has reviewed the licensee's re-evaluation of the potential radiological and non-radiological environmental impacts for the proposed action. On the basis of this review, the NRC staff finds that the radiological and non-radiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed small increase in power are essentially immeasurable and do not change the conclusion in the FES that the operation of Susquehanna would cause no significant adverse impact upon the quality of the human environment. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that this proposed action would result in no significant radiological or non-radiological environmental impact. Alternatives to the Proposed Action Since the Commission concluded that there are no significant environmental effects that would result from the proposed license amendment, any alternative with equal or greater environmental impacts need not be evaluated. The principal alternative would be to deny the requested amendment. This would not significantly reduce the environmental impact of plant operation but would restrict operation of Susquehanna, Unit 2 to the currently licensed power level and prevent the facility from generating the approximately 50 MWe that is obtainable from the existing plant design. Alternative Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of any resources not previously considered in the ``Final Environmental Statement related to the operation of Susquehanna Steam Electric Station, Units 1 and 2,'' dated June 1981. Agencies and Persons Consulted The Commission's staff reviewed the licensee's request and consulted with the Bureau of Radiation Protection, Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources. The State Liaison Officer had no comment regarding the NRC's proposed action. Finding of No Significant Impact Based upon the foregoing environmental assessment, the Commission concludes that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. The Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed license amendment. For further details with respect to this action, see the application for amendment dated November 24, 1993. This document is available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, The Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555 and at the Osterhout Free Library, Reference Department, 71 South Franklin Street, Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania 18701. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 11th day of March 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Charles L. Miller, Dirctor, Project Directorate I&hyph;2, Division of Reactor Projects_I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6412 Filed 3&hyph;17&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
