FR940304-1-00075 FR940304-1-00014 The life-cycle cost was calculated for the range of efficiencies in the Engineering Analysis for each class in the year standards are imposed, using real consumer discount rates of 2, 6, and 10 percent. The purchase price is based on the factory costs in the Engineering Analysis and includes a factory markup plus a distributor and retailer markup. Energy price forecasts are taken from the 1991 Annual Energy Outlook of the Energy Information Administration. (DOE/Energy Information Administration_0383(91)). Appliance usage inputs are taken from the relevant test procedures. 3. Energy Savings While the significant conservation of energy is a separate statutory requirement for imposing an energy conservation standard, the Act requires DOE, in determining the economic justification of a standard, to consider the total projected savings that are expected to result directly from revised standards. The Department used the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Residential Energy Model results, discussed earlier, in its consideration of total projected savings. The savings for the eight products are provided in Section IV of this notice. 4. Lessening of Utility or Performance of Products This factor cannot be quantified. In establishing classes of products and design options, the Department tried to eliminate any degradation of utility or performance in the eight products under consideration in this rulemaking. That is, to the extent that comments, or the Department's own research, indicated that a product included a utility or performance-related feature that affected energy efficiency, a separate class with a different efficiency standard was created for that product. In this way, the Department attempted to minimize the impact of this factor as a result of the standards that were analyzed. 5. Impact of Lessening of Competition It is important to note that this factor has two parts; on the one hand, it assumes that there could be some lessening of competition as a result of standards; and on the other hand, it directs the Attorney General to gauge the impact, if any, of that effect. In order to assist the Attorney General in making such a determination, the Department studied the affected appliance industries to determine their existing concentrations, levels of competitiveness, and financial performances. This information will be sent to the Attorney General. See Technical Support Document, Chapter 7. The Department has also provided the Attorney General with copies of this notice and the Technical Support Document for her review. 6. Need of The Nation to Conserve Energy The results of the environmental effects from each standard level for each product will be reported under this factor in the product specific discussion (Section IV) of this notice. 7. Other Factors This provision allows the Secretary of Energy, in determining whether a standard is economically justified, to consider any other factors that the Secretary deems to be relevant. The Secretary is seeking comments on two issues which may be considered in this rulemaking. The issues are (1) the incremental impact of appliance conservation standards on energy use, consumers, manufacturers and other factors (See the discussion regarding rebuttable presumption under General Analytical Comments) and, (2) the extent to which any proposed national efficiency standard is likely to disproportionally affect identifiable groups of consumers and whether the analysis should be modified to consider such impacts in the selection of efficiency standard levels (See the discussion regarding other comments under Product-Specific Comments for Direct Heating Equipment). III. Discussion of Comments The Department received 90 written comments in response to the September 1990, advance notice. These comments addressed all aspects of the analysis. In this section, the Department will present discussions of the general analytical issues raised by the comments, followed by discussions of the product-specific issues.
