FR941003-2-00053 FR941003-2-00033 Criterion 2: Administration & Management Ability of the Applicant to Carry Out the Proposed Project in a Cost-Effective Manner Indicator 1_Project Rationale_30 Points Project plan includes a background statement, a statement of need for the project, and a specific rationale justifying the proposed project. Project plan also describes the links between this proposed project and an effective larger institutional program, i.e., the department, division, residency, etc. This section of the project plan will define the larger purposes of the project, i.e., in what way the project will cause an improvement or expansion in the capability of the larger educational institution or program to deliver quality primary care training. For competing continuation proposals, a progress report is provided. At a minimum, the report includes a summary of the funded objectives and the accomplishments made during the project period. Progress report includes evaluation data related to each of the project objectives. For applicants who are not currently funded, but who have received funding within the last four years, a discussion is included in the application describing the previously funded objectives, accomplishments and evaluation data relative to those objectives. Indicator 2_Project Objectives_40 Points Project plan contains a detailed description of the project's objectives with measurement indicators for each objective. The plan also includes a description of the methods that will be used to implement the project, e.g., educational strategy, timetable and a resource plan that outlines the faculty, staff, facilities and equipment that will be used, including identification of those resources that already exist or that will be made available by the institution. Indicator 3_Budget Justification_30 Points Project plan indicates the degree to which the proposed objectives relate to the budget narrative and justifies the budget items requested. Indicator 4_Evaluation Plan_10 Points Project plan includes an evaluation strategy for the proposed project to determine achievements in relation to project objectives. Indicator 5_Anticipated Problems_10 Points Project plan defines the problems anticipated in implementing the project and the proposed approaches to resolving such problems as may arise. Indicator 6_Institutional Collaboration_15 Points Project plan includes documentation of the support of individuals or organizations who will collaborate in implementation of this proposed project. Letters of support for the project from the institution, department, faculty, etc., are included. For Faculty Development projects, letters from potential/actual trainees are included. Indicator 7_Trainee Grid_10 Points Except for Departments of Family Medicine, project plan includes a ``trainee grid'' that defines the type of individuals being trained, how many will be trained, and when they will be trained. For General Internal Medicine and General Pediatrics Residencies, the grid should also reflect actual and projected numbers of primary care and traditional residents. Criterion 3: Economic Viability_The Potential of the Project to Continue on a Self-Sustaining Basis After the Period of the Project Grant Indicator 1_Continuation Support_10 Points Proposed projects demonstrate how their support will be continued after cessation of Federal funding. If other projects have been funded under this grant program within the past five years, a financial report discusses how terminated Federal funds have been replaced. Indicator 2_Non-Federal Support_10 Points Financial and in-kind support is or will be provided by state or local government, institution, medical school, department, patient fees, or other private funding sources to supplement the Federal grant. Criterion 4: Degree to Which the Proposed Project Adequately Provides for the Project Requirements These indicators (project requirements) have been established in 42 CFR part 57, subparts Q, R, and FF and are summarized below.
