FR940325-2-00074 FR940325-2-00039 •The Administration for Native Americans suggests that the pages of the application be numbered sequentially from the first page and that a table of contents be provided. Tabbing of the sections of the application is also recommended. •Two (2) copies of the application plus the original are required. •The Cover Page should be the first page of an application, followed by the one-page abstract. •Section B of the Program Narrative should be of sufficient detail as to become a guide in determining and tracking project goals and objectives. •The applicant should specify the entire length of the project period on the first page of the Form 424, Block 13, not the length of the first budget period. ANA will consider the project period specified on the Form 424 as governing. •Line 15a of the Form 424 should specify the Federal funds requested for the first Budget period, not the entire project period. •Applicants proposing multi-year projects need to describe and submit project objective workplans and activities for each budget period. (Separate itemized budgets for the Federal and non-Federal costs should be included.) •Applicants for multi-year projects must justify the entire time-frame of the project and also project the expected results to be achieved in each budget period and for the total project period. 3. Projects or Activities That Generally Will Not Meet the Purposes of This Announcement. •Core administration functions, or other activities, that essentially support only the applicant's on-going administrative functions. •Proposals from consortia of tribes or villages that are not specific with regard to support from, and roles of, member tribes. •Projects that will not be completed, self-sustaining, or supported by other than ANA funds at the end of the project period. •Projects originated and designed by consultants who provide a major role for themselves in the proposed project, and are not members of the applicant organization, tribe, or village. •The purchase of real estate or construction. K. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 Under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, Public Law 96&hyph;511, the Department is required to submit to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review and approval any reporting and record keeping requirements in regulations including program announcements. This program announcement does not contain information collection requirements beyond those approved for ANA grant applications under the Program Narrative Statement by OMB. L. Due Date for Receipt of Applications The closing date for applications submitted in response to this program announcement is 90 days from date of publication in the Federal Register . M. Receipt of Applications Applications must either be hand delivered or mailed to the address in Section H, Application Process: Application Submission. ANA will not accept applications submitted via facsimile (FAX) equipment. Deadlines Applications shall be considered as meeting the announced deadline if they are either: 1. Received on or before the deadline date at the place specified in the program announcement; or 2. Sent on or before the deadline date and received by ACF in time for the independent review under DHHS GAM Chapter 1&hyph;62. (Applicants are cautioned to request a legibly dated U.S. Postal Service postmark or to obtain a legibly dated receipt from a commercial carrier or U.S. Postal Service. Private Metered postmarks shall not be acceptable as proof of timely mailing.) Late Applications Applications which do not meet the criteria above are considered late applications. The Administration for Children and Families shall notify each late applicant that its application will not be considered in the current competition. Extension of Deadlines The Administration for Children and Families may extend the deadline for all applicants because of acts of God such as floods, hurricanes, etc., or when there is a widespread disruption of the mails. However, if ACF does not extend the deadline for all applicants, it may not waive or extend the deadline for any applicants. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 93.612 Native American Programs) Dated: March 14, 1994. Dominic J. Mastrapasqua, Acting Commissioner, Administration for Native Americans. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7142 Filed 3&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;P
