FR940224-2-00148 FR940224-2-00093 Note: Applicants may wish to consult the USIS office at the appropriate U.S. Embassy before submitting proposals. USIA will give priority to proposals from U.S. organizations with partner organizations in the American Republics that can help ensure the program meets its goals and objectives. Applicants are encouraged to demonstrate partner relationships by providing copies of correspondence or other materials as appendices to proposals. Moreover, these partner institutions are encouraged to provide cost-sharing or significant in-kind contributions such as local housing, transportation, interpreting, translating and other local currency costs and to assist with the organization of projects. Materials Development USIA encourages the development, where needed, of written, audio and video materials in the local language to enhance the programs. For example, if not already available, glossaries of specialized terms in local government or public administration might be developed. Scope Proposals should limit their focus to local governance. Proposals for programs that are broader in scope will be eligible, but are less likely to receive USIA support. USIA encourages proposals that feature ``train the trainers'' models; the creation of indigenous training centers; schemes to create professional networks or professional associations to disseminate information; and other enduring aspects. Participant Selection All grant proposals must clearly describe the type of persons who will participate in the program as well as the process by which participants will be selected. Programs in support of internships in the U.S. must include letters tentatively committing host institutions to support the internships. In the selection of all foreign participants, USIA and USIS Posts retain the right to nominate participants and to accept or deny participants recommended by the program institution. While applicants must provide an all-inclusive budget with the proposal, they may also include separate sub-budgets for each program component, phase, location, or activity. Competition for USIA funding support is keen. Note: All participants will be covered under the terms of a USIA-sponsored health insurance policy. The premium is paid by USIA directly to the insurance company. The following costs are eligible for funding: 1. Transportation costs. International and domestic air fares, visas, transit costs, and ground transportation costs are eligible for funding. 2. Per Diem. For the U.S. program, organizations have the option of using a flat $140/day for program participants or the published U.S. Federal per diem rates for individual American cities. For activities outside the U.S., the published federal per diem rates must be used. Note: Grantee staff must use the published federal per diem rates, not the flat rate. 3. Interpreters. Interpreters for the U.S. program are provided by the U.S. State Department Language Services Division. Generally, two simultaneous interpreters are provided for every four visitors who need interpretation. USIA grants do not pay for foreign interpreters to accompany delegations from their home country. Grant proposal budgets should contain a flat $140/day per diem for each Department of State (DOS) interpreter, as well as home-program-home air transportation of $400 per interpreter plus any U.S. travel expenses during the program. Note: Salary expenses for interpreters are covered elsewhere and should not be part of an applicant's proposed budget. 4. Book and cultural allowance. Participants are entitled to a one-time cultural allowance of $150 per person, in addition to a book allowance of $50. Escorts are reimbursed for actual cultural expenses up to $150. U.S. staff do not receive these allowances. 5. Consultants. Consultants may be employed to provide specialized expertise or to make presentations. Generally, honoraria should not exceed $250 per day. Subcontracting organizations may also be used, in which case the written agreement between the prospective grantee and subcontractor should be included with the proposal. 6. Room rental. Room rental should not exceed $250 per day.
