FR940407-2-00024 FR940407-2-00016 Travel and Tourism Administration [Docket No. 940226&hyph;4026] RIN 9644_2A00 Disaster Relief Tourism Promotion Financial Assistance; Financial Assistance for Projects To Promote International Tourism to Specified States Whose International Tourism Promotion Needs Have Increased Due to Specified Disasters AGENCY: United States Travel and Tourism Administration (USTTA), Department of Commerce. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice invites applications for an award of disaster relief tourism promotion financial assistance, and establishes and sets forth application and selection procedures, evaluation criteria, and other requirements. DATES: Applications for an award of these funds will be accepted beginning April 7, 1994. Applications postmarked after May 9, 1994, will not be considered. Awards are anticipated by July 6, 1994. ADDRESSES: Application kits including application forms (Standard Forms 424 (rev. 4&hyph;92), 424A, and 424B) are available from, and completed applications should be submitted to, the Office of Tourism Marketing, United States Travel and Tourism Administration, room 1860, Herbert C. Hoover Building, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230. Applicants are requested to submit one original application and four copies. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Karen M. Cardran, Director, Marketing Programs (202) 482&hyph;1904. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Notice is hereby given to the States of Florida, Hawaii, and Louisiana and the Territory of Guam, their political subdivisions, and combinations thereof, and to private or public nonprofit organizations and associations that, pursuant to Pub. L. No. 102&hyph;368, a total of $1,400,000 is available from the USTTA under the Disaster Relief Tourism Promotion Financial Assistance Program, to assist projects to promote international tourism to Florida, Hawaii, Louisiana, and Guam. These States' 1 International tourism promotion needs have increased due to Hurricane Andrew, Hurricane Iniki or Typhoon Omar. As used in this notice, ``private or public non-profit organization or association'' means an institution, organization, or association, either private or public, which has tax exempt status as defined in section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. 1 As used in this notice, the terms ``State,'' ``States,'' and ``United States'' include the States of Florida, Hawaii, and Louisiana, and the Territory of Guam. These funds are intended to help defray the costs of increased tourism promotion needs arising from the above specified disasters. There is no limit to the amount an applicant may request, nor is there a limit to the aggregate financial assistance the specified States or Territory may be provided annually. The funding instrument will be a grant unless it is anticipated that the USTTA will be substantially involved in the implementation of the project for which an award is to be made, in which case the funding instrument will be a cooperative agreement. I. Selection Procedures Only eligible applicants from the four eligible States whose applications receive a final evaluation score of 80 or greater will be considered for funding. No applicant will be awarded funds unless the application includes: (1) Documentation demonstrating that all programs set forth in the application are or will be effectively coordinated with other affected entities in the State; and (2) a marketing plan that contains clearly stated objectives for a time period of one year and procedures for credible evaluation and tracking, and that is integrated (in terms of multiple activities) with a generally cohesive approach. Further, no applicant will be awarded funds unless the projects for which funding is sought are aimed at market(s) which have potential for mitigating the tourism-related negative effects of the disaster. The application must include credible market research to support this potential. All applications will be reviewed and judged individually, independent from all other applications, by each of four qualified evaluators acting without consultation among themselves. Each evaluator will score each application by awarding points for each of the three (3) evaluation criteria set forth in IV, below. Scores awarded for each evaluation criterion will be multiplied by the weight assigned to that criterion. A maximum score of 100 points may be awarded to an application. Once scores have been determined individually by each evaluator, a final score for each application will be determined by averaging the scores provided by each of the four evaluators. Awards shall be made based on an equitable geographic distribution and to those applicants whose final evaluation scores are at least 80 or greater, in descending order starting with the applicant whose application has the highest final evaluation score, and subject to the availability of funds. Awards may not necessarily be made to the highest-scored proposals. II. Matching Requirements There is no matching requirement. III. Award Period The maximum period of time for which financial assistance shall be awarded is one year. IV. Evaluation Criteria The three evaluation criteria and the weight assigned each criterion are: A. Needs and effect criterion (assigned weight_0.4) Application demonstrates the need of affected area and the ability of the project to directly counteract the negative impact of the disaster on tourism. (1) Application clearly reflects ability of project to offset negative impacts of the disaster which have not been largely mitigated by other aid. (40 points) (2) Application includes documentation from Federal, State, or local sources demonstrating the current degree of need. This must include documentation showing the: (a) Current loss of visitation and tourism-related employment; (b) level of tourism prior to the disaster; (c) current level of tourism; (d) impact in terms of employment and income of tourism on the area economy versus other industries; and (e) extent to which the negative impact of the disaster on tourism has been mitigated. (60 points) B. General criterion (assigned weight_0.2) Application clearly states objectives that respond directly to the specialized international tourism promotion needs of the impacted area. (1) Application states clear and achievable objectives to be carried out over an appropriate length of time. (25 points) (2) Application demonstrates that project is aimed at international markets that have been identified using credible market research. (25 points) (3) Application demonstrates that project is fully integrated (in terms of multiple activities) with a generally cohesive approach. (25 points) (4) Application demonstrates that applicant has the organizational quality and competence to effectively carry out the project. The application must include an organizational chart and a biographical sketch of the program director with the following information: Name, address, phone number, background and other qualifying experience for the project; and a list of other key personnel, consultants, etc. engaged in the project, which includes names, training and background. Applications by non-profit organizations must include a copy of the articles of incorporation, charter, trust statement, or other similar documentation which sets forth the authorizing powers and purposes of the organization, together with bylaws or other code of regulations; a brief description of organizational arrangements for fiscal and managerial control, including the extent to which these overlap or are integrated with other organizations; a copy of a current financial statement of the organization; and a copy of the current Internal Revenue Service tax exemption letter which certifies the organization's not-for-profit status. (25 points) C. Project criterion (assigned weight_0.4) Each application must include a project or projects from at least two of the five project areas set forth below. The project evaluation component score will be determined by adding the points awarded for each of the applicable project areas set forth below divided by the number of applicable project areas. 1. Media Product Information Media product information projects are those that include the development of journalist familiarization tours and dissemination of product information on the destination. The applicable criteria are:
