FR940524-1-00049 FR940524-1-00010 ␣ 1Respirator type 1Label type 1Location Self-contained breathing apparatus Entire Harness assembly and canister (where applicable). Gas mask Entire Mask container and canister. Supplied air respirator ......do Respirator container or instruction card. Particulate respirator ......do Respirator container and filter container. ␣ Abbreviated Filters. Chemical-cartridge respirator Entire Respirator container, cartridge container, and filter containers (where applicable). ␣ Abbreviated Cartridges and filters and filter containers. (f) The use of any Institute approval label obligates the applicant to whom it is issued to maintain or cause to be maintained the approved quality control sampling schedule and the acceptable quality level for each characteristic tested, and to assure that it is manufactured according to the drawings and specifications upon which the certificate of approval is based. (g) Each respirator, respirator component, and respirator container shall, as required by the Institute to assure quality control and proper use of the respirator, be labeled distinctly to show the name of the applicant, and the name and letters or numbers by which the respirator or respirator component is designated for trade purposes, and the lot number, serial number, or approximate date of manufacture. §84.34 Revocation of certificates of approval. The Institute reserves the right to revoke, for cause, any certificate of approval issued pursuant to the provisions of this part. Such causes include, but are not limited to, misuse of approval labels and markings, misleading advertising, and failure to maintain or cause to be maintained the quality control requirements of the certificate of approval. §84.35 Changes or modification of approved respirators; issuance of modification of certificate of approval. (a) Each applicant may, if he desires to change any feature of an approved respirator, request a modification of the original certificate of approval issued by the Institute for such respirator by filing an application for such modification in accordance with the provisions of this section. (b) Applications shall be submitted as for an original certificate of approval, with a request for a modification of the existing certificate to cover any proposed change.
