FR940317-0-00028 FR940317-0-00010 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Part 171 RIN 3150&hyph;AE83 Restoration of the Generic Exemption From Annual Fees for Nonprofit Educational Institutions AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: On September 29, 1993 (58 FR 50859), the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (``NRC'' or ``Commission'') published a proposed rule granting a petition for rulemaking submitted by a number of colleges and universities possessing NRC licenses. The petition requested that the NRC reinstate the exemption from annual fees previously given nonprofit educational licensees. The proposed rule requested public comment solely on that issue. The exemption had been eliminated in a final rule published in the Federal Register on July 20, 1993. After careful consideration, the Commission has decided to reinstate the annual fee exemption for nonprofit educational institutions. EFFECTIVE DATE: April 18, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: L. Michael Rafky, Office of the General Counsel, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone 301&hyph;504&hyph;1974. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background. II. Responses to comments. III. Final action_changes included in final rule. IV. Section-by-section analysis. V. Environmental impact: categorical exclusion. VI. Paperwork reduction act statement. VII. Regulatory analysis. VIII. Regulatory flexibility certification. IX. Backfit analysis. I. Background Soon after publishing its final rule establishing the NRC's FY 1993 fee schedules (58 FR 38666; July 20, 1993), which included for the first time annual fees for previously exempt nonprofit educational institutions 1 , the Commission received a petition for reconsideration of that rule. The petition, filed by a number of colleges and universities affected by the policy change, requested that the NRC reconsider its decision to charge annual fees to such institutions. The petition asserted that the externalized benefits and public good resulting from use of university research reactors in various fields of education would be lost if these fees were imposed upon college and university licensees. (See Petition for Reconsideration of Final Rule (July 30, 1993) (appended to the Proposed Rule for the Restoration of the Annual Fee Exemption to Nonprofit Educational Institutions, 58 FR 50859; September 29, 1993.)) The petition pointed to research in such fields as nuclear safety, medicine, archaeology, food science and textiles, education of the public in nuclear matters, and to various benefits of education. 1 The NRC's elimination of the exemption was prompted in part by a court decision questioning the exemption's lawfulness. Allied-Signal v. NRC, 988 F.2d 146 (DC Cir. 1993). The petition relied upon a letter from economist Alfred Kahn to counsel for Cornell University, a petition signatory. The Kahn letter referred to ``pure knowledge,'' especially nonproprietary university research made accessible to the public free of charge, as ``the archetypical `public good,' in economic terms, the essential characteristic of which is that, once produced, it can be made available more and more widely at zero economic cost.'' While considering whether to grant the petition for reconsideration, or in the alternative to grant some nonprofit educational institutions individual ``public interest'' exemptions from the new annual fees, the NRC sent staff members to a number of colleges and universities to learn more about the use of nuclear materials in educational programs and the benefits that resulted from those materials' use. The Commission concluded, on the basis of these visits and the arguments made in the petition for reconsideration, that it should propose to retract the new annual fees ($62,100 per research reactor license; lesser amounts for each materials license). Accordingly, on September 29, 1993 (58 FR 50859), the Commission published in the Federal Register a notice granting the petition and proposing to restore the annual fee exemption for nonprofit educational institutions. The Commission received over 200 comments on the proposed rule, with the vast majority in favor of restoring the annual fee exemption. (This number includes comments on the educational exemption provided to the Commission in response to its Congressionally-mandated study of overall agency fee policy, see 58 FR 21116; April 14, 1993). After careful review of the comments, and after studying the views of a professional economist engaged to assist in analyzing the comments (see note 2 infra), the Commission has decided to make final its proposed reinstatement of the exemption from annual fees for nonprofit educational institutions.
