FR941027-2-00068 FR941027-2-00039 Period of Support The period of support should not exceed 3 years from June 1, 1995 through May 31, 1998, and is subject to annual approval by the Secretary and the availability of appropriations for the fiscal year involved. Funding of the awards may be available in the future for no more than 2 additional years, for a total funding period of 5 years. Interested applicants are strongly encouraged, but are not required, to send a letter of intent postmarked no later than November 28, 1994 to: Juanita Koziol, RN, MS, CS, Health Professions HIV Education Branch, National AIDS Education and Training Centers Program, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration, Parklawn Building, Room 9A&hyph;39, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857. Telephone: (301) 443&hyph;6364, FAX: (301) 443&hyph;8890. Statutory Funding Preferences In making awards, preference will be given to qualified projects which will_ (1) Train, or result in the training of, health professionals who will provide treatment for minority individuals with HIV disease and other individuals who are at high risk of contracting such disease; and (2) Train, or result in the training of, minority health professionals and minority allied health professionals to provide treatment for individuals with such disease. Proposed Project Requirements The focus in FY 1995 will be on primary care providers in high HIV/AIDS prevalence areas, with an emphasis on living persons infected with HIV. However, consideration will be given to rural areas. The project requirements are designed to direct Federal resources where the greatest needs exist. To accomplish this, each project must define a geographic region and identify the types of providers to be targeted for training within that region. A. Definition of AETCs All applicants are encouraged to form AETCs composed of as many states/territories/commonwealths as can be managed completely and efficiently. There are four options for defining an AETC region. An applicant may propose, with appropriate documentation: 1. An AETC composed only of a single state/territory/ commonwealth as a region if that region contains two or more Ryan White CARE Act Title I Eligible Metropolitan Areas (EMAs) or if the AETC currently is established as a single state AETC; 2. An AETC composed of multiple, contiguous states (Hawaii and Alaska may be included) if it justifies its boundaries with the inclusion of one EMA and specific local epidemiological data equivalent to at least 10,000 living HIV-infected persons (with a prevalence of at least 2,500 living AIDS cases and 7,500 other HIV infected persons). Supporting documentation may include rates of HIV/AIDS infection, or proxy indicators such as STD, TB, and substance abuse, CDC heel stick study data, teenage pregnancy etc.; 3. An AETC for rural regions if it encompasses at least three states with contiguous boundaries (Hawaii and Alaska may be included) and contains at least one EMA, although the prevalence of living HIV infected persons totals less than 10,000; or
