FR940119-2-00075 FR940119-2-00055 [Release No. 34&hyph;33457; File No. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;93&hyph;13] Self-Regulatory Organizations; The Depository Trust Company; Filing of Proposed Rule Change Relating to an Increase in the Fixed Net Debit Cap Employed in The Depository Trust Company's Same-Day Funds Settlement System January 11, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on December 1, 1993, The Depository Trust Company (``DTC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;93&hyph;13) as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared primarily by DTC. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change filed by DTC consists of an increase of $187 million in the fixed net debit cap employed in DTC's Same-Day Funds Settlement (``SDFS'') system. Such increase will applicable only to the net debits of SDFS participants that elect to share DTC's costs of increasing its external committed line of credit. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, DTC included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments that it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. DTC has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change DTC employs a fixed net debit cap in its SDFS system in order to assure that DTC's liquidity resources are sufficient to complete settlement if due to insolvency or, more likely, a temporary operational problem, an SDFS participant were to fail to settle its net debit obligation. 2 The fixed net debit cap is set at 75% of: (1) the aggregate cash deposits to the SDFS participants fund and (2) DTC's internal and external lines of credit. The cap is currently set at $387 million. 2 Each Participant's net debit is limited throughout the processing day by a net debit cap that is the lesser of: (1) the adjustable cap, that is a multiple of the participant's deposits to the SDFS participants fund, or (2) the fixed net debit cap. DTC has on deposit approximately 72% of the commercial paper (``CP'') outstanding in the U.S. and expects that virtually all CP outstanding in the U.S., except CP that is in direct issuers' proprietary book-entry systems, will be included in DTC's CP program sometime in 1994. DTC plans to add other types of money market instruments (``MMI'') to its SDFS system within the next year beginning with a new program for institutional certificates of deposit. 3 3 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33126 (November 1, 1993) 58 FR 59283 [File No. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;93&hyph;12] (notice of proposed rule change to implement a MMI program). Under the MMI program, DTC also proposes to make eligible municipal CP and bankers' acceptances. DTC is concerned that with the anticipated increase in volume the fixed net debit cap at its current level could have the undesirable effect of temporarily blocking substantial numbers of book-entry deliveries. In order to ease the flow of transactions through the system, DTC has decided to increase its external committee line of credit by $250 million and thereby raise the fixed net debit cap that will be applied to the net debits of SDFS participants that elect to share DTC's cost of obtaining the increased line of credit. At this time for twenty-two SDFS participants, the fixed net debit cap is the operative cap limiting their net debits. DTC believes that the securities resources available to it to collateralize any borrowing it should have to make under the increased line of credit are more than adequate. 4 4 DTC's line of credit agreement provides that any borrowing may be collaterlized by collateral securities in the account of a failing participant as well as by securities that have been deposited by DTC participants to the SDFS participants fund. On November 15, 1993, deposits to the SDFS participants fund included securities having a market value of approximately $632 million. DTC believes the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of Section 17A of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder because it promotes the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions.
