FR940204-2-00033 FR940204-2-00024 II. Discussion_Eligibility and Funding Criteria A. Eligibility Eligibility criteria would determine if a federally-recognized Indian tribe qualifies to enter into a cooperative agreement allowing tribal participation in DOE environmental remediation activities. The following considerations could be used to determine tribal eligibility: (1) Should a tribe be considered eligible if its legal interests arising from treaty, statutes, and case law are affected by a DOE hazardous waste site. (2) Should a tribe be considered eligible if its legal interests arising from treaty, statutes, and case law are affected by a DOE produced waste stream or transportation corridor which carries DOE hazardous wastes? (3) Should a tribe considered eligible if its cultural and natural resources are located on or in close proximity to a DOE hazardous waste site, DOE produced waste stream, or transportation corridor which carries DOE hazardous wastes? Please define cultural and natural resources. (4) Should a tribe be eligible if its reservation is located on or in close proximity to a DOE hazardous waste site, DOE produced waste stream, or transportation corridor which carries DOE hazardous wastes? (5) Should ``close proximity'' be limited to a geographically defined area in relation to a DOE hazardous waste site, DOE produced waste stream, or transportation corridor which carries DOE hazardous wastes (e.g., a geographic area of not more than 50 miles, 100 miles, etc., from a hazardous site)? (6) Should ``close proximity'' be defined to include more distant areas where actual or likely physical harm could occur as a result of a DOE hazardous waste site, DOE produced waste stream, or transportation corridor which carries DOE hazardous wastes? (7) What other factors should be considered in determining eligibility? B. Funding Once it is ascertained which tribes are eligible to enter into cooperative agreements with DOE, the next determination is what particular tribal activities should be funded and at what levels. The following considerations which could be used to determine tribal funding include: (1) Should a priority system be used to categorize activities by factors such as the following: (a) The degree of the threat or actual level of harm to a tribe (e.g., the greater threat of harm, the greater the priority, etc.); (b) Size of affected tribal population; and (c) Types of activities proposed, (e.g., a groundwater monitoring activity to ensure a safe drinking water supply versus the remediation of a cultural site). (i) Should activities that support tribal management of cultural resources receive greater priority than other activities? (ii) Should activities which would assist a tribe in becoming more economically competitive and self-sufficient receive greater priority than other activities? (2) Should the fact that a tribe was previously funded by DOE mean it should receive greater consideration than a tribe that has never been funded, or the opposite? (3) Should a tribe receive greater funding consideration for past participation in DOE activities that were well performed by the tribe? (4) Where possible, should tribes that coordinate and prepare a joint proposal receive more favorable consideration than proposals by individual tribes? (5) To what extent should proximity be taken into account in funding one tribe that can argue a greater degree of affectedness over another tribe? ``Affected'' is defined in this instance to apply to a tribe that faces a substantial environmental or health impact. III. Request for Submissions The criteria and other ideas raised in this Notice are suggestions for comment. Comments need not address all suggestions raised in this inquiry and can be limited to particular points. DOE welcomes additional comments on eligibility and funding criteria for Indian tribes. All written information provided by respondents will be available for public inspection at the Department of Energy, Freedom of Information Reading Room, room 1E&hyph;190, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, 20585, between the hours of 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. Pursuant to the provisions of 10 CFR 1004.11 (1983), any person submitting information believed to be confidential and exempt by law from public disclosure should submit a copy of the document in which information believed to be confidential has been deleted along with the confidential submissions. The Department of Energy will determine the confidential status of the information and treat it accordingly. Signed at Washington, DC., this 31st day of January, 1994. Thomas P. Grumbly, Assistant Secretary for Environmental Restoration and Waste Management. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2596 Filed 2&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
