FR940603-1-00174 FR940603-1-00009 b. All easements and rights-of-way, except as shown on maps included in the Plans and Specifications, have been obtained from the owners of the properties across which the Project is to be constructed (including tenants who may reasonably be expected to object to such construction). The remaining easements and rights-of-way, if any, will be obtained as required to avoid delay in construction. c. All staking, except as shown on the maps included in the Plans and Specifications, has been completed and sufficient staking crews will be available to maintain stakes at all times in advance of construction. d. Where underground distribution construction is required, permission has been obtained from state and local highway and road authorities to install underground distribution power facilities and set pedestals, if any, on the highway and road right-of-way in the Project area. Notwithstanding such permission granted to the Owner, each Bidder is responsible for ascertaining that the equipment, methods of construction, and repair proposed to be used on the Project will meet all requirements of public authorities having jurisdiction over highway and road right-of-way. The successful Bidder will be required to furnish proof satisfactory to the Owner of compliance with this requirement. If required by highway or road authorities, the successful Bidder will furnish to such authorities a bond or meet other guaranty requirements to assure the prompt repair of all damages to highways and roads and their associated rights-of-way caused by the Bidder during construction of the Project. This requirement is in addition to and independent of the Contractor's Bond required under this Contract. The acceptance of a bid from any Bidder is not to be construed as approval of the Bidder's equipment or proposed construction methods by or on behalf of the highway and road authorities. Bidders may obtain information concerning the requirements of highway and road authorities by communicating with the following XXXX . e. All funds necessary for prompt payment for the construction of the Project will be available. If the Owner shall fail to comply with any of the undertakings contained in the foregoing representation or if any of such representations shall be incorrect, the Bidder will be entitled to an extension of time of completion for a period equal to the delay, if any, caused by the failure of the Owner to comply with such undertakings or by any such incorrect representation; provided the Bidder shall have promptly notified the Owner in writing of its desire to extend the time of completion in accordance with the foregoing; provided, however, that such extension, if any, of the time of completion shall be the sole remedy of the Bidder for the Owner's failure, because of conditions beyond the control and without the fault of the Owner, to furnish materials in accordance with subparagraph a. above. Owner XXXX By XXXX XXXX , 19 XX Contractor's Proposal (Proposal shall be submitted in ink or typewritten) To: XXXX (hereinafter called the ``Owner'') Article I_General Section 1. Offer to Construct. The undersigned (hereinafter called the ``Bidder'') hereby proposes to receive and install such materials and equipment as may hereinafter be specified to be furnished by the Owner, and to furnish all other materials and equipment, all machinery, tools, labor, transportation and other means required to construct the rural electric project XXXX in strict accordance with the Plans, Specifications and Construction Drawings for the prices hereinafter stated. The total length of the project lines shall be determined by taking the sum of all straight horizontal span distances between pole stakes or from center to center of poles, or centerline of structures, carrying conductors, plus the length of service drops, if any, measured horizontally from center of last pole to the point of attachment to the consumer's building. Section 2. Materials and Equipment. The Bidder agrees to furnish and use in the construction of the Project under this Proposal, in the event the Proposal is accepted, only such ``fully listed'' and ``conditionally listed'' materials and equipment as are included in the current ``List of Materials Acceptable for Use on Systems of REA Electrification Borrowers,'' including revisions adopted prior to the Bid Opening. The use of ``conditionally listed'' materials and equipment requires prior consent by the Owner or Engineer. For distribution lines, the Bidder further agrees to furnish and use guy wire with ASTM Class XXXX (Engineer to insert A or B) zinc coating. All leads on equipment such as transformers, reclosers, etc., shall be of # 6 minimum copper conductivity using XXXX (Engineer to insert standard soft drawn copper or aluminum alloy) conductor. All conductor ties on insulators shall be of the materials and methods shown in the following Tying Guide Drawings: XXXX (Engineer to insert appropriate drawing numbers). Ground rods and butt-type pole grounding plates shall be XXXX (Engineer to insert galvanized steel or copper). Underground primary cable shall have XXXX coated copper neutral (Engineer to insert round or flat).
