FR941128-1-00007 FR941128-1-00001 (gg) SBDC network: The combination of the Lead Center or recipient organization, extension offices, satellite locations, subcenters, and any other directly affiliated entity officially authorized to perform SBDC services. An SBDC network may be statewide or, in states having more than one recipient organization, may be regional. (hh) SBDC service providers: The term used to describe all SBDC network participants. This term would include extension offices, satellite locations, subcenters, and any other directly affiliated entity officially authorized to perform SBDC services as part of the SBDC network. (ii) Sponsoring SBDC organizations: Organizations or entities which sponsor SBDC service providers as part of the SBDC network under a contract or agreement with the recipient organization. (jj) Training: The process of teaching individuals or entities in group sessions concerning the formation, management, financing and operation of small business enterprises. Training methods may include in-person group sessions or other communication modes including teleconferences, videos, publications and electronic media. (kk) Working days: All days except Saturdays, Sundays and those holidays designated in a Cooperative Agreement. §130.200 Entities eligible to establish an SBDC network. (a) The following entities are eligible to enter into a Cooperative Agreement with the Small Business Administration for the purpose of establishing the operation of an SBDC network: (1) Any public or private institution of higher education; (2) Any land-grant college or university; (3) Any college or school of business, engineering, commerce or agriculture; (4) Any community or junior college; or (5) Any entity formed by two or more of the above entities. (b) In addition to the entities shown in subparagraph (a) of this section, any entity which was operating as a recipient organization as of December 31, 1990, is eligible to continue to serve as a recipient organization. (c) Other SBDC service providers are not required to meet the eligibility requirements of a recipient organization. However, the recipient organization shall primarily utilize institutions of higher education to provide services to the small business community. §130.300 Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs). [Reserved] §130.310 Area of service. (a) Generally, the area of service for any recipient organization shall be the State in which it is located. In exceptional circumstances, more than one recipient organization may be located in any State in which the AA/SBDCs determines it is necessary or beneficial to effectively implement the program and to provide services to all interested small businesses. (b) Where more than one recipient organization is to be located in a given State, the AA/SBDCs shall determine in writing the general geographic areas to be served by each recipient organization in that State. Such determination shall be consistent with the State plan. Each recipient organization shall provide assistance and services to those small businesses of the State located in the general area to which it is assigned. §130.320 Location of Lead Centers and SBDC service providers. (a) The facilities and staff of each Lead Center and SBDC service provider shall be located so as to provide maximum accessibility and benefits to the small businesses which the SBDC network is intended to serve. (b) Lead Centers and SBDC service providers should be organized and located to serve the needs of the small business community of the service area. (c) The locations of the Lead Center and the SBDC service providers will be reviewed as a part of the application review process for each budget period. Addresses and telephone numbers of existing or new locations shall be noted in the annual application proposal. (d) A request for approval of any SBDC service provider not in the application proposal which is to be funded in whole or in part by Federal funds must be submitted as an amendment to the Cooperative Agreement to the appropriate SBA district office, and shall be processed according to the procedures used for approving amendments to applications. §130.330 Operating Requirements. (a) The Lead Center shall operate as an independent entity within the state or regional sponsoring organization. (b) The Lead Center shall have a full-time staff, including a full-time SBDC Director. (c) The Lead Center and other SBDC service providers shall have a conflict of interest policy applicable to their SBDC consultants, employees, instructors and volunteers. (d) One-to-One counseling shall be provided to small businesses without charge. (e) Training courses that respond to the needs of the small business community shall be provided throughout the geographical area serviced by the SBDC network. (f) The Lead Center is responsible for the overall management and coordination of the SBDC network. The administrative services the Lead Centers are required to provide include, but are not limited to: program development, program management, financial management, reports management, promotion and public relations, program assessment and evaluation, and internal quality control. (g) The SBDC network shall extend its service to the public on a nondiscriminatory basis in accordance with 13 CFR parts 112, 113 and 117 of the Regulations issued by the SBA. 13 CFR parts 112, 113 and 117 require that no person shall be excluded on the grounds of age, color, handicap, marital status, national origin, race, religion or sex from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity for which the recipient organization received Federal financial assistance from the SBA.
