FR940504-1-00004 FR940504-1-00002 Regulatory Flexibility Act The Administrator of the Farmers Home Administration has determined that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because it contains normal business recordkeeping requirements and minimal essential reporting requirements. Background Information The current loan application procedures require that an applicant provide certification that it is not delinquent on a Federal debt. For the purpose of verifying an applicant's certification, FmHA proposes to amend its instructions by revising each eligibility section to instruct the field offices to access the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Credit Alert Interactive Voice System (CAIVRS) to verify that the applicant is not delinquent on a Federal debt. If a delinquency is found, processing of the application will be suspended. The applicant will be notified that processing has been suspended and will be asked to contact the appropriate Federal agency, at the telephone number provided by CAIVRS, to resolve the delinquency. When the applicant provides FmHA with official documentation that the delinquency has been paid in full or otherwise resolved, processing of the application will be continued. If the applicant is unable to resolve the delinquency, or if an outstanding judgment obtained by the United States in a Federal Court (other than the United States Tax Court), which has been recorded, is found, assistance may be denied. List of Subjects 7 CFR Part 1823 Credit, Indians. 7 CFR Part 1910 Applications, Credit, Loan programs_agriculture, Loan programs_housing and community development, Low and moderate income housing, Marital status discrimination, Sex discrimination. 7 CFR Part 1941 Crops, Livestock, Loan programs_agriculture, Rural areas, Youth. 7 CFR Part 1942 Business and industry, Community development, Community facilities, Grant programs_housing and community development, Industrial park, Loan programs_housing and community development, Loan programs_natural resources, Loan security, Rural areas, Soil conservation, Waste treatment and disposal_domestic, Water supply_domestic. 7 CFR Part 1943 Credit, Loan programs_agriculture, Recreation, Water resources. 7 CFR Part 1944 Administrative practice and procedure, Aged, Farm labor housing, Grant programs_housing and community development, Handicapped, Home improvement, Loan programs_housing and community development, Low and moderate income housing_rental, Migrant labor, Mobile homes, Mortgages, Nonprofit organizations, Public housing, Rent subsidies, Rural housing, Subsidies. 7 CFR Part 1945 Agriculture, Disaster assistance, Loan programs_agriculture. 7 CFR Part 1948 Business and industry, Coal, Community development, Community facilities, Energy, Grant programs_housing and community development, Housing, Nuclear energy, Planning, Rural areas, Transportation, Economic development. 7 CFR Part 1951 Accounting servicing, Grant programs_housing and community development, Reporting requirements, Rural areas. 7 CFR Part 1980 Agriculture, Grant programs_Nonprofit corporations, Loan programs_agriculture, Loan programs_business and industry_Rural development assistance, Loan programs_nonprofit corporations, Rural areas, Loan programs_community programs, Rural development assistance. Therefore, as proposed, Chapter XVIII, Title 7, Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 1823_ASSOCIATION LOANS AND GRANTS_COMMUNITY FACILITIES, DEVELOPMENT, CONSERVATION, UTILIZATION 1. The authority citation for part 1823 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 1989; 42 U.S.C. 1480; 5 U.S.C. 301; 7 CFR 2.23; 7 CFR 2.70. Subpart N_Loans to Indian Tribes and Tribal Corporations 2. Section 1823.403 is amended by adding paragraph (d) to read as follows: ยง1823.403 Eligibility. * * * * *
