FR940228-1-00106 FR940228-1-00010 The Secretary intends to continue the current policy regarding the inclusion of books, supplies, and other equipment in the pro rata refund calculation consistent with guidance given to institutions that were required to use a pro rata refund policy because the institution had a default rate that exceeds 30 percent and was required to calculate a pro rata refund for a student who received a loan under the FFEL programs. As is currently the case, an institution is required to include the full amount of charges for equipment in the calculation of pro rata refund if a separate charge exists for the equipment by the institution or if the institution requires the student to purchase the equipment from a certain vendor. The Secretary believes that by charging students a separate equipment charge or by requiring students to purchase the equipment from a single vendor (for example, a school book store) the equipment charges are being mandated by the institution and should be treated as institutional costs. In effect, the institution is the sole source of the equipment. If an institution does not have a separate charge for equipment and the student has the option of purchasing the equipment from more than one source, the institution would not have to include the equipment charge in the pro rata refund calculation. An institution would have to be able to demonstrate that its students have the option of purchasing the equipment from other sources that are easily accessible to the student and that the students are advised that an option is available. The Secretary proposes to allow an institution to subtract from the refund to a student any charges for equipment (including books and supplies) that a student could have returned for credit but did not do so. Under this provision, there would have to be a separate charge for the equipment, and the student must actually have obtained the equipment but failed to return the equipment within 20 days after his or her withdrawal. This provision was suggested by one of the negotiators and is based upon California law. By consensus of the negotiators, this provision would be extended to situations where the equipment and supplies are sold by an affiliate or related entity of the institution. If the student does not return the equipment, the institution could subtract from the pro rata refund owed to the student the documented cost to the institution of equipment issued to the student. The student would be liable for the amount, if any, by which the documented cost for equipment exceeds the amount of the student's pro rata refund. Under this proposal, if some or all of the equipment is not actually received by the student, the institution would have to include in the pro rata refund calculation 100 percent of the amount paid for that portion of the equipment. Further, if an institution gives a student the option to return the equipment, the institution would not be permitted to subtract the cost of the equipment from the refund to the student if the student chooses to return the equipment and does so within 20 days of his or her withdrawal. The Secretary believes that 20 days provides the student with a sufficient period of time to return equipment without delaying the refund to the student. The Secretary proposes that any equipment returned by a student must be in good condition allowing for reasonable wear and tear. The Secretary notes that there may be restrictions under State laws that prevent an institution from accepting returned equipment due to health and sanitary reasons. Other conditions might also limit the return of equipment. For example, a workbook that has been written in or a damaged text book might not be reusable. The Secretary solicits comments on whether this provision should be expanded to identify other conditions that could affect the institution's ability to reissue equipment. The Secretary notes that, because an institution must include the charges listed above in the calculation of a pro rata refund and is then permitted to subtract the charges or a portion of the charges from this refund, in many cases it appears that an institution could retain more than the actual charge to the student. For example, if an institution that charges a $100 administrative fee calculates a pro rata refund to a student, a portion of the $100 charge would be refunded to the student in accordance with the pro rata refund formula, and a portion of the charge would be retained by the institution. Yet, in addition, the institution could then be permitted to subtract the full $100 from the refund to the student. The Secretary requests comments on whether it may be more appropriate to require institutions to exclude these charges from the refund calculation entirely rather than subtracting the charge after performing the calculation. The Secretary also requests comment on whether some other means should be adopted to eliminate this potential ``double counting'' of charges. For purposes of determining a pro rata refund, the Secretary proposes to exclude from the ``room charges'' that are to be included in the refund calculation, any room charges for off-campus housing that are passed through the institution in their entirety to an entity that is not under the control of, related to, or affiliated with the institution. The Secretary recognizes that an institution may enter into an agreement with an outside agency to provide lodging for students. Under such an arrangement, the institution is merely a conduit that passes the room charges along to the other entity, yet those charges appear as institutional charges on student accounts. In these cases, the independence of the entities and the students' continuing right to occupy the housing after the students withdraw warrant the exclusion of the room charges from the refund calculation. The Secretary also proposes to exclude from the pro rata refund calculation charges for group health insurance that are mandatory for all students in the calculation of a pro rata refund so long as the coverage remains in effect for the students throughout the period for which the student was charged. The Secretary notes that the inclusion of these group health insurance charges in the refund calculation could cancel insurance coverage that might otherwise be extended to the student beyond the student's withdrawal date.
