FR941206-0-00002 FR941206-0-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Food Safety and Inspection Service 9 CFR Parts 301, 318, and 320 [Docket No. 94&hyph;003F] RIN 0583&hyph;AB76 Meat Produced by Advanced Meat/Bone Separation Machinery and Meat Recovery Systems AGENCY: Food Safety and Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) is amending the Federal meat inspection regulations by amending the definition of ``meat'' to include as ``meat,'' product resulting from advanced meat/bone separation machinery and recovery systems that do not crush, grind, or pulverize bones to remove attached skeletal tissue from the bones of livestock carcasses and parts of carcasses. This final rule also establishes the criteria, including that for calcium content, for meat from advanced meat/bone separation machinery and meat recovery systems to assure consistency with the characteristics and composition of meat, and establishes compliance procedures and recordkeeping requirements for the calcium content criteria. This action is being taken to update the definition of ``meat'' to acknowledge and include as ``meat,'' product derived from the advances made in the modification of traditional mechanical means of separating meat from the bones of livestock and the development of advanced recovery systems that do not involve grinding, crushing, or pulverizing bones to remove the adhering skeletal tissue. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 5, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John W. McCutcheon, Deputy Administrator, Regulatory Programs, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, (202) 720&hyph;2709. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Introduction The Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA) (21 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ) requires that the Secretary of Agriculture administer an inspection program that assures consumers that meat and meat food products distributed in commerce and within designated States 1 are wholesome, not adulterated, and are properly marked, labeled, and packaged. Under the FMIA and regulations promulgated thereunder, FSIS provides mandatory inspection, except for certain exceptions, of meat and meat food products prepared for distribution in interstate and foreign commerce, as well as for distribution within designated States. 1 Designated States are States that have failed to develop or are not effectively enforcing requirements at establishments, within their jurisdiction, for the slaughter of livestock and/or the preparation of products thereof, that are at least equal to those of Subchapters I and IV of the FMIA. Once a State is designated, the provisions of Subchapters I and IV of the FMIA apply to the operations and transactions of establishments that operate solely within the State.
