FR941205-2-00117 FR941205-2-00065 Customs Service [T.D. 94&hyph;97] Tariff Classification of Imported Magnets AGENCY: U.S. Customs Service, Department of the Treasury. ACTION: Final change of position. SUMMARY: This document gives notice of a change of position regarding the classification of imported articles consisting of small metal or barium ferrite magnets placed in a plastic, textile or ceramic housing (sometimes referred to as refrigerator or household magnets), under the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS). Customs has ruled in the past that based on the composition of the magnet, it was classified either as an article of metal under heading 7323, HTSUS, or as an article of ceramic (barium ferrite) under heading 6912, HTSUS. Customs now believes that because composite goods consisting of magnets and a textile, plastic or ceramic housing or shell, have the essential character of magnets, they are properly classifiable as such under heading 8505, HTSUS. The result of this change of position is a small decrease in the rate of duty on the subject merchandise. DATES: The change in tariff classification resulting from this decision will be effective on or after December 5, 1994 for all entries not finally liquidated as well as to merchandise entered for consumption or withdrawn from warehouse on or after this date. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert F. Altneu, Office of Regulations and Rulings (202) 482&hyph;7030. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Classification of merchandise under the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) is in accordance with the General Rules of Interpretation (GRIs). GRI 1 provides that classification shall be determined according to the terms of the headings and any relative section or chapter notes. Magnets are specifically provided for in heading 8505, HTSUS. In several rulings, we have held that articles consisting of a magnet placed within a decorative housing or shell made of plastic, ceramic, or textile (sometimes referred to as refrigerator or household magnets), were composite goods. Classification was considered under the following subheadings and duty rates: 6912.00.50:␣Ceramic tableware, kitchenware, other household articles .␣.␣.: [o]ther The general, column one rate of duty is 7 percent ad valorem.
