FR940825-2-00172 FR940825-2-00108 •Complement the individual lectureship, research and graduate study fellowships available under Fulbright and other Agency auspices. •Increase international academic exchange by two-year and small, four-year colleges and schools, especially community colleges and those with significant minority student enrollments. •Ensure a wide-ranging distribution of grants geographically throughout the U.S. and abroad. •Support linkages which have institutional backing and cost sharing from both the U.S. and foreign institution. •Foster long-term, active relationships between the affiliated institutions after Agency funding has terminated. Program Guidelines Exchange visits will involve some combination of the following activities: teaching, lecturing, research, faculty and curriculum development, and community outreach directly related to the purpose of the affiliation. The ideal and most competitive projects will constitute a well-reasoned combination of all of these activities. The exchange visits to all partner institutions must be for one month or more with the exception of planning visits which may be for shorter periods. Three-month or one-semester visits are strongly preferred and projects with longer lengths of stay will be more competitive. Acceptable projects will be to either establish new affiliations or to innovate and strengthen existing partnerships, not merely to extend projects previously funded by the College and University Affiliations Program (formerly the ``University Affiliations Program''), other USIA linkage programs or similar linkage programs funded by other U.S. government agencies. Projects for technical or development assistance and feasibility studies to plan affiliations will not be considered. Research projects must include collaboration by researchers from participating institutions and be linked to substantial participation in graduate-level seminars. The competition, as described in the separate section below on geographic area programs, is limited to selected countries and academic disciplines which represent USIA's geographic and academic priorities for the College and University Affiliations Program.
