FR940713-1-00031 FR940713-1-00002 CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION 16 CFR Ch. II Strangulation Hazards Associated With Crib Toys; Withdrawal of Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking AGENCY: Consumer Product Safety Commission. ACTION: Withdrawal of advance notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Consumer Product Safety Commission has decided to terminate a proceeding for the development of requirements to address strangulation hazards to children associated with crib toys. 1 The Commission began this proceeding by publication of an advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPR) on October 19, 1990. 1 The Commission approved publication of this notice by a 2&hyph;1 vote, with Chairman Ann Brown dissenting. A copy of Chairman Brown's separate statement is available upon request from the Office of the Secretary, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, DC 20207; telephone (301) 504&hyph;0800. On October 26, 1993, the Commission voted to terminate this proceeding and to withdraw the ANPR published in 1990. The Commission took this action after considering written comments received in response to the ANPR and correspondence concerning this proceeding; information about strangulation deaths and injuries to children from January, 1973, through February, 1993; annual sales of crib toys and the number of crib toys currently in use; the potential effectiveness of labeling and other mandatory requirements to reduce strangulation deaths and injuries to children associated with crib toys; other written materials prepared by the Commission staff; an oral briefing presented by the Commission staff; and other information. The Commission concluded that evidence is not available at this time to demonstrate that crib toys present an unreasonable risk of strangulation death or injury to children. The Commission also concluded that such evidence would not likely be developed if the proceeding were continued. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Celestine M. Trainor, Directorate for Epidemiology, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, DC 20207; telephone: (301) 504&hyph;0468. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. Background In 1990, the Commission granted a petition which requested issuance of a rule to address risks of strangulation deaths and injuries to children associated with certain crib toys and crib mobiles (1). 2 The petition used the term ``crib toy'' to describe a variety of toys which are intended to be strung across a crib or play pen or attached to the side of a crib or play pen and which are intended to be manipulated by infants. ``Crib mobiles'' are decorative articles which are designed to hang above a crib or play pen, but are not intended to be touched or manipulated by infants. The petition requested issuance of a rule to: 2 Numbers in parentheses identify reference documents listed in Bibliography at the end of this notice. Requests for inspection of any of these documents should be made at the Commission's Public Reading Room, 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, Maryland, room 419, or by calling the Office of the Secretary at (301) 492&hyph;0800. ␣Require that a crib gym or similar manipulative toy intended to be strung across the top of a crib must have a rigid horizontal suspension member attachable at or above the height of the crib side rails with no vertical protrusions; ␣Prohibit any crib toy from having any protrusions which can catch clothing or any other item worn by an infant; ␣Limit the length of any vertical string on any crib toy to six inches; ␣Prohibit on any crib toy any cords or other components which form a perimeter greater than 14 inches; ␣Prohibit on any crib toy any pull ring attached to a cord; ␣Ban any crib mobile that can be located within reach of an infant who is not capable of pushing up on his or her hands and knees inside a crib; ␣Require labeling and instructions for various crib toys and crib mobiles to warn of strangulation hazards associated with those products. On October 19, 1990, the Commission published an advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPR) in the Federal Register (55 FR 42402) under the Federal Hazardous Substances Act (FHSA) (15 U.S.C. 1261 et seq.) to begin a proceeding to develop the rule requested by the petition (2). B. Statutory Authority Section 2(f)1(D) of the FHSA (15 U.S.C. 1261(f)1(D)) defines the term ``hazardous substance'' to include ``[a]ny toy or other article intended for use by children'' which the Commission determines by regulation to present a ``mechanical hazard.'' Section 2(s) of the FHSA (15 U.S.C. 1261(s)) provides that a toy or children's article may be determined to present a mechanical hazard if, in normal use or *␣*␣* reasonably foreseeable *␣*␣* abuse, its design or manufacture presents an unreasonable risk of personal injury *␣*␣* from *␣*␣* points or other protrusions, *␣*␣* openings, or closures, *␣*␣* or *␣*␣* because of any other aspect of the article's design or manufacture.
