FR940817-2-00194 FR940817-2-00097 Federal Highway Administration Environmental Impact Statement: Sacramento County, CA AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of Intent. SUMMARY: The FHWA is issuing this notice to advise the public that an environmental impact statement will be prepared for a proposed highway project in Sacramento County, California. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dennis A. Scovill, Chief, District Operations_C, Federal Highway Administration, 980 Ninth Street, Suite 400, Sacramento, California, 95814, Telephone (916) 551&hyph;1307. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FHWA, in cooperation with the California Department of Transportation and with the City of Sacramento, will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) on a proposal to construct a 4-lane connector roadway between Garden Highway and Arden Way which includes construction of a bridge over the Natomas East Main Drainage Canal (NEMDC). The connector and bridge are needed to meet existing and projected traffic demands. The length of the connector roadway is approximately 1.3 miles including the bridge. Alternatives to be considered may include (1) Taking no action; (2) widening West El Camino Boulevard; and (3) different alignment crossings of the Natomas East Main Drainage Canal. Variations of grade and alignment may be studied for the various build alternatives. Letters describing the proposed action and soliciting comments will be sent to appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies, and to private organizations and citizens who have previously expressed or are known to have interest in this proposal. Public and agency scoping meetings will be held as required. A public meeting will be held upon completion of the draft EIS. Public notice will be given of the time and place of the meeting. The draft EIS will be available for public and agency review and comment prior to the public meeting. To ensure that the full range of issues related to this proposal are addressed and all significant issues identified, comments and suggestions are invited from all interested parties. Comments or questions concerning this proposed action and the EIS should be directed to the FHWA Chief of District Operations at the address indicated above. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.205, Highway Research Planning and Construction. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation on Federal programs and activities apply to this program.) Issued on: August 3, 1994. Jeffery S. Lewis, Acting Chief, District Operations_C. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20087 Filed 8&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;M
