FR940512-2-00195 FR940512-2-00078 b. Training shall be provided to the Board of Directors or Advisory Body designed to orient the members to the goals, objectives, and activities of the project. c. The Board of Directors or Advisory Body shall review and approve the overall goals, objectives, and activities of the project, including the written plan developed under standard 13. Appendix B_The National Runaway Switchboard •Facilitates communication among youth, their families and youth and community-based resources through conference calling services. •Provides crisis intervention counseling and message delivery services to at-risk youth and their families. •Provides information and referral services to at-risk youth and their families on youth serving agencies using a computerized national resource directory. •Conducts an annual conference for local switchboard service providers. The Switchboard distributes information brochures, posters, a newsletter, and public service announcements. For more information, contact the National Runaway Switchboard, 3080 North Lincoln, Chicago, IL 60657; telephone 1&hyph;800&hyph;621&hyph;4000. Appendix C_National Clearinghouse on Runaway and Homeless Youth The Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB) established NCRHY in June 1992 in response to the need for a central source of information on runaway and homeless youth and the provision of services to that client population. As a national resource for youth service professionals, policymakers and the general public, NCRHY offers the following specific services: Through its information line, bibliographic and FYSB program databases and special mailings, NCRHY distributes information about successful program approaches, available resources and current activities relevant to runaway and homeless youth organizations. NCRHY develops semi-annual briefing packages to inform the field about new developments, ideas and issues related to services to runaway and homeless youth. It also produces informational packets on FYSB programs and reports on critical issues, best practices and model programs. NCRHY facilitates FYSB-sponsored forums, bringing together experts in the field to discuss critical issues and develop strategies for addressing the causes and consequences of runaway episodes and homelessness. NCRHY will assist FYSB in collaborating with national, State and local organizations on youth-related policy and program initiatives. For more information, please contact the National Clearinghouse on Runaway and Homeless Youth, P.O. Box 13505, Silver Spring, Maryland 20911&hyph;3505, telephone (301) 608&hyph;8098.
