FR941110-0-00098 FR941110-0-00016 Section 488.320␣Sanctions for Inadequate Survey Performance Comment: Some commenters asked if the State Agency Evaluation Program (SAEP) was going to be used to evaluate State survey agency performance under this section. Certain commenters believe that it should be. Response: The SAEP is currently undergoing comprehensive evaluation. We do not know if the program, in its future form, will be designed to identify performance problems of individual States for enforcement purposes, or whether the purpose of the program will be more geared toward global evaluation of the State agency survey and certification process as a whole. HCFA will, however, obtain information on the adequacy of State agency survey activity through validation surveys and otherwise through its general oversight authority. Comment: Certain commenters recommended that we limit determinations of inadequate survey performance to the OSPATS. It was their view that it is unfair to reduce FFP based on a comparison of survey findings, as conditions in nursing homes change daily. Response: As stated previously, we acknowledge that there are great advantages to conducting a validation survey concurrently with the State's standard recertification survey, and it is our intent to expand the use of the OSPATS process for validation surveys. However, we reiterate that it is necessary to continue to use nonconcurrent validation surveys, despite the preference of the States and HCFA for OSPATS, because Federal surveyors must have at least one year of experience surveying before they are eligible to conduct an OSPATS. Comment: Some comments suggested the rules should state whether or not appeals under this section should stay the reduction of FFP action. Response: Section 1919(g)(3)(C) of the Act requires that appeals of sanctions under this rule are to be made according to section 1116 of the Act. According to section 1903(d)(5) of the Act, if an appeal of a disallowance is made, the State has the option of retaining the funds disallowed pending a final administrative decision. If the final decision upholds the disallowance and the State elected to retain the funds during the appeal process, the proper amount of the disallowance, plus interest computed in accordance with §488.442 will be offset in a subsequent grant award. Comment: Some commenters complained that FFP reduction is an excessive measure, and suggested that FFP not be reduced as a sanction, or be reduced only after other methods of addressing inadequate State agency performance have been tried and failed. Other commenters asked that the same sanctions be imposed against the State for inadequate survey performance regardless of whether the inadequately surveyed facilities participate in Medicare or Medicaid. An additional commenter recommended that we levy financial penalties against the survey agency instead of reducing FFP to the State. Response: While we appreciate the merits of these suggestions, section 1919(g)(3)(C) of the Act does not give us such flexibility. Rather, it requires that, when HCFA finds, on the basis of validation surveys that the State has inadequately surveyed Medicaid nursing facilities, HCFA may provide for training of State survey teams, but shall provide for a reduction of FFP according to a prescribed formula.
