FR940128-1-00062 FR940128-1-00006 If decomposition is found in less than 2.5 percent of the lot, and the time/temperature records show that conditions on the vessel were unlikely to cause, or significantly contribute to, the formation of histamine in the fish, Appendix B, section 3.a.2.iii. provides that the decomposed fish should be removed in accordance with the procedure outlined in Appendix B, section 3.a.2.i., but that it is not necessary to subject the lot to a histamine examination. The agency has tentatively concluded that decomposition below 2.5 percent is not significant in terms of the acceptability of the entire lot. Under the best conditions, it is possible that some fish in a large lot will experience some minimal decomposition. Under these circumstances, so long as the fish with decomposition are culled from the lot, there is no reason to suspect that the lot has been subject to unusual conditions that could cause histamine or scombrotoxin to form. The agency is aware that the canned tuna industry uses the 2.5 percent value to determine whether special handling of a lot is warranted (Ref. 119). The canned tuna industry has concluded, just as FDA tentatively concludes, that levels above 2.5 percent represent likely exposure of the fish in a lot to conditions that are out of the ordinary and potentially dangerous. For these reasons, if the processor finds decomposition in more than 2.5 percent of the fish from a lot, those fish must be removed from the lot, and a histamine examination needs to be performed on a representative sample of the remaining fish in that lot (Appendix B, section 3.a.2.iv.). It is important to recognize that where the time/temperature records are inadequate for all the fish on a vessel, or show poor conditions for all the fish from a vessel, histamine analyses should be performed on representative samples from each lot on the vessel. Although an appropriate number of fish for sampling could possibly be provided from a single lot, the results would not be representative of the vessel as a whole. Appendix B, section 3.a.3. describes how fish should be disposed of depending on the results of a histamine examination. In keeping with current policy, the agency expects that any fish that is found to have histamine above a defect action level or other regulatory level or limit for histamine established by FDA will not be used for food. Moreover, the agency expects, as reflected in Appendix B, section 3.a.3.i., that a finding of histamine over such level or limit in any fish in a lot from the vessel will result in the destruction of that entire lot, regardless of the percentage of decomposition that was organoleptically detected or the conditions on the vessel as indicated by the time/temperature records. Such a histamine finding strongly indicates that neither the records from the vessel nor the decomposition test (if the results were below 2.5 percent) are reliable. Histamine may be present in the absence of organoleptically detectable decomposition. Similarly, the agency expects, as reflected in Appendix B, section 3.a.3.ii., that a finding of histamine below the action level, but higher than is normally found in fresh fish (Refs. 120 and 121), in any fish in a lot will result in the immediate cooking of all the fish in the lot to ensure that scombrotoxin will not form over the shelf life of the fish. Cooking stops the histamine forming process once it has started. Without this cooking, any elevated temperatures later in the distribution system or in the home can result in a rapid elevation of histamine levels to hazardous levels (Ref. 117, p. 341). Appendix B, section 3.b. addresses raw materials controls that can be exercised by subsequent processors, i.e., those other than the first processor to take possession of scombroid toxin forming fish and fish products from a harvester. Assuming that the first processor has met its responsibilities with regard to raw materials as explained above, and has not caused a problem through improper handling during processing, subsequent processors should determine whether decomposition occurred during transfer from the previous processor. Consequently, the guideline provides, at Appendix B, section 3.b.1., that subsequent processors that do processing other than simply storing, should subject a representative sample of fish or fish products from each lot to an organoleptic examination. Any finding of decomposition in that sample should lead to organoleptic examination of the entire lot. If decomposition is found in more than 2.5 percent of the fish in the lot, the processor should perform a histamine examination on a representative sample of fish from the lot. These gradations are consistent with the expectations reflected in the guidelines for first processors. FDA has tentatively concluded these measures need not be taken by those who only store fish and fishery products. While time/temperature abuse can occur during storage, and thus scombroid toxin forming species must be ␣held ␣at ␣appropriate ␣temperatures (40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or below), the hazard of scombrotoxin in the finished product can be controlled by those who own the product or manipulate it during processing.
