FR941222-1-00050 FR941222-1-00008 As discussed earlier under Section II.D, Description of Health and Risk Assessments, the Agency conducted the risk assessment on these wastestreams using both a current, or baseline management scenario, and a plausible management scenario. Information relating to this discussion is not included at the present time due to business confidentiality concerns. Therefore, the Agency conducted the risk assessment on two current management scenarios, a municipal landfill, and a monofill, with the monofill representing the plausible management practice. The risk projections associated with this wastestream are presented in Table II&hyph;6. The data presented in this table represent 18 samples collected from four azo dye manufacturing facilities. Eleven of the 18 samples were collected and analyzed by industry, and were submitted to EPA for evaluation. The risks associated with disposing these sludges in monofills are projected to be very high. Five constituents found in the waste are predicted to pose individual high-end cancer- risk levels equal to or exceeding 1E&hyph;4 or HQs equal to or exceeding 1 for non-carcinogens, through ingestion of contaminated ground water or vegetables. The five constituents pose carcinogenic risks ranging from 1E&hyph;4 to 5E&hyph;4 and non- carcinogenic hazards from 2 to 45 times above the RfDs for the monofill management scenario. There are two cases of coeluting constituents for this wastestream. As shown in Table II&hyph;6, there is one data point for which the mass spectrum indicates the presence of 2- methoxyaniline, along with the potential presence of 2- and 4- aminoaniline. As discussed in Section II.D, EPA based the risk assessment for this set of coeluting compounds on 2-aminoaniline. The calculated high-end individual cancer-risk level for 2- aminoaniline is 5E&hyph;4 for the monofill management scenario. The second set of coeluting compounds consists of the three isomers 2-, 3-, and 4-aminotoluene. The presence of the three isomers was confirmed in four out of six wastewater samples collected from azo dye manufacturing operations, and the combined concentration of the three compounds was quantified. The calculated high-end individual cancer-risk level, based on the toxicity of 2-aminotoluene, is 1E&hyph;4 for the monofill management scenario (See Section II.D of this preamble, Coeluting Compounds, for more details on the Agency's approach to risk assessment for coeluting compounds). In addition to the two sets of coeluting compounds used as raw materials in azo dye manufacturing, three compounds, 1,3- dinitrobenzene, 4-methylphenol, and 2,4-dinitrophenol were found at concentrations that are projected to pose a substantial risk to human health and the environment. The risks presented by these compounds are calculated to have high-end HQs of 45, 3, and 2, respectively.
