FR940128-1-00078 FR940128-1-00006 (2) Developing generic plans by FDA that list critical control points and contain other information for various industry segments. (3) Deleting some or all of the proposed specific sanitation requirements. (4) Requiring HACCP only for the domestic industry. The HACCP requirements would become the basis for negotiating agreements with other countries relating to the equivalency of regulatory programs. (5) Deleting or modifying the proposed training requirements. (6) Requiring HACCP for processing hazards only. The Canadian HACCP system does not involve species-related safety hazards. (7) Exempting warehouses. (8) Although only in guidelines (Appendix B, Scombroid Toxin-Forming Species), sanctioning the receipt by a processor from a harvester of an assurance of good handling practices, rather than detailed time/temperature records. Such an assurance, without further verification, would be acceptable only from harvesters with histories of delivering acceptable products. These four alternative approaches to implementing these regulations are not necessarily mutually exclusive. Comments are invited on them in combination as well as on them individually. E. Information and Consumer Awareness In addition to requesting comment on alternative approaches to HACCP, FDA is taking the opportunity to invite comment on the general subject of complementary risk reduction activities, primarily directed toward postprocessing handling. Elsewhere in this document, FDA invited comment on the advisability of applying HACCP or alternative regulatory approaches to commercial entities that are not directly subject to these proposed regulations, i.e., harvesting vessels, common carriers, and retail establishments (although not necessarily doing so as part of this rulemaking). In addition, FDA seeks comment on appropriate education and information that should be directed toward consumers and recreational fishermen. The commercial application of HACCP principles can mitigate somewhat the effects of poor consumer handling practices by helping to ensure that a safe product reaches the home, but no such program can prevent illnesses caused by improper home handling. Similarly, HACCP practiced by processors can have no effect on recreational fishermen who consume their own catch. Education has always been an important part of FDA's comprehensive seafood safety program, but the agency believes that more can be done. Recent FDA education projects include the initiation of a seafood hotline, which has been consulted by over 26,000 individuals on a wide range of seafood safety issues since it began in October 1992. (The hotline can be reached by calling toll-free, 1&hyph;800&hyph;FDA&hyph;4010.) FDA also recently developed brochures aimed at advising certain medically compromised populations that they should not eat molluscan shellfish without adequate cooking. FDA invites comment on other types of education and information activities that might be useful, including more information that might be made available through grocery stores, pharmacies, and other establishments, through the media, and through other means, including labeling. FDA is considering the merits of labeling information for consumers of molluscan shellfish, and will address this issue in proceedings separate from these regulations. FDA notes that several states have already mandated, or are in the process of mandating, point- of-purchase information for raw molluscan shellfish. The agency also invites comment on whether FDA should consider proposing to require handling instructions for consumers on the labeling of seafood. The Department of Agriculture has proposed such requirements for meat and poultry (58 FR 58922, November 4, 1993). FDA has a longstanding program to control the levels of microorganisms of public health concern in seafood. This program includes compliance policies on such levels, including zero levels (i.e., none detectable based upon official methods) for such pathogens as Listeria monocytogenes in cooked, ready-to-eat products and Salmonella in all foods. These proposed regulations require control of microbial pathogens through HACCP principles, including specific sanitation controls. Even so, FDA recognizes that no system can reduce all risks to zero. Because all foods in the home, including seafood, are subject to mishandling and cross contamination from other sources, FDA invites comment on the general subject of handling instructions. Should FDA decide to propose handling instructions, it would do so as a regulatory proposal separate from the proposed HACCP requirements for seafood. IX. Paperwork Reduction Act This proposed rule contains requirements for information collections which are subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. The title, description, and respondent description of the information collection are shown below with an estimate of the annual reporting and recordkeeping burden. Included in the estimate is the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Title: Procedures for the Safe Processing and Importing of Fish and Fishery Products.
