FR940414-2-00107 FR940414-2-00075 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20202; File No. 812&hyph;8246] The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company of America, et al. April 7, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (``1940 Act''). APPLICANTS: The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company of America (the ``Company''), Separate Account Two of the Manufacturers Life Insurance Company of America (the ``Separate Account''), and ManEquity, Inc. RELEVANT 1940 ACT SECTION: Order requested under section 6(c) of the 1940 Act for exemptions from sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) thereof. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order permitting the deduction from the assets of the Separate Account of the mortality and expense risks charge imposed under certain individual flexible payment variable annuity contracts (the ``Contracts''). FILING DATE: The application was filed on January 13, 1993 and amended on March 8, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the Commission's Secretary and serving the Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests must be received by the Commission by 5:30 p.m., on May 3, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on the Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of the date of a hearing by writing to the Secretary of the Commission. ADDRESSES: Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. The Company and the Separate Account, 1600 Market Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103. ManEquity, Inc., 200 Bloor Street East, Toronto , Ontario M4W 1E5. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Joyce M. Pickholz, Senior Counsel, or Wendell M. Faria, Acting Assistant Director, on (202) 272&hyph;2060, Office of Insurance Products, Division of Investment Management. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application is available for a fee from the Commission's Public Reference Branch. Applicant's Representations 1. The Company is a stock life insurance company organized under the laws of Pennsylvania in 1977 and redomesticated under the laws of Michigan on December 9, 1992. It is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company, a mutual life insurance company based in Toronto, Canada. 2. The Separate Account is a separate account of the Company established under the laws of Pennsylvania for the purpose of funding variable annuity policies. Since December 9, 1992, it has operated under the laws of Michigan. Assets of the Separate Account will be invested in shares of Manulife Series Fund, Inc. ManEquity, Inc. an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of The Manufacturers Life Insurance Company, will be the principal underwriter of the variable annuity contracts funded through the Separate Account. 3. The Contracts are individual annuity contracts designed for use in connection with plans which are entitled to special tax treatment under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and under plans or trusts not entitled to any special tax treatment. They provide for the accumulation of values on a fixed, variable or fixed and variable basis and for the payment of annuity benefits on a fixed basis only. 4. The Contracts provide for the deduction of a record-keeping charge equal to 2% of the contract value up to a maximum of $30 per year. The charge will be deducted from the guaranteed interest account, the fixed account and the Separate Account in the same proportion that the value in each bears to the Contract value. The Company will also deduct an administrative charge of .20% per year from the value of the Contractowner's assets allocated to the Separate Account. The Contracts permit one free transfer per month of assets among the sub-accounts of the Separate Account and one additional transfer per month subject to a $35 charge. There is a $5 charge per transfer or series of transfers occurring on any one transfer date under a dollar cost averaging program if the Contract value is under $15,000. A $15 charge is assessed for each transfer or series of transfers on one date if the contractowner chooses to participate in an asset allocation balance program. The Company also reserves the right to impose an administrative charge not to exceed $150 for a partial withdrawal or full surrender under a special policy access provision that allows a terminally ill Contractowner to make one such withdrawal or surrender without application of any withdrawal charges. The Applicants state that they propose to rely on Rules 26a&hyph;1 and 6c&hyph;8(c) under the 1940 Act to permit the imposition of these charges. The Company does not expect to recover from any of these charges any amount in excess of its accumulated expenses in connection with the administrative activities for which the charge is made. The Contracts also provide for the deduction of any premium taxes or similar state or local tax attributable to a Contract. 5. No sales charge will be deducted from purchase payments as they are made. Instead, a withdrawal charge will be assessed on amounts surrendered or withdrawn during a Contract year which exceed 10% of the Contract value as of the most recent Contract anniversary. Those amounts will be deemed to be purchase payments. The withdrawal charge will be based upon when the purchase payments to which such amounts are deemed attributable were made. The charge begins at 8% of purchase payments withdrawn. When three complete Contract years have elapsed since a purchase payment was made, the charge is reduced to 6% of that purchase payment and it declines 2% per year thereafter. The oldest previously unliquidated purchase payment will be deemed to have been liquidated first, then the next oldest and so forth. In no event will the sum of the withdrawal charges exceed 8% of the total purchase payments made.
