FR940405-1-00110 FR940405-1-00013 Establishments in large high rise buildings may also find it desirable to provide such rooms to facilitate break periods. Consequently, in order to reflect the degree to which establishments will provide separate smoking areas, OSHA developed some estimates based on the characteristics of the stock of buildings and the percentage of companies currently banning smoking in the workplace. OSHA has no data on the number of establishments currently permitting smoking in designated smoking areas. OSHA estimated that 50 percent of large establishments with floor space greater than 100,000 square feet and with more than three floors will provide designated smoking areas. OSHA also assumed that 50 percent of all eating and drinking places and hotels and other lodging places may provide separate designated smoking areas. For these establishments, OSHA then applied the percentage of companies that will ban smoking based on the rates provided from a survey conducted by the Administrative Management Society Foundation (AMS) on current practices for smoking policies in the workplace. According to the survey, 25 percent of the companies completely ban smoking on their premises. However, the percentages varied by SIC as follows: manufacturing (23%), transportation and utilities (36%), banking and finance (28%), insurance (38%), retail and wholesale (7%), and services (18%). Also, 72 percent felt that smoking in the workplace should be either banned or restricted [H&hyph;030_Ex. 75]. Firms opting to make available designated smoking areas are expected to incur initial capital costs. OSHA assumed that in many cases existing rooms or offices can be converted into a designated smoking area. Average cost estimates for retrofitting the HVAC system ranges from $4,000 for a 150 square feet room (which could accommodate up to 10 smokers) [Ex. 4&hyph;265] to $25,000 for 1,000 square feet (which could accommodate 30 to 65 smokers) [Ex. 3&hyph;643]. The HVAC retrofit represented in these estimates typically includes: (1) blocking off the return air inlet from the room, (2) providing a transfer air path, and (3) providing an exhaust fan and exhaust air pathway to the outside. The exhaust fan capacity would exceed air supplied to the room in sufficient quantity to create a negative pressure in the smoking room relative to surrounding areas to ensure containment of the contaminant. In order to achieve negative pressure some architectural modifications may be necessary to provide a tight enclosure. OSHA did not estimate an additional cost for housekeeping since such activities would have been performed prior to the promulgation of the proposed standard. Most facilities exhaust air from toilet rooms and also relieve air brought in for ventilation and economizer cooling 10(a) . The amount of exhaust air from a designated smoking area is inconsequential compared with the quantities of air leaving the building through toilet room exhaust and relief. Therefore, OSHA did not include recurring cost for the provision of a separately ventilated smoking area. 10(a) Use of outside air for cooling_``free cooling''. The equation for determining cost for allowing smoking in designated areas is as follows: C s = (N e × (1&hyph;P s ) + N d × (1&hyph;P sm )) P c × C r where C s = cost for providing designated areas N e = number of establishments in buildings with 3 or more floors and floorspace greater than 100,000 sq.ft. P s = percentage of establishments banning smoking N d = 50 percent of establishments in Eating and Drinking Places (SIC 58), and Hotel (SIC 70) P sm = percentage of establishments in SIC 58 and SIC 70 banning smoking P c = percentage of establishments providing designated smoking areas (50%) C r = cost for setting up a separate smoking area ($4,000 for a 150 sq.ft. room that accommodates up to 10 smokers, furnishings existing) Initial costs are annualized over 20 years at 10 percent interest rate. As presented in Table VI&hyph;12, the total annual cost is estimated at $68 million. OSHA did not include a cost estimate for the government sector at this time. (f) Air Quality during Renovation and Remodeling. The proposed standard requires that during renovation and remodeling appropriate controls are utilized to minimize degradation of the indoor air quality of employees performing such activities and employees in other areas of the building. The basic characteristics of available control practices include: ventilation system/high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) vacuum; regulated areas, isolation or containment of work areas and appropriate negative pressure containment; outside air intakes, return/recirculation air streams or plenums; notification of employees and contractors. For buildings with asbestos presence, the control practices under the OSHA asbestos standard are current industry practice. A survey developed for obtaining information on practices to control exposure to asbestos in buildings shows that asbestos-related work represents 16 percent of renovation activities whereas general remodeling is 61 percent and major repair and maintenance are 12 percent [Ex. 4&hyph;64].
