FR940512-0-00049 FR940512-0-00018 (c) Budget and cost effectiveness. (1) The Secretary reviews each State's plan for information that shows that the early intervention component has an adequate budget and is cost-effective. (2) The Secretary looks for information that shows_ (i) The budget for the project is adequate to support the early intervention component activities; and (ii) Costs are reasonable in relation to the activities under the component. (3) The Secretary reviews the State's budget for the early intervention component to verify that not more than 50 percent of the State's allotment is projected to be spent on its early intervention component unless the State requests and is granted a waiver under ยง693.13(b). (d) Adequacy of resources. (1) The Secretary reviews each State's plan for information that shows that the State plans to devote adequate resources to its early intervention component. (2) The Secretary looks for information that shows_ (i) The facilities that the State plans to use are adequate; and (ii) The equipment and supplies that the State plans to use are adequate. (e) Need for the program. (1) The Secretary reviews each State's plan for information that shows the need for the early intervention component and the methods for targeting its early intervention component activities on eligible students. (2) The Secretary looks for information that shows_ (i) The number and percentage of students who are eligible to be served by the State's early intervention component, including students who are priority students and students who are disadvantaged; (ii) The extent to which the State documents its need for the services and activities that the State proposes to provide under its early intervention component; (iii) The ratio of secondary school counselors to all students and to early intervention eligible students, if the data is available; (iv) For each of the 3 preceding years, if available, the estimated dropout rates for the State, including the dropout rate for all students and for students eligible for the early intervention component as proposed by the State; and (v) For each of the 3 preceding years, if available, the estimated number and percentage of students in the State who enrolled in postsecondary institutions for_ (A) All students who were eligible to enroll; and (B) Students who would have been eligible for the State's proposed early intervention component. (f) Likelihood for success. (1) The Secretary reviews each State plan for information that shows the likelihood of success of its early intervention component. (2) The Secretary looks for information that shows the extent to which the State's early intervention component is likely to_ (i) Enable the participants to develop academic skills, such as reading, writing, mathematics, and study skills, that are essential for postsecondary education; (ii) Improve academic skills and motivate the participants to complete a secondary educational program and subsequently gain admission to postsecondary education institutions; and (iii) Increase the secondary and postsecondary readmission rates of those participants who have not completed secondary or postsecondary education. (3) The Secretary also looks for information that shows how comprehensively the State's proposed early intervention component_ (i) Identifies and selects eligible participants; (ii) Diagnoses each participant's need for academic support in order to successfully pursue a program of postsecondary education; (iii) Develops a plan of program support to improve each participant's skills; and (iv) Provides the services and activities listed in ยง693.11(a) that relate to the goals of the NEISP Program. (g) Public and private support. (1) The Secretary reviews each State's plan for information that shows how the State will put in place a partnership of public and private organizations within the State to administer the early intervention component of the program under this part. (2) The Secretary looks for information that shows_ (i) The extent to which the State has received and has included in its plan written commitments by organizations that will provide early intervention services under ยง693.11(b); and (ii) The existence of a plan to inform the residents of the State of the NEISP Program services and eligibility criteria. (h) Coordination with other early intervention activities. (1) The Secretary reviews each State's plan for information that shows how the State will coordinate its early intervention component with existing early intervention activities within the State. (2) The Secretary looks for information that shows_ (i) The extent to which the State has investigated early intervention program activity and included in its plan the number and types of currently operating public and private early intervention programs within the State; (ii) The extent to which the State's proposed plan will supplement existing Federal, State, local, and private early intervention programs within the State, such as the Federal Head Start, Chapter 1 Program in Local Educational Agencies, and TRIO programs; and (iii) The written plans and commitments submitted to the State by other early intervention program providers that the State plans to use as either early intervention service providers under ยง693.11(b) or as support organizations for those service providers. (i) Evaluation report plan. (1) The Secretary reviews each State's plan to evaluate the quality of the proposed biennial evaluation report of the early intervention component of the program. (2) The Secretary looks for information that shows_ (i) The quality of the design of the component; (ii) The extent that the methods of evaluation are appropriate for the program and the extent they are objective and produce useful data that are quantifiable; (iii) The State's commitment to design an evaluation report to measure objectively performance against, at a minimum, the following standards: (A) The effectiveness of the State's program in meeting the purposes of the program. (B) The effect of the program on the student recipients being served by the program. (C) The barriers to the effectiveness of the program and recommendations for changes or improvements to the program. (D) The cost-effectiveness of the program. (E) The extent to which the student recipients comply with the requirements of the program; and (iv) Any other pertinent program measurements concerning the early intervention component that the State believes would be useful to the Secretary, which may be displayed through analytical charts, tables, and graphs. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070a&hyph;23) (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1840&hyph;0677)
