FR940216-2-00009 FR940216-2-00007 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION [CC Docket No. 94&hyph;11, FCC 94&hyph;29] Cellular Application of Telephone and Data Systems, Inc.; Hearing agency: Federal Communications Commission. action: Notice of hearing designation order. summary: Cellular application of Telephone and Data Systems, Inc. (TDS) is designated for hearing. The Commission has determined that a substantial and material question of fact exists as to whether a subsidiary of TDS has misrepresented facts to or lacked candor before the Commission. The hearing will examine the subsidiary's conduct before the Commission and determine whether TDS holds the requite character qualifications necessary to hold the cellular license for the Wisconsin 8 (Vernon) Rural Service Area. addresses: Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554. for further information contact: Joseph Weber, Mobile Services Division, Common Carrier Bureau (202) 632&hyph;6450. supplementary information: This is a summary of Memorandum Opinion and Order and Hearing Designation Order in CC Docket 94&hyph;11, adopted February 1, 1994, and released February 1, 1994. The full text of Commission decisions are available for inspection and copying during normal business hours in the FCC Dockets Branch (room 230), 1919 M Street, NW., Washington, DC. The complete text of this decision may also be purchased from the Commission's copy contractor, International Transcription Service, Inc., 2100 M Street, NW., suite 140, Washington, DC 20037, (202) 857&hyph;3800. Summary of Memorandum Opinion and Order and Hearing Designation Order The Commission has designated for hearing the cellular application of Telephone and Data Systems, Inc. (TDS) for the Wisconsin 8 (Vernon) Rural Service Area. United States Cellular Corporation (USCC), a TDS subsidiary, was a party of La Star Cellular Telephone Company (La Star), an applicant to provide cellular service in St. Tammany Parish in the New Orleans, Louisiana Metropolitan Statistical Area. La Star's application was designated for hearing with the mutually exclusive application of New Orleans CGSA, Inc. (NOCGSA). La Star was found to be ineligible and the application of NOCGSA was granted. The Commission affirmed this conclusion. See La Star Cellular Telephone Company, 6 FCC Rcd 6860 (I.D. 1991), aff'd, 7 FCC Rcd 3762 (1992), appeal pending sub nom., Telephone and Data Systems, Inc. v. FCC, Case No. 92&hyph;1273 (D.C. Cir.). NOCGSA argued that USCC misrepresented facts and lacked candor before the Commission. Neither the presiding administrative law judge, nor the Commission reached the merits of those arguments. The Commission did state, however, that the issues could be revisited in future proceedings. See La Star Cellular Telephone Company, 7 FCC Rcd at 3767, n.3. The Commission has revisited the character arguments in the instant Order and has concluded that a substantial and material question of fact exists as to whether USCC was fully truthful and candid in its dealings with the Commission. For instance, one USCC principal swore in written testimony that a management committee controlled the actions of La Star. Oral testimony elicited from that same witness, however, showed that the management committee served little purpose and did not direct the actions of La Star. Because the Commission believes that a substantial and material question of fact exists about USCC's character, it has designated issues for hearing to determine whether USCC principals misrepresented facts or lacked candor in the La Star proceeding. The hearing will also determine based upon the evidence of whether USCC misrepresented facts or lacked candor, whether TDS holds the necessary character qualifications to hold the license for the Wisconsin 8 Rural Service Area. Pursuant to section 309(e) of the Communications Act of 1934 as amended, TDS's application has been designated for hearing upon the following issues listed below: (1) To determine whether United States Cellular Corporation misrepresented facts to the Commission, lacked candor in its dealings with the Commission, or attempted to mislead the Commission, and, in this regard, whether United States Cellular Corporation has violated ยง1.17 of the Commission's Rules, 47 CFR 1.17. (2) To determine, based on the evidence adduced in issue 1, above, whether Telephone and Data Systems, Inc. possesses the requisite character qualifications to hold the cellular Block B authorization for the Wisconsin 8 (Vernon) Rural Service Area and, accordingly, whether grant of its application would serve the public interest, convenience, and necessity. The Commission has further noted that if USCC has lacked candor or misrepresented facts in any pleadings filed within a year of the release of the Order, the presiding administrative law judge may find that USCC or TDS has violated ยง1.17 of the Commission's rules and impose a forfeiture up to the statutory maximum. Federal Communications Commission. William F. Canton, Acting Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3530 Filed 2&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6712&hyph;01&hyph;M
