FR940404-2-00025 FR940404-2-00019 Whirlpool indicated a concern about the definition of ``a water heating clothes washer''. Their concern was that the proposed definition only considered a machine that provides all of the energy for heating the wash water by the internal electric heater. Whirlpool believes that the definition should consider the introduction of externally heated wash water. The Department understands Whirlpool's concern about clothes washers that may have the option of using externally heated water along with an internal heater. However, New Harmony's machines do not have this capability. Therefore, this Waiver for New Harmony does not require a definition change nor a test procedure change. The Department will address this issue in a future general test procedure revision. Whirlpool indicated a concern that the Waiver should address the capability of testing a warm rinse. Since New harmony's machines do not have a warm rinse option, the Department does not agree that this Waiver should have the capability of testing a warm rinse option. The Department does concur that this issue may be applicable in the future and will address this issue in a general test procedure revision. Conclusion It is therefore ordered that: (1) The ``Petition for Waiver'' filed by New Harmony [Case No CW&hyph;001] is hereby granted as set forth in paragraph (2) below, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (3), (4), and (5). (2) Notwithstanding any contrary provisions of section 430.22 or Appendix J of 10 CFR part 430, subpart B, New Harmony shall be permitted to test its series 1 and 2 clothes washers with the modification set forth below: (i) Add new §1.19 and 1.20 in Appendix J to read as follows: 1.19␣ Water-heating clothes washer means a clothes washer that has an internal electrical heater which provides all the energy needed to heat water for washing. 1.20␣ Non-water-heating clothes washer means a clothes washer that does not have an internal electrical heater which provides the energy needed to heat water for washing. (ii) Sections 2.2 and 2.3 in Appendix J shall be deleted and replaced with the following: 2.2␣ Electrical energy supply. Maintain the electrical supply to the clothes washer terminal block within 1.7 percent of 120/208Y or 120/240 volts as applicable to the particular terminal block wiring system as specified by the manufacturer. If the clothes washer has a dual voltage conversion capability, conduct the test at the highest voltage recommended by the manufacturer. 2.3␣ Water temperature.
