FR941230-1-00024 FR941230-1-00004 §1.141&hyph;1 Definitions and rules of general application. (a) In general. For purposes of §§1.141&hyph;1 through 1.141&hyph;16, the definitions and rules in this section, the definitions in §1.150&hyph;1, and the following definitions under §1.148&hyph;1 apply: bond year, commingled fund, higher yielding investment, investment proceeds, investments, investment-type property, issue price, nonpurpose investment, qualified guarantee, qualified hedge, reasonable expectations, reasonably required reserve or replacement fund, rebate amount, replacement proceeds, reserve or replacement fund, sale proceeds, and yield. (b) Definitions. Common areas means portions of a facility that are equally available to all users of a facility on the same basis for uses that are incidental to the primary use of the facility. For example, hallways and elevators generally are treated as common areas if they are used by the different lessees of a facility in connection with the primary use of that facility. Consistently applied means applied uniformly to account for proceeds and other amounts. Essential governmental function is defined in §1.141&hyph;5(c)(4). Financed means constructed, reconstructed, or acquired with proceeds of an issue. Governmental bond means a bond issued as part of an issue no portion of which consists of private activity bonds. Governmental person means a State or local governmental unit as defined in §1.103&hyph;1 or any instrumentality thereof or any entity issuing obligations on behalf thereof. It does not include the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof. Hazardous waste remediation bonds is defined in §1.141&hyph;4(f). Mixed use facility is defined in §1.141&hyph;6. Nongovernmental person means a person other than a governmental person. Nonqualified amount means the lesser of_ (1) The sale proceeds of an issue used for any private business use under §1.141&hyph;3, or (2) The sum of the sale proceeds of the issue for which there are payments taken into account as private payments under §1.141&hyph;4(c) and the sale proceeds of the issue secured by an interest in property or payments in respect of property taken into account as private security under §1.141&hyph;4(d). Output facility, except as otherwise provided in §§1.141&hyph;7a), includes electric and gas generation, transmission, and related facilities, but not (1) sewage or solid waste disposal facilities, or (2) water collection, storage, or distribution facilities. Private business tests means the private business use test and the private security or payment test of section 141(b). Proceeds means the sale proceeds, disposition proceeds, and any replaced amounts. Proceeds also include any investment proceeds from investments that accrue during the project period (net of rebate amounts attributable to the project period). Proceeds of an issue do not include sale proceeds (other than those deposited in a reasonably required reserve or replacement fund) used to retire bonds of the issue. Project period means the period beginning on the issue date and ending on the date that the construction, reconstruction, or acquisition of the project financed is substantially complete. In the case of a multipurpose issue, the issuer may elect to treat the project period for the entire issue as ending on either the expiration of the temporary period described in §1.148&hyph;2(e)(2) or the end of the fifth bond year after the issue date. Replaced amounts means replacement proceeds that are or are reasonably expected to be available during the project period other than sinking funds, pledged funds, and other replacement proceeds (as defined in §1.148&hyph;1(c) (2) through (4), respectively). Term of an issue means the period beginning on the issue date and ending on the final maturity date of the issue, except that if the term of an issue is extended and the primary purpose for that extension is not a governmental purpose, the term of the issue is determined as if the issue had a final maturity equal to the average maturity date of the issue. Transfer is defined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Weighted average economic life is determined under the rules in section 147(b). The reasonably expected useful life of a facility may be determined by reference to the class life of the property under section 168. Weighted average maturity is determined under the rules in section 147(b). (c) Disposition proceeds _(1) Definition. Disposition proceeds are any amounts (including property) derived from the sale, exchange, or other disposition ( transfer ) of property (other than investments) financed with the proceeds of an issue. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, if there are disposition proceeds, any proceeds of the issue allocable to the transferred property cease to be treated as proceeds of the issue. (2) Amount of disposition proceeds. Regardless of the amount received in connection with the transfer, the amount of disposition proceeds is treated as equal to the proceeds of the issue that had been allocable to the transferred property immediately prior to the transfer. See §1.141&hyph;13(h), Example 1. (3) Exception for general obligation programs. Unless the issuer elects otherwise, disposition proceeds do not arise on the transfer of property financed with the proceeds of a general obligation program if the requirements of this paragraph (c)(3) are satisfied. A general obligation program is an issue of general obligation bonds issued by a general purpose governmental unit that finances more than 75 discrete facilities or projects. The requirements of this paragraph (c)(3) are satisfied if_ (i) The transferred property had an original cost not in excess of the greater of $3,000,000 and 2.5 percent of the issue price of the issue; (ii) The transferred property is sold for its fair market value in a transaction other than an installment sale;
