FR941019-1-00040 FR941019-1-00004 The term ``forward-looking statement'' is defined to include any statement concerning future revenues, income, earnings, capital expenditures, dividends, products, services or lines of business, capital structure or other financial items, as well as management's plans or objectives for the future or the future economic performance of the corporation. The term also includes statements or assumptions underlying or relating to the foregoing. H. ``Opt-In'' Proposal The ``Opt-In'' proposal, suggested by Harvey Pitt, Karl Groskaufmanis and Gilbey Strub, would require issuers to make a formal election to ``opt in[to]'' a specified safe harbor disclosure regime. 88 Issuers opting in would be required to make forward-looking disclosure for a minimum of four quarters. Before a company may ``opt out'' of the safe harbor disclosure regime, it must provide notice 30 days before its next periodic report. The notice must detail the reasons for opting out, and statements therein would not be protected by the safe harbor. The company would be prohibited from opting back into the safe harbor disclosure regime for another year. 88 H. Pitt, K. Groskaufmanis and G. Strub, Securities Law , Nat. L. J., August 22, 1994, at B4. In order to be protected, the statements must have an adequate basis in fact, be issued in good faith and be consistent with any similar forward-looking information used contemporaneously by the issuer. For an issuer that has ``opted in'' to the safe harbor disclosure regime, only the Commission would be permitted to bring suit for projections that are made in bad faith or without a reasonable basis. V. Solicitation of Public Comment The Commission seeks comment on a number of issues. Commenters should discuss both the continuing effectiveness of the current safe harbors in accomplishing the primary goal of encouraging broader dissemination of forward-looking information to the investing public, and whether the Commission should consider any change to the current safe harbor. Would one or more of the proposals outlined above, any combination thereof, or any other proposal commenters may wish to identify, fulfill this goal more effectively without compromising investor protection? Do the concerns outlined in Part III above, either individually or in the aggregate, warrant revisiting and/or revising the existing safe harbor? Commenters should explain in detail all bases for their conclusion. A. Types of Information Covered by a Safe Harbor Assuming a safe harbor continues to be necessary or appropriate in the interests of the investing public, commenters should discuss what types of information should be eligible for safe harbor coverage. Commenters supporting safe harbor coverage for forward-looking information should address the reasons justifying a distinction between forward-looking and historical information (either purely retrospective or based on estimate or opinion) with respect to the level of protection afforded to each. Does the fact that the person making the statements has unique knowledge concerning the basis for forward-looking statements, support or undercut this distinction? Commenters may wish to specify whether qualitative information, including but not limited to the type described above in Part I, is relevant to investors such that its disclosure should be encouraged. If so, should such information be included in the safe harbor? Should forward-looking information that is currently part of required audited financial information (such as loan-loss reserves, pension liabilities or contingent environmental liabilities) be included? 89 Are there certain types of forward-looking information that should be per se excluded from the safe harbor ( e.g., such as required audited information, or the ``known trends and uncertainties'' disclosure required by the MD&A)? 89 See Regulation S-K Item 101(c)(xii), 17 CFR 229.101(c)(xii); Industry Guide 3, Summary of Loan Loss Experience, 17 CFR 229.801 (1994). Should the safe harbor distinguish between oral and written statements, between statements filed with the Commission and non-filed statements, or between Securities Act required statements and others? Should the Commission require that any oral statement for which safe harbor coverage is sought be reduced to writing and filed with the Commission at or around the time that statement is first disseminated? If not, commenters should describe the legal and/or practical impediments, if any, to a contemporaneous filing requirement. Are there certain situations, i.e., an initial public offering, in which safe harbor protection should be limited to statements made in Commission filings? Are commenters' views on these questions affected by the type of forward-looking information under consideration? For example, do different types of forward-looking information imply different degrees of reliability, e.g., numerical financial projections as opposed to general statements of management's outlook? If so, should a broader safe harbor provide protection for a narrower category of information than does Rule 175 currently, or would differing safe harbors be warranted? B. Voluntary Disclosure Should the Commission continue its current general policy of voluntary disclosure of forward-looking information or should some or all of such information, given its significance, be mandated? If left voluntary, should any such information used in the offer or sale of securities by the issuer be required to be included in the prospectus? Would this be an appropriate solution to the issue of selective disclosure of key soft information during road shows? If not, commenters should explain this conclusion and discuss alternative approaches. C. Scope of the Safe Harbor Should the safe harbor be procedurally based or substantively based or both? For example, should the safe harbor be available only if the forward-looking information is reviewed by the board Audit Committee, or some other board level committee or committee of top management or an outside reviewer, or should the standard be a substantive one dependent on the reasonableness or other criteria of the information itself, regardless of the review process, or both?
