FR941212-0-00044 FR941212-0-00015 F. Federal and State Jurisdiction 27. We modify our assertion in the Second Report and Order , of exclusive jurisdiction over all video dialtone services. We hold that we have exclusive jurisdiction over only interstate video dialtone services, which include services involving delivery of video communications that are part of a continuous stream of communication provided at least partially by means of radio waves. We hold that states have jurisdiction over intrastate video dialtone services. 28. In General Telephone of California v. FCC , the court held that channel service provided by a LEC for a cable operator, formerly known as a community antenna television operator, is ``an integral component in an indivisible dissemination system which forms an interstate channel of communication from the broadcaster to the viewer.'' The court held that the Commission has exclusive jurisdiction over LEC provision of services that form part of a broadcast transmission. Because broadcasting is inherently interstate, the court held, LEC delivery of signals that have been broadcast over radio waves is interstate, even if the LEC delivers such signals over physically intrastate facilities. 29. Consistent with General Telephone of California v. FCC , we conclude that broadcast or other radio-based video signals delivered by a LEC over a video dialtone system constitute an integral part of an interstate radio transmission service. Accordingly, we have exclusive jurisdiction over video dialtone services involving delivery of video communications that are part of a continuous stream of communication provided at least partially by means of radio waves. A determination of whether certain other, non-radio-based video dialtone services are interstate and thus within our exclusive jurisdiction depends upon the nature of the communication, as in the telephone context. For example, we have exclusive jurisdiction over all video dialtone services provided between two or more states because such services are interstate. In contrast, under Section 2(b) of the Communications Act, states retain authority to regulate intrastate video dialtone service to the extent such regulation has not been preempted by the Commission under the standards set forth in Louisiana Public Service Commission v. FCC and its progeny. For example, states have jurisdiction over the delivery by wire of video programming between a video library and an end-user located within the same state, as part of a video-on-demand service. 30. While we do not in this proceeding preempt any state regulation of intrastate video dialtone services, we note that we have already preempted certain state regulations of BOC provision of enhanced services in the BOC Safeguards Order , 57 FR 4373 (February 5, 1992). In that decision, we preempted any state regulation requiring (1) Separation of facilities and personnel to provide the intrastate portion of jurisdictionally mixed enhanced services; or (2) prior authorization for use of Customer Proprietary Network Information (CPNI) whenever such authorization is not required by our rules. Because we have explicitly applied our existing enhanced services safeguards to video dialtone, state regulation in the areas preempted in the BOC Safeguards Order , are also preempted by that decision in the video dialtone context. We reject various parties' requests for broader preemption at this time, but we will consider preempting any state regulation of intrastate video dialtone service that is not severable from interstate service if such regulation would negate federal policy.
