FR940506-1-00061 FR940506-1-00014 (3) Contract number or other authorization for supplies delivered or services performed (including order number and contract line item number). (4) Description, quantity, unit of measure, unit price, and extended price of supplies delivered or services performed. (5) Shipping and payment terms ( e.g. , shipment number and date of shipment, Prompt Payment discount terms). Bill of lading number and weight of shipment will be shown for shipments on Government bills of lading. (6) Name and address of contractor official to whom payment is to be sent (must be the same as that in the contract or in a proper notice of assignment). (7) Name (where practicable), title, phone number, and mailing address of person to be notified in event of a defective invoice. (8) Any other information or documentation required by the contract (such as evidence of shipment). (9) While not required, contractors are strongly encouraged to assign an identification number to each invoice. (f) All invoice payments shall be supported by a receiving report or any other Government documentation authorizing payment. The agency receiving official should forward the receiving report or other Government documentation to the designated payment office by the 5th working day after Government acceptance or approval, unless other arrangements have been made. This period of time does not extend the due dates prescribed in 32.905. Acceptance should be completed as expeditiously as possible. The receiving report or other Government documentation authorizing payment shall, as a minimum, include the following: (1) Contract number or other authorization for supplies delivered or services performed. (2) Description of supplies delivered or services performed. (3) Quantities of supplies received and accepted, if applicable. (4) Date supplies delivered or services performed. (5) Date supplies or services were accepted by the designated Government official (or progress payment request was approved if being made under the clause at 52.232&hyph;5, Payments under Fixed-Price Construction Contracts, or the clause at 52.232&hyph;10, Payments under Fixed-Price Architect-Engineer Contracts). (6) Signature, or when permitted by agency regulations, electronic equivalent, printed name, title, mailing address, and telephone number of the designated Government official responsible for acceptance or approval functions. (7) If the contract provides for the use of Government certified invoices in lieu of a separate receiving report, the Government certified invoice must also contain the information described in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(6) of this section. (g) When a discount for prompt payment is to be taken, payment will be made as close as possible to, but not later than, the end of the discount period. Payment terms are specified in the clause at 52.232&hyph;8, Discounts for Prompt Payment. (h) The designated billing office shall immediately annotate each invoice with the actual date it receives the invoice. (i) The designated payment office shall annotate each invoice and receiving report with the date a proper invoice or receiving report was received by the designated payment office. (j) Contractors may be encouraged, but cannot be required to submit separate invoices for products with different payment due dates under the same contract or order. When an invoice is received which contains items with different payment periods (a mixed invoice), the payment office shall comply with all contractual and statutory payment provisions. In dealing with mixed invoices the payment office may, subject to agency policy_ (1) Pay all items at the later of the due dates, provided applicable interest penalties are also paid; (2) Pay all items at the earlier of the due dates; or (3) Split invoice payments, making payment by the due date applicable to each payment class.
