FR940830-1-00052 FR940830-1-00009 The bioaccumulation concepts contained in this Notice, the references supporting these concepts, and additional details are discussed in the Technical Support Document, July 1994, which is available in the public docket for this Notice. 1. Use of Freely Dissolved Concentration of Chemical in Derivation of BAFs In the proposed Guidance, human health and wildlife bioaccumulation factors for organic chemicals were based on the total concentration of the chemical in water. For highly lipophilic chemicals, however, a substantial percentage of the total concentration can be associated with particulate organic carbon (POC) and dissolved organic carbon (DOC) in water and be unavailable for accumulation. BAFs, whether measured or predicted, can be derived using the concentration of the chemical that is freely dissolved in the water in order to account for bioavailability. EPA requested comment on the concept of basing the bioaccumulation factors for lipophilic organic chemicals on the freely dissolved concentration instead of the total concentration, but did not provide a specific equation for deriving the freely dissolved concentration. In this Notice, EPA is requesting comment on an equation included in the Technical Support Document, July 1994, which defines the relationship of a BAF reported on the basis of the total concentration of the chemical in the water to a BAF reported on the basis of the freely dissolved concentration of the chemical in the water. The freely dissolved concentration is defined by the following equation: BAF l t =f fd BAF l fd ␣␣(1) where BAF l t =BAF (L/Kg of lipid) reported on the basis of the lipid-normalized concentration of chemical in the biota (Kg/Kg lipid) divided by the total concentration of the chemical in the water (Kg/L); BAF l fd =BAF (L/Kg of lipid) reported on the basis of the lipid-normalized concentration of chemical in the biota (Kg/Kg lipid) divided by the freely dissolved concentration of the chemical in the water (Kg/L); and f fd =fraction of the total chemical that is freely dissolved in the water. The fraction of the chemical that is freely dissolved in the water, f fd , can be determined using equation 2 with the K ow for the chemical and the concentration of DOC and POC in the water. f fd =1/ { 1+(POCK ow )+(DOC ␣␣K ow /10) } (2) where POC=concentration of particulate organic carbon, Kg of organic carbon/L of water; DOC=concentration of dissolved organic carbon, Kg of organic carbon/L of water; and K ow =n-octanol/water partition coefficient. For further details on the derivation of this equation, including possible default values for POC and DOC, see the Technical Support Document, July 1994, which is available in the public docket for this Notice. Basing the measured and predicted BAFs on the concentration of the freely dissolved chemical in water permits the derivation of BAFs that take into account site-specific concentrations of POC and DOC. This approach would also allow consistent usage and derivation of BAFs through out the Guidance if a model similar to the model for predicting FCMs (see section C.3 of this Notice) and the procedure for predicting BCFs (see section C.2 of this Notice) were used because both are based upon the concentration of the freely dissolved chemical in the water. EPA requests comments on the application and validity of the equation for deriving the freely dissolved concentration. 2. Use of the Equation Log BCF = Log K ow In the proposed Guidance, the third method for deriving a BAF for organic chemicals involved predicting a BCF from a chemical's n-octanol/water partition coefficient by the equation (Veith and Kosian, 1983): log BCF=0.79 log K ow ^ 0.40␣(3) EPA asked for comment on other ways to predict a BCF from a log K ow . In this Notice, EPA is requesting comment on use of an alternate equation to predict BCFs, included in the Technical Support Document, July 1994, using the following approximation: BCF l fd K ow ␣␣(4) where the BCF l fd is the BCF reported on a lipid-normalized basis using the freely dissolved concentration of the chemical in the water. This relationship is applicable to lipophilic non-polar organic chemicals which have log K ow s greater than 3 and which are either slowly or never metabolized by aquatic organisms. A similar equation can be developed for chemicals with log K ow less than 3 which incorporates the partitioning of the chemical to the aqueous phase. For a more detailed explanation, see Appendix C of the Technical Support Document, July 1994.
