FR941216-1-00177 FR941216-1-00016 Section 611(e) allows any person to petition the Administrator to apply the labeling requirements to any product containing or manufactured with a class II substance. The statute requires that within 180 days after receiving such petition, the Administrator shall, pursuant to the criteria detailed above, either propose to apply the labeling requirements to the product or publish an explanation of the petition denial. If the Administrator proposes to apply such requirements to the product, the Administrator must render a final determination within one year after receiving the petition. Section 611(e) requires a showing by petitioners that there is adequate data supporting the petition and requires that if EPA finds that such information is not sufficient to make a determination, it shall use any authority it has to acquire such information. Any product the Administrator finds to be subject to the labeling requirements would have one year to comply with such requirements. On February 11, 1993, EPA's final rule promulgating regulations (40 C.F.R. Part 82 Subpart E - 40 C.F.R. ยง82.100 et.seq. ) to implement section 611 were published in the Federal Register (58 FR 8136). The Administrator did not at that time determine that any products containing or manufactured with class II substances were subject of the labeling requirements. The final regulations contained a section (40 CFR 82.120) setting forth EPA procedures for filing and reviewing petitions requesting that the labeling provisions apply to any product containing or manufactured with class II ODSs. (The section also applies to petitions to temporarily exempt products manufactured with class I ODSs.) II. Friends of the Earth Petition On November 7, 1994, EPA received a petition from Friends of the Earth, the Atmosphere Alliance, the Environmental Defense Fund, Greenpeace, the Natural Resources Defense Council, Ozone Action, Save Our Ozone and Save Our Stratosphere (petitioners), seeking a determination from EPA to require the labeling of all products containing class II ODSs and all products manufactured with a process using class II ODSs. Petitioners contend that there is considerable concern over the use of class II substances and their effect on the stratospheric ozone layer. Petitioners also contend that the evidence they provide shows that substitutes for class II substances are currently available. EPA is commencing a review of the petition and the supporting materials cited therein to determine whether to amend the labeling rule as requested in the petition. EPA is requesting comment from all interested persons regarding the petition and the contentions therein. In particular, EPA requests comment regarding whether the criteria of section 611(c) are met regarding particular uses of class II substances. EPA is interested in learning of any applications of specific class II substances for which it is believed that substitutes do or do not exist. The comment period shall extend until January 17, 1995. Richard D. Wilson, Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30948 Filed 12&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
