FR940920-2-00010 FR940920-2-00006 Finally, for those respondents who had related parties in the United States and did not report inventory carrying costs on their ESP sales, we calculated these costs for these respondents using an inventory carrying period of seven days. This is the maximum amount of time which may transpire between the time a rose is cut and when it must be sold to the ultimate customer, according to a public report by Harry K. Tayama, PhD., submitted by respondents in this investigation. For companies with sales to unrelated parties, we accepted that inventory carrying costs were included in U.S. credit expenses. We made company-specific adjustments, as discussed below: 1. Agrorosas S.A. For Agrorosas, U.S. purchase price was based on packed, f.o.b. prices to unrelated customers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for foreign inland freight. We calculated ESP based on packed prices to unrelated customers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for foreign inland freight, air freight, U.S. and Colombian indirect selling expenses, brokerage and handling charges, commissions, U.S. import duties, direct selling expenses, and credit expenses. 2. Flores La Fragancia S.A. For Flores La Fragancia S.A., we calculated purchase price based on packed, f.o.b. prices to unrelated customers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for discounts, foreign inland freight and air freight. We calculated ESP based on packed prices to unrelated customers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for discounts, foreign inland freight, air freight, credit expenses and U.S. and Colombian indirect selling expenses including inventory carrying costs. 3. Flores Mocari S.A. For Flores Mocari S.A., we calculated purchase price based on packed, f.o.b. prices to unrelated customers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for foreign inland freight, air freight and U.S. import duties. We calculated ESP based on packed prices to unrelated customers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for foreign inland freight, air freight, U.S. import duties, credit expenses and other direct selling expenses. Also, as described above, we deducted the greater of related party commissions or indirect selling expenses. 4. Grupo Bojaca For Grupo Bojaca, we calculated purchase price based on packed, f.o.b. prices to unrelated customers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for foreign inland freight. We calculated ESP based on packed prices to unrelated customers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for foreign inland freight, air freight, U.S. import duties, brokerage and handling and credit expenses. 5. Caicedo Group For Caicedo Group, we calculated purchase price based on packed, f.o.b. prices to unrelated customers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for discounts, foreign inland freight, air freight, U.S. import duties, and U.S. inland freight. We calculated ESP based on packed prices to unrelated customers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for discounts, Columbian Flower Council (CFC) fee, foreign inland freight, air freight, U.S. import duties, U.S. inland freight, repacking expenses, and credit expenses. Also, as described above, we deducted the greater of related party commissions or indirect selling expenses. 6. Grupo Clavecol For Grupo Clavecol, we calculated purchase price based on packed, f.o.b. prices to unrelated customers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for discounts and foreign inland freight. We calculated ESP based on packed prices to unrelated customers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for foreign inland freight, air freight, U.S. brokerage and handling charges, credit expenses and U.S. and Colombian indirect selling expenses including inventory carrying costs. Because Clavecol did not adequately support its reported interest rate, we used the highest public interest rate on the record in the companion investigation of roses from Ecuador which is a ranged value for a U.S. subsidiary of an Ecuadoran rose producer, Guaisa, of 10 percent ( See the September 12, 1994, concurrence memorandum and the September 9, 1994, memorandum to the file). 7. Grupo Floramerica For Grupo Floramerica, we calculated ESP based on packed prices to unrelated customers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for foreign inland freight, air freight, U.S. import duties, brokerage and handling, United States Department of Agriculture inspection fees, warranty expenses including billing credits, promotional fees, credit expenses and U.S., Panamanian and Colombian indirect selling expenses including inventory carrying costs. 8. Grupo Papagayo For Grupo Papagayo, we calculated purchase price based on packed, f.o.b. prices to unrelated customers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for foreign inland freight and other expenses. We calculated ESP based on packed prices to unrelated customers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for foreign inland freight, air freight, U.S. import duties, U.S. inland freight, brokerage and handling charges, Colombian indirect selling expenses including inventory carrying costs, direct selling expenses including credit, other expenses, and commissions paid to unrelated parties. 9. Grupo Sabana
