FR940826-1-00064 FR940826-1-00009 • Entrepreneurs' Blocks: To bid in the entrepreneurs' blocks, the applicant, including attributable investors and affiliates, must cumulatively have less than $125 million in gross revenues and less than $500 million in total assets. No individual attributable investor or affiliate may have $100 million or more in personal net worth. • Small Business: To qualify for special measures accorded a small business, the applicant, including attributable investors and affiliates, must cumulatively have not in excess of $40 million in gross revenues. No individual attributable investor or affiliate may have in excess of $40 million in personal net worth. (Note: this is the small business definition we have adopted above). We seek comments on whether in an entrepreneur's block we should define small businesses differently. Proposed Attribution Rules • Control Group. The gross revenues, total assets and personal net worth of certain investors are not considered so long as the applicant has a ``control group'' consisting of one or more individuals or entities that control the applicant, hold at least 25 percent of the equity and, for corporations, at least 50.1 percent of the voting stock. •The gross revenues, total assets and personal net worth of each member of the control group are counted toward the financial caps. • Other Investors. Where the applicant has a control group, the gross revenues, total assets and personal net worth of any other investor are not considered unless the investor holds 25 percent or more of the applicant's passive equity (which, for corporations, will include as much as 15 percent of the voting stock). • Passive Equity. Passive equity is limited partnership or non-voting stock interests or voting stock interests of 15 percent or less of the issued and outstanding voting stock. • Proposed Option for Minority or Woman-Owned Applicants. If the control group (consisting entirely of women and/or minorities) owns at least 50.1 percent of the equity and, or corporation, at least 50.1 percent of the voting stock, then the gross revenues, total assets and personal net worth of any other investor are not considered unless the investor holds more than 49.9 percent of the applicant's passive equity (which, for corporations, includes no more than as 15 percent of the voting stock). • Affiliates. The gross revenues, assets and personal net worth of outside interests held by the applicant (and the attributable investors in the applicant) are counted toward the financial caps if the applicant (or the attributable investors in the applicant) control or have power to control the outside interests or if the applicant (or the attributable investors in the applicant) is under the control of the outside interests. The financial interests of spouses are also attributed to each other. 2. Definition of Women and/or Minority-Owned Business 17. The points below summarize the two structural options proposed to be available to firms that wish to qualify for the special provisions adopted for businesses owned by minorities and women. These options will be discussed in more detail in the text that follows. 50.1 Percent Equity Option •If woman and/or minority principals control the applicant and own at least: •50.1 percent of the equity, and; •50.1 percent of the voting stock, in the case of corporations. •Then any other investor may hold: •not more than 49.9 percent of the passive equity (which, for corporations, includes as much as 15 percent of the voting stock). 25 Percent Equity Option •If women and/or minority principals control the applicant and own at least: •25 percent of the equity, and; •50.1 percent of the voting stock, in the case of corporations. •Then any other investor may hold: •25 percent or less of the passive equity (which, for corporations, includes as much as 15 percent of the voting stock). 18. We also request comment on alternatives intended to deter shams and fronts and to prevent abuse of the incentives for designated entities. The Commission would enforce vigorously any requirements adopted. These proposals include a holding and limited transfer period for licensees in the entrepreneurs' blocks and repayment provisions associated with bidding credits and installment payments. These steps and our eligibility and affiliation rules are intended to ensure that the benefits of any measures we take flow to the entities Congress intended. Ultimately, we believe that we will best fulfill our statutory mandate by creating powerful incentives for bona fide designated entities to attract the capital necessary to compete both in auctions for narrowband PCS and in the provision of service. We therefore specifically request that comments address in detail the impact any of these alternatives would likely produce on the opportunity for designated entities to acquire narrowband PCS licenses.
