FR940728-1-00039 FR940728-1-00013 Under its rules regarding access to records of personal information, the Commission assesses fees for copying, certifying, and validating documents. The Commission is reducing its per-page copying charge under these rules from 30 cents a page to 5 cents a page; this is consistent with the Commission's general copying charge. The Commission is increasing its fee for certification and validation of documents under these rules to $70 per document; this is also consistent with similar fees assessed elsewhere. The Commission is also clarifying and updating its policy contained in 46 CFR Part 503 regarding the waiver or reduction of service and filing fees. It is the general policy of the Commission not to waive or reduce service or filing fees. The Commission will, however, entertain requests for waiving or reducing fees based on public interest grounds or undue hardship. In a somewhat related matter, the Commission no longer publishes a guide on the shipping of automobiles, entitled Automobile Manufacturers Measurements. Therefore, the Commission proposes to delete the obsolete reference to this guide in 46 CFR Part 503. Freight Forwarder Fees Part 510 of the Commission's regulations, 46 CFR Part 510, contains fees associated with the filing of applications for ocean freight forwarder licenses. The Commission proposes to revise its fees under these regulations as follows: increase the license application fee to $687 from $350, increase the fee for reissuance of a license or status change application to $365 from $100, and increase the fee for supplemental investigations of pending license applications to $213 from $100. ATFI Fees The Commission's regulations on tariff filing, 46 CFR Part 514, 6 contain fees for filing applications requesting special permission to depart from established rules, and fees related to the Commission's Automated Tariff Filing and Information System (``ATFI''). The application fee for special permission requests will increase to $146 from $100. ATFI-related fees will go up as follows: 6 The Commission is not proposing any changes to Parts 550, Publishing, Filing, and Posting of Tariffs in Domestic Offshore Commerce, and 580, Publishing and Filing Tariffs by Common Carriers in the Foreign Commerce of the United States, because these parts are obsolete, are subsumed in Part 514, and will be removed in the near future. ␣ 1␣ 1Dollars ATFI Registration $162 Registration Changes 136 Certification of Software Functionality 359 Initial Set of ATFI Tapes 336 Daily Update of ATFI Tapes 61 Weekly Update of ATFI Tapes 86 Monthly Update of ATFI Tapes 136 Miscellaneous Tapes 61 Updates of ATFI tapes include a set number of tapes; if more tapes are required, the fee will increase by $25 per additional tape. The Commission currently charges the public, under section 502 of Public Law 102&hyph;582, 46 U.S.C. 1707a, 46 cents per minute for data retrieval from the ATFI database. 7 The Commission is not proposing any change in this charge at this time. Likewise, the Commission is not proposing any change in fees for ATFI user manuals. The Commission is studying its costs in these areas, and will propose revised fees in the future. 7 The Commission's authority to assess an ATFI retrieval fee, under section 502 of Pub. L. 102&hyph;582, expires on September 30, 1995. Financial Responsibility Certificate Fees Under 46 CFR Part 540, Security for the Protection of the Public, passenger vessel operators file applications for certificates to show that they have sufficient coverage to (1) Indemnify passengers for nonperformance of transportation, and (2) meet any liability incurred for death or injury. The Commission proposes to increase the filing fees for these certificates as follows: for certificate of performance, $1,874, and for certificate of casualty, $830. NVOCC List Fee The Commission provides, upon request, a listing of tariffed and bonded non-vessel-operating common carriers (``NVOCCs''). This list is used as proof by common carriers that listed NVOCCs are in compliance with the Commission's regulations, i.e., that they are tariffed and bonded. The Commission proposes to increase the charge for providing this list to $122. Those requesting the list can have the information in several forms: hard paper copy, diskette, or tape. In keeping with OMB guidelines, the Commission intends to update its fees on an annual basis. In updating its fees, the Commission will incorporate changes in the wages and salaries of its employees into direct labor costs associated with its services, and recalculate its indirect costs (overhead) based on current level costs. The Commission, in its latest amendment to 46 CFR Part 502, omitted a reference to Public Law 88&hyph;777 in its Authority statement (58 FR 36848, July 19, 1993). This omission is proposed to be corrected in this document. The Commission certifies pursuant to section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 605(b), that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, including small businesses, small organizational units, and small governmental jurisdictions. The Commission recognizes that these proposed fees may have some impact on the shipping industry, but not of the magnitude that would be contrary to the requirements of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. For the most part, entities impacted by the proposed increases are ocean common carriers, who traditionally have not been viewed as small entities. Fees collected from the general public for Commission information recover the total cost to the Commission for providing specific services. Fees for filing petitions, formal and informal complaints, in the Commission's view, do not impose an undue burden nor have a chilling effect on filers. Furthermore, Commission regulations provide for waiver of fees for those entities that can make the required showing of undue hardship. This proposed rule does not contain any collection of information requirements as defined by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, as amended. Therefore, OMB review is not required. List of Subjects 46 CFR Part 502 Administrative practice and procedure, Claims, Equal access to justice, Investigations, Lawyers, and Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 46 CFR Part 503 Classified information, Freedom of information, Privacy, and Sunshine Act. 46 CFR Part 510 Freight forwarders, Maritime carriers, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, and Surety bonds. 46 CFR Part 514 Freight, Harbors, Maritime carriers, and Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 46 CFR Part 540 Insurance, Maritime carriers, Penalties, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, and Surety bonds. 46 CFR Part 583 Freight, Maritime carriers, reporting and recordkeeping requirements, and Surety bonds.
