FR940603-0-00032 FR940603-0-00016 33 CFR Part 165 [CGD01&hyph;94&hyph;039] RIN 2115&hyph;AA97 Safety Zone; Town of Old Lyme, CT Fireworks Display AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Temporary final rule. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is establishing a safety zone in Long Island Sound, around the fireworks barge Walrus located approximately 1500 feet south of Sound View Beach, Old Lyme, CT on July 2, 1994. This safety zone is needed to protect the maritime community from possible navigation hazards associated with a fireworks display. Entry into this zone is prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port, Long Island Sound. EFFECTIVE DATES: This regulation is effective from 9 p.m. through 9:45 p.m. on July 2, 1994, unless extended or terminated sooner by the Captain of the Port. In case of inclement weather, this regulation will be effective on the rain date of July 3, 1994, at the same times. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lieutenant Commander T.V. Skuby, Chief of Port Operations, Captain of the Port, Long Island Sound at (203) 468&hyph;4464. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Drafting Information The drafters of this notice are LCDR T.V. Skuby, project officer for Captain of the Port, Long Island Sound, and LCDR J. Stieb, project attorney, First Coast Guard District Legal Office. Regulatory History As authorized by 5 U.S.C. 553, a notice of proposed rulemaking was not published for this regulation. The Coast Guard did not receive from the sponsor the final details concerning the event's times, which is essential information for the purposes of establishing a safety zone in sufficient time to publish a NPRM. If the event, which is centered around a national holiday, were required to be postponed by publishing a NPRM, the event would be cancelled. Publishing a NPRM and delaying the event would be contrary to the public interest since the fireworks display is for the benefit of the public. Background and Purpose The sponsor, the Town of Old Lyme, CT has requested that a 45 minute fireworks display, launched from a floating platform, be permitted in the port of Old Lyme in the vicinity of Sound View Beach, Old Lyme, CT. This zone is required to protect the maritime community from the dangers associated with this fireworks display which is occurring over Long Island Sound. The safety zone covers all waters of Long Island Sound within a 800 foot radius of the fireworks barge Walrus. Regulatory Evaluation This proposal is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this proposal to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary. The event will last approximately 45 minutes. The area affected by this event receives infrequent commercial traffic. Because of the short duration of the event and the extensive advisories which will be made, commercial entities will be able to adjust to any disruptions. Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), the Coast Guard must consider whether this proposal will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. ``Small entities'' include independently owned and operated small businesses that are not dominant in their field and that otherwise qualify as ``small business concerns'' under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632). For the reasons addressed under the Regulatory Evaluation above, the Coast Guard expects the impact of this regulation to be minimal and certifies under section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ) that this final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Collection of Information This rule contains no collection of information requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). Federalism The Coast Guard has analyzed this action in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and has determined that these regulations do not raise sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Environment The Coast Guard has considered the environmental impact of these regulations and concluded that under section 2.B.2.c. of Commandant Instruction M16475.1B, it is an action under the Coast Guard's statutory authority to protect public safety, and thus is categorically excluded from further environmental documentation. A Categorical Exclusion Determination will be made available in the docket. List of Subjects in 33 CFR Part 165 Harbors, Marine safety, Navigation (water), Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Security measures, Waterways.
