FR940725-1-00054 FR940725-1-00010 Proposed new paragraph (g) would require determining takeoff distance, accelerate-stop distance, takeoff distance and takeoff run, and landing distance on a smooth, dry, hard-surfaced runway. The FAA considers these limitations necessary for WAT limited airplanes since the WAT takeoff performance is only valid on a particular defined surface. The FAA does not consider the testing necessary to extend the same limitations to non-WAT airplanes burdensome to applicants since that information is already available in GAMA Spec. No. 1 AFM's. Additionally, the proposal allows for the derivation of landing and takeoff data on non-hard surfaces, such as grass and gravel and, thus, may not require additional flight testing. Proposed paragraph (h) is the same as current paragraph (e), which covers additional performance requirements for commuter category airplanes, except for some minor revisions. In the list of items to be determined in paragraph (h)(3), ``landing distance'' would not be included since it would already be covered in proposed §23.45(g). A reference to §23.67 in paragraph (h)(4) would be updated to be consistent with proposed revisions to that section in this notice; and the phrase ``missed approaches'' would be changed to ``discontinued approaches'' to be consistent with the proposed change to §23.143. Proposed paragraph (h)(5)(i) requiring that the procedures must be able to be consistently executed by a crew of average skill would have added to it ``in atmospheric conditions reasonably expected to be encountered in service.'' These clarifying words would also appear in paragraph (h). Section 23.49␣Stalling Speed Section 23.49 would be reorganized and edited for clarification. Currently the requirements for V S0 and V S1 are separated with parallel configuration items under paragraphs (a) and (d). The proposed clarification would merge the V S0 and V S1 requirements under paragraph (a). Existing paragraph (b) would be moved to paragraph (c) and existing paragraph (c) would be moved to paragraph (d). Existing paragraph (e) would become paragraph (b) and the thrust conditions in paragraph (f) would be incorporated under paragraph (a) items (1) and (2). Proposed changes to paragraph (a) are as follows: (1) Proposed paragraph (a)(4) would be a requirement that the airplane be in the condition existing in the test, in which V S0 and V S1 are being used. (2) Proposed paragraph (a)(5) would be a revised version of current paragraph (a)(6). The current requirement states that the center of gravity must be in the most unfavorable position within the allowable landing range. The proposed requirement would state that the center of gravity must be in the position that results in the highest value of V S0 and V S1 . (3) As mentioned under §23.45, the current paragraph (a)(5) would be moved to §23.45(c). All of the changes are clarifying and not an increase in requirements. Section 23.51␣Takeoff Speeds This proposal would revise the paragraph heading from ``Takeoff'' to ``Takeoff speeds'' and incorporate the takeoff speed requirements currently contained in §23.53. This revision to the heading and reorganization of takeoff requirements is proposed for harmony with JAR 23. Current §23.51(a) would be moved to §23.53(a). Current paragraph (a) requires that the distance required to take off and climb over a 50-foot obstacle must be determined with the engines operating within approved operating limitations and with cowl flaps in the normal takeoff position. These requirements as modified would be covered under proposed §§23.45 (c) and (d) and 23.1587. Current §23.51(b) in measuring seaplane and amphibian takeoff distances would be deleted because it is a statement of an acceptable method of compliance. Also, there is not a need for addressing a separate seaplane starting point. Current §23.51(c) concerning pilot skills and conditions would be deleted since it would be covered under the general requirements in proposed §23.45(f). Current §23.51(d) would be deleted because the requirements are partly covered under §23.45 in commuter category performance and other performance requirements. In addition, the information requirements would be covered under §23.1587. Subpart G, under which §23.1587 appears, is generally used to specify what information must be in the AFM.
