FR941025-2-00007 FR941025-2-00005 No harvest will occur within the Research Natural Areas, or within the one-quarter mile corridor of river segments eligible for wild or scenic classification. In moderate to high intensity burn areas, only dead trees will be harvested. In low intensity burn areas, dead and imminently dead trees (those with more than 75 percent of the crown scorched or infested with bark beetles) will be harvested. Snags required for wildlife habitat or shade for regeneration will be left in all areas. Protection of bald eagle and osprey roost trees will be achieved by maintaining a strip at least 200 feet wide along the North Fork Boise River. Trees may be removed for public safety. Visual quality objectives will be met on river segments eligible for recreational classification, and on trails and roads. Cultural resource sites will be protected. Riparian areas will be protected. Sensitive plant habitat which remains will be protected. The Cottonwood drainage is important for elk calving and big game summer range, and receives high levels of use from people. In recognition of this, the treatment prescription for this area will maintain security habitat for big game. On areas where surplus trees occur, a combination of helicopter, skyline, jammer and tractor systems will be used in the harvest effort. To protect watersheds and fisheries habitat, tractor logging will be limited to slopes less than 30 percent in moderate to high intensity burn areas, and less than 40 percent in low intensity burn areas. Harvest trees will be fully suspended from the ground during logging operations in riparian areas. One end suspension will be allowed in skyline areas unless analysis shows full suspension is needed to limit erosion. The Idaho Forest Practices Act and watershed and fisheries evaluation guidelines will be used to determine protection measures on streams. Some temporary road construction will be required to access helicopter landings. Minor amounts of reconstruction of existing roads will also be required. No roads or log landings will be constructed in the IRAs. Issues Initial scoping has indicated that a key issue to the Proposed Action is salvage harvesting in IRAs and the potential effect it may have on the wilderness attributes of the area. Alternatives to the Proposed Action Two alternatives to the Proposed Action have been identified. They are the No Action alternative and an alternative that would not include salvage harvesting in the IRAs. Other alternatives may be developed as issues are raised and information is received. Decision To Be Made The Boise National Forest Supervisor will decide the following: what amount, type and distribution of dead and imminently dead trees, within the fire areas are needed to maintain post-fire ecological function, how should dead and imminently dead trees within fire areas, not needed to maintain ecosystem function be harvested, and still protect those functions, and what forested acres need to be planted to aid ecosystem recovery. Public Involvement Meetings Open houses have been conducted in Boise and Idaho City, Idaho in October, 1994. Additional presentations will be made upon request. Agency/Public Contacts Contacts have been made with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service as to threatened and endangered species listed for the project area, area residents, conservation groups, and timber industry. A summary of the project methodology was mailed to key individuals, groups and agencies for a response to the Proposed Action and issues identification. This mailing list consisted of about 350 people who are generally interested in the Boise National Forest and Idaho City NEPA projects, and people who were interested in the Boise National Forest's Foothills Wildfire Timber Recovery Project in 1992. Schedule Draft Environmental Impact Statement, November 30, 1994. Final EIS, January, 1995. Implementation, March, 1995.
