FR941216-2-00156 FR941216-2-00091 (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change (a) On August 19, 1994, the Commission approved an NASD amendment to its PORTAL Rules that added a security application fee for PORTAL participants 1 applying for designation of any class of securities as a PORTAL security. 2 The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. operates the PORTAL Market for the quotation of securities that are restricted securities, as defined in Rule 144(a)(3) under the Securities Act of 1933 (``Securities Act''), or securities that are treated as if restricted. 3 In order to qualify for inclusion in the PORTAL Market, a security that is restricted or treated as if restricted must be eligible to be sold pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act, 4 be in negotiable form, and be assigned a CUSIP or other security identification number that is different from any identification number assigned to any unrestricted securities of the same class. Designation of a security as a PORTAL security permits the security to be assigned a CUSIP number by Standard & Poor's Corporation and be cleared and settled through the Depository Trust Company. 1 Section 2 of the PORTAL Rules permits any PORTAL participant to submit an application for security designation, rather than the issuer of the security. ``PORTAL participants'' include PORTAL dealers, PORTAL brokers, and PORTAL investors. The first two categories of PORTAL participants are required to be brokers and dealers registered with the Commission under Section 15 of the Act and members of the NASD. The third category of PORTAL participants are institutional investors that are not members of the NASD that meet the definition of ``qualified institutional buyer'' under Rule 144A. 2 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34562 (August 19, 1994), 59 FR 44210. 3 The PORTAL Rules provide that to qualify for initial designation and continued designation in the PORTAL Market, a security shall be either a restricted security, as defined in Rule 144(a)(3) under the Securities Act, or a security that upon issuance and continually thereafter only can be sold pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act, Rule 144A, or Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or in a transaction exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act pursuant to Section 4 of the Securities Act and not involving any public offering. 4 This provision requires that the security meet the requirements of Rule 144A(d) (3) and (4) under the Securities Act, which are, respectively, the ``fungibility'' and ``information delivery requirement'' conditions of Rule 144A. The security application fee required a fee of $2,000 per class of security covered by the security application and, as well, a fee of $200 for each assigned security symbol that is in addition to the first symbol assigned. The application fee rule language required that the NASD assess the $2,000 fee with respect to each separate class of security when one or more classes of securities are covered by a single security application. This is not the manner in which the NASD intended to implement the new fee. In the NASD's rule filing related to the new fee, SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;39, the NASD stated that the ``NASD is proposing to adopt a filing fee of $2,000 per security application submitted plus $200 for each security identification symbol assigned after the first symbol.'' The foregoing description more accurately described that the NASD intends to assess the new fee with respect to each security application submitted, rather than with respect to each class of security covered by the application. In order to clarify the rule language of the security application fee provision in Part IX, Section 1 of the PORTAL Rules, the NASD is proposing to amend Section 1 to provide that the PORTAL participants shall pay a filing fee of $2,000 for an application covering a security or group of identifiable securities issuable as part of a single private placement covered by the same offering documents, plus $200 per assigned security symbol that is in addition to the first symbol assigned. The NASD believes that the foregoing rule language makes clear that the $2,000 fee applies with respect to each private placement offering, notwithstanding that the offering may involve multiple issuers and contain multiple securities. The security application fee was effective August 19, 1994. In light of concerns that arose regarding the clarity of the rule language of the new provision in Article IX, Section 1, the NASD delayed implementation of the new fee in order to develop revised rule language that would more clearly indicate the intended application of the fee. The NASD is proposing to delay the implementation of the security application fee approved by the SEC in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34562 (August 19, 1994), 59 FR 44210 and the implementation of proposed rule change filed herein to January 3, 1995. (b) The NASD believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the provisions of Section 15A(b)(5) of the Act, which requires that the rules of the Association provide for the equitable allocation of reasonable dues, fees and other charges among members and issuers and other persons using any facility or system which the Association operates or controls in that the proposed rule change equitably applies a filing fee to all applications submitted by PORTAL dealers, PORTAL brokers, and PORTAL qualified investors for the designation of securities to the PORTAL Market.
