FR940524-2-00074 FR940524-2-00048 Policy Letter No. 93&hyph;1 [Reissued] To the Heads of Executive Departments and Establishments Subject: Management Oversight of Service Contracting May 18, 1994. 1. Purpose This Policy Letter establishes Government-wide policy, assigns responsibilities, and provides guiding principles for Executive Departments and agencies in managing the acquisition and use of services. 2. Authority This Policy Letter is issued pursuant to section 6(a) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy (OFPP) Act, as amended, codified at 41 U.S.C. Section 405. 3. Background On March 15, 1993, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Director Leon Panetta requested that 17 major Executive Departments and agencies review their service contracting programs. The purpose of the review was to determine (1) if the service contracts were accomplishing what was intended; (2) whether the contracts were cost effective; and (3) whether inherently governmental functions were being performed by contractors. The results of the reviews indicated that service contracting practices and capabilities are uneven across the Executive branch and that various common management problems need to be addressed. In addition to the Director's review, the National Performance Review has found that improved support for customers of the procurement system is needed. To do this it is important that procurement officials work closely with program and other officials to develop clear and precise statements of work for the products and services being acquired. Contracting for services is especially complex and demands close collaboration between procurement personnel and the users of the service to ensure that contractor performance meets contract requirements and performance standards. This Policy Letter_which includes appropriate changes from Supplement No. 1 [59 FR 4955 (1994)]_has been revised to provide agencies with a more results-oriented approach to managing and administering service contracts through the ``best practices'' concept. One way to achieve excellence in contractor performance is to improve the acquisition, management, and administration of service contracts. This Policy Letter provides guiding principles through the ``best practices'' concept that should help agencies develop, analyze, and perfect requirements for service contracts which, in turn, should help to improve contract management and administration. Other ``best practices'' models in contract management and administration will be issued as separate guidance. The guidance contained in the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular No. A&hyph;120, ``Guidelines for the Use of Advisory and Assistance Services,'' has been rescinded by Transmittal Memorandum No. 1, [58 FR 63593 (1993) and 59 FR 789 (1994)]. 4. Definition The following definitions are applicable to the Policy Letter: a. Services are identifiable tasks to be performed, rather than the delivery of an end item of supply. For purposes of this Policy Letter, only services obtained under nonpersonal services contracts are covered. b. Best Practices. For purposes of this Policy Letter, best practices are techniques that agencies may use to help detect problems in the acquisition, management, and administration of service contracts. Best practices are practical techniques gained from experience that agencies may use to improve the procurement process. 5. Exclusions Excluded from coverage of this Policy Letter are services that are (1) obtained through personnel appointments and advisory committees, (2) obtained through personal services contracts authorized by statute, (3) for construction, as defined in ยง36.102 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), or (4) obtained through interagency agreements where the work is being performed by in-house federal employees. Also excluded from coverage of this Policy Letter are services obtained under contracts below the small purchase threshold, and services incidental to supply contracts. However, agencies should ensure that they are in compliance with appropriate OFPP Policy Letters applicable to service contracting and use good management practices and contract administration techniques when using these contracting methods to obtain services.
