FR940128-1-00020 FR940128-1-00006 Meanwhile, processors and importers of scombrotoxin-forming species can exercise HACCP controls aimed at ensuring that their incoming raw materials or imported shipments have not been time/temperature abused. Because any HACCP plans for such processors or importers would be clearly inadequate if scombrotoxin were not identified as a hazard and appropriate controls were not in place and systematically monitored, processors and importers should consider placing time/temperature requirements on vessel owners as a prerequisite to doing business. HACCP can also be applied to control of hazards from chemical contaminants, even though the full range of possible chemical hazards is still imperfectly understood. Government and academia have important roles to play in researching the toxicities of these chemicals, in monitoring them, and in performing various forms of risk assessment. In some cases, these efforts may result in the establishment of national maximum limits. In other cases, regional advisories may be more appropriate. The seafood industry has a responsibility to know whether chemical hazards are associated with the species they are handling, whether the occurrence of such hazards depends on harvest site or other factors, and whether a sampling and analysis program on their part would be appropriate. Processors and importers should monitor the origin of raw materials and imported shipments to ensure, for example, that harvest did not occur in locations subject to public health advisories. These are but a few examples of environmentally related hazards to which HACCP can be applied. HACCP controls can also ensure that hazards are not being created inside a processing facility through improper handling, cooking, or storing. C. Regulatory Considerations From a regulatory standpoint, inspections of processing facilities and of importers' plans and records would become more efficient and would be likely to have a much greater impact if HACCP controls were in place. A key feature of an inspection system tied to implementation of HACCP is access by Government investigators to the HACCP plan and to monitoring records kept under that plan. In contrast to the ``snapshot'' provided by current inspections, examination of HACCP records will enable an investigator to see how the processing facility or the importer operates over time. It will enable an investigator to determine whether problems have occurred, and how they were addressed. It will also enable an investigator to spot trends that could lead to problems, and thus to help prevent them from occurring. Additionally, it will enable the regulator to review the adequacy of the processor's or importer's preventive control system itself. Under such an inspection system, inadequate preventive controls would warrant remedial or regulatory action regardless of whether the processor's or importer's product is actually contaminated or unsafe. HACCP is not a zero risk system, however. Problems in food production and processing will still occur. HACCP systems are designed to detect and document those problems, so that they can be corrected as quickly as possible. Thus, regulatory action would not be warranted on the basis of the mere occurrence of processing problems. It would be warranted, though, if the HACCP system is not functioning properly to detect and correct the problems, or if adulterated food is allowed to enter into commerce.
