FR940727-2-00056 FR940727-2-00028 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC Recommendations for Civilian Communities Near Chemical Weapons Depots: Guidelines for Medical Preparedness AGENCY: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Public Health Service, HHS. ACTION: Request for comment. SUMMARY: The National Center for Environmental Health, CDC, is recommending minimum standards for prehospital and hospital emergency medical services' readiness in communities near the eight locations where the U.S. stockpile of lethal chemical weapons is stored. DATES: Comments must be received on or before August 26, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to Director, National Center for Environmental Health, (NCEH), CDC, 4770 Buford Highway NE., Mailstop F29, Atlanta, GA 30341&hyph;3724. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Linda W. Anderson, Chief, Special Programs Group, NCEH, CDC, 4770 Buford Highway NE., Mailstop F29, Atlanta, GA 30341&hyph;3724, telephone (404) 488&hyph;7071. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: CDC Recommendations for Civilian Communities Near Chemical Weapons Depots: Guidelines for Medical Preparedness. I. Executive Summary In 1985, Congress mandated that unitary chemical warfare agents be destroyed in such a manner as to provide maximum protection for the environment, the public, and personnel involved in destroying the agents. The National Center for Environmental Health (NCEH), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), was delegated review and oversight responsibility for any Department of the Army (DA) plans to dispose of or transport chemical weapons (Public Law 91&hyph;121 and 91&hyph;441, Armed Forces Appropriation Authorization of 1970 and 1971). As part of its ongoing efforts to improve medical preparedness within the medical sector of civilian communities surrounding chemical agent depots, CDC has developed the following medical preparedness and response guidelines. These guidelines represent minimum standards of medical preparedness for civilian communities that might be exposed to chemical warfare agents during the incineration or storage process. These guidelines were developed in cooperation with a panel of recognized experts in the fields of emergency medicine, disaster preparedness, nursing, chemical warfare preparedness, and the prehospital emergency medical system. II. Background In 1985, Congress mandated that unitary chemical warfare agents be destroyed in such a manner as to provide maximum protection for the environment, the public, and the personnel involved in destroying the agents. This mandate was further defined in the Department of Defense (DOD) Authorization Act of 1986, Public Law 99&hyph;145. Consistent with its desire to promote the most environmentally safe method of destroying chemical agents, the National Research Council determined that incineration is the best method for disposing of the weapons(1). In 1988, The Authorization Act was amended to permit DA to set up a prototype incineration facility on Johnston Island in the Pacific in order to verify the safety of such an operation. To date, more than 700,000 pounds of chemical agent have been safely incinerated there. NCEH, CDC, was delegated the responsibility of reviewing and overseeing any DA plans to dispose of or transport chemical weapons (Public Law 91&hyph;121 and 91&hyph;441, Armed Forces Appropriation Authorization of 1970 and 1971). In addition, an interagency agreement between CDC and DA requires CDC to provide technical assistance to the DA in protecting the public health in nearby communities during the destruction of unitary chemical agents and weapon systems. Currently, large quantities of chemical warfare agents are stored in eight facilities in the continental United States. These chemical stockpiles consist primarily of nerve agents, mustard agents, or a combination of both. In Tooele, Utah, construction of the chemical agent incinerator is now complete, and destruction of the weapons and chemicals in this depot is scheduled to begin in Spring of 1995. To improve the ability of local health care personnel to handle emergencies related to a chemical agent release, CDC has presented medical preparedness courses to civilian medical personnel on sites adjacent to the eight chemical weapons depots on 13 occasions. Emergency physicians, nurses, internists, surgeons, hospital administrators, and prehospital emergency medical responders have attended these courses. As part of its ongoing efforts to improve medical readiness in civilian communities surrounding chemical agent depots, CDC developed medical preparedness and response guidelines. These guidelines represent minimum standards for medical preparedness in civilian communities that might be inadvertently exposed to chemical warfare agents during the incineration or storage process. These guidelines were developed in cooperation with a working group of recognized experts in the fields of emergency medicine, disaster preparedness, nursing, chemical stockpile emergency preparedness, and prehospital emergency medical systems. These guidelines do not supersede current medical and public health practices and requirements (e.g., precautions for handling bodily fluids). The following recommendations for civilian community response to the release of a chemical agent are divided into prehospital and hospital. The recommendations are designed to ensure high quality medical preparedness for chemical agent emergencies. Appendix A is a summary of important questions to ask when evaluating medical preparedness in the civilian prehospital and hospital environments. The prehospital environment encompasses all areas outside both the installation boundaries and the hospital grounds. People potentially affected in the prehospital environment include the general public, and first responders. First responders include police, sheriff's, and fire department personnel, hazardous materials response teams, and medical response teams (including emergency medical technicians, paramedics, and any other medically-trained personnel responding to the site of injury with the ambulance teams). The hospital environment includes primarily the emergency department but encompasses outside areas which might be used for triage and decontamination and other hospital departments which might support the hospital's response. III. Recommendations for Prehospital Medical Preparedness •Integrate all local medical emergency response plans related to the release of a chemical agent into the overall State or local disaster response plan.
