FR940511-2-00086 FR940511-2-00058 b. Does the proposed project address one of the listed topics/constituency groups in a relevant and thorough manner? 2. Approach/Method_Implementation and Activities: 30 points a. Does the application clearly express and organize an implementation plan which systematically includes specific objectives and tasks which will result in an effective mini-conference? b. Does the implementation plan include timelines for accomplishment of tasks and objectives? Is the sequence and timing of events logical and realistic? c. Do the proposed presenters have demonstrated qualifications which are appropriate for their roles? 3. Anticipated Outcomes: 30 points a. Does the proposal include a plan for advocacy which is likely to increase public awareness of the recommendations from the mini-conference? Is this advocacy plan adequate for communicating recommendations to all appropriate audiences? Does it provide a realistic plan to achieve implementation of the recommendations should they be adopted by the 1995 White Conference on Aging? 4. Level of Effort: 20 points a. Are the qualifications of the key organizers of the mini-conference appropriate for their roles? b. Does the organization have a track record which demonstrates its capability and knowledge to conduct the mini-conference? E. The Components of an Application To expedite the processing of applications, we request that you arrange the components of your application, the original and two copies, in the following order: •SF 424, Application for Federal Assistance; SF 424A, Budget, accompanied by your budget justification; SF 424B (Assurances); and the certification forms regarding lobbying; debarment, suspension, and other responsibility matters; and drug-free workplace requirements. Note: The original copy of the application must have an original signature in item 18d on the SF 424. •Proof of nonprofit status, as necessary: •Project summary description; •Program narrative. The original and each copy should be stapled securely (front and back if necessary) in the upper left corner. Pages should be numbered sequentially. In order to facilitate the handling and reproduction of the application for purposes of the review, please do not use covers, binders or tabs. F. Communications With WHCoA Do not include a self-addressed, stamped acknowledgment card. All applicants will be notified by mail of the receipt of their application and informed of the identification number assigned to it. This number should be referred to in all subsequent communication with WHCoA concerning the application. After an identification number is assigned and the applicant has been notified of the number, applications are filed numerically by identification number for quick retrieval. It will not be possible for WHCoA staff to provide a timely response to inquiries about a specific application unless the identification number is given. Applicants are advised that, prior to reaching a decision, the WHCoA will not release information relative to an application other than that it has been received and that it is being reviewed. Unnecessary inquiries delay the process. Once a decision is reached, the applicant will be notified as soon as possible of the acceptance or rejection of the application. G. Completing the Application To assist applicants in completing Forms SF 424 and SF 424A correctly, samples of completed forms have been provided as part of this announcement. These samples are to be used as a guide only. Be sure to submit your application on the blank copies. Please prepare your application consistent with the following guidance: 1. SF 424, Cover Page: Complete only the items specified in the following instructions: Item 1. Enter an ``X'' in the block marked Application_Non-construction. Item 2. Fill in the date you submitted the application. Leave the applicant identifier box blank. Item 3. Not applicable. Item 4. Leave blank. Item 5. Provide the legal name of applicant; the name of the primary organizational unit which will undertake the assistance activity; the applicant address; and the name and telephone number of the person to contact on matters related to this application. Item 6. Enter the employer identification number (EIN) of the applicant organization as assigned by the Internal Revenue Service. Please include the suffix to the EIN, if known. Item 7. Enter the appropriate letter in the box provided. Item 8. Place an ``X'' in the box marked New. Item 9. Enter the White House Conference on Aging. Item 10. Leave blank. Item 11. The title should describe concisely the nature of the project. Try not to exceed 10 to 12 words and 120 characters including spaces and punctuation. Item 12. Not applicable. Item 13. Enter the desired start date for the project and the desired end date for the project. The project must be completed by March 31, 1995. Item 14. List the applicant's Congressional District and the District(s), if any, directly affected by the proposed project. Item 15. Enter the funding request to the WHCoA under Item 15a, Federal. Enter the applicant's share of the project costs under 15b, Applicant. If there are third party contributions, enter those under Item 15e, Other. Enter the sum of these amounts under Item 15g, Total.
