FR940419-1-00018 FR940419-1-00006 The second category refers to situations in which there has been a contest either by the employer or by employees, resulting in the issuance of a decision or order by an ALJ. Under Section 12(j) of the OSH Act, 29 U.S.C. ยง661(j), a decision of an ALJ becomes a final order of the Commission thirty days ``after such report'' if no member of the Commission directs review of the case. Section 12(j) has been construed by the Commission to mean that the thirty-day period runs from the date on which the decision of the ALJ is docketed by the Commission. (See 29 CFR 2200.90(b)(2); Robert W. Setterlin & Sons Co., 4 BNA OSHC 1214 (No. 7377, 1976)). The third category refers to decisions issued by the Members of the Commission, including orders severing items from a case. Pursuant to Section 10(c) of the OSH Act, 29 U.S.C. ยง659(c), such decisions become final orders thirty days after their issuance, and the filing of petitions for review of these decisions in a court of appeals does not stay the employer's abatement obligation unless a stay has been expressly ordered. The fourth category addresses the two situations in which the start of an employer's abatement obligation depends on action by a court. In those cases in which a court of appeals stays an abatement requirement, the abatement requirement starts when the court issues its mandate or an equivalent order following a decision of the court upholding the Commission's affirmance of the citation. In those cases where the Commission did not affirm a citation but the court reverses that decision, the abatement obligation starts upon the court's issuance of its mandate or equivalent order unless the court remands the case to the Commission for the issuance of an appropriate Commission order. In that situation, the abatement period starts when the Commission's order becomes final thirty days after its issuance. PMA final order. This is the order approving, modifying or rejecting the employer's request for additional time to complete the abatement requirements of the citation. Paragraph (c), Abatement Certificate Paragraph (c)(1) specifies the minimum content of the abatement certificate; (c)(2) provides special procedures for reissuing an abatement certificate for those situations where abatement was not initially completed; and (c)(3) allows an employer to combine the individual certifications of hazard abatement into one certificate. Paragraph (c)(4) of the proposed regulation requires the abatement certificate to be accompanied by ``documentary evidence.'' OSH envisions ``documentary evidence'' to be any type of document which provides evidence that a violative condition which was cited has, in fact, been abated. The examples of documentary evidence which follow are provided in order to clarify OSHA's intent and are not to be considered as the only methods which would be acceptable to the Agency, nor are they automatically accepted in all cases: (1) An invoice or receipt for purchase or disposal of goods and services; (2) analyses or reports from industrial hygienists, engineers, or other experts indicating the methods by which the extent to which the hazardous condition has been abated; (3) a manufacturer's recertification for repaired equipment; (4) contracts and specifications for services; (5) training records, programs, and attendance sheets; (6) in-house certification; (7) photographic prints depicting the abated condition which have been labeled appropriately with the citation and item references as they appeared on the citation; and (8) videotape with concise audio and/or visual identification for the citation reference. Paragraph (d), Abatement Plan Paragraph (d) of the proposed regulation refers to written abatement plans. OSHA currently requests employers to submit abatement plans when the Area Director finds them appropriate in connection with safety or health violations. The proposed regulation would give the Area Director discretion to require abatement plans with respect to either safety or health violations. Paragraph (e), Progress Reports
