FR940504-0-00010 FR940504-0-00003 12 CFR Parts 225 and 265 [Regulation Y; Docket No. R&hyph;0773] Bank Holding Companies and Change in Bank Control; Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority AGENCY: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: On August 12, 1992, the Board approved several proposals to change certain procedures for obtaining Board approval of various applications and notices filed under the Federal Reserve Act, the Bank Holding Company Act, the Bank Merger Act, the Change in Bank Control Act and various other statutes. All but one of these changes to the Board's application and notice review procedures were implemented by the Board at that time. Most of these changes involved revising certain internal procedures of the Federal Reserve System (System), to improve the efficiency of processing applications that are reviewed by the Board in conjunction with the Reserve Banks and to reduce the regulatory burden associated with these application and notice procedures. Two of the changes_eliminating the stock redemption notice requirement for ``well-capitalized'' bank holding companies, and modifying the Board's delegation rules pertaining to competition and market concentration_necessitate amendments to certain provisions of, respectively, the Board's Regulation Y and Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority. EFFECTIVE DATE: May 4, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Terence F. Browne, Senior Attorney (202/452&hyph;3707), Legal Division; or Sidney M. Sussan, Assistant Director (202/452&hyph;2638), John S. Russell, Manager_Applications Processing (202/452&hyph;2466), or Beverly Evans, Supervisory Financial Analyst (202/452&hyph;2573), Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation. For the hearing impaired only, Telecommunications Device for the Deaf (TDD), Dorothea Thompson (202/452&hyph;3544). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background As part of the Board's ongoing efforts to reduce the regulatory burden associated with its application and notice procedures, in 1992 the Board approved a number of steps to reduce the burden associated with these procedures. 1 Although all but one of these streamlining initiatives became effective upon publication in the Federal Register , 2 two of the initiatives require that the Board's Regulations be amended to reflect the changes. 1 See 57 FR 39641 (September 1, 1992). These changes included establishing certain procedures to limit extension of the pre-acceptance period for applications; offering prospective applicants the opportunity to submit a pre-filing notice of intent to file an application; eliminating the stock redemption notice requirement for bank holding companies that are and, following the redemption would remain, ``well-capitalized'' on a consolidated basis and in generally satisfactory condition; expanding the authority of Reserve Banks to process all delegable applications without Board staff review; modifying the Board's delegation rules pertaining to competition and market concentration; reducing redundant post-acceptance processing of Board action cases; increasing the monitoring of cases requiring extended processing; and establishing a general consent procedure under section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act for investments by state member banks in bank premises. In publishing notice of these changes, the Board also invited comment on any additional measures to eliminate or reduce burden associated with the Board's notice and application procedures. The comments received will be considered by the Board in its ongoing efforts to streamline and reduce the regulatory burden associated with the Board's notice and application procedures. 2 The Board is currently finalizing a separate regulation implementing a general consent procedure for investments in bank premises pursuant to section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act. Currently, §225.4(b)(1) of Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.4(b)(1)) requires a bank holding company to give the Board prior notice of certain purchases or redemptions of its equity securities: (b) Purchase or redemption by a bank holding company of its own securities _(1) Filing notice. A bank holding company shall give the Board prior notice before purchasing or redeeming its equity securities, if the gross consideration for the purchase or redemption, when aggregated with the net consideration paid by the company for all such purchases or redemptions during the preceding 12 months, is equal to 10 percent or more of the company's consolidated net worth. For the purposes of this section, ``net consideration'' is the gross consideration paid by the company for all of its equity securities purchased or redeemed during the period minus the gross consideration received for all of its equity securities sold during the period other than as part of a new issue. The Board determined to eliminate this notice requirement for bank holding companies that are and, following the redemption or purchase, would remain ``well-capitalized'' on a consolidated basis and in generally satisfactory condition. The Board believes that a bank holding company would qualify for this exception to the notice requirement if: •The total and tier 1 risk-based capital ratios and the leverage capital ratio for the bank holding company, both before and following the redemption, exceed the thresholds established for ``well-capitalized'' state-member banks under 12 CFR 208.33(b)(1) as if the bank holding company (on a consolidated basis) were deemed to be a state-member bank; •The bank holding company received a composite ``1'' or ``2'' rating at its most recent BOPEC inspection, and •The bank holding company is not the subject of any unresolved supervisory issues. The Board also determined to revise its delegation rules pertaining to competition and market concentration. If a party submits an application or notice to the System pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act, Change in Bank Control Act, Bank Merger Act, or the Bank Service Corporation Act, the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority (12 CFR 265.1&hyph;265.11), permit the appropriate Reserve Bank to act on such application or notice unless certain circumstances are present. Specifically, §265.11(c)(11)(v) of the Board's Rules provide that a Reserve Bank is not authorized to approve the following transactions: (v) With respect to BHC formations, bank acquisitions or mergers, the proposed transaction involves two or more banking organizations: (A) That upon consummation of the proposal, would control over 30 percent of total deposits in banking offices in the relevant geographic market, or would result in an increase of at least 200 points in the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index (HHI) in a highly concentrated market (a market with a post-merger HHI of at least 1800); or (B) Where divestitures designed to address any substantive anticompetitive effects are not effected on or before consummation of the proposed transaction[.] The Board determined to revise its Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority to increase the resulting market share criterion that would require Board consideration of a bank merger or acquisition from 30 percent to 35 percent. In particular, the Reserve Banks may now act on applications involving two or more banking organizations that, upon consummation of the proposed transaction, would control 35 percent or less of total deposits in banking offices in the relevant geographic market. This change would also reflect the Board's practice, in computing market share, of weighing deposits of thrifts in the subject market at 50 percent. As part of this change to the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority, the Board also determined to eliminate the need for Board approval of applications involving divestitures designed to address anticompetitive effects, which divestitures are not completed on or before consummation of the proposed transaction. 3 As a result, the Federal Reserve Banks may now act on applications involving proposed divestitures to address competitive concerns, provided the divestitures are undertaken in accordance with the Board's position on the timing of divestitures. 4 3 See 57 FR 39641 (September 1, 1992). 4 See id.; see also BankAmerica Corporation, 78 Federal Reserve Bulletin 338, 340 n.15 (1992).
