FR940106-0-00047 FR940106-0-00016 Comment: A number of the commenters believe that certain of our proposed changes at §§421.124 and 421.203 are unnecessary. Those changes would allow the Secretary to take adverse action if an intermediary or carrier exceeds the amount the Secretary finds to be reasonable and adequate to meet the costs which must be incurred by an efficiently and economically operated intermediary or carrier, notwithstanding whether the intermediary or carrier meets the published criteria and standards. Both the intermediary and carrier contracts currently have a provision to allow the Secretary to request a committee of the contractors to assist in efforts to effect improvements in the high cost contractor's performance. In addition, the current Contractor Performance Evaluation Program (CPEP) contains measures on contractor costs. If a contractor fails to meet the applicable criteria, its CPEP score is reduced accordingly. Response: We do not agree that the proposed changes are unnecessary. This section of the regulation would authorize us to take adverse action for deficient performance of a function not specifically evaluated by CPEP. Currently, CPEP only measures contractor performance in meeting the approved budget and the contractor's relative standing among similar contractors. Moreover, beginning in FY 1993, CPEP eliminated the concept of passing/failing the overall evaluation. Passing/failing now is determined on a standard by standard basis. For example, if a contractor fails to meet the approved budget, it will fail one standard in CPEP, not the entire CPEP. Thus, despite CPEP, the authority to take adverse contract action against high cost intermediaries and carriers is necessary. As the commenters note, current contracts allow the Secretary to request a committee of the contractors to assist in efforts to effect improvements in the high cost contractor's performance. The proposed regulatory change allows us to take the next logical step in the event efforts to effect improvement have failed. We will have authority to take adverse action based on continued high cost performance. Comment: Several commenters stressed that the proposed §421.124 and §421.203 were vague. They asked that HCFA further define ``reasonable'' amount, and how and when high cost would be calculated. Response: We believe that the provisions at §421.124 and §421.203 are clear and straightforward. It is our responsibility to consider the funding levels that are reasonable and adequate to meet the costs incurred by an efficiently and economically operated contractor. To address this responsibility, we develop unit cost targets for each contractor prior to the start of every fiscal year. These unit cost targets are forwarded to the HCFA regional offices as part of the Budget and Performance Requirements (BPRs) package and represent the benchmark for the negotiations between the regional offices and the contractors.
