FR940603-2-00163 FR940603-2-00092 Grant Period and Award Amount . The period of performance will be twelve months from the date of the grant award. A total of $2.25 million is available for this technical assistance grant program; it is anticipated that grants will be awarded in amounts ranging from $85,000 to $200,000. However, the estimated funding level in this notice does not bind the Department of Justice to make any awards or to any specific number of awards or funding levels. Application Deadline . Applications must be received by the close of business (5:30 p.m. EST) on August 2, 1994 at the Public Access Section, Civil Rights Division, U.S. Department of Justice, P.O. Box 66738, or 1425 New York Ave., NW., room 4039, Washington, DC 20035&hyph;6738. Applications may not be sent by Fax. Applications received after 5:30 p.m. on August 2, 1994 will not be considered for award, even if the application was postmarked before that date. Incomplete applications will not be considered for award. In order to be considered complete, an original and two copies of the application packet described in the Application Requirements section must be submitted. Program Priorities Since the inception of the ADA Technical Assistance Grant Program in 1991, the Department has funded over 30 projects, with the primary focus being to educate entities and individuals with responsibilities and rights under titles II and III of the ADA. Many of the audiences targeted have been those with title III responsibilities, including owners and operators of retail stores, supermarkets, hotels and motels, day care centers, and health care and other service providers. Projects directed toward educating those with obligations under title II have included law enforcement agencies, state court systems, 911/emergency response operators, city and town governing bodies, and publicly funded hospitals and other health care services. Targeted audiences have also included people with disabilities with rights under titles II and/or III. As the purpose of the Grant Program is to promote and facilitate voluntary compliance with the ADA, the Department believes that it is necessary to identify, educate and work with professionals at the local, State, and regional level who, because of their professional or technical expertise, provide services to the above audiences and may assist them in understanding and complying with the requirements of the Act. For this reason, the Department has expressed a particular interest in receiving proposals that target this specific audience in the following six priority areas: Priority 1: Dissemination of ADA informational materials to architects and other design professionals at the local, State, and regional level . Architects and other design professionals play an essential role in ensuring that newly constructed facilities and additions or alterations to existing facilities are designed and built in accordance with the ADA Standards for Accessible Design. Businesses, State and local governments, service agencies and other ADA covered entities rely on the knowledge and expertise of the architect; they expect that the professional will design a building or facility that will meet a myriad of needs, one of which is compliance with the ADA Standards for Accessible Design. With access to educational materials and services, architects and design professionals at the local level can help business owners comply with the ADA and reduce claims of discrimination by people with disabilities based on inaccessible facilities or elements. Since the enactment of the ADA, a wealth of educational material on complying with the accessible design requirements has been developed by Federal agencies to be used by entities and individuals with responsibilities and rights under the ADA and professionals who may provide services that will assist these groups in understanding and complying with the requirements of the Act. Examples of such information include the Department of Justice's ADA Standards for Accessible Design , and titles II and III Technical Assistance Manuals ; the Access Board's ADA Accessibility Guidelines Checklist and various Technical Assistance Bulletins (addressing accessibility topics such as detectable warnings, visual alarms, TTYs, slip-resistant surfaces and using ADAAG). Other materials have been produced through federally funded grant programs and examples include DOJ funded projects such as the American Hotel and Motel Association's Accommodating All Guests compliance manual, the Food Marketing Institute's ADA Starter Kit for Supermarkets and the ADA Compliance Manual for Supermarkets , and the National Restaurant Association's ADA: Answers for Foodservice Operators compliance manual and A Warm Welcome videotape on compliance for the food service industry. Examples of grants funded through the National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research (NIDRR) include numerous ADA Design Tech Sheets (illustrated technical materials addressing such topics as signage, areas of rescue assistance, accessible route, ATMs, curb ramps, ground and floor surfaces, etc.), and the Title II Action Guide for State and Local Governments . The Government has also created a variety of informational services, such as the Department of Justice's toll-free ADA Information Line, through which individuals can speak directly with an ADA Specialist, or access recorded information about the requirements of the ADA 24 hours a day. Information about the ADA may also be downloaded through the Department's Electronic Bulletin Board. Similar services are available through other Federal agencies. Despite the existence of these materials, many of which are available free of charge from the Department and other Federal agencies, many professionals at the local level are unaware of their availability and continue to design and build facilities that do not comply with the ADA Standards for Accessible Design. The goal of Priority 1 is to develop a nationwide system to inform architects and design professionals about the ADA and the availability of these informational materials and services to ensure dissemination of existing ADA materials to practicing architects and other design professionals at the local level. The project should utilize existing channels, such as professional and trade organizations, trade publications, meetings, and electronic media to inform as wide an audience of design professionals as possible of the availability of informational materials and services and to assist with dissemination. In establishing this system, the project should seek to establish links between existing Federal information resources and private dissemination channels and implement an approach through which the Department can continue to disseminate new materials to targeted audiences, as they are developed, on an on-going, long-term basis following the conclusion of the grant period. Types of mechanisms that could be used to accomplish this might include the development of articles for publication in trade journals, the distribution of sample or resource packets to architectural libraries, the presentation of information about the ADA and the availability of Federal resources and materials through computer networks and electronic media, etc.
