FR940630-2-00180 FR940630-2-00128 Appendix E Supportive Housing Technical Assistance Regulation 24 CFR 583.140 [The text of §583.140 is republished for informational purposes.] §583.140␣Technical assistance. (a) General. HUD will set aside up to two percent of the amount available annually for the Supportive Housing program to provide technical assistance under this part. (b) Technical assistance. Funds are available to organizations or individuals to provide applicants (or prospective applicants) and recipients with skills or knowledge to help them plan, develop, administer, and/or evaluate their supportive housing program or specific activities more effectively. The assistance may include, but is not limited to, written information such as papers, monographs, manuals, guides, and brochures; person-to-person exchanges; and training such as seminars, classes, workshops, and meetings. (c) Selection of providers. From time to time, as HUD determines the need, HUD will advertise and competitively select providers to deliver assistance to Supportive Housing program recipients or applicants (or prospective applicants). HUD may enter into contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements, as appropriate, to implement the technical assistance. Appendix F CDBG Technical Assistance Program Regulations, 24 CFR 570.402 [The text of §570.402 is republished for informational purposes.] §570.402␣Technical assistance awards. (a) General. (1) The purpose of the Community Development Technical Assistance Program is to increase the effectiveness with which States, units of general local government, and Indian tribes plan, develop, and administer assistance under Title I and section 810 of the Act. Title I programs are the Entitlement Program (24 CFR part 570, subpart D); the section 108 Loan Guarantee Program (24 CFR part 570, subpart M); the Urban Development Action Grant Program (24 CFR part 570, subpart G); the HUD-administered Small Cities Program (24 CFR part 570, subpart F); the State-administered Program for Non-Entitlement Communities (24 CFR part 570, subpart I); the grants for Indian Tribes program (24 CFR part 571); and the Special Purpose Grants for Insular Areas, Community Development Work Study and Historically Black Colleges and Universities (24 CFR part 570, subpart E). The section 810 program is the Urban Homesteading Program (24 CFR part 590). (2) Funding under this section is awarded for the provision of technical expertise in planning, managing or carrying out such programs including the activities being or to be assisted thereunder and other actions being or to be undertaken for the purpose of the program, such as increasing the effectiveness of public service and other activities in addressing identified needs, meeting applicable program requirements (e.g., citizen participation, nondiscrimination, OMB Circulars), increasing program management or capacity building skills, attracting business or industry to CDBG assisted economic development sites or projects, assisting eligible CDBG subrecipients such as neighborhood nonprofits or small cities in how to obtain CDBG funding from cities and States. The provision of technical expertise in other areas which may have some tangential benefit or effect on a program is insufficient to qualify for funding. (3) Awards may be made pursuant to HUD solicitations for assistance applications or procurement contract proposals issued in the form of a publicly available document which invites the submission of applications or proposals within a prescribed period of time. HUD may also enter into agreements with other Federal agencies for awarding the technical assistance funds: (i) Where the Secretary determines that such funding procedures will achieve a particular technical assistance objective more effectively and the criteria for making the awards will be consistent with this section; or (ii) The transfer of funds to the other Federal agency for use under the terms of the agreement is specifically authorized by law. The Department will not accept or fund unsolicited proposals. (b) Definitions. (1) Areawide planning organization (APO) means an organization authorized by law or local agreement to undertake planning and other activities for a metropolitan or non-metropolitan area. (2) Technical assistance means the facilitating of skills and knowledge in planning, developing and administering activities under Title I and section 810 of the Act in entities that may need but do not possess such skills and knowledge, and includes assessing programs and activities under Title I.
