FR941202-2-00014 FR941202-2-00007 In its response, the GOI asserts that the steel and automobile industries did not receive a ``disproportionate'' share of benefits associated with interest contributions when the extent of government investment in those industries is compared to the extent of investment in other industries. However, in keeping with past practice, we did not consider the level of investment in the individual industries receiving benefits under Law 675/77. Instead, we followed the analysis outlined in Grain-Oriented Electrical Steel and Final Affirmative Countervailing Duty Determination: Certain Steel Products from Brazil, 58 FR 37295, 37295 (July 9, 1993), of comparing the share of benefits received by the steel industry to the collective share of benefits provided to other users of the programs. According to the information provided by the GOI, the two dominant users of the interest contribution program were (1) the Italian steel industry which accounted for 33 percent of the benefits, and (2) the auto industry which accounted for 34 percent of the benefits. Likewise, with respect to the mortgage loans, the two dominant users were the auto and steel industries which received 45 percent and 31 percent of the benefits, respectively. In light of the above evidence, we preliminarily determine that the steel industry was a dominant user of both the interest contribution and the mortgage loan programs under Law 675/77 because the steel industry has been a dominant user of these programs. ( See section 355.43(b)(2)(iii) of the Proposed Regulations. ) Therefore, we preliminarily determine that benefits received by Dalmine under these programs are being provided to a specific enterprise or industry or group of enterprises or industries. On this basis, we preliminarily find Law 675/77 financing to be countervailable. Under the interest contribution program, Italian commercial banks provided loans to industries designated under Law 675/77. According to the responses of the GOI and Dalmine, the interest owed by the recipient companies was partially offset by interest contributions from the GOI. Dalmine received bank loans with interest contributions under Law 675/77 which were outstanding in the POI. Because Dalmine knew that it would receive the GOI interest contributions over the life of the loan when it obtained the loans, we consider the contributions to constitute reductions in the interest rates charged rather than grants ( see Certain Steel from Italy at 37335). Under the mortgage loan program, the GOI provides long-term loans at subsidized interest rates. Dalmine received financing under this program which was outstanding in the POI. To determine whether these programs conferred a benefit, we compared the effective interest rate paid by Dalmine to the benchmark interest rate, discussed above. Based on this comparison, we preliminarily determine that the financing provided under these programs is inconsistent with commercial considerations, i.e., on terms more favorable than the benchmark financing. To calculate the benefit from these programs, we used our standard long-term loan methodology as described in section 355.49(c)(1) of the Proposed Regulations. We then divided the benefit allocated to the POI for each program by Dalmine's total sales in 1993. On this basis, we determine the net subsidy from these programs to be 0.47 percent ad valorem for all manufacturers, producers, and exporters in Italy of the subject merchandise. With respect to retraining grants provided to Dalmine under Law 675/77, it is the Department's practice to treat training benefits as recurring grants. ( See Certain Steel General Issues Appendix at 37226). Since the only grant reported under this program was received by Dalmine in 1986, any benefit to Dalmine as a result of this grant cannot be attributed to the POI. Therefore, we determine that retraining benefits provided under Law 675/77 conferred no benefit to Dalmine during the POI. B. Grants Under Law 193/84 According to the GOI, Articles 2, 3, and 4 of Law 193/84 provide for subsidies to close steel plants. As stated in Art. 20 of Law N. 46 of 17/2/1982, steel enterprises producing seamless pipes, welded pipes, conduits and welded pipes for water and gas are the recipients of these subsidies. As benefits under this program are limited to the steel industry, we preliminarily determine that Law 193/84 is de jure specific and, therefore, countervailable. In this investigation, information provided by Dalmine indicates that the company received grants under Law 193/84. To calculate the benefit during the POI, we used our standard grant methodology ( see section 355.49(b) of the Proposed Regulations ). We then divided the benefits attributable to Dalmine under Law 193/84 in the POI by Dalmine's total sales. On this basis, we determine the estimated net subsidy to be 0.75 percent ad valorem for all manufacturers, producers, and exporters in Italy of the subject merchandise.
