FR941110-0-00007 FR941110-0-00003 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;197&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;9054; AD 94&hyph;22&hyph;05] Airworthiness Directives; Fokker Model F28 Mark 0100 Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD), applicable to certain Fokker Model F28 Mark 0100 series airplanes, that requires inspections to detect cracks of certain demountable flange (inboard) wheel subassemblies and of the bolt bosses on certain demountable flange (outboard) wheel subassemblies, and modification or replacement of the wheel subassemblies. This amendment is prompted by reports of cracks and broken spokes found on certain main wheel assemblies of these airplanes. The actions specified by this AD are intended to prevent loss of a main wheel assembly during takeoff or landing. DATES: Effective December 12, 1994. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in the regulations is approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of December 12, 1994. ADDRESSES: The service information referenced in this AD may be obtained from Fokker Aircraft USA, Inc., 1199 North Fairfax Street, Alexandria, Virginia 22314. This information may be examined at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, Rules Docket, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Tim Dulin, Aerospace Engineer, Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2141; fax (206) 227&hyph;1320. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A proposal to amend part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 39) to include an airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain Fokker Model F28 Mark 0100 series airplanes was published in the Federal Register on February 28, 1994 (59 FR 9450). That action proposed to require inspections to detect cracks of certain demountable flange (inboard) wheel subassemblies and of the bolt bosses on certain demountable flange (outboard) wheel subassemblies, and modification or replacement of the wheel subassemblies. Interested persons have been afforded an opportunity to participate in the making of this amendment. Due consideration has been given to the comments received. One commenter supports the proposed rule. One commenter requests that proposed paragraphs (a) and (b) be revised to provide credit for inspections accomplished within the last 500 landings before the final rule becomes effective. This commenter has been performing the repetitive inspections proposed in the AD. The commenter indicates that accomplishment of these inspections has proven to provide an acceptable level of safety by detecting all cracking before a critical cumulative defect size has been exceeded. The FAA does not concur with the commenter's request. The FAA finds that the requested change is unnecessary because such credit is provided by the statement in the AD, ``Required as indicated, unless accomplished previously.'' Any operator that has accomplished the required inspections may take credit for those inspections provided that the repetitive inspections are accomplished in accordance with the requirements of this AD. The same commenter also requests that paragraphs (a)(1) and (b)(1) of the proposed rule be revised to clarify that the modification must be accomplished prior to further flight following the third inspection accomplished after the effective date of the AD. Since the commenter has been conducting the proposed inspections, the FAA infers from this commenter's request that it would like credit for those inspections without having to modify the wheel subassemblies sooner than the AD would require had the operator not conducted any inspections. The FAA concurs that clarification is necessary, and has revised paragraphs (a)(1) and (b)(1) of the final rule to clarify its intent that the modification must be accomplished prior to further flight following the third inspection accomplished after the effective date of this AD. This commenter also requests that paragraph (c) of the proposed rule be revised to delete the words ``and modified.'' The commenter points out that wheel subassemblies that are inspected in accordance with the proposal may remain in service until the third inspection after the effective date of the AD, at which time those subassemblies must be modified. Therefore, a wheel subassembly that has been inspected in accordance with the proposed rule would be considered to be safe. The FAA finds that clarification is necessary. Paragraph (c) of the final rule has been revised to specify that certain parts may not be installed on the airplane unless the part has been inspected and subsequently modified in accordance with the requirements of this AD. The FAA has revised paragraphs (a)(2) and (b)(2) of the final rule to indicate that the replacement procedures required by those paragraphs are found in the Airplane Maintenance Manual. This information was omitted inadvertently from the proposal. After careful review of the available data, including the comments noted above, the FAA has determined that air safety and the public interest require the adoption of the rule with the changes previously described. The FAA has determined that these changes will neither increase the economic burden on any operator nor increase the scope of the AD. The FAA estimates that 87 airplanes of U.S. registry will be affected by this AD, that it will take approximately 14 work hours per airplane to accomplish the required actions, and that the average labor rate is $55 per work hour. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $66,990, or $770 per airplane. The total cost impact figure discussed above is based on assumptions that no operator has yet accomplished any of the requirements of this AD action, and that no operator would accomplish those actions in the future if this AD were not adopted. The regulations adopted herein will not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this final rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. For the reasons discussed above, I certify that this action (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979); and (3) will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A final evaluation has been prepared for this action and it is contained in the Rules Docket. A copy of it may be obtained from the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES .
