FR940128-1-00107 FR940128-1-00006 4. Special Considerations. For the cooking of blue crab (Callinectes sapidus ), dungeness crab ( Cancer magister ), or king crab ( Paralithodes camtschatica ), the known lethality of the cooking process necessary to make the product generally acceptable for human consumption, or to enable further processing, is sufficient so that the adequacy of the process and the equipment can normally be assumed. b. Pasteurization 1. The Pasteurization Process. The processor must be able to demonstrate to itself and to FDA that its pasteurization process ensures the adequate reduction of numbers of viable spores of microorganisms of public health concern. One way to accomplish this is to have a pasteurization process that is equivalent to a process established by a process authority. To demonstrate equivalence, a processor should have on file in its HACCP records a document that: i. Describes the results of a scientific evaluation conducted by a process authority of the adequacy of the pasteurization process; and that ii. Identifies and establishes values for those key aspects of the process, or of the product, that may affect the adequate reduction in numbers of microorganisms of public health concern. At a minimum, these values should include pasteurization times and temperatures. Such document may consist of, but should not be limited to, a letter from a process authority, articles in scientific journals, or Federal, State or local government regulations or advisories. Failure to have documentation that the pasteurization process will achieve its goal will violate 21 CFR 123.8 and will mean that the product produced by the processor will be produced under insanitary conditions whereby it may be rendered injurious to health. 2. Pasteurization Equipment Design. i. The processor must be able to demonstrate to itself and to FDA that its pasteurization equipment can deliver the pasteurization process that ensures the adequate reduction of viable spores of microorganisms of public health concern. One way to accomplish this is to have on file a document that describes the results of a scientific evaluation conducted by a process authority, of the design and operation of the type of equipment used by the processor. The engineering specifications for the equipment used by the processor (e.g., pipe sizes, flow rates, loading configuration) should meet or exceed those for the equipment evaluated by the process authority. Failure to have documentation that the pasteurization equipment will achieve its goals will violate 21 CFR 123.8 and will mean that the product produced by the processor will be produced under insanitary conditions whereby it may be rendered injurious to health. ii. Pasteurization equipment should be equipped with both a temperature-indicating device and temperature-recording device. The temperature-indicating device should be the reference instrument for determining conformance to the established process temperatures. 3. Records. Monitoring records made by the processor should record the actual values that are occurring for those key aspect of the process identified by the process authority in section 4.b.1.ii of this Appendix. 5. Container Integrity Critical Controls Points a. Finished Product Container Sealing Finished product containers must be inspected, and the results recorded, for container integrity to assure a consistently reliable hermetic seal. FDA recommends that: 1. Visual seam inspection of one container from each seaming head occur every 30 minutes; and 2. Testing by qualified personnel of one container from each seaming head occur at least every 4 hours. As applicable, these tests should be performed in accordance with 21 CFR 113.60(a)(1) and (a)(2). b. Post-pasteurization Cooling Container cooling water must contain a measurable residual of chlorine or other sanitizer. Tests to determine the presence of a measurable residual of chlorine or other sanitizer in the container cooling water should be made, and the results recorded, at sufficient frequency to ensure control.
