FR940325-1-00107 FR940325-1-00008 (a) In the absence of a protest, the proposed decision will become the final decision of the authorized officer without further notice unless otherwise provided in the proposed decision. * * * * * (c) A period of 30 days following receipt of the final decision, or 30 days after the date the proposed decision becomes final as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, is provided for filing an appeal and petition for stay of the decision pending final determination on appeal. A decision will not be effective during the 30-day appeal period, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section. See §4.21 of this title for general provisions of the appeal process. (d) When the Office of Hearings and Appeals stays a final decision of the authorized officer regarding an application for grazing authorization, an applicant who was granted grazing use in the preceding year may continue at that level of authorized grazing use during the time the decision is stayed, except where grazing use in the preceding year was authorized on a temporary basis under §4110.3&hyph;1(a). Where an applicant had no authorized grazing use during the previous year, or the application is for ephemeral grazing use, the authorized grazing use shall be consistent with the decision pending final determination on an appeal. (e) When the Office of Hearings and Appeals stays a final decision of the authorized officer to change the authorized grazing use, the grazing use authorized to the permittee or lessee shall not exceed the permittee's or lessee's previously permitted use during the time that the decision is stayed. (f) Notwithstanding the provisions of §4.21(a) of this title, the authorized officer may provide that the final decision shall be effective upon issuance or on a date established in the decision and shall remain in effect pending the decision on appeal unless a stay is granted by the Office of Hearings and Appeals when the authorized officer has made a determination in accordance with §4110.3&hyph;3(b) or §4150.2(d). Nothing in this section shall affect the authority of the Director of the Office of Hearings and Appeals or the Interior Board of Land Appeals to place decisions in full force and effect as provided in §4.21(a)(1) of this title. 60. Section 4160.4 is revised to read as follows: §4160.4 Appeals. (a) Any person whose interest is adversely affected by a final decision of the authorized officer may appeal the decision for the purpose of a hearing before an administrative law judge under §4.470 of this title by filing a notice of appeal in the office of the authorized officer within 30 days after receipt of the final decision or within 30 days after the date the proposed decision becomes final as provided in §4160.3(a). Appeals and petitions for a stay of the decision shall be filed at the office of the authorized officer. The authorized officer shall promptly transmit the appeal and petition for stay to ensure their timely arrival at the appropriate Office of Hearings and Appeals. (b) A petition for a stay of the decision, if any, shall be filed with the authorized officer together with a notice of appeal. The authorized officer shall ensure prompt transmittal of appeals and petitions for stay and the accompanying administrative record to the Office of Hearings and Appeals. Subpart 4170_Penalties 61. Section 4170.1&hyph;1 is amended by revising the first sentence of paragraph (d) to read as follows: §4170.1&hyph;1 Penalty for violations.
