FR940516-0-00095 FR940516-0-00030 The AA has determined that this rule could have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. A copy of the FRFA is available (see ADDRESSES ). This rule contains new collection-of-information requirements subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq .) that have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0648&hyph;0269. The public's reporting burden for each requirement is indicated in the following description and includes the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. The new reporting requirements are: (1) CDQ-managing organizations must arrange for processors to transmit copies of daily observer catch messages to them in a manner that allows the CDQ-managing organization to inform processors to cease fishing operations before the CDQ allocations have been exceeded (5 minutes per message); (2) scale printouts of each CDQ delivery must be maintained in the processing operation for the duration of the fishing year, or for as long after a fishing year that the products from fish harvested during that year are retained in the processing operation (8 minutes per delivery day); (3) the volumes of bins aboard processing vessels must be certified in writing by an independent registered engineer (8 hours); and shoreside processors must notify the observers of the offloading schedule of each CDQ groundfish delivery at least 1 hour prior to offloading (2 minutes). Send comments regarding these burden estimates or any other aspect of these collections of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to NMFS (see ADDRESSES ) and to the Office of Management and Budget, Attn: Desk Officer, NOAA (Paperwork Reduction Project 0648&hyph;0269), Washington, DC 20503. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 675 Fisheries, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: May 10, 1994. Charles Karnella, Acting Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 50 CFR part 675 is amended as follows: PART 675_GROUNDFISH OF THE BERING SEA AND ALEUTIAN ISLANDS AREA 1. The authority citation for part 675 continues to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq. 2. In §675.27, paragraph (e)(4) is revised and a new paragraph (h) is added to read as follows: §675.27 Western Alaska Community Development Quota Program (applicable through December 31, 1995). * * * * * (e) *␣*␣* (4) It is the responsibility of the CDQ-managing organization to cease fishing operations once its respective CDQ pollock allocation has been reached. Total pollock harvests for each CDP will be determined by observer estimates of total catch and catch composition as reported on the daily observer catch message. The CDQ-managing organization must arrange for processors to transmit a copy of the observer daily catch message to it in a manner that allows the CDQ-managing organization to inform processors to cease fishing operations before the CDQ allocation has been exceeded. CDQ-managing organization representatives must also inform NMFS within 24 hours after the CDQ has been reached and fishing has ceased. If NMFS determines that the observer, the processor, or the CDQ-managing organization failed to follow the procedures described in paragraph (h) of this section for estimating the total harvest of pollock, or violated any other regulation in this part, NMFS reserves the right to estimate the total pollock harvest based on the best available data. * * * * *
