FR941220-2-00059 FR941220-2-00036 Proposed Rule 1109 requires that the trading halt provisions in Rule 918C(b) shall be applied to the trading stock index warrants. Upon Commission approval of the foregoing amendments, the Exchange proposes that it will only file rule changes for specific warrant issues where there is no corresponding option or warrant on the same underlying index already listed on a national securities exchange or NASDAQ. Accordingly, when a listed option overlies a particular broad based index, the Exchange proposes it be allowed to list warrants on that index without further Commission review and approval pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Act. Both initial and maintenance listing standards for stock index warrants will require that no more than 20% of the securities in the underlying index, by weight, may be comprised of foreign securities or American depositary receipts (``ADRs'') overlying foreign securities that are not subject to comprehensive surveillance sharing agreements between the Amex and the primary exchange on which the foreign security (including a foreign security underlying an ADR) is traded. 5 Furthermore, proposed Rule 1100 provides that stock index and currency warrants listed on the Exchange prior to SEC approval of this filing shall continue to be governed by those provisions of the Exchange's rules that were applicable to such warrants prior to approval of this filing. Finally, prior to trading index or currency warrants, the Exchange will distribute a circular to its membership providing guidance regarding member firm compliance responsibilities (including suitability recommendations) when handling transactions in index or currency warrants. 5 Telephone conversation between Benjamin D. Krause, Amex, and Michael Walinskas, SEC, on December 2, 1994 (``Amendment No. 1''). The Exchange proposes that the ``20% test'' be applied in the same manner as that contained in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34157 (June 3, 1994), 59 FR 30062 (June 10, 1994) (Commission approval order allowing the expedited trading approval of certain narrow-based index options). 2. Statutory Basis The Exchange believes the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act in general and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) in particular in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices and to promote just and equitable principles of trade, and is not designed to permit unfair discrimination between customers, issuers, brokers and dealers. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange believes the proposed rule change will impose no burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others The Exchange has neither solicited nor received written comments on the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary. Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the Amex. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;38 and should be submitted by January 10, 1995. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 6 6 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31202 Filed 12&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
