FR940707-2-00114 FR940707-2-00051 6. Monitor the recipient's performance of program activities. Evaluation Criteria (Total 100 Points) Applications will be reviewed and evaluated according to the following criteria: A. Background/Need (10 points). The extent to which the applicant justifies the need for, and describes the geographic boundaries of, the project. B. Capacity (15 points). The extent to which the applicant identifies and describes a target population and constituency; and demonstrates the capacity, ability, and leadership potential to address the identified needs and develop and conduct program activities. C. Goals and Objectives (15 points) 1. Goals. The extent to which the applicant has submitted specific and realistic goals for the projected three-year project period that are consistent with program requirements. 2. Objectives. The extent to which the applicant has submitted objectives for each one-year budget period that are specific, measurable, feasible, and are directly related to the program's goals. Objectives should focus on the development and implementation of activities over time. D. Operational Plan (20 points). The feasibility and appropriateness of the Operational Plan and the extent to which it: 1. Is consistent with the applicant's level of experience and proposed strategy; 2. Targets one or more priority populations; 3. Uses effective strategies that are culturally appropriate to the target population; 4. Proposes activities that are likely to accomplish proposed program objectives; and 5. Provides a reasonable time line for conducting proposed activities. E. Project Management and Staffing (15 points). The extent to which the applicant identifies staff and affiliates that have the professional experience, authority, and responsibility to carry out each activity as evidenced by job descriptions, curricula vitae, organizational charts, and letters of support from collaborating agencies. F. Sharing Experiences and Resources (5 points). The extent to which the applicant indicates how it will share and use effective materials and activities. G. Collaborating (10 points). The extent to which the applicant describes in detail how it will collaborate with CDC, local and State tobacco control programs, and other appropriate regional and/or national organizations. H. Evaluation (10 points). The extent to which the applicant presents a reasonable plan designed to measure progress in meeting goals and objectives, evaluate performance, obtain and assess data, and report and use the results for programmatic decisions. I. Budget and Accompanying Justification (Not Weighted) The extent to which the applicant provides a detailed and clear budget narrative consistent with the stated objectives and planned activities of the project. Executive Order 12372 Review This program is not subject to the Executive Order 12372 review. Public Health System Reporting Requirements This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number is 93.283.
