FR940304-2-00015 FR940304-2-00012 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration [Docket No. 940250&hyph;4050; I.D. 122893D] Regulations Governing the Taking of Marine Mammals Incidental to Commercial Fishing Operations; Interim Exemption for Commercial Fisheries AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Proposed List of Fisheries for calendar year 1994; request for comments. SUMMARY: NMFS requests comments and further information on the proposed List of Fisheries for calendar year 1994 as well as several other actions associated with the Interim Exemption for Commercial Fishing under the Marine Mammal Protection Act (MMPA). DATES: Comments must be received on or before April 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments to Dr. William W. Fox, Jr., Director, Office of Protected Resources, F/PR, National Marine Fisheries Service, 1315 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910 (Attn: Comments on Proposed List of Fisheries). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Victoria R. Credle, 301&hyph;713&hyph;2322. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 114 of the MMPA establishes an interim exemption for the taking of marine mammals incidental to commercial fishing operations and requires NMFS to publish and annually update a List of Fisheries, along with a list of the marine mammals and the number of vessels or persons involved in each such fishery, in three categories, as follows: (I) A frequent incidental taking of marine mammals; (II) An occasional incidental taking of marine mammals; or (III) A remote likelihood of, or no known, incidental taking of marine mammals. Based on Congressional guidance, NMFS interpretation of the 1988 Amendments, public comment, and meetings and consultations with state and Federal agencies, Regional Fishery Management Councils, and other interested parties, NMFS published the original List of Fisheries on April 20, 1989 (54 FR 16072). NMFS also published an interim rule governing the taking of marine mammals incidental to commercial fishing operations on May 19, 1989 (54 FR 21910), and a final rule governing reporting of the take of marine mammals incidental to commercial fishing operations on December 15, 1989 (54 FR 51718). On June 14, 1993 (58 FR 32905), NMFS published the interim final List of Fisheries for 1993 and requested comments and information on the changes contained therein. All comments received were in support of the changes to the interim final List of Fisheries. A summary of the comments received are provided in the following section. Proposed revised changes for the 1994 List of Fisheries are based on the classification of fisheries as published in the 1993 interim final List of Fisheries. The following criteria were used in classifying fisheries in the List of Fisheries: Category I. There is documented information indicating a ``frequent'' incidental taking of marine mammals in the fishery. ``Frequent'' means that it is highly likely that more than one marine mammal will be incidentally taken by a randomly selected vessel in the fishery during a 20 day period. Category II. (1) There is documented information indicating an ``occasional'' incidental taking of marine mammals in the fishery, or (2) in the absence of information indicating the frequency of incidental taking of marine mammals, other factors such as fishing techniques, gear used, methods used to deter marine mammals, target species, seasons and areas fished, and species and distribution of marine mammals in the area suggest there is a likelihood of at least an ``occasional'' incidental taking in the fishery. ``Occasional'' means that there is some likelihood that one marine mammal will be incidentally taken by a randomly selected vessel in the fishery during a 20 day period, but that there is little likelihood that more than one marine mammal will be incidentally taken. Category III. (1) There is information indicating no more than a ``remote likelihood'' of an incidental taking of a marine mammal in the fishery, or (2) in the absence of information indicating the frequency of incidental taking of marine mammals, other factors such as fishing techniques, gear used, methods used to deter marine mammals, target species, seasons and areas fished, and species and distribution of marine mammals in the area suggest there is no more than a remote likelihood of an incidental take in the fishery. ``Remote likelihood'' means that it is highly unlikely that any marine mammal will be incidentally taken by a randomly selected vessel in the fishery during a 20-day period. Section 114(b)(1)(C) of the MMPA, requires the Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, NOAA, to annually publish and request comments on proposed revisions to the List of Fisheries to be effective for the next calendar year.
