FR940228-0-00023 FR940228-0-00002 (2) Basic unit, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for each unit. (b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim by: (1) Multiplying the insured acreage by the production guarantee; (2) Subtracting from this the total production to count; (3) Multiplying the remainder by your price election; and (4) Multiplying this result by your share. (c) The total production (bushels) to count from all insurable acreage on the unit will include: (1) All appraised production as follows: (i) Not less than the production guarantee for acreage: (A) Which is abandoned; (B) Put to another use without our consent; (C) Damaged solely by uninsured causes; or (D) For which you fail to provide records of production that are acceptable to us; (ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes; (iii) Unharvested production (mature unharvested production may be adjusted for quality deficiencies and excess moisture in accordance with subsection 11.(d)); (iv) Potential production on insured acreage you want to put to another use or you wish to abandon and no longer care for, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end if you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If: (A) Agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached, you may elect to continue to care for the crop, or we will give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us. The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or you fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count. (B) You elect to continue to care for the crop, we will determine the amount of production to count for the acreage using the harvested production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested. (2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage. (d) Mature wheat, barley, oat, and rye production may be adjusted for excess moisture and quality deficiencies. Flax production may be adjusted for quality deficiencies only. (1) Production will be reduced by .12 percent for each .1 percentage point of moisture in excess of: (i) 13.5 percent for wheat; (ii) 14.5 percent for barley; (iii) 14.0 percent for oats; and (iv) 16.0 for rye. We may obtain samples of the production to determine the moisture content. (2) Production will be eligible for quality adjustment if: (i) Deficiencies in quality, in accordance with the Official United States Standards for Grain, result in: (A) Wheat not meeting the grade requirements for U.S. No. 4 (grades U.S. No. 5 or worse) because of test weight, total damaged kernels (excluding heat damage), shrunken or broken kernels, or defects (excluding foreign material and heat damage), or grading garlicky, light smutty, smutty or ergoty; (B) Barley not meeting the grade requirements for U.S. No. 4 (grades U.S. No. 5 or worse) because of test weight, percentage of sound barley, damaged kernels, thin barley, or black barley, or grading smutty, garlicky, or ergoty;
