FR940104-0-00096 FR940104-0-00017 This subpart sets forth REA policies and procedures with regard to loans and loan guarantees to REA borrowers for the purpose of implementing their demand side management (DSM) plans, energy conservation programs, and on-grid and off-grid renewable energy systems. The Administrator reserves the right to determine if loans for purposes under this subpart will be made to a borrower in default under its mortgage and loan contract. As is the case with all other REA loans, loans for purposes under this subpart will not be made to individuals. §1710.351 General policy; renewable energy systems. (a) Off-grid renewable energy systems will be considered the same as DSM activities and will qualify for either insured loans or loan guarantees pursuant to §1710.102. (b) On-grid renewable energy systems will be treated as a generation resource and will be eligible only for loan guarantees pursuant to §1710.102. Existing REA policy with respect to generation resources shall generally apply. (c) REA loans for renewable energy systems will be made only for systems utilizing technologies that are proven and commercially available. §1710.352 General policy; energy resource conservation programs. This subpart does not replace the energy resource conservation program financed by deferments of loan principal. §1710.353 General policy; demand side management. (a) REA will make loans for the purpose of assisting electric borrowers to implement REA approved demand side management plans. For the purposes of this regulation energy conservation programs are included as a DSM activity. (b) REA will treat demand-side and supply-side resources on an equal basis. All requirements applicable to loans for traditional electric facilities will apply to loans for DSM. In addition the requirements set forth in this subpart will apply. (c) DSM will be considered a distribution loan purpose, eligible for either insured loans or loan guarantees pursuant to §1710.102. (d) REA will conduct its own evaluation, as specified in this subpart, of a borrower's DSM activities before making a determination on the disposition of a borrower's loan application. (e) REA loans for DSM activities will be made only for systems utilizing technologies that are proven and commercially available. (f) In general, REA will require pilot project testing of DSM activities new to the borrower. (g) If the borrower's IRP, DSM plan, project construction and/or financing, and/or rate recovery is subject to the approval of state authorities, the borrower must obtain such approvals before REA will approve a loan for any purpose for which an REA approved DSM plan or IRP is required under this subpart.
