FR941227-2-00070 FR941227-2-00051 Currently, schedule contractors must submit invoices to multiple agencies' payment offices. FSS proposes to establish the GSA Kansas City Finance office as the single payment point for all schedule contractors' invoices. Implementation of industrial funding for the schedules program will have minimal impact on the basic principles of the program. Schedule offers will continue to be evaluated and negotiated by GSA. The Government's pricing goal will continue to be most favored customer status. Agencies will continue to place orders directly with the schedule contractors. Agencies will also continue to use Activity Address Codes (AAC) and Fund codes that they are using in the current supply systems. Agencies without AAC's can obtain them by following the simple instructions in the GSA FEDSTRIP Operating Guide, or they can contact the FSS System, Inventory, & Operations Management Center, (703) 305&hyph;7083. Fund codes are assigned within each individual agency. All contract administration matters relating to agencies' orders remain the responsibility of the agencies placing the orders. As envisioned, the only change in the process will be in the area of payment. Instead of invoicing the individual agencies, contractors will submit their invoices to GSA for payment. GSA has planned a 3-year implementation period for converting all schedules to a full cost recovery program; however, the implementation plan may be expedited contingent and consistent with changes in GSA's appropriations. B. Paperwork Reduction Act For purposes of the Paperwork Reduction Act, the proposed notice would impose no new reporting or record keeping requirements. C. The Following Proposed FSS Acquisition Letter Establishes a New Clause and Notice for Inclusion in Basic Schedule Solicitations Issued After Approval of this Acquisition Letter FSS Acquisition Letter FC&hyph;94&hyph; MEMORANDUM FOR ALL FSS PROGRAM OFFICES From: William N. Gormley, CPPO, Assistant Commissioner for Commodity Management (FC) (FCO)
