FR940127-2-00070 FR940127-2-00058 While the NAFTA&hyph;TAA program is generally similar to the existing TAA program, it does differ in several ways: _Governors have a specific role in the new adjustment assistance program targeted to workers who may be displaced because of trade with Canada or Mexico. State agencies also have new program responsibilities. _Group eligibility requirements have been changed to address imports of articles from Mexico and Canada only and to authorize the certification for NAFTA&hyph;TAA of worker groups when the workers' firm shifts production to Mexico or Canada. _Workers are required to be enrolled in training to qualify for trade readjustment allowance (TRA) payments. Also, individual workers must be enrolled in training within specified time periods to qualify for TRA after a worker group is certified for NAFTA&hyph;TAA. _Adjustment assistance to workers adversely affected by NAFTA is also available under Title III of the JTPA. States are responsible for assuring that certain assistance and services are made available to workers whom the Governor preliminarily finds to be adversely affected by NAFTA. _Dislocated workers who are indirectly affected by NAFTA, e.g., workers in firms which supply components to a firm whose final product is adversely affected by imports from Mexico or Canada, may seek under Title III assistance similar to that available through the NAFTA&hyph;TAA program. It is the Department's intention to publish for comment proposed regulations regarding implementation of the provisions of Title V relating to transitional adjustment assistance. Because the provisions were effective on January 1, 1994, it is essential to inform the States and the cooperating State agencies of the terms of the provisions and of the Department's instructions concerning the proper implementation of these provisions. For the reasons set out above, GAL No. 7&hyph;94 is published below. Signed at Washington, DC, on January 19, 1994. Doug Ross, Assistant Secretary of Labor for Employment and Training.
