FR940419-1-00030 FR940419-1-00006 (c) Abatement certificate . Each employer shall submit to the Area Director issuing the citation an abatement certificate with respect to each citation item, and do so within thirty calendar days after the abatement date for the citation item. (1) The abatement certificate shall contain the following information: (i) Each citation item; (ii) A statement noting whether or not abatement has been accomplished with respect to each citation item and instance listed in the citation; (iii) A description of the measures taken to accomplish abatement; (iv) The date abatement was accomplished; (v) If abatement has not been accomplished, the reason(s) for not abating; (vi) The signature of the employer or the employer's duly authorized representative; (vii) The date of the signature. (2) If the employer has initially stated in an abatement certificate that a particular citation item has not been abated, and later the employer abates the condition, the employer shall submit to the Area Director issuing the citation a new abatement certificate within five calendar days after abatement. (3) Abatement certificates for more than one citation item may be combined in a single document. (4) Each abatement certificate with respect to a citation item shall be accompanied by documentary evidence that is sufficient to demonstrate clearly that the hazard has been corrected. (d) Abatement plan . (1) An Area Director may require in a citation that the employer submit a formal plan for the abatement of safety and health violations in instances where multiple steps or long-term abatement actions are necessary. (2) When called for in a citation, the employer shall prepare a written, signed, and dated abatement plan with respect to each citation item for which the plan is required. (3) Abatement plans for more than one citation item may be combined within a single document. (4) The abatement plan shall be submitted to the Area Director issuing the citation within twenty-five calendar days after the date of the final order or the date of the PMA final order. (e) Progress reports . An Area Director, at his or her discretion, may require progress reports in a citation where multi-step abatement is deemed appropriate. (1) The Area Director shall specify the citation item with respect to which the progress reports are required, the measures which the Area Director expects to be taken on or before the submission of each progress report, and the date for the submission of each progress report, expressed as the number of calendar days from the date of the final order or the date of the PMA final order. (2) The employer shall submit to the Area Director the requested progress reports with respect to each citation item for which they are required under the abatement plan. (3) Progress reports for more than one citation item may be combined within a single document. (4) Progress reports shall be submitted at intervals specified by the Area Director in the citation, but the first progress report shall not be submitted earlier than thirty calendar days after the date of the final order or the date of the PMA final order. (f) Tagging cited equipment . (1) The employer shall affix a ``Warning'' tag on all cited equipment upon receipt of the citation.
