FR940617-0-00103 FR940617-0-00024 (a) Act means the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq. ). (b) Assistant Administrator means the Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or authorized representative. (c) Category I fishery means a commercial fishery determined by the Assistant Administrator to have a frequent incidental taking of marine mammals and identified as such in the List of Fisheries. (d) Category II fishery means a commercial fishery determined by the Assistant Administrator to have an occasional incidental taking of marine mammals and identified as such in the List of Fisheries. (e) Category III fishery means a commercial fishery determined by the Assistant Administrator to have a remote likelihood of, or no known incidental taking of, marine mammals and identified as such in the List of Fisheries. Eligible commercial fisheries not specifically identified as Category I or II fisheries are deemed to be Category III fisheries. (f) Certificate or Exemption Certificate means a document issued by the Assistant Administrator under the authority of section 114 of the Act that authorizes the incidental taking of marine mammals and that specifies the terms and conditions of the authorized incidental taking, including any document that modifies the Exemption Certificate. (g) Commercial fishing operation means the catching, taking or harvesting of fish from the marine environment (or other areas where marine mammals occur) as part of an ongoing for-profit business enterprise. The term includes licensed commercial passenger fishing vessel (as defined in §216.3 of this chapter) activities. (h) Depleted species means any species or population which has been determined to be depleted under the Act and is listed in §216.15 of this chapter or part 18, subpart E of this title or any endangered or threatened species of marine mammal. (i) Endangered or threatened species means any species, subspecies or population that has been listed under section 4 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973. A list of endangered and threatened species is found in §§17.11 through 17.12 of this title. (j)(1) Fishing vessel or ``vessel'' means any vessel, boat, ship, or other craft which is used for, equipped to be used for, or of a type which is normally used for: (i) Fishing; or (ii) Aiding or assisting one or more vessels at sea in the performance of any activity relating to fishing, including, but not limited to, preparation, supply, storage, refrigeration, transportation, or processing. (2) Fishing vessel or vessel refers only to vessels of the United States, other than vessels used in the eastern tropical Pacific yellowfin tuna purse seine fishery, and vessels which have valid fishing permits issued in accordance with section 204(b) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act. (k) Incidental take means the accidental or intentional taking of a marine mammal in the course of commercial fishing operations. (l) List of Fisheries means the most recent final list of commercial fisheries published in the Federal Register by the Assistant Administrator, categorized according to the frequency of incidental taking of marine mammals, in accordance with the criteria in §229.3 of this chapter. (m) Marine mammal means any mammal which: (1) Is morphologically adapted to the marine environment, including sea otters and members of the orders Cetacea (whales and dolphins), Sirenia (dugongs and manatees) and suborder Pinnipedia (seals, sea lions and walrus); or (2) Primarily inhabits the marine environment (such as the polar bear). (n) Non-vessel fishery means a commercial fishing operation that uses fixed or other gear without a vessel, such as gear used in set gillnet, trap, beach seine, weir, ranch and pen fisheries. (o) Observer means a qualified individual designated by the National Marine Fisheries Service to record the incidence of marine mammal interaction and other scientific data during commercial fishing activities. (p) Vessel owner means the owner of: (1) A fishing vessel which is engaged in a commercial fishing operation; or (2) Fixed or other commercial fishing gear that is used in a non-vessel fishery. §229.3 Criteria for categorizing fisheries. (a) Publication. (1) The Assistant Administrator will publish in the Federal Register notice of a proposed revised List of Fisheries on or about July 1, 1990, 1991 and 1992, for the purpose of receiving public comment. On or about October 1, 1990, 1991, and 1992, the Assistant Administrator will publish a final revised List of Fisheries which will become effective January 1 of the next calendar year. (2) The proposed and final revised List of Fisheries will: (i) Categorize each commercial fishery according to the criteria set forth in paragraph (b) of this section; and (ii) List the marine mammals and the estimated number of vessels or persons involved in each commercial fishery. (3) The Assistant Administrator may publish a revised List of Fisheries at other times, after notice and opportunity for public comment. The revised final List of Fisheries will become effective no sooner than 30 days after publication in the Federal Register . (b) Categories. The List of Fisheries will be revised and commercial fisheries will be categorized into Category I, Category II or Category III according to the following criteria. In evaluating incidental takes for purposes of categorizing fisheries, the Assistant Administrator will consider the definition of take in section 3 of the Act, the language of section 114 of the Act and the legislative history of the 1988 amendments. (1) Category I. (i)(A) There is documented information indicating a ``frequent'' incidental taking of marine mammals in the fishery; or (B) Congress intended that the fishery should be placed in Category I and there is no documented information indicating that it should be placed in another Category. (ii) ``Frequent'' means that it is highly likely that more than one marine mammal will be incidentally taken by a randomly selected vessel in the fishery during a 20-day period. (2) Category II. (i)(A) There is documented information indicating an ``occasional'' incidental taking of marine mammals in the fishery; or (B) In the absence of information indicating the frequency of incidental taking of marine mammals, other factors such as fishing techniques, gear used, methods used to deter marine mammals, target species, seasons and areas fished, and species and distribution of marine mammals in the area suggest there is a likelihood of at least an ``occasional'' incidental taking in the fishery. (ii) ``Occasional'' means that there is some likelihood that one marine mammal will be incidentally taken by a randomly selected vessel in the fishery during a 20-day period, but that there is little likelihood that more than one marine mammal will be incidentally taken.
