FR940602-2-00062 FR940602-2-00038 L. Misrepresenting, directly or by implication, the performance, efficacy, or safety of any weight loss program. II It is further ordered that respondents shall notify the Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of any proposed change in the corporate respondents such as dissolution, assignment, or sale resulting in the emergence of a successor corporation(s), the creation or dissolution of subsidiaries, or any other change in the corporation(s) that may affect compliance obligations arising out of this Order. III It is further ordered that respondent Joyce A. Schuman shall promptly notify the Commission of the discontinuance of her present business or employment and of her affiliation with a new business or employment. In addition, for a period of three (3) years from the service date of this Order, the individual respondent shall promptly notify the Commission of each affiliation with a new business or employment whose activities relate to the advertising, promotion, offering for sale, or sale of any weight loss program. When so required under this paragraph, each such notice shall include the individual respondent's new business address and a statement of the nature of the business or employment in which the individual respondent is newly engaged, as well as a description of the individual respondent's duties and responsibilities in connection with the business or employment. The expiration of the notice provision of this paragraph shall not affect any other obligation arising under this Order. IV It is further ordered that for three (3) years after the last date of dissemination of any representation covered by this Order, respondents, or their successors and assigns, shall maintain and upon request make available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying: A. All materials possessed and relied upon to substantiate any such representation; and B. All tests, reports, studies, surveys, demonstrations, or other evidence in their possession or control that contradict, qualify, or call into question such representation, or the basis relied upon for such representation, including complaints from consumers. V It is further ordered that respondents shall distribute a copy of this Order to each of their officers, agents, representatives, independent contractors and employees who are involved in the preparation and placement of advertisements or promotional materials or in communication with customers or prospective customers or who have any responsibilities with respect to the subject matter of this Order; and, for a period of three (3) years from the date of entry of this order, distribute same to all future such officers, agents, representatives, independent contractors and employees. VI It is further ordered that respondents shall, within sixty (60) days after the date of service of this Order, file with the Commission a report, in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and from in which they have complied with this Order.
