FR940527-1-00069 FR940527-1-00014 Section 1886(d)(3)(E) of the Act requires that the Secretary establish the wage index for the purposes of adjusting payment rates for hospital inpatient services to reflect wages in a geographic area relative to the national average. For this reason, we are considering establishing a criterion that labor market areas under the SLMO must include all hospitals within a contiguous area or must have defined geographic boundaries or distance parameters. However, we are concerned that such a requirement may prevent hospitals in noncontiguous areas within a State that share similar demographic features from being grouped in one labor market area under the SLMO. We are also concerned that hospitals may be able to meet the contiguity requirement but design an area with an illogical configuration that may not represent a labor market area. For example, we do not believe it would be appropriate to approve an application for a new labor market area that groups 2 hospitals 100 miles apart but excludes the hospitals located in between. We are also concerned about approving a SLMO application under which the wage index would be based only on hospital-specific wages. Such an application would not reflect local market conditions based on contiguous geographic areas. Because of these concerns, we are soliciting public comments regarding appropriate criteria for approving labor market areas under the SLMO. 2. Calculation of Budget Neutrality As noted above, we would require payments to hospitals under the SLMO to be budget neutral in relation to payments in the absence of the SLMO. We are considering alternatives for applying a budget neutrality adjustment. Because the budget neutrality calculation for the SLMO labor market areas would be made after the effects of reclassification, we expect that hospitals under a SLMO will continue to apply for reclassification as they do under the current system. Such reclassifications would be recognized both for purposes of computing the budget neutrality adjustment and computing the wage index values applicable to reclassified hospitals. We envision two options for applying the budget neutrality adjustment: • Adjusting the wage index for the SLMO labor market areas. Under this option, there would be a single adjustment to the wage index that would affect all hospitals participating in the SLMO in equal proportions. • Adjusting the wage index for selected hospitals within the SLMO labor market areas. Under this option, the application to create labor market areas under SLMO would specify how the budget neutrality adjustment would be applied. For example, it could be applied equally to all SLMO hospitals or it could be limited to selected hospitals. If the SLMO application does not specify how to apply the budget neutrality adjustment, the adjustment to the wage index would have a proportional effect on payments to all hospitals participating in a SLMO labor market area. (As indicated above, reclassification granted to hospitals participating in a SLMO would be recognized in computing the wage index values applicable to non-SLMO reclassified hospitals under section 1886(d)(8)(C) of the Act.) 3. Effect on Hospitals Not Participating in the SLMO Hospitals that are not part of labor market areas under the SLMO would continue to have their wage index calculated under the current labor market areas_including the effects of reclassification. The wage index for these hospitals would continue to reflect the average hourly wage in their current labor market area relative to the national average. If a non-SLMO hospital were reclassified to an MSA that includes hospitals that are part of a SLMO labor market area, the wage index for the non-SLMO hospital would be calculated as if the SLMO did not exist. We note that hospitals in SLMO States that are not part of a redesigned labor market area would not necessarily have to be part of the budget neutrality adjustment and their support for the SLMO would not be needed. However, if they chose to be part of the budget neutrality adjustment, their support for the SLMO would be needed even if they were not included in a redesigned labor market areas. 4. Process for Submitting a SLMO Proposal We are considering establishing the process described below for establishing labor market areas under the SLMO. Given that hospitals may apply both for geographic reclassification by the MGCRB and for a revised labor market area under the SLMO in the same year, our time frames for SLMO decisions may parallel the time frames used for reclassification decisions by the MGCRB. However, we expect that approval or rejection of SLMO applications would be made by HCFA's Bureau of Policy Development. The potential process would consist of the following: (1) The initial SLMO application would be made to HCFA and would include a statement from each participating hospital attesting to their support for labor market areas under the SLMO. (2) We envision providing notification to applicants of approval of the SLMO labor market areas before publication of our annual prospective payment system proposed rule (usually published in the Federal Register by May of each year). For hospitals whose SLMO application has been denied, we are considering providing an opportunity to submit additional information in support of a SLMO application. This information would be used by HCFA in reconsidering a denial before publication of the proposed rule.
