FR940127-2-00125 FR940127-2-00077 2. FMR acts as each Fund's investment manager and also provides the Funds with administrative services. FDC acts as the distributor of all the Funds, other than the Funds for which NFSC services as distributor. NFSC currently acts as the distributor to three Funds, each a series of the Daily Money Fund. FMR, FDC, and NFSC are all subsidiaries of FMC Corp. 3. Applicants previously requested an order under section 6(c) of the Act to permit the issuance and sale of an unlimited number of classes of securities by the Funds (the ``Existing Order''). 1 The Existing Order contained the following permissible class differences: (a) The impact of certain Class Expenses, as Class Expenses are defined in the Existing Order; (b) the fact that classes will vote separately with respect to the classes' Rule 12b&hyph;1 Plan and/or Shareholder Services Plan, as both plans are defined in the Existing Order; (c) exchange privileges of the classes of shares; and (d) the designation of each class of shares. 1 Investment Company Act Release Nos. 18874 (July 30, 1992) (notice) and 18907 (August 25, 1992) (order). 4. The Funds' existing classes of shares are sold subject to a front-end sales load and/or a rule 12b&hyph;1 fee. Applicants now request the ability to offer shares that carry a standard or level load CDSC. The standard CDSC shares will not be subject to a front-end sales load but will be subject to a CDSC and an annual rule 12b&hyph;1 and/or service fee. The level load shares will have the same features as the standard CDSC shares except that the rule 12b&hyph;1 and/or service fee could be different. Applicants also request the ability to have a conversion feature in connections with the shares that carry a standard or level load CDSC. With this feature, these shares may, after a period of time, automatically convert to shares of another class without the imposition of any additional sales charges and will be subject to the lower rule 12b&hyph;1 fee and/or service fee applicable to that class. Applicants also request the ability to impose a CDSC on the proceeds of certain redemptions of shares ordinarily subject to a front-end sales charge initially sold without a sales charge. 5. The amount of the CDSC will be calculated as the lesser of the amount that represents a specified percentage of the net asset value of the shares at the time of purchase, or the amount that represents such percentage of the net asset value of the shares at the time of redemption. As a result, no CDSC will be imposed on an amount which represents an increase in the value of the shareholder's account resulting from capital appreciation above the amount paid for the shares when purchased. In determining the applicability and rate of any CDSC, it will be assumed that a redemption is made first of shares representing reinvestment of the dividends and capital gain distributions, second of shares held by the shareholder for a period equal to or greater than the CDSC period, and finally of other shares held by the shareholder for the longest period of time. 6. In accordance with rule 11a&hyph;3 under the Act, no CDSC will be imposed on any exchange by an investor of shares with a CDSC for shares of another Fund. The sum of any front-end sales charge, asset based sales and CDSC paid by any individual shareholder on a single investment will not exceed the maximum sales charge provided in article III, section 26 of the National Association of Securities Dealers (``NASD'') Rules of Fair Practice.
