FR940830-1-00023 FR940830-1-00002 * * * * * (ii) Business financial condition. This criterion will be used to provide a financial picture of a firm at a specific point in time in comparison to other small concerns in the same business area which are not owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals. For purposes of this comparison, concerns in the same business area are those which are primarily engaged in the same four-digit Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) code. SBA will rely on published data showing business and financial profiles of similarly sized businesses operating within the same four-digit SIC code as the applicant, except where such data is not reasonably available. In such a case SBA may rely on published data pertaining to small business concerns in closely related four-digit SIC code(s) to derive the comparative profiles. In evaluating a concern's financial condition, SBA's consideration will include, but not be limited to, the following information: business assets, revenues, pre-tax profit, working capital, and net worth of the concern (including the value of the investments in the concern held by the individual claiming disadvantaged status). * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (1) For purposes of the section 8(d) Subcontracting Program, Small Disadvantaged Business set-asides, Small Disadvantaged Business Evaluation preferences, and other programs requiring SBA's determination of disadvantaged status, SBA will consider the same information and factors set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, but will apply standards to each factor that are less restrictive than those applied when determining economic disadvantage for purposes of the 8(a) program. This approach reflects the Congressional intent that partial or complete achievement of a concern's 8(a) program business development goals should not necessarily preclude its participation in other Federal procurement programs for concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals. (2) *␣*␣* 17. Section 124.107(b) would be revised to read as follows; §124.107 Potential for success. * * * * * (b) In determining whether a concern has the requisite potential for success to be admitted into the 8(a) program, SBA will look at a number of factors including, but not limited to, the technical and managerial experience and competency of the applicant concern's managers and of the concern as a whole, the financial capacity of the applicant concern and the concern's record of performance on previous Federal and private sector contracts in the primary industry in which the concern is seeking 8(a) certification. While the individual(s) upon whom eligibility is based need not possess both management and technical capabilities pursuant to §124.104, the applicant concern as a whole must demonstrate both technical know-how in the primary industry in which the concern is seeking 8(a) certification and management experience sufficient to run its day-to-day operations. SBA will examine each of these factors to determine whether an otherwise eligible applicant concern has the potential to successfully perform subcontracts awarded under the 8(a) program and to meet the business development objectives and goals of the program. * * * * * 18. Section 124.108 would be amended by adding the following new paragraph (d)(3): §124.108 Additional 8(a) program eligibility requirements. * * * * * (d) *␣*␣* (3) An applicant concern seeking admission to the 8(a) program as a regular dealer need not demonstrate that it is capable of meeting the requirements of the non-manufacturer rule ( see 13 CFR 121.1106(b)) for its primary industry classification. * * * * * 19. Section 124.109 would be amended by revising paragraphs (d) and (e), and by adding a new paragraph (f), to read as follows: §124.109 Ineligible businesses. * * * * * (d) Non-profit organizations. A non-profit organization does not meet the general definition of a concern as set forth in part 121 and §124.100 of these regulations and is, therefore, ineligible for 8(a) program participation. In addition, a business entity owned by a non-profit organization is not eligible for 8(a) program participation because such a concern does not meet the requirement of being owned and controlled by disadvantaged individuals. Nothing in this paragraph affects the eligibility of a for-profit concern owned and controlled by an Indian tribe, including an Alaskan Native Corporation, a Native Hawaiian Organization or a Community Development Corporation ( see §§124.112, 124.113, and 124.114). (e) Concerns owned by other concerns. An 8(a) applicant concern which is owned by another business concern, even where that ``parent'' concern is itself owned and controlled by disadvantaged individuals, may not be admitted to the 8(a) program because the applicant concern would not be owned by disadvantaged individuals. Nothing in this section is intended to affect the eligibility of joint ventures for specific 8(a) procurement requirements that are authorized pursuant to §124.321. (f) Parole or probation. An applicant to the 8(a) program is ineligible for program participation if the proprietor, or a holder of at least 20 percent of the stock, or a partner, officer, director, or other persons, including hired managers, who have or will have the authority to speak for and commit the concern in the management of its business affairs, is currently incarcerated, on parole or on probation either pursuant to a pre-trial diversion or following conviction of a serious offense. 20. Section 124.110 would be amended by revising the first three sentences of paragraph (a) and by revising paragraph (b) to read as follows: §124.110 Program term. (a) Each concern certified for participation in the 8(a) program shall receive a Program Term of nine years from the date of such certification. The term will consist of two stages: the developmental stage, which lasts four years, and the transitional stage, which lasts five years. These stages are described in §124.303. *␣*␣* (b) Once a Program Term has been established in accordance with this section, SBA is statutorily prohibited from extending such term beyond the specified expiration date.
