FR940906-1-00017 FR940906-1-00006 §103.25 Procedure in the event of an adverse ruling. If the court or other authority declines to stay the effect of the demand in response to a request made in accordance with §103.22 of this chapter pending receipt of instructions, or if the court or other authority rules that the demand must be complied with irrespective of instructions rendered in accordance with §§103.22, 103.23, 103.26, and 103.27 of this subpart not to produce the documents or disclose the information sought, the Customs employee upon whom the demand has been made shall, pursuant to this subpart, respectfully decline to comply with the demand. See, United States ex rel. Touhy v. Ragen, 340 U.S. 462 (1951). §103.26 Procedure in the event of a demand for Customs information in a state or local criminal proceeding. Customs Regional Commissioners, special agents in charge, and chiefs of field laboratories may, in the interest of federal, state, and local law enforcement, upon receipt of demands of state or local authorities, and at the expense of the state, authorize employees under their supervision to attend trials and administrative hearings on behalf of the government in any state or local criminal case, to produce records, and to testify as to facts coming to their knowledge in their official capacities. However, in cases where a defendant in a state or local criminal case demands testimony or the production of customs documents or information, authorization from the Chief Counsel or his/her designees is required as under §103.22 of this subpart. No disclosure of information under this section shall be made if any of the factors listed in §103.23(b) of this subpart are present. §103.27 Procedure in the event of a demand for Customs information in a foreign proceeding where Customs is not a party. (a) Required prior approval for disclosure. In any foreign proceeding in which the Customs Service is not a party, no Customs employee shall, in response to a demand, furnish Customs documents or testimony as to any material contained in Customs files, any information relating to or based upon material contained in Customs files, or any information or material acquired as part of the performance of that person's official duties (or because of that person's official status) without the prior approval of the Office of the Chief Counsel, as described in paragraph (b) of this section. (b) Employee notification to Counsel. Whenever a demand in a foreign proceeding is made upon a Customs employee concerning pre-clearance activities within the territory of the foreign country, that party shall immediately notify the Regional or District Counsel for the region or district having jurisdiction over the pre-clearance location. All other demands in a foreign proceeding shall be reported by Customs employees to the Office of the Chief Counsel at Headquarters. The party shall await instructions from either the Regional/District Counsel or the Office of Chief Counsel, or their designees, concerning the appropriate response to the demand. (c) Counsel notification to originating component. Upon receipt of a demand, the Chief Counsel shall immediately acknowledge its receipt to the originating component. (d) Conditions for authorization of disclosure. The Chief Counsel, subject to the terms of paragraph (e) of this section, may authorize the disclosure of Customs documents or the appearance and testimony of a Customs employee if: (1) There is no objection after inquiry of the originating component; (2) The disclosure, in the judgment of the Chief Counsel, is appropriate under the factors specified in §103.23(a) of this subpart; and (3) The disclosure, in the judgment of the Chief Counsel, is consistent with the factors specified in §103.23(b) of this subpart. (e) Limitations on the scope of authorized disclosure. The Chief Counsel shall, following any necessary consultation with the originating component, authorize the disclosure of Customs information by a Customs employee without further authorization from Customs officials whenever possible: Provided, that, when the information demanded relates to that collected, assembled, or prepared in connection with litigation or an investigation supervised by a Customs Office, Chief Counsel, prior to authorizing such disclosure, seeks to limit the demand to that which would be consistent with the factors specified in §103.23 of this subpart. The Chief Counsel shall seek to limit the demand through negotiation with appropriate authority. George J. Weise, Commissioner of Customs. Approved: August 12, 1994. John P. Simpson, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Treasury. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21774 Filed 9&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4820&hyph;02&hyph;P
