FR940405-0-00044 FR940405-0-00004 (3) Conduct irradiated materials inspection, fuel fabrication, decontamination, or recovery operations; (4) Conduct fuel enrichment operations; (5) Perform environmental remediation or waste management activities involving radioactive materials; or (6) Design, manufacture, or assemble items for use with radioactive materials and/or fissionable materials in such form or quantity that a nuclear hazard potentially exists. Nuclear facility means reactor and nonreactor nuclear facilities. Person means any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private institution, group, Government agency, any State or political subdivision of, or any political entity within a State, any foreign government or nation or other entity and any legal successor, representative, agent or agency of the foregoing; provided that person does not include the Department or the United States NRC. Process means a series of actions that achieves an end or result. Quality means the condition achieved when an item, service, or process meets or exceeds the user's requirements and expectations. Quality Assurance means all those actions that provide confidence that quality is achieved. Quality Assurance Program or QAP means the overall program established to assign responsibilities and authorities, define policies and requirements, and provide for the performance and assessment of work. Reactor means, unless it is modified by words such as containment, vessel, or core, the entire nuclear reactor facility, including the housing, equipment, and associated areas devoted to the operation and maintenance of one or more reactor cores. Any apparatus that is designed or used to sustain nuclear chain reactions in a controlled manner, including critical and pulsed assemblies and research, test, and power reactors, is defined as a reactor. All assemblies designed to perform subcritical experiments that could potentially reach criticality are also to be considered reactors. Critical assemblies are special nuclear devices designed and used to sustain nuclear reactions. Critical assemblies may be subject to frequent core and lattice configuration change and may be used frequently as mockups of reactor configurations. Record means a completed document or other media that provides objective evidence of an item, service, or process. Service means the performance of work, such as design, construction, fabrication, inspection, nondestructive examination/testing, environmental qualification, equipment qualification, repair, installation, or the like. (b) Terms defined in the Act and not defined in these rules are used consistent with the meanings given in the Act. (c) As used in this Part, words in the singular also include the plural and words in the masculine gender also include the feminine and vice versa, as the case may require. §830.4 General rule. (a) No person shall take or cause to be taken any action inconsistent with the requirements of this Part or any program, plan, schedule, or other process established by this Part. (b) With respect to a particular DOE nuclear facility, the contractor responsible for the design, construction, operation, or decommissioning of that facility shall be responsible for implementation of, and compliance with, the requirements of this Part. (c) When a section of this Part expressly requires a plan, program, or implementation plan, the provisions of any such plan, program, or implementation plan, as approved by DOE, shall be the basis used to determine compliance with the relevant nuclear safety requirements in the section. §830.5 Enforcement. The requirements in this Part are DOE Nuclear Safety Requirements and are subject to enforcement by all appropriate means, including the imposition of civil and criminal penalties in accordance with the provisions of Part 820 of this title. §830.6 Records. A person shall maintain complete and accurate records as necessary to substantiate its compliance with the requirements of this Part. §830.7 Graded approach. (a) Where indicated in a subpart, a graded approach shall be utilized to comply with the requirements. (b) Whenever a graded approach is applied in meeting a DOE nuclear safety requirement, the bases for selecting an action pursuant to the graded approach shall be documented. Subpart A_General Provisions §830.100 Scope of subpart. This subpart prescribes requirements that are generally applicable to more than one phase of the life cycle of a DOE nuclear facility. §830.120 Quality assurance requirements. (a) General Rule. (1) A contractor responsible for a DOE nuclear facility shall: (i) Conduct its work in accordance with the criteria of paragraph (c) of this section; (ii) Develop and submit for approval by DOE a Quality Assurance Program (QAP) for the work; and (iii) Implement the QAP, as approved and modified by DOE. (b) Quality Assurance Program. (1) A contractor shall develop a QAP by applying the quality assurance criteria specified in paragraph (c) of this section. A QAP shall include a discussion of how the criteria of paragraph (c) of this section will be satisfied. The criteria of paragraph (c) of this section shall be applied using a graded approach. The contractor shall use appropriate standards, wherever applicable, to develop and implement its QAP. (2) Within 180 days after May 5, 1994, a contractor shall submit to DOE for approval a current QAP and an implementation plan. (3) A contractor may, at any time, make changes to an approved QAP. Changes made over the previous year shall be submitted annually to DOE for review. A submittal shall identify the changes, the pages affected, the reason for the changes, and the basis for concluding that the revised QAP continues to satisfy the requirements of this section. Changes made to correct spelling, punctuation, or other editorial items do not require explanation. (4) Implementation plans and QAPs shall be regarded as approved by DOE 90 days after submittal, unless approved or rejected by DOE at an earlier date, and shall include any modification made or directed by DOE.
