FR940304-2-00167 FR940304-2-00087 With respect to the proposed notification requirement, new paragraph (v) of Rule 703(a) would require notification to the Exchange if a member organization or participant organization falls below the net capital requirement of the SEC Net Capital Rule or paragraphs (iii) or (iv) of Phlx rule 703(a). 4 Currently, Commission Rule 17a&hyph;11 requires, among other things, prompt telegraphic notice to a broker-dealer's designated examining authority, as well as the SEC, when a broker-dealer falls below its minimum net capital requirement pursuant to the SEC Net Capital Rule. This rule does not apply to options market makers, because they are exempt from the SEC Net Capital Rule. The Exchange's proposed notification provision would apply to all member organizations and participant organizations, including options market makers. 4 A similar rule is in effect at the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. (``CBOE''). See CBOE Rule 13.2. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6 of the Act, in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, and to protect investors and the public interest, by amending Phlx Rule 703 to correspond to the Commission's recent amendments to the SEC Net Capital Rule. The Exchange also believes that the requirement that a floor brokers' clearing agent guarantee orders entrusted on the floor with that floor broker should promote just and equitable principles of trade as well as protect investors and the public interest by promoting liquidity and confidence in the credibility of floor broker orders, consistent with Section 6(b)(5) of the Act. In addition, the Exchange believes that the proposed notification requirement should prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices and protect investors and the public interest by providing the Exchange with the ability to respond promptly to such notification, especially respecting options market makers. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Written comments on the proposed rule change were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (a) By order approve such proposed rule change, or (b) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-mentioned self-regulatory organization. All submissions should refer to the File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;04 and should be submitted by March 25, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 5 5 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;5000 Filed 3&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
