FR940617-1-00062 FR940617-1-00012 Studies conducted by Ulrich (Ref. 8) and Newsom and Matthews (Ref. 9) are supportive of the effectiveness of povidone-iodine for this indication. Ulrich (Ref. 8) conducted a study using povidone-iodine 7.5 percent in 25 subjects. Both hands of each subject were contaminated with a stock culture of Micrococcus roseus (2.75 × 10 8 organisms per hand, the baseline count) and allowed to air dry for 60 seconds. This artificial hand contamination was followed by a 15-second wash with 5 mL of the povidone-iodine preparation, and this same procedure was repeated until 25 contaminations/washes had been performed. Glove fluid samples were taken after every fifth contamination/wash. Dilutions of the glove fluid were made in a sterile diluent that included a neutralizer. A neutralizer was also incorporated into the culture medium. Based on the average of both hands, the povidone-iodine preparation produced a 4.9 and a 5.2 log reduction of the transient micro-organisms from baseline by the 5th and 10th wash, respectively. By the end of the 25th wash the povidone-iodine preparation demonstrated a 5.5 log 10 reduction from the baseline bacterial count. Newsom and Matthews (Ref. 9) studied test solutions containing 5 or 10 percent povidone-iodine on hands artificially contaminated with an overnight culture of E. coli . The numbers of micro-organisms were measured before and immediately after hand disinfection with the test solution in 15 subjects. Sampling of the hands was accomplished by kneading the fingertips in a ``recovery'' broth that included a neutralizer. A mean 4.4 log reduction from baseline was reported for the bacterial counts taken immediately after the antiseptic wash. Ayliffe, Babb, and Quoraishi (Ref. 10) evaluated the effect of various detergent and alcoholic antiseptic formulations (including a 7.5 percent povidone-iodine formulation) on the removal of S. aureus, Staphylococcus saprophyticus ( S. saprophyticus ), P. aeruginosa, or E. coli from contaminated fingertips. In one set of experiments, six subjects performed an initial wash with an unmedicated soap, followed by the inoculation of the tips of the subjects' fingers and thumbs with 0.02 mL of a broth culture containing either S. aureus or P. aeruginosa . Following contamination, subjects performed either a 30-second wash with 5 mL of a detergent or alcoholic antiseptic preparation, a 30-second wash with an unmedicated soap, or no wash at all. Bacterial sampling was accomplished by rubbing the fingers and thumbs on glass beads immersed in 100 mL of nutrient broth containing neutralizers. All treatments were tested against each organism. Results were reported as the log of the average number of viable organisms recovered from each subject. Against S. aureus , povidone-iodine produced a 3.2 log reduction, which was significantly superior to the reduction achieved by the unmedicated soap. Against P. aeruginosa, povidone-iodine produced a 2.7 log reduction. However, this was not significantly different from the 2.2 log reduction demonstrated by the unmedicated soap.
