FR940803-0-00081 FR940803-0-00025 33 CFR Part 165 [CGD01&hyph;94&hyph;114] RIN 2115&hyph;AA97 Safety Zone; Yachts for All Seasons, Inc. Fireworks, Upper New York Bay, NY and NJ AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Temporary final rule. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is establishing a temporary safety zone for a fireworks program located in Federal Anchorage 20C in the Upper New York Bay. This event will take place on August 3, 1994, from 10 p.m. until 11:30 p.m. and will temporarily close all waters of Federal Anchorage 20C in the Upper New York Bay, within a 300 yard radius from the center point of two fireworks barges anchored together approximately 300 yards east of Liberty Island, New York. This safety zone will preclude all vessels from transiting this portion of the Upper New York Bay and is needed to protect the boating public from the hazards associated with fireworks exploding in the area. DATES: This rule is effective from 10 p.m. until 11:30 p.m. on August 3, 1994, unless terminated sooner by the Captain of the Port, New York. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: LT R. Trabocchi, Project Manager, Captain of the Port, New York (212) 668&hyph;7933. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Drafting Information The drafters of this notice are LT R. Trabocchi, Project Manager, Captain of the Port, New York and CDR J. Astley, Project Attorney, First Coast Guard District, Legal Office. Regulatory History Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553, a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) was not published for this regulation and good cause exists for not publishing an NPRM as well as making it effective less than 30 days after Federal Register publication. Due to the date this application was received, there was insufficient time to draft and publish a notice of proposed rulemaking that allows for a reasonable comment period prior to the event. There was also insufficient time for publication of this temporary final rule 30 days prior to the event. The delay encountered if normal rulemaking procedures were followed would effectively cancel this event. Cancellation of this event is contrary to public interest. Background and Purpose Fireworks by Grucci submitted an application to hold a fireworks program in the waters of the Upper New York Bay, off of Liberty Island, New York. This regulation establishes a temporary safety zone in the waters of Federal Anchorage 20C in the Upper New York Bay within a 300 yard radius from the center point of two fireworks barges anchored together approximately 300 yards east of Liberty Island at or near 40 ○41 ’17 ’ ’ N latitude, 74 ○02 ’25 ’ ’ W longitude. This safety zone will preclude all vessels from transiting this portion of the Upper New York Bay and is needed to protect boaters from the hazards associated with fireworks exploding in the area. Regulatory Evaluation This regulation is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this regulation to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10(e) of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary. This safety zone will close a portion of the Upper New York Bay to all vessel traffic between 10:00 p.m. and 11:30 p.m. on August 3, 1994, unless terminated sooner by the Captain of the Port, New York. Although this regulation will prevent traffic from transiting this area, the effect of this regulation will not be significant for several reasons. Due to the fact that this safety zone will not impact any navigable channel; that Federal Anchorage 20C is minimally used so no vessel is expected to be displaced by this event; that the duration of the event is limited: that the event is at a late hour; and that extensive, advance advisories will be made to the maritime community, the impact of this regulation is expected to be minimal. In addition, there are sufficient alternate anchorage areas in the immediate vicinity for mariners to anchor if desired. Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), the Coast Guard must consider whether this regulation will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. ``Small entities'' include independently owned and operated small businesses that are not dominant in their field and that otherwise qualify as ``small business concerns'' under Section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632). For the reasons given in the Regulatory Evaluation, the Coast Guard expects the impact of this regulation to be minimal. The Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this regulation will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Collection of Information This regulation contains no collection of information requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501). Federalism The Coast Guard has analyzed this action in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612 and has determined that this regulation does not raise sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment.
