FR940603-1-00043 FR940603-1-00009 (a) As specifically provided for in subparts B through F of this part; or (b) A waiver is granted. §1726.20 Standards and specifications. All materials and equipment must meet the minimum requirements of all applicable REA standards and specifications. (See part 1728, Electric Standards and Specifications for Materials and Construction, of this chapter.) §1726.21 New materials. The borrower shall purchase only new materials and equipment unless otherwise approved by REA, on a case by case basis, prior to the purchase. §1726.22 Methods of construction. The borrower is responsible for determining whether construction will be by contract or force account. If construction is by contract, the borrower must determine whether materials will be supplied by the contractor or will be furnished by the borrower. REA reserves the right to require contract construction in lieu of force account construction on a case by case basis. §1726.23 Qualification of bidders. (a) Qualified bidder list (QBL). The borrower shall, with the advice of its engineer, review the qualifications of prospective bidders for contract construction and for material and equipment procurement, and select those firms qualified for inclusion on the borrower's list of qualified bidders for each contract. (See also §1726.16 and §1726.17.) A bid may not be solicited from a prospective bidder or opened by the borrower unless that bidder has been determined to be a qualified bidder for the contract. When preparing the QBL, in addition to the actual experience of the borrower, if any, in dealing with a prospective bidder, the borrower may solicit information from that bidder or from other parties with firsthand experience regarding the firm's capabilities and experience. (b) Conflict of interest. If there is a relationship between the borrower or engineer and a prospective bidder which might cause the borrower or engineer to have or appear to have a conflict of interest, that prospective bidder shall not be included on the QBL unless the engineer discloses the nature of the relationship to the borrower. In the case of the borrower, if its employees or directors have a relationship with a prospective bidder, the prospective bidder shall not be included on the qualified bidders list unless the nature of the relationship is disclosed to the board of directors, and the board of directors specifically approves the inclusion of that bidder in light of the potential for a conflict of interest. §1726.24 Written contracts. (a) General. Procurement of goods or services must be by written contract or purchase orders. The borrower shall use an REA Approved Form of Contract for such contracts where required by subparts B through F of this part. (b) Amendments to contracts. _(1) Contract forms. The borrower must use REA Form 180, Construction Contract Amendment, for any change or addition in a distribution line construction contract. The borrower must use REA Form 238, Construction or Equipment Contract Amendment, for any change or addition in any other contract for construction, or for materials or equipment. (2) Special considerations. Each time an amendment to a construction contract is executed, the borrower must ensure that contractor's bond is adequate, that all necessary licenses and permits have been obtained, and that any environmental requirements associated with the proposed construction have been met. (3) Amendment approval requirements. The borrower must make a contract amendment subject to REA approval if either of the following exist: (i) The amendment alters the terms and conditions of the REA Approved Form of Contract; or (ii) The underlying contract was made subject to REA approval and the total amended contract price exceeds 120 percent of the original contract price (excluding any escalation provision contained in the contract). (4) If neither of the above two conditions exist, the contract amendment is not subject to REA approval and need not be submitted to REA unless specifically requested by REA on a case by case basis. §1726.25 Subcontracts. The contractor or supplier may use REA Form 282, Subcontract, for subcontracts on construction, material or equipment contracts. Subcontracts are not subject to REA approval and need not be submitted to REA unless specifically requested by REA on a case by case basis.
