FR941207-2-00073 FR941207-2-00058 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20750; 812&hyph;9258] The Evergreen Fund, et al.; Notice of Application December 1, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANTS: The Evergreen Fund, The Evergreen Total Return Fund, The Evergreen Limited Market Fund, Inc., The Evergreen Growth and Income Fund, The Evergreen Money Market Trust, The Evergreen American Retirement Trust, The Evergreen Municipal Trust, The Evergreen Real Estate Equity Trust, The Evergreen Fixed Income Trust, The Evergreen Foundation Trust (the ``Evergreen Funds''), and Evergreen Asset Management Corp. (the ``Adviser''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under section 6(c) of the Act to grant an exemption from sections 2(a)(32), 2(a)(35), 18(f), 18(g), 18(i), 22(c), and 22(d) of the Act, and rule 22c&hyph;1 thereunder. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants request an order to permit the Evergreen Funds to issue multiple classes of shares representing interests in the same portfolio of securities, and to assess and, under certain circumstances, waive or reduce a contingent deferred sales charge (``CDSC'') upon certain redemptions of shares. FILING DATES: The application was filed on September 28, 1994 and amended on November 1, 1994 and November 23, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on December 23, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on the applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants: 2500 Westchester Avenue, Purchase, New York 10577. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sarah A. Buescher, Law Clerk, at (202) 942&hyph;0573, or Robert A. Robertson, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. The Evergreen Fund, The Evergreen Total Return Fund, The Evergreen Growth and Income Fund, The Evergreen Money Market Trust, The Evergreen American Retirement Trust, The Evergreen Municipal Trust, The Evergreen Real Estate Equity Trust, The Evergreen Fixed Income Trust, and The Evergreen Foundation Trust are Massachusetts business trusts and are registered open-end management investment companies. The Evergreen Limited Market Fund, Inc. is a Maryland corporation and is a registered open-end management investment company. The Evergreen American Retirement Trust, The Evergreen Municipal Trust, The Evergreen Real Estate Equity Trust, The Evergreen Fixed Income Trust, and The Evergreen Foundation Trust (collectively, the ``Trusts'') currently offer their shares in separate series. 2. The Adviser serves as investment adviser to the Evergreen Funds and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of First Union National Bank of North Carolina. The distributor of the Funds is Evergreen Funds Distributor, Inc., a subsidiary of Furman Selz Incorporated. Applicants request relief on behalf of applicants and any existing 1 or future registered open-end management investment company or series thereof representing a separate investment portfolio for which the Adviser, or an entity controlled by or under common control with the Adviser, serves now or in the future as investment adviser (collectively, the ``Funds''). 1 The Evergreen Funds are the only investment companies existing on the date of this application which currently intend to rely on the requested order. First Union National Bank of North Carolina, the Adviser's parent, acts as investment adviser to First Union Funds. While First Union Funds do not currently intend to rely on the order requested in this application, they may do so in the future, subject to the representations and conditions in the application.
