FR940630-2-00173 FR940630-2-00128 Corrections To Deficient Applications After the deadline, applicants have a 14 day cure period to correct technical deficiencies in the applications. Technical deficiencies relate only to items that would not improve the substantive quality of the application relative to the ranking factors such as a failure to submit a required certification. Applicants will have 14 calendar days from the date HUD notifies the applicant of any problem to submit the appropriate information in writing to HUD. Notification of a technical deficiency shall be made in writing. VII. Other Matters Environmental Review In accordance with 40 CFR 1508.4 of the regulation of the Council on Environmental Quality and 24 CFR 50.20 (b) of the HUD regulations, the policies and procedures contained in this rule relate only to the provisions of technical assistance and therefore are categorically excluded from the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act. Federalism Impact The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under section 6(a) of the Executive Order 12612, Federalism , has determined that the policies contained in this notice will not have substantial direct effects on States or their political subdivisions, or the relationship between the Federal government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. As a result, the notice is not subject to review under the Order. The NOFA will fund technical assistance to promote the ability of eligible recipient organizations to assist low-income families in accordance with the program requirements of the programs for which assistance is to be provided as identified in this NOFA. No substantial impacts on States or their political subdivisions are anticipated as a result of the provision of technical assistance services under this NOFA. Impact on the Family The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under Executive Order 12606, The Family , has determined that this notice will have a beneficial, although indirect, impact on family formation, maintenance, and general well-being. The technical assistance provided as a result of an award under this NOFA will promote the ability of eligible applicants to meet the requirements and program objectives of the programs identified as eligible for technical assistance services under this NOFA. Accordingly, since the impact on the family is beneficial and indirect, no further review is considered necessary. Section 102 of the HUD Reform Act: Documentation and Public Access Requirements; Applicant/Recipient Disclosures Documentation and Public Access Requirements HUD will ensure that documentation and other information regarding each application submitted pursuant to this NOFA are sufficient to indicate the basis upon which the assistance was provided or denied. This material, including any letters of support, will be made available for public inspection for a five-year period beginning not less than 30 days after the award of assistance. Material will be made available in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 15. In addition, HUD will include the recipients of assistance pursuant to this NOFA in its quarterly Federal Register notice of all recipients of HUD assistance awarded on a competitive basis. (See 24 CFR 12.14 (a) and 12.16 (b), and the notice published in the Federal Register on January 16, 1992 (57 FR 1942), for further information on these documentation and public access requirements). Disclosures HUD will make available to the public for five years all applicant disclosure reports (HUD FORM 2880) will be made available along with the applicant disclosure reports, but in no case for a period of less than three years. All reports_both applicant disclosures and updates_will be made available in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act part 15, subpart C, and the notice published in the Federal Register on January 16, 1992 (57 FR 1942), for further information on these disclosure requirements. Section 103 of the HUD Reform Act HUD's regulation implementing section 103 of the HUD Reform Act is codified as 24 CFR part 4, and applies to the funding competition announced today. The requirements of the rule continue to apply until the announcement of the selection of successful applicants. HUD employees involved in the review of applications and in the making of funding decisions are restrained by part 4 from providing advance information to any person (other than an authorized employee of HUD) concerning funding decisions, or from persons who apply for assistance in this competition should confine their inquiries to the subject areas permitted under 24 CFR part 4. Applicants who have questions should contact the HUD Office of Ethics (202) 708&hyph;3815 (voice/TDD). (This is not a toll-free number). The Office of Ethics can provide information of a general nature to HUD employees, as well. However, a HUD employee who has specific program questions, such as whether a particular subject matter can be discussed with persons outside the Department, should contact his or her Regional or Field Office Counsel, or Headquarters counsel of the program to which the question pertains. Section 112 of the HUD Reform Act Section 112 of the HUD Reform Act added a new section 13 to the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act (42 U.S.C. 3537b). This new section 13 contains two provisions dealing with efforts to influence HUD's decisions with respect to financial assistance. The first imposes disclosure requirements on those who are typically involved in these efforts_ those who pay others to influence the award of assistance or the taking of a management action by the Department and those who are paid to provide the influence. The second restricts the payment of fees to those who are paid to influence the award of HUD assistance, if those fees are tied to the number of housing units received or are based upon the amount of assistance received, or if they are contingent upon the receipt of assistance. Section 13 is implemented by 24 CFR part 86. If readers are involved in any efforts to influence the Department in these ways, they are urged to refer to the regulations, particularly the examples contained in Appendix A to this NOFA. Any questions about the rule should be directed to the Office of Ethics, Room 2158, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street SW., Washington, D.C. 20410&hyph;3000. Telephone: (202) 708&hyph;3815 (Voice/TDD). (This is not a toll-free telephone number. Forms necessary for compliance with the rule may be obtained from the local HUD Field. Prohibition Against Lobbying Activities The use of funds awarded under this NOFA is subject to the disclosure requirements and prohibitions of section 319 of the Department of Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1990 (31 U.S. C. 1352) ( the ``Byrd Amendment'') and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 87. These authorities prohibit recipients of Federal contracts, grants or loans from using appropriated funds for lobbying the Executive or Legislative branches of the federal government in connection with a specific contract, grant or loan. The prohibition also covers the awarding of contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, or loans unless the applicant has made an acceptable certification regarding lobbying.
