FR940314-2-00070 FR940314-2-00043 Eligible Applicants It is the intent of HRSA to continue to support health services in the service areas of currently funded C/MHCs, given the unmet need inherent in their designation as medically underserved. Within their project periods, only present grantees may apply for sections 329 and 330 awards to continue to provide health services in medically underserved areas. However, any nonprofit private and public entities may apply to serve the geographic areas where project periods are expiring. For a list of service areas with expiring project periods, see Federal Register notice published on May 3, 1993, 58 FR 26328 et seq. Review Criteria When determining whether Federal support will be made available for continuing awards, the Department will review C/MHCs for compliance with standard criteria stipulated in the program regulations (42 CFR part 51c for CHC and part 56 for MHC activities) and for how effectively they have used previously awarded sections 330 and 329 funds. This year's reviews will continue to emphasize need and community impact, health services, management and finance, and governance. Specifically, applications will be evaluated based on: (1) The demonstrated need for services based on geographic, demographic, and economic factors, resources in the area, and health status; (2) the capacity to provide primary health services as appropriate to meet the needs of the community, as evidenced by such attributes as an adequate medical provider staff (e.g., number, specialty mix, and qualifications), critical linkages to other relevant entities (e.g., State or local health departments, State Medicaid agencies, health professions training programs), and coordination with other levels of care; (3) appropriate leadership, management structures and financial systems to enable delivery of health services efficiently and effectively; (4) appropriateness of governing board composition, committee structure, and performance to enable the board to function fully and effectively in its fiduciary role; and (5) how the applicant integrates services supported by this grant with health services provided under other federally assisted programs. B. Capital Improvements Approximately $4.5 million will be available to support new major and minor capital improvements. Major capital requests are requests for Federal grant support in excess of $100,000 and will fall into one of two categories: (1) Proposals to correct major fire and life safety code violations; and (2) proposals to expand facilities to eliminate overcrowding associated with an increased demand for services. Major capital improvements include: facility acquisition, construction, alteration, renovation, expansion and modernization. Minor capital improvements are requests for Federal grant support of less than $100,000. Minor capital proposals submitted in continuation applications for FY 1994 should address the same categories of projects as those to be considered for major capital projects, i.e., to correct fire and life safety code violations and to relieve overcrowding. Emphasis will be given to capital proposals that correct existing fire and life safety code violations, particularly violations that disrupt the delivery of primary care services and may pose a danger to health center patients and staff. Fire and life safety code violations include those that are cited or clearly documented. Review Criteria Applications for major capital will be reviewed against the following criteria: (1) Documented community need for continued service delivery; (2) extent of the facility need; (3) appropriateness of site selection; (4) availability of other sources of proposed financing; and (5) soundness of the proposal. Awards will be issued by September 30, 1994, except for minor capital improvements which may be made sooner, depending on the nature of the building deficiency.
