FR940204-0-00051 FR940204-0-00021 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018_AB73 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Endangered Status for Three Plants and Threatened Status for One Plant From Sandy and Sedimentary Soils of Central Coastal California AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) determines endangered status pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act), for three plants: Chorizanthe pungens var. hartwegiana (Ben Lomond spineflower (also previously known as Hartweg's spineflower)), Chorizanthe robusta (inclusive of var. hartwegii and var. robusta ) (robust spineflower), and Erysimum teretifolium (Ben Lomond wallflower). The Service also determines threatened status for one plant: Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens (Monterey spineflower). These four taxa occur in coastal habitats of southern Santa Cruz and northern Monterey Counties and are imperiled by one or more of the following factors: Habitat destruction due to residential and golf course development, agricultural land conversion, sand mining, military activities, and encroachment by alien plant species. This rule implements the protection and recovery provisions afforded by the Act for these plants. EFFECTIVE DATE: March 7, 1994. ADDRESSES: The complete file for this rule is available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Ventura Field Office, 2140 Eastman Avenue, Suite 100, Ventura, California 93003. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Connie Rutherford at the above address (805/644&hyph;1766). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Chorizanthe pungens Benth. var. hartwegiana Reveal & Hardham, Chorizanthe robusta Parry var. hartwegii (Benth. in A. DC), and Erysimum teretifolium Eastwood are endemic to sandstone and mudstone deposits in the Santa Cruz Mountains in Santa Cruz County, California. Chorizanthe pungens Benth var. pungens and Chorizanthe robusta Parry var. robusta are endemic to sandy soils of coastal habitats in southern Santa Cruz and northern Monterey Counties. The Santa Cruz Mountains are a relatively young range composed of igneous and metamorphic rocks overlain by thick layers of sedimentary material uplifted from the ocean floor and ancient shoreline zone (Caughman and Ginsberg 1987). These ancient marine terraces persist as pockets of sandstones and limestones that are geologically distinct from the volcanic origins of the range. Soils that form from these sandstone and limestone deposits tend to be coarse and, at least surficially, lose soil moisture rapidly. The more mesic slopes of the Santa Cruz Mountains are covered primarily by redwood forest (Zinke 1988) and mixed evergreen forest (Sawyer et al . 1988). In contrast, the drier pockets of sandstone and limestone, referred to as the ``Ben Lomond sandhills'' (Thomas 1961), support two unique communities_maritime coast range ponderosa pine forest and northern maritime chaparral (Griffin 1964, Holland 1986). The ponderosa pine forest, locally referred to as ``ponderosa pine sandhill'' or ``ponderosa pine sand parkland'' (California Native Plant Society 1986, Marangio and Morgan 1987), consists of an open park-like forest of scattered ponderosa pine ( Pinus ponderosa ) with knobcone pine ( Pinus attenuata ), coast live oak ( Quercus agrifolia ), and at a few sites, the federally endangered Santa Cruz cypress ( Cupressus abramsii ). These stands intergrade with another unique community, northern maritime chaparral, locally referred to as silver-leaf manzanita mixed chaparral (Marangio 1985, Marangio and Morgan 1987), and are dominated by the endemic silver-leaved manzanita ( Arctostaphylos silvicola ). As uplift of the Santa Cruz Mountains proceeded, some of the raised marine terraces of sandstone and limestone were buried beneath layers of sedimentary material deposited by flowing water. Pockets of this alluvial material, referred to as Santa Cruz mudstone, persisted during this process of mountain uplifting and alluvial movement. In the Scotts Valley area, mudstone outcrops support annual grasses and herbaceous species. These communities were referred to as annual grasslands and wildflower fields by Holland (1986). Discussion of the Four Species In California, the spineflower genus ( Chorizanthe ) in the buckwheat family (Polygonaceae) comprises species of wiry annual herbs that inhabit dry sandy soils along the coast and inland. Because of the patchy and limited distribution of such soils, many species of Chorizanthe tend to be highly localized in their distribution. One subsection of the genus referred to as Pungentes consists of seven species distinguished by the following features: The inner and outer tepals (petal-like sepals) are of equal length and are entire or lobed but not fringed, filaments are free, involucres (whorl of bracts subtending the flowers) are 6-toothed with the alternating three shorter and the anterior one slightly long-awned, involucral margins are not continuously membranaceous across the sinuses, the number of stamens are variable (3&hyph;9), and plants are decumbent to erect with spreading pubescence and are distributed mainly on or near the coast from Santa Barbara County northward to Mendocino (Reveal and Hardham 1989). Although three of the seven species in the section Pungentes are still thought to be common, the remaining four species are becoming increasingly rare. Two of these species ( Chorizanthe howellii and C. valida ) were listed as endangered on June 22, 1992 (57 FR 27848). The remaining two species, C. pungens and C. robusta , inclusive of their varieties, are subjects of this rule. Chorizanthe pungens was first described by George Bentham in 1836 based on a specimen collected in Monterey. This taxon was recognized by George Goodman in 1934 as the type species in describing the Pungentes section of the genus. At that time, Goodman also recognized C. pungens var. hartwegii , previously described and identified as C. douglasii var. hartwegii by Bentham in 1856. It was named after Karl Hartweg who collected the type from ``dry mountain pastures near Santa Cruz'' in 1847 (Reveal and Hardham 1989).
