FR941019-0-00026 FR941019-0-00004 (y) Minority-owned business means a business_ (1) more than 50 percent of the ownership or control of which is held by 1 or more minority individuals; and (2) more than 50 percent of the net profit or loss of which accrues to 1 or more minority individuals. (z) MOU means memorandum of understanding. (aa) Moderate-income families means families and individuals whose incomes exceed 80 percent but do not exceed 115 percent of area median income, as determined by the Secretary of HUD, with adjustment for family size. (bb) National nonprofit organization means a nonprofit organization which has membership in more than one State or operates housing and community development programs or provides technical assistance in more than one State. (cc) Net realizable market value means a price below the market value that takes into account: (1) Any reductions in holding costs resulting from the expedited sale of a property including, but not limited to, foregone real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance costs, security costs, potential diminution of value from property being held in inventory, and loss of use of funds; and (2) The avoidance, where applicable, of fees paid to real estate brokers, auctioneers, or other individuals of organizations involved in the sale of property owned by the RTC. (dd) Non-AHDP property means a property that would constitute an eligible multifamily property, eligible condominium property or eligible single family property except that its appraised value or the value determined by the RTC exceeds the applicable maximum values set out in paragraph (j)(2) of this section with respect to condominium units, in paragraph (k)(2) of this section with respect to multifamily property, and in paragraph (m)(2) of this section with respect to single family property. (ee)(1) Nonprofit organization means a private organization (including a limited equity cooperative): (i) No part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any member, shareholder, founder, contributor, lender, management company or individual and in which no equity interest or investment is held by a lender or management company, as determined by the RTC; and (ii) That is approved by the RTC as to financial responsibility. (2) The determination of whether an organization qualifies as a nonprofit organization for purposes of this part shall be made by RTC. (ff) Principal residence means the dwelling at which a household resides for at least a majority of each year. (gg) Public agency means any Federal, State, local, or other governmental entity, whether operating under executive, legislative or judicial authority, and includes any public housing agency. (hh) Qualifying condominium purchaser means: (1) A qualifying household, in the case of eligible condominium property offered for sale individually; or (2) In the case of eligible condominium property offered for sale in bulk, a nonprofit organization, public agency or for-profit entity, which makes a commitment to satisfy the lower-income occupancy requirements for the eligible condominium property for which it makes a purchase offer. (ii) Qualifying household means a household: (1) That intends to occupy an eligible single family property or condominium property as a principal residence; (2) That agrees to occupy the property as a principal residence for at least 12 months; (3) That certifies in writing that it intends to occupy the property as a principal residence for at least 12 months; and (4) Whose annual income does not exceed 115 percent of area median income, as determined by the Secretary of HUD, with adjustment for family size. (jj) Qualifying multifamily purchaser means a public agency, a nonprofit organization, or a for-profit entity which makes a commitment (for itself or any related entity) to satisfy the lower-income occupancy requirements for any eligible multifamily property for which it makes a purchase offer. (kk) Qualifying purchaser includes qualifying single family purchasers, qualifying multifamily purchasers, and qualifying condominium purchasers. For bulk sales transactions, qualifying purchaser excludes qualifying households.
