FR940325-2-00121 FR940325-2-00054 The African grey parrot ( Psittacus erithacus ) is a medium-sized parrot endemic to Africa. It is distributed in Central Africa from the Gulf of Guinea Islands and the west coast east to western Kenya and northwestern Tanzania; it possibly ranges to Mt. Kilimanjaro in Tanzania (Forshaw, 1989). They are primarily birds of lowland forests. There are three subspecies recognized: Psittacus e. erithacus, P. e. princeps, and P. e. timneh (Forshaw, 1989; Howard and Moore, 1991). The nominate subspecies, P. e. erithacus, is widespread in equatorial Africa. It ranges from southeastern Côte d'Ivoire to western Kenya and south to northern Angola, southern regions of Zaire and to northwestern Tanzania. P. e. princeps, which some authorities believe cannot be distinguished from the nominate subspecies, is restricted to the islands of Principe and Bioko in the Gulf of Guinea; while P. e. timneh is confined to southern Guinea, Sierra Leone, Liberia and the westernmost parts of Côte d'Ivoire. The nominate subspecies, P. e. erithacus (``Redtail''), can be distinguished from P. e. timneh (``Maroontail'') by morphological characteristics. ``Red-tailed African grey parrots'' have an all-black bill and a bright red tail, whereas ``Maroon-tailed African grey parrots'' have a pale upper bill, a much darker maroon-red (often with a lot of dark-brown) tail, their general body color is darker, and on average, they are about 15% smaller in size than Red-tailed African grey parrots (Dandliker, 1992). Within the Red-tailed African grey parrots ( P. e. erithacus ), there exists a gradient in body size between western and eastern populations (Dandliker, 1992). Traders distinguish between the ``Ghanaian Redtails'' and the ``Congo or Cameroonian Redtails.'' ``Congo Red-tailed African grey parrots'' are larger and heavier than those from the western parts of the range. Although African grey parrots have long been popular in the pet bird trade, very little scientific data on the status, population sizes, and demography of wild populations exists. The trade in this species has long been an issue of concern. Between 1983 and 1989, 346,782 African grey parrots were exported from 20 African countries, including two (Sénégal and Togo) which are not believed to be range states (Environmental Investigation Agency 1993). In 1991, 10,651 Psittacus erithacus and 3,976 P. e. timneh were imported into the United States. As of September 19, 1993, 7,821 Psittacus erithacus and 2,158 P. e. timneh had been imported into the United States since enactment of the WBCA, under the quota established by the WBCA and published in the Federal Register (58 FR 19840). A CITES Report (Dandliker, 1992) estimated the total population of Red-tailed African grey parrots ( P. e. erithacus ) in West Africa to be between 40,000 and 100,000 birds. The largest population of Red-tailed African grey parrots occurs in Ghana, where the population is estimated to be between 30,000 and 80,000 birds (75%&hyph;80% of the total West African population) (Dandliker, 1992). Since 1980, Ghana has prohibited the export of its African grey parrots. This ban was found to be necessary by the Ghana Department of Game and Wildlife ``because of the large number of birds exported annually without scientific information to determine a sustainable off-take which would ensure the survival of the species in the wild'' (Letter from G. Punguse, 1993). The recent CITES Secretariat-sponsored survey of African grey parrots in Ghana (Dandliker, 1992) concluded that the majority of the wild populations of Red-tailed African grey parrots are found in Ghana, with a few populations along the Côte d'Ivoire eastern boundary with Ghana and none in Togo. The CITES report (Dandliker, 1992) found that the majority of African grey parrots ( P. e. erithacus ) exported from Côte d'Ivoire are, in reality, birds that are smuggled into Côte d'Ivoire from Ghana, and all the African grey parrots exported from Togo come from Ghana. The Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA, 1993) studied the illegal trade in African grey parrots from Ghana, at the request of the Ghanaian Government. Statements made by traders to EIA appear to substantiate the findings of the CITES Report concerning the illegal trade in African grey parrots from Côte d'Ivoire. Statements made by traders to EIA also point to illegal trade in African grey parrots from Benin, which originated in Ghana. After a review of the petition by the Environmental Investigation Agency, the aforementioned Notifications from the CITES Secretariat, the CITES Report (Dandliker, 1992), and information available from a recent law enforcement investigation, the Service concludes there was substantial scientific and commercial information that the suspension of imports of African grey parrots from Côte d'Ivoire, Togo, and Guinea, is warranted under the WBCA, and would have been imposed, had the statutorily mandated moratorium not been in effect. Information related to imports of African grey parrots from Benin was more limited but sufficient. In the Federal Register notice of August 25, 1993, the Service requested information from the public on exports or re-exports of African grey parrots from Benin. No such information was submitted. There is no information available on which to base a judgment that African grey parrot exports from Benin are not detrimental to the species. Information available to the Service indicated that in Ghana, although the African grey parrot is protected from export, it has been depleted by the ``laundering'' of smuggled birds through exports of the species from Côte d'Ivoire, Togo, and possibly Benin. Pursuant to section 105(b) of the WBCA (16 U.S.C. 4904), the Service finds that a suspension in the trade of African grey parrots from Ghana, Côte d'Ivoire, Togo, Guinea, and Benin is necessary for the conservation of the species. The Service concludes that the trade in African grey parrots from Côte d'Ivoire, Togo, and Guinea is detrimental to the survival of the species in Ghana. The Service finds that there is not sufficient information available on which to base a judgment that the species in Côte d'Ivoire, Togo, Guinea, and Benin is not detrimentally affected by trade. The Service finds that in the case of Guinea and Côte d'Ivoire, remedial measures recommended by the Standing Committee of the Convention have not been implemented. The only reason the Service is not now imposing this moratorium as proposed in its notice of August 25, 1993, is the fact that the moratorium is already in place, pursuant to the WBCA and regulations in 50 CFR part 15.
