FR940805-0-00033 FR940805-0-00012 Several commentators argued that, in addition to transportation costs incurred outside a storage facility, distribution costs should also include all costs (i.e., labor, equipment, and occupancy costs) incurred after a sales order has been received, regardless of whether these costs are incurred inside or outside a storage facility. They stated that the costs of retrieving the goods and readying them for shipment are more in the nature of deductible selling and distribution costs and do not relate to the production, acquisition, or holding of property. The preamble to the proposed regulations cites the Blue Book to the 1986 Act which states that deductible ``distribution expenses are intended to include only external distribution costs, that is, those costs incurred in transporting goods from the taxpayer's warehouse or retail outlet to the customer, or to the customer's agent, a common carrier, or some other intermediary. Distribution expenses do not include costs of moving inventory from a taxpayer's warehouse to its retail store or other internal transportation costs.'' Joint Committee on Taxation Staff, General Explanation of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, 99th Cong., JCS&hyph;10&hyph;87, 510 n.61. Commentators contended that this reference was taken out of context and suggested that it should be used to define the nature of an activity (e.g., shipment to a customer vs. internal transfers) rather than the location of an activity (e.g., inside an off-site storage facility vs. the loading dock). These final regulations retain the definition of distribution costs contained in the proposed regulations. The Service and Treasury continue to believe that this definition of distribution costs provides for a better matching of income and related expenses because gross income is not typically recognized from the sale of an item when an order is placed, but rather when the item is shipped, delivered, or accepted, or when title to the item passes to the purchaser. Since costs incurred inside a storage facility are typically incurred prior to an item being shipped, delivered, or accepted, or when title passes, these costs should be capitalized until income is recognized. Furthermore, the Conference Report to the 1986 Act specifically states that ``processing, assembly, repackaging, and similar costs, including labor costs attributable to unloading goods (but not including labor costs attributable to loading of goods for final shipment to customers, or labor at a retail facility)'' should be capitalized. H.R. Conf. Rep. No. 841, 99th Cong., 2d Sess. II&hyph;306 (1986), 1986&hyph;3 (Vol. 4) C.B. 306. Thus, because Congress intended that costs incurred prior to loading goods for shipment be capitalized, distribution activities should not be construed to begin any earlier than at the loading dock. Pick and Pack Costs and Repackaging Costs Several commentators have expressed concern that the definition of distribution costs contained in the proposed regulations may result in some taxpayers abandoning the use of the simplified resale method. In response, these final regulations except ``pick and pack'' costs from the scope of capitalizable handling costs incurred inside a storage facility. These final regulations define pick and pack costs as those costs incurred inside a storage facility in preparing specific goods for imminent shipment to a particular customer after the customer has ordered those goods. Examples of pick and pack costs include costs incurred to move specific goods from a storage location in preparation for shipment to the customer, pack or repack those goods for shipment to the customer, and stage those goods for shipment to the customer. Pick and pack costs, however, do not include occupancy costs, such as rent, depreciation, insurance, taxes, utilities, and maintenance. The Service and Treasury believe that the exclusion of these costs from the scope of pick and pack costs is consistent with Congressional intent that all off-site storage and warehousing costs be capitalized. See H. R. Conf. Rep. No. 841, 99th Cong., 2d Sess. II&hyph;306 (1986), 1986&hyph;3 (Vol. 4) C.B. 306. Furthermore, this position is supported by the Conference Report to the 1986 Act. In a footnote to the Conference Report the conferees state that ``[o]ffsite storage and warehousing costs generally include the cost of a facility whose primary function is the storage or warehousing of goods.'' H. R. Conf. Rep. No. 841, 99th Cong., 2d Sess. II&hyph;306 (1986), 1986&hyph;3 (Vol. 4) C.B. 306. Thus, because the primary function of an off-site storage facility is the storage or warehousing of goods, all occupancy costs incurred at an off-site storage facility must be capitalized. Because the above rule for pick and pack costs essentially replaces the exception for repackaging costs contained in the proposed regulations, the separate exception for repackaging costs is unnecessary and has been eliminated.
