FR940419-2-00058 FR940419-2-00033 6. Part IV_Assurances/Certifications Applicants are required to file an SF 424B, Assurances_Non-Construction Programs and the Certification Regarding Lobbying. Both must be signed and returned with the application. In addition, applicants must certify their compliance with: (1) Drug-Free Workplace Requirements; and (2) Debarment and Other Responsibilities. Copies of these assurances/certifications are reprinted at the end of this announcement and should be reproduced, as necessary. A duly authorized representative of the applicant organization must certify that the applicant is in compliance with these assurances/certifications. A signature on the SF 424 indicates compliance with the Drug Free Workplace Requirements, and Debarment and Other Responsibilities certifications. D. Checklist for a Complete Application The checklist below is for your use to ensure that your application package has been properly prepared. _One original, signed and dated application, plus two copies. Applications for different priority areas are packaged separately; _Application is from an organization which is eligible under the eligibility requirements defined in the priority area description (screening requirement); _Application length does not exceed 60 pages, unless otherwise specified in the priority area description. A complete application consists of the following items in this order: _Application for Federal Assistance (SF 424, REV 4&hyph;88); _A completed SPOC certification with the date of SPOC contact entered in line 16, page 1 of the SF 424; _Budget Information_Non-Construction Programs (SF 424A, REV 4&hyph;88); _Budget justification for Section B_Budget Categories; _Table of Contents; _Letter from the Internal Revenue Service to prove non-profit status, if necessary; _Copy of the applicant's approved indirect cost rate agreement, if appropriate; _Project summary description and listing of key words; _Program Narrative Statement (See Part III, Section C); _Organizational capability statement, including an organization chart; _Any appendices/attachments; _Assurances_Non-Construction Programs (Standard Form 424B, REV 4&hyph;88); _Certification Regarding Lobbying; and _Certification of Protection of Human Subjects, if necessary. E. The Application Package Each application package must include an original and two copies of the complete application. Each copy should be stapled securely (front and back if necessary) in the upper left-hand corner. All pages of the narrative (including charts, tables, maps, exhibits, etc.) must be sequentially numbered, beginning with page one. In order to facilitate handling, please do not use covers, binders or tabs. Do not include extraneous materials as attachments, such as agency promotion brochures, slides, tapes, film clips, minutes of meetings, survey instruments or articles of incorporation. Do not include a self-addressed, stamped acknowledgment card. All applicants will be notified automatically about the receipt of their application. If acknowledgment of receipt of your application is not received within eight weeks after the deadline date, please notify ACYF by telephone at (202) 690&hyph;7016. Dated: April 13, 1993. Olivia A. Golden, Commissioner, Administration on Children, Youth and Families. BILLING CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEN19AP94.001 BILLION CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;C
