FR940304-2-00092 FR940304-2-00040 Retention and disposal: Destroyed after three years of inactivity. (Being negotiated.) System manager(s) and address: Personnel Officer, Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart Street, 10th Floor, Arlington, VA 22203. Notification procedure: Contact individual listed above or Executive Vice President for Operations. Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart Street, Arlington, VA 22203. Record access procedures: IAF access procedures are contained in Rules Safeguarding Personal Information in IAF Records. Contesting records procedures: Contesting Record Procedures are contained in Rules Safeguarding Personal Information. Record source categories: Individual himself; educational institutions; previous employers; letters of recommendations named by individual himself. IAF&hyph;5 System name: Personnel Investigation Records. System location: Personnel Security, Office of Personnel Management, Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart Street, 10th Floor, Arlington, VA 22203. Categories of individuals covered by the system: a. Current and former employees or applicants for employment in the agency. b. Individuals considered for access to classified information or restricted areas and/or security determinations as contractors, experts, and/or background, and consultants to agency programs. Categories of records in the system: Investigative files and/or background files which pertain to clearance investigations for Federal employment. These records contain investigative information regarding an individual's character, conduct, and behavior in the community where he or she lives or lived; arrests and convictions for violations against the law; reports of interviews with present and former supervisors, coworkers, associates, educators, etc.; reports about the qualifications of an individual for a specific position; files relating to adjudication matters; reports of inquiries with law enforcement agencies, employers, educational institutions attended, creditors; reports of action after OPM or FBI section 8(d) Full Field Investigation; Notices of Security Investigation; and other information developed from the above. Authority for maintenance of the system: Executive Order 10450. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: These records and information in these records may be used in disclosing information: a. To designated officers and employees of agencies, offices, and other establishments in the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the Federal Government, and the District of Columbia Government, when such agency, office, or establishment conducts an investigation of the individual for the purpose of granting a security clearance, or for the purpose of making a determination of qualifications, suitability, or loyalty to the United States Government, or access to classified information or restricted areas. b. To designated officers and employees of agencies, offices, and other establishments in the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the Federal Government, and the District of Columbia Government, having the responsibility to grant clearances to make a determination regarding access to classified information or restricted areas, or to evaluate qualifications, suitability, or loyalty to the United States Government, in connection with performance of a service to the Federal Government under a contract or other agreement. c. To the intelligence agencies of the Department of Defense, the National Security Agency, the Central Intelligence Agency, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation for use in intelligence activities.
