FR940324-1-00023 FR940324-1-00007 ␣ Records Schedule. A document describing, providing instructions for, and approving the disposition of specified Federal records. It consists of one of the following: (a) An SF 115, Request for Records Disposition Authority, which NARA has approved to authorize the disposition of Federal records; (b) A General Records Schedule (GRS) issued by NARA; or (c) A printed agency manual or directive containing the records descriptions and disposition instructions approved by NARA on one or more SF 115s or issued by NARA in the GRS. (36 CFR 1220.14) ␣ Security Backup. Copy of a record in any medium created to provide a means of ensuring retention and access in the event the original record is destroyed, inaccessible, or corrupted. ␣ System Backup. Copy on off-line storage media of software and data stored on direct access storage devices in a computer system used to recreate a system and its data in case of unintentional loss of data or software. ␣ Temporary Record. Any Federal record that the Archivist of the United States has determined to have insufficient value to warrant its preservation by the National Archives and Records Administration. (36 CFR 1220.14) ␣ Transmission and Receipt Data. (a) Transmission Data. Information in E-mail systems regarding the identities of sender and addressee(s), and the date and time messages were sent. (b) Receipt Data. Information in E-mail systems regarding date and time of receipt of a message, and/or acknowledgment of receipt or access by addressee(s). 3. Records Management Responsibilities Under the Federal Records Act, agencies' records management responsibilities include creating and maintaining adequate and proper Federal records, regardless of the medium in which the records are created or received, and scheduling the disposition of records no longer needed for conduct of Government business (44 U.S.C. Chapters 31 and 33). Agencies are legally obligated to ensure creation and maintenance, for an appropriate period, of ``records containing adequate and proper documentation of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, and essential transactions of the agency *␣*␣*.'' (44 U.S.C. 3101). Because E-mail is often used to conduct Government business, it is critical that agencies take steps to ensure that records created or received on E-mail systems are managed according to the law. Accordingly, agencies must develop and implement an agency-wide program for the management of all Federal records created or received on electronic communications systems (36 CFR 1234.10(a)). All features of E-mail systems (including messages, calendars, directories, distribution lists, attachments such as word processing documents, messages sent or received over external communications systems) must be evaluated to identify documentary materials that satisfy the definition of Federal records. An agency's records management program should address all Federal records in the E-mail system. The agency should also incorporate procedures that ensure recordkeeping and disposition requirements are met before approving a new E-mail system or enhancements to an existing system (36 CFR 1234.10(d)). 4. What Are Federal Records? The definition of ``records'' in the Federal Records Act specifies the criteria under which documentary materials are to be considered Federal records. The phrase ``regardless of physical form or characteristics'' means that the records may be paper, film, disk, or any other physical type or form; and that the method used to record information may be manual, mechanical, photographic, electronic, or any combination of these or other technologies. Whatever the medium, the statute establishes two conditions that must be met for a document to be a record: (1) The document is made or received by agency personnel under Federal law or in connection with the transaction of public business, and (2) it is preserved or appropriate for preservation. Documentary materials, in any physical form, are Federal records when they meet both tests. The word ``preserved'' means the deliberate act of filing, storing, or otherwise systematically maintaining material as evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities of the Government or because of the informational value of the data in it. ``Appropriate for preservation'' means documentary materials made or received by an agency which in its judgment should be filed, stored, or otherwise systematically maintained by the agency because of the evidence of agency activities or information they contain, even though the materials may not be covered by its current filing or maintenance procedures (36 CFR 1222.12). Agencies must apply carefully reasoned judgment in deciding when E-mail documents are ``appropriate for preservation'' and in exercising this judgment, must consider their obligation to create and maintain records that adequately document their policies, programs, and activities under 44 U.S.C. 3101 (see previous section entitled Records Management Responsibilities). 5. Record Status of E-Mail Messages It is critical that all E-mail users understand the concept of Federal records and that agencies provide sufficient information for users to distinguish Federal records from nonrecord materials. E-mail messages are Federal records when they meet the criteria specified in the statutory definition, i.e., they are made or received under Federal law or in the conduct of agency business, and they are preserved or are appropriate for preservation as evidence of the agency's organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities, or contain information of value. Since E-mail systems transmit a variety of messages, not all E-mail documents will meet the statutory definition of records.
