FR940907-2-00063 FR940907-2-00044 Section 1816(e)(4) of the Act requires the Secretary to designate regional agencies or organizations, which are already Medicare intermediaries under section 1816, to perform bill processing functions with respect to freestanding home health agency (HHA) bills. The law requires that we limit the number of such regional intermediaries (i.e., RHHIs) to not more than ten; there are currently nine (see 42 CFR 421.117 and the Federal Register published on May 19, 1988 (53 FR 17936) for more details about the RHHIs). In addition, section 1816(e)(4) of the Act requires the Secretary to develop criteria and standards in order to determine whether to designate an agency or organization to perform services with respect to hospital affiliated HHAs. We have developed separate measures for RHHIs in order to evaluate the distinct RHHI functions. These functions include the processing of freestanding HHA, hospital affiliated HHA, and hospice bills. Through an evaluation using these criteria and standards we may determine whether the RHHI functions should be moved from one intermediary to another in order to ensure effective and efficient administration of the program benefit. Below we list the criteria and standards to be used for evaluating the performance of intermediaries and carriers. In a number of instances, we identify a HCFA manual as a source of more detailed requirements. Intermediaries and carriers have copies of the various Medicare manuals referenced in this notice. Members of the public also have access to our manualized instructions. Medicare manuals are available for review at local Federal Depository Libraries (FDLs). Under the FDL Program, government publications are sent to approximately 1400 designated libraries throughout the United States. Interested parties may examine the documents at any one of the FDLs. Some may have arrangements to transfer material to a local library not designated as an FDL. To locate the nearest FDL, individuals should contact any library. In addition, individuals may contact regional depository libraries, which receive and retain at least one copy of nearly every Federal government publication, either in printed or microfilm form, for use by the general public. These libraries provide reference services and interlibrary loans; however, they are not sales outlets. Individuals may obtain information about the location of the nearest regional depository library from any library. Finally, all HCFA regional offices maintain all Medicare manuals for public inspection. To find the location of the nearest available HCFA regional office, individuals may contact the individual listed at the beginning of this notice. That individual can also provide information about purchasing or subscribing to the various Medicare manuals. IV. Criteria and Standards for Intermediaries Claims Processing Criterion The Claims Processing criterion contains 4 mandated standards. Standard 1 _95% of clean electronically submitted non-Periodic Interim Payment (PIP) bills paid within statutorily specified time frames. Specifically, clean, non-PIP electronic claims can be paid as early as the 14th day (13 days after the date of receipt) and must be paid by the 31st day (30 days after the date of receipt). Standard 2 _95% of clean paper non-PIP bills paid within specified time frames. Specifically, clean, non-PIP paper claims can be paid as early as the 27th day (26 days after the date of receipt), and must be paid by the 31st day (30 days after the date of receipt). Standard 3 _Reversal rate by Administrative Law Judges (ALJ) is at or below 5.0%. Standard 4 _75% of reconsiderations are processed within 60 days and 90% are processed within 90 days.
