FR940525-2-00030 FR940525-2-00022 [OPP&hyph;64022; FRL 4865&hyph;2] Simazine; Cancellation of the Registration of Aladdin Winter Care for Non-Payment of Registration Maintenance Fees AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Cancellation Order. SUMMARY: In this Notice, issued pursuant to section 4(i)(5)(D) of FIFRA, EPA is cancelling the registration of Aladdin Winter Care (EPA Reg. No. 11329&hyph;17) for failure to pay the annual registration maintenance fee for its product registration. The effective date for this section 4(i) cancellation is May 25, 1994. Existing stocks of the product subject to the cancellation order in this Notice may not be sold, distributed, or used effective May 25, 1994, except for (1) sale or distribution up through the channels of trade to the former registrant of that product, or (2) lawful disposal. DATES: The cancellation shall be effective May 25, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: By mail: Jeff Morris, Special Review Branch, Special Review and Reregistration Division (7508W), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. Office location and telephone number: Special Review Branch, 3rd floor, 2800 Crystal Drive, Arlington, VA 22202, (703) 308&hyph;8029. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Cancellation For Maintenance Fee Non-Payment This registration is being canceled for non-payment of maintenance fees. Section 4(i)(5)(A) of FIFRA requires each registrant of a pesticide to pay an annual maintenance fee to keep its pesticide registrations in effect (7 U.S.C. 136a(5)(A)). On January 15, 1994, the fee was due for Aladdin Winter Care (EPA Reg. No. 11329&hyph;17, Aladdin Chemical Company, registrant). However, EPA allowed registrants until April 1, 1994, to remit maintenance fees. The registrant did not pay its registration maintenance fee by April 1. This Notice therefore serves as the final cancellation order for Aladdin Winter Care, or any other product with EPA Reg. No. 11329&hyph;17. II. Risks Posed by Simazine in Swimming Pools Simazine, which is used primarily as an agricultural herbicide, is also used as an algaecide in swimming pools. The swimming pool use accounts for less than 2 percent of total simazine usage. In 1989, EPA classified simazine as a Group C possible human carcinogen, and in August 1993 EPA conducted a risk assessment of simazine swimming pool algaecide products. The risk assessment revealed unacceptable cancer and non-cancer health risks to children and adults exposed to water treated with simazine algaecides. EPA's risk assessment is based on laboratory animal studies. These studies indicate that short-term exposure to simazine may result in weight loss and reduced red blood cell count (anemia), which are reversible effects when exposure is terminated. The studies also show that exposure to simazine poses a potential risk of cancer. III. Regulatory Background The three registrants of technical simazine--Ciba, Drexel Chemical, and Oxon-Italia--are not supporting the simazine swimming pool use. None of Drexel Chemical's products are registered for aquatic use, and Ciba and Oxon-Italia ceased supporting all aquatic uses prior to EPA's risk assessment. The aquatic-use cancellation for Ciba, the supplier of technical simazine for the swimming pool products, became effective on October 9, 1992. After EPA completed its assessment of the risks of simazine in swimming pools, EPA notified the registrants of the 22 simazine swimming pool algaecide products of the cancer and non-cancer risks associated with simazine swimming pool use. In view of these risks, nine of the thirteen end-use registrants agreed to request voluntary cancellation with no allowance for the formulation, sale, distribution, or use of existing product stocks. They also agreed to waive the comment period typically associated with such requests for voluntary cancellation. Because the nine companies voluntarily requested cancellation and asked for a waiver of the comment period, EPA ordered the voluntary cancellation of these 14 registrations--along with maintenance fee non-payment cancellations of 3 registrations--to become effective on April 15, 1994 (59 FR 18120). Subsequently, Aladdin Chemical Company failed to pay the annual registration maintenance fee for Aladdin Winter Care (EPA Reg. No. 11329&hyph;17). This registration fee non-payment is the subject of this cancellation order. EPA is preparing cancellation actions against the registrations of the remaining 4 products, which are held by Alden Leeds and N. Jonas Company. IV. Existing Stocks EPA has determined that because of the potential cancer and non-cancer health risks, no sale, distribution, or use of existing stocks will be permitted, except as specified in this Notice. For purposes of this order, existing stocks are defined as those stocks of Aladdin Winter Care, or any other product with EPA Reg. No. 11329&hyph;17, that were in the United States and were packaged, labeled, and released for shipment prior to May 25, 1994. EPA has an established policy for determinations concerning the sale, distribution, and use of existing stocks of canceled pesticides (56 FR 29362 (June 26, 1991)). That policy states that in cases where EPA has identified a significant risk concern and the registration is canceled, EPA will make existing stocks determinations on a case-by-case basis. In most cases, EPA will not permit the continued sale, distribution, or use of a canceled product raising risk concerns unless it can be demonstrated that the benefits exceed the risks. EPA reserves the right to amend this existing stocks provision, should conditions warrant such amendment. EPA has determined that it will not allow further distribution, sale, or use of existing stocks of any registered product subject to this Notice by any person, except for (1) sale or distribution up through the chain of distribution to the former registrant of that product, or (2) for lawful disposal. It is the responsibility of the basic registrant to notify any and all supplementally registered distributors of their product(s) that this cancellation order also applies to their supplementally registered products. Registrants may be held liable for violations committed by their distributors. The swimming pool use of simazine poses unacceptable cancer and noncancer risks. Moreover, information submitted to EPA does not demonstrate that the benefits of continued sale, distribution, and use of existing stocks outweigh these risks. The benefits resulting from the use of existing stocks appear negligible, in that there are more than 250 non-simazine algaecide products available for swimming pool use. According to EPA estimates, Aladdin Winter Care's share of the swimming pool algaecide market is very small. Finally, EPA has taken steps that should have reduced the amount of Aladdin Winter Care stocks currently in the hands of registrants, retailers, and distributors. In December 1993, EPA notified registrants--including Aladdin Chemical Company--of the risks associated with the products and asked them to stop formulating, selling, and distributing their products. As a result of the cancellation order and existing stocks determination, a product subject to this Notice may only be sold or distributed if it is both: (1) packaged, labeled, and released for shipment prior to May 25, 1994, and (2) sold or distributed (a) up through the chain of distribution to the former registrant of the product, or (b) for lawful disposal. V. Registration Subject to Cancellation Order This cancellation order applies to Aladdin Winter Care, or any other product with EPA Reg. No. 11329&hyph;17. VI. Cancellation Order I approve the cancellation of the above product, as well as the determination that from the date of this Notice, all sale, distribution, and use of the existing stocks of this product is prohibited. Accordingly, this cancellation order shall become effective May 25, 1994. Effective May 25, 1994, a product subject to this Notice may only be sold or distributed if it is both: (1) packaged, labeled, and released for shipment prior to May 25, 1994, and (2) sold or distributed (a) up through the chain of distribution to the former registrant of the product, or (b) for lawful disposal. List of Subjects Environmental protection, Agricultural commodities, Pesticides and pests. Dated: May 16, 1994. Daniel M. Barolo, Acting Director, Office of Pesticide Programs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12701 Filed 5&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
