FR940506-2-00011 FR940506-2-00004 In the two cases cited by Arami, the GAAP of those countries required consolidation when one company owned more than 50 percent of another. In the Pipe Fittings case, the Japanese parent company, Awaji Sangyo K.K. Company Ltd. (ASK) owned more than 50 percent of Awaji Sangyo Co. Ltd., (AST) of Thailand. Although ASK and AST did not prepare consolidated financial statements, the Department in its cost verification report (April 4, 1992, pg.3) noted ``*␣*␣* the operations should have been consolidated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.'' In Ferrosilicon, the parent company owned greater than 50 percent of Minasligas, its subsidiary under investigation. Brazilian and U.S. GAAP require consolidation when the equity interests exceed 50 percent. In each of those cases, control was indicated by equity ownership and GAAP required consolidation. In contrast to the above cases, Arami did not meet the requirements for consolidation. For further analysis of this issue, see the Final Concurrence Memorandum. Comment 12: Since Arami was not consolidated with Akzo N.V. during the POI, petitioner asserts interest expense should be calculated based solely on Arami's 1992 audited financial statements. Petitioner argues that the Department must disregard the reorganization finalized subsequent to the POI which resulted in Arami being consolidated with Akzo N.V. for balance sheet purposes. In addition, petitioner states this consolidation did not affect the income statement encompassing the POI. Arami argues that the combined 1992 financial statement data of Arami and Akzo N.V. is the correct basis for computing interest expense because Akzo N.V. exerts significant control over Arami's operations and capital is fungible. Arami argues that the consolidation for balance sheet purposes as of December 31, 1993, affects the entire fiscal year 1993. DOC Position: We disagree with respondent. A company's balance sheet presents a snapshot of its assets and claims on those assets (liabilities and equity) as of a specific point in time ( i.e., 12/31/93). An income statement reports a company's performance over a specified period of time ( i.e., 1/1/93-12/31/93). Arami's operating results were not consolidated with the results of the Akzo N.V. Group in 1993. Based on the Department's decision not to consolidate Arami with Akzo N.V., we calculated interest expense for COP and CV based solely on Arami's financial statements. For further analysis of this issue, see the Final Concurrence Memorandum. Comment 13: Petitioner asserts that interest on loans provided by a related party should be included in the calculation of Arami's financing costs for COP and CV purposes. Petitioner states that according to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in IPSCO, Inc. v. U.S., 965 F.2d 1056 (1992), cost of production is linked to constructed value. Thus, the petitioner states that the constructed value provision authorizing the Department to disregard related party transactions which are not arms-length in nature can be applied to cost of production calculations. Petitioner asserts that Arami's argument for consolidation does not eliminate the costs associated with these loans. Furthermore, the year end reorganization does not modify costs incurred during the POI. Petitioner contends that consolidation did not affect the income statement for the period January 1 through December 31, 1993. Arami claims that as a result of the new joint venture agreement signed in 1994, Arami's balance sheet was consolidated with that of Akzo N.V., eliminating all related party loans. Therefore, the Department cannot impute an interest cost to loans that do not exist as of December 31, 1993. Arami claims its 1992 audited financial statement data should be used in calculating interest expense, but adds that the significant change in Arami's corporate structure must be considered. Arami continues that if the Department determines consolidation is unwarranted, and decides imputation of interest expense is necessary for CV, it should not impute interest for COP. Arami argues that the Department's long standing policy is to compute COP based on a company's actual costs, thus, there is no basis on which to impute interest for COP. DOC Position: According to section 773(e)(2) of the Act, for CV, if a transaction between related companies does not fairly reflect the market value, the Department may determine that element of value using the best evidence available. In this case, we found that the loans in question were at below-market interest rates. Thus, we included the interest incurred on the loans provided by Arami's related party in the calculation of financing costs for CV purposes. We determined that no related party financing adjustment is necessary for COP purposes. In determining actual costs of production, the Department normally adheres to the GAAP of the respondent's home country. Under Dutch GAAP, economic activities are normally consolidated for all companies that have direct or indirect ownership greater than 50 percent. In accordance with ITA's standard practice, the supplier's actual costs of production should be used to value inputs acquired from companies that are directly or indirectly related by more than 50 percent. Inputs acquired from companies that have direct or indirect ownership of 50 percent or less, should normally be valued using transfer prices (i.e., purchaser's actual cost). Accordingly, for COP purposes, we used Arami's transfer prices. For further analysis of these issues, see the Final Concurrence Memorandum. Comment 14: Petitioner states that certain charges were paid by Arami for services rendered by related Akzo companies. Since certain of these charges are used to approximate the price charged in an arm's length transaction and were actual costs incurred, Petitioner states it is appropriate to include these costs in the cost of manufacturing. Arami claims certain of these charges are intracompany transactions which do not represent true costs and will be discontinued in 1994, therefore, these costs should be excluded from the cost of manufacturing for both COP and CV purposes. DOC Position: We disagree with respondent. These charges relate to intercompany transactions between Arami and another company, which represent actual costs incurred by Arami and recorded on its books during the POI. Arami incorrectly categorized these costs as intracompany transactions which relates to transactions between divisions within a company. The fact that this charge may be discontinued in 1994 does not mean the costs should be excluded for 1993. Accordingly, we included these charges in Arami's COP and CV calculations.
