FR940826-2-00152 FR940826-2-00080 [Release No. 35&hyph;26107] Filing Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (``Act'') August 19, 1994. Notice is hereby given that the following filing(s) has/have been made with the Commission pursuant to provisions of the Act and rules promulgated thereunder. All interested persons are referred to the application(s) and/or declaration(s) for complete statements of the proposed transaction(s) summarized below. The application(s) and/or declaration(s) and any amendments thereto is/are available for public inspection through the Commission's Office of Public Reference. Interested persons wishing to comment or request a hearing on the application(s) and/or declaration(s) should submit their views in writing by September 12, 1994 to the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C. 20549, and serve a copy on the relevant applicant(s) and/or declarant(s) at the address(es) specified below. Proof of service (by affidavit or, in case of any attorney at law, by certificate) should be filed with the request. Any request for hearing shall identify specifically the issues of fact or law that are disputed. A person who so requests will be notified of any hearing, if ordered, and will receive a copy of any notice or order issued in the matter. After said date, the application(s) and/or declaration(s), as filed or as amended, may be granted and/or permitted to become effective. Consolidated Natural Gas Company, et al. (70&hyph;7508) Consolidated Natural Gas Company (``CNG''), a registered holding company, and its wholly-owned subsidiary company, CNG Financial Services, Inc. (``CNGF''), both located at CNG Tower, 625 Liberty Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222&hyph;3199, have filed an application-declaration under Sections 6(a), 7, 9(a), 10, 12(b), 12(c), and 13 of the Act and Rules 42, 43, 45 and 87&hyph;90 thereunder. CNG and CNGF request authorization, through December 31, 1998, for CNGF to finance the purchase of certain gas utilizing equipment (``Gas Equipment'') 1 by creditworthy customers who purchase or may be expected to purchase gas directly or indirectly from location distribution companies (``LDCs'') of the CNG System. 2 In addition, CNG seeks authorization to provide CNGF with up to an aggregate of $25 million in funds, on a revolving basis, through December 31, 1998, to enable CNGF to make Gas Equipment financing loans to such customers. CNGF may obtain funds from GNG through this date by (1) selling CNGF common stock, $10,000 par value, to CNG; and/or (2) obtaining open account advances from CNG; and/or (3) obtaining long-term loans from CNG. 1 The Gas Equipment to be financed would fall into one or more of the following categories: (1) Standard Gas Appliances_the type of standard gas appliances contemplated by Rule 48, including such gas equipment as ranges, dryers, waterheaters and furnaces; (2) New Technology Equipment_gas equipment marketed to promote new or unfamiliar technology that uses gas as a fuel (which could include equipment using existing technology designed for a new application), such as gas heat pumps, gas air conditioning and gas turbines; (3) Alternate Fuel Equipment_gas equipment that enables an end-user to use natural gas as an alternative to another fuel; such equipment would include both conversion equipment necessary to convert non-gas utilizing equipment to equipment that can use gas as a fuel (e.g., energy connective apparatus enabling a coal-burning boiler to use gas as a fuel) and gas utilizing equipment that is manufactured and sold as a complete indivisible unit (e.g., compact gas generators). 2 The ``CNG System'' is comprised of CNG and its 16 wholly-owned subsidiaries. The six local distribution companies of the CNG System are: The East Ohio Gas Company, The Peoples Natural Gas Company, Virginia Natural Gas, Inc., Hope Gas, Inc., West Ohio Gas Company and The River Gas Company. Open account advances made to CNGF will be made by book entry only, not evidenced by short-term notes, and will bear the same interest rate as open account advances made to participants in the CNG System Money Pool, a rate equal to the effective weighted average rate of interest on CNG's commercial paper and/or revolving credit borrowing. All such advances will be payable on demand and may be prepaid at any time without premium or penalty. Long-term loans to CNGF will be evidenced by long-term non-negotiable notes (which may be book entry) of CNGF maturing over a period of time to be determined by the officers of CNG, with the interest predicated on and substantially equal to CNG's cost of funds for comparable borrowings by CNG. In the event that CNG has not had recent comparable borrowings, the rates will be tied to the Solomon Brothers, Inc. Bond Market Roundup, or to a comparable rate index, on the date nearest to the time of takedown. All such loans may be prepaid at any time without premium or penalty.
