FR940602-2-00170 FR940602-2-00094 2. Do not authorize construction of a new residence for caretaker services. Issue the annual permit only for an existing residence. The permit must contain a provision that automatically terminates authorization for yearlong use in case of change in ownership. 3. Coordinate applications for caretaker residence permits with local governmental agencies to avoid creating unreasonable demands or burdens for such services as snow plowing, mail delivery, garbage pickup, school bus, or emergency services. 4. If a lot ceases to be used as a caretaker residence, issue a new term permit for recreation residence use to the holder, if qualified, or to the purchaser of the improvements. Forest Service Manual Chapter 2720_Special Uses Administration 2721.23_Recreation Residence. the term ``recreation residence'' includes only those residences that occupy planned, approved tracts or those groups established for recreation residence use. See FSM 2347 for basic policy on recreation residence use. 2721.23a_Administration. The following direction relates specifically to issuance and administration of special use permits for recreation residences. For recreation residence permits in Alaska, follow the additional requirements in section 1303(d) of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act. Administer recreation residence permits in accordance with the direction in sections 2721.23a&hyph;2721.23i and within the broad policy governing recreation residences and permitted uses set forth in FSM 2347.1 and 36 CFR 251.50. 1. Issue special use permits for recreation residence use in the name of one individual or to a husband and wife. Upon issuance of a new permit that continues the use or amendment, revise authorizations that are not issued to an individual or to a husband and wife, so that the responsible person is identified. 2. Issue no more than one recreation residence special use permit to a single family (husband, wife, and dependent children). 3. Do not issue special use permits for recreation residence use to entities such as commercial enterprises, nonprofit organizations, business associations, corporations, partnerships, or other similar enterprises, except that a tract association may own a caretaker residence. 4. To the extent possible, issue all recreation residence permits in a tract, or in logical groups of tracts, with the same expiration date. 5. To help defray costs and provide additional recreation opportunities, a holder may obtain permission for incidental rental for specific periods. Ensure that rental use is solely for recreation purposes and does not change the character of the area or use to a commercial nature. Rental arrangements must be in writing and approved in advance by the authorized officer. The holder must remain responsible for compliance with the special use authorization. 6. Allow no more than one dwelling per lot to be built. In those cases where more than one dwelling (residence/sleeping cabin) currently occupies a single lot, allow the use to continue in accordance with the authorization. However, correct such deficiencies, if built without prior approval, upon transfer of ownership outside of the family (husband, wife and dependent children). 7. When a recreation residence is included in the settlement of an estate, issue a new special use permit for the remainder of the original permit term, updated to reflect policy and procedural changes, to the properly determined heir, if eligible. Prior to estate settlement, issue an annual renewable permit to the executor or administrator to identify responsibility for the use pending final settlement of the estate. When a recreation residence is sold, issue a new term permit to the buyer for the remainder of the original permit term, updated to reflect policy and procedural changes, if eligible. 8. Specify in the permit that the recreation residence must be occupied at least 15 days annually, the minimum acceptable period of occupancy. 9. Issue recreation residence term permits for a maximum of 20 years, except when the need for a shorter term has been determined by a project analysis in accordance with FSM 2721.23e and FSH 2709.11, chapter 40. 10. When a decision is made to convert the lot to an alternative use (2721.23e), take the following actions: a. Notify the holder of the reasons and provide a copy of the decision documentation. b. Allow at least 10 years of continued occupancy after notification.
