FR941121-0-00115 FR941121-0-00011 (c) Informative listings. Information that the Commission, in its discretion, believes to be of public significance. Such listings do not create any rights to file oppositions or other pleadings. §90.161 Amendment or dismissal of applications. (a) Amendment. Pending applications concerning facilities for providing commercial mobile radio services may be amended as a matter of right if such applications have not been designated for hearing or listed in a Public Notice for a random selection or competitive bidding process, except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section. If a petition to deny or other formal objection has been filed, a copy of any amendment (or other filing) must be served on the petitioner. If the Commission has issued a Public Notice stating that the application appears to be mutually exclusive with another application (or applications), a copy of any amendment (or other filing) must be served on any such mutually exclusive applicant (or applicants). (1) Amendments to applications that resolve mutual exclusivity may be filed at any time, subject to the requirements of §90.162. (2) Amendments to applications designated for hearing may be allowed by the presiding officer and amendments to applications selected in a random selection process may be allowed by the Commission for good cause shown. In such instances, a written petition demonstrating good cause must be submitted and served upon the parties of record. (b) Dismissal. The Commission may dismiss any application for authorization, assignment of authorization, or consent to transfer of control of a commercial mobile radio facility. (1) Upon request by the applicant; Any applicant may request that its application be returned or dismissed. A request for the return of an application after it has been listed on Public Notice as tentatively accepted for filing is considered to be a request for dismissal of that application without prejudice. (i) If the applicant requests dismissal of its application with prejudice, the Commission will dismiss the application with prejudice. (ii) If the applicant requests dismissal of its application without prejudice, the Commission will dismiss that application without prejudice, unless (A) The application has been designated for comparative hearing; (B) It has been selected in a random selection process; or (C) It is an application for which the applicant submitted the winning bid in a competitive bidding process. If the applicant requests dismissal of its application for which it submitted the winning bid in a competitive bidding process, the Commission will dismiss that application with prejudice. If the applicant requests dismissal of its application after that application has been designated for comparative hearing or selected in a random selection process, it may submit a written petition requesting that the dismissal be without prejudice. Such petition must demonstrate good cause, comply with §90.162 of this part, and be served upon all parties of record. The Commission may grant such petition and dismiss the application without prejudice or deny the petition and dismiss the application with prejudice. (2) If the application is untimely filed; The Commission may dismiss without prejudice any application that is prematurely or filed late, including any application filed prior to the opening date or after the closing date of a filing window, or after the cut-off date for a mutually exclusive application filing group. (3) If the application is mutually exclusive with another application that is selected or granted in accordance with the rules in this part; The Commission may dismiss any mutually exclusive application: (i) For which the applicant did not submit the winning bid in a competitive bidding process; (ii) That is included in a random selection process but is not granted; or (iii) That receives comparative consideration in a hearing but is not granted by order of the presiding officer. (4) For failure to prosecute; The Commission may dismiss applications for failure of the applicant to prosecute or for failure of the applicant to respond substantially within a specified time period to official correspondence or requests for additional information. Such dismissal will generally be without prejudice if the failure to prosecute or respond occurred prior to designation of the application for comparative hearing or prior to selection of the application in a random selection process, but may be with prejudice in cases of non-compliance with §90.162. Dismissal will generally be with prejudice if the failure to prosecute or respond occurred after designation of the application for comparative hearing or after selection of the application in a random selection process. The Commission may dismiss applications with prejudice for failure of the applicant to comply with requirements related to a competitive bidding process. (5) If the requested spectrum is not available; The Commission may dismiss any application that requests spectrum which is unavailable because: (i) It was previously assigned to another licensee on an exclusive basis or cannot be assigned to the applicant without causing interference; or (ii) Reasonable efforts have been made to coordinate the proposed facility with foreign administrations under applicable international agreements, and an unfavorable response (harmful interference anticipated) has been received. (6) If the application is found to be defective. Such dismissal may be ``without prejudice,'' meaning that the Commission may accept from the applicant another application for the same purpose at any later time, or ``with prejudice,'' meaning that the Commission will not accept from the applicant another application for the same purpose for a period of one year following the date of the dismissal action taken by the Commission. Unless otherwise provided in this part, a dismissed application will not be returned to the applicant. The Commission may dismiss without prejudice applications that it finds to be defective. An application for authorization or assignment of authorization is defective if: (i) It is unsigned or incomplete with respect to required answers to questions, informational showings, or other matters of a formal character; or (ii) It requests an authorization that would not comply with the Commission's Rules and does not contain a request for waiver of these rule(s), or in the event that the Commission denies such a waiver request, does not contain an alternative proposal that fully complies with the rules. §90.162 Agreements to dismiss applications, amendments, or pleadings.
