FR941121-0-00023 FR941121-0-00001 1. General. One of the two required methods (the average daily balance is the other) of determining the balance upon which dividends must be accrued and paid. The daily balance method requires the application of a daily periodic rate to the full amount of principal in the account each day. (i) Dividend and Dividends 1. General. Member savings placed in share accounts are equity investments, and the returns earned on these accounts are dividends. Federal credit unions may only offer dividend-bearing and non-dividend-bearing share accounts. State-chartered credit unions may offer both share and deposit accounts if permitted by state law. State law, including without limitation regulations and official interpretations, will determine if returns earned in accounts in state-chartered credit unions are dividends. Dividends exclude the payment of a bonus or other consideration worth $10 or less given during a year, the waiver or reduction of a fee, the absorption of expenses, non-dividend membership benefits and extraordinary dividends. Dividend-bearing accounts must be either fixed-rate or variable-rate accounts. 2. Procedure. Credit unions must follow appropriate law (state law for state-chartered credit unions and federal law for federal credit unions) in determining dividend policies and declaring dividends. Generally, dividends may be viewed as a portion of the available account and undivided earnings of the credit union which is set apart, after required transfer to reserves, by valid act of the board of directors, for distribution among the members. As a matter of legal procedure, members are usually not entitled to dividends until the following steps are completed: (1) The board of the credit union develops a nondiscriminatory dividend policy, by establishing dividend periods, dividend credit determination dates dividend distribution dates, any associated penalties (if applicable), and the method of dividend computation for each type of share account; (2) the provisions for required transfers to reserves are made; (3) sufficient and available prior and/or current earnings are available at the end of the dividend period; (4) the board formally makes a dividend declaration in accordance with the credit union's dividend policy; and (5) dividends must be paid to members by a credit to the appropriate share account, payment by check or share draft, or by a combination of the two methods. 3. When available. Credit unions must follow the law of their primary chartering authority to determine when dividends are available. Generally, it is the declaration of the dividend itself which creates the dividend and the member has no right to receive a dividend until it is so declared. The decision of when to declare dividends lies within the official discretion of each credit union's board of directors and cannot be abrogated by contract. An agreement to pay dividends on a share account is generally interpreted not as an obligation to pay the stipulated dividends absolutely and unconditionally, but as an undertaking to pay them out of the earnings when sufficiently accumulated from which dividends in general are properly payable. Generally, ``prospective rates'' are rates set in good faith in advance of the close of a dividend period, that may be altered if sufficient funds are not available, or in the event of a superseding event, such as a strike, plant closure, significant fluctuation in market rates and/or a significant change in financial structure, natural disaster or emergency that alters the assumptions under which the ``prospective rates'' were made. It is the intent of TISA that all disclosure be accurate when made, and credit unions are urged to make every effort to ratify disclosed ``prospective rates.'' ``Prospective rates'' may also be referred to as ``projected rates'' or similar wording, but not as ``estimated rates.'' (See comment 3(b)&hyph;2, prohibiting use of estimates). 4. Sample dividend resolutions. (i) The following resolution may be used where the dividend rates are set after the close of a dividend period. Resolution of Board of Directors for the Declaration of Dividends A. I, XXXXXXXX , certify that I am Secretary of XXXXXXXX Credit Union Board of Directors, and that the following is a correct copy of the resolution for declaring dividend adopted by the XXXXXXXX Credit Union at a meeting of the Board of Directors duly and properly held on XXXXXX , 19 XXX . This resolution appears in the minutes of this meeting and has not been rescinded or modified. B. Resolved, that (1) The Board of Directors has developed a nondiscriminatory dividend policy, by establishing dividend periods, dividend credit determination dates, dividend distribution dates, any associated penalties (if applicable), and the method of dividend computation for each type of share account; (2) The required transfers to reserves have been made; and (3) Sufficient and available prior and/or current earnings are available at the end of this dividend period. C. Resolved, further, that the Board of Directors now formally makes a dividend declaration in accordance with the Credit Union's dividend policy and authorizes that on XXXXXX , 19 XXX , dividends must be paid to members by a credit to the appropriate share account, payment by share draft or by a combination of the two methods. D. I further certify that the Board of Directors of this Credit Union has, and the time of adoption of this resolution had, full power and lawful authority to adopt the foregoing resolutions and that this resolution revokes any prior resolution. In witness whereof, this is my signature and the date on which I signed this Resolution. Signature Date [Attach list of accounts with dividend rates for each type of account.] (ii) The following resolution may be used where the dividend rates are set before the close of a dividend period. Resolution of Board of Directors for the Declaration of Dividends A. I, XXXXXXXX , certify that I am the Secretary of XXXXXXXX Credit Union, and that the following is a correct copy of the resolution for declaring dividends adopted by the XXXXXXXX Credit Union at a meeting of the Board of Directors duly and properly held on XXXXXXXX , 19 XXXXXXXX . This resolution appears in the minutes of that meeting and has not been rescinded or modified. B. Resolved, that the Board of Directors has adopted a nondiscriminatory dividend policy, by establishing dividend periods, dividend credit determination dates, dividend distribution dates, any associated penalties (if applicable) and the method of dividend computation for each type of share account. C. Resolved, that it is the policy and practice of the Board of Directors to meet periodically to establish prospective dividend rates for each type of dividend-bearing share account. D. Resolved, that if the required transfers to reserves have been made and there are sufficient and available prior and/or current earnings available at the end of a dividend period, the officers of the Credit Union are authorized to pay dividends at the rate prospectively established by the Board of Directors for each account for the dividend period. The officers may pay the dividends without any further action of the Board of Directors. The act of paying the dividends shall constitute the declaration of the dividends and shall be a ratification of the prospective dividend rate.
