FR941013-1-00093 FR941013-1-00014 Thursday October 13, 1994 Part II Department of Education 34 CFR Part 682 Federal Family Education Loan Program; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 197␣/␣Thursday, October 13, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 34 CFR Part 682 RIN 1840&hyph;AC09 Federal Family Education Loan Program AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Secretary proposes to amend the Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) Program regulations. The FFEL Program consists of the Federal Stafford, Federal Supplemental Loans for Students (SLS), Federal PLUS, and the Federal Consolidation Loan Programs. These amendments are needed to implement certain changes made to the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (HEA), by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, enacted August 10, 1993, and by the Higher Education Technical Amendments of 1993, enacted December 20, 1993. The proposed regulations would also amend the FFEL Program regulations to permit a lender to issue a ``master check'' to an institution for purposes of disbursing Federal Stafford loan proceeds to an institution, to prohibit a subsequent holder of a loan to bill the Secretary for any applicable interest benefits or special allowance on a loan for which origination fees have not been paid, and to limit the collection charges that may be assessed a borrower with a defaulted loan that is paid off through loan consolidation. The proposed regulations would implement section 428(n) of the HEA as amended by OBRA which requires a State to share the costs of defaulted Federal Stafford and Federal SLS loans with the Federal government. DATES: Comments must be received on or before November 14, 1994 . ADDRESSES: All comments concerning these proposed regulations should be addressed to Ms. Patricia Newcombe, Chief, Federal Family Education Loan Program Section, Loans Branch, U.S. Department of Education, 600 Independence Avenue, SW., room 4310, Regional Office Building 3, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;5343. Comments may also be sent through the internet to ``FFEL_OBRA@ed.gov.'' A copy of any comments that concern information collection requirements should also be sent to the Office of Management and Budget at the address listed in the Paperwork Reduction Act section of this preamble. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Douglas D. Laine, Program Specialist, Federal Family Education Loan Program Section, Loans Branch, U.S. Department of Education, 600 Independence Avenue, SW., room 4310, Regional Office Building 3, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;5343, telephone: (202) 708&hyph;8242. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The FFEL Program regulations (34 CFR Part 682) govern the Federal Stafford Loan Program, the Federal SLS Program, the Federal PLUS Program, and the Federal Consolidation Loan Program (formerly the Guaranteed Student Loan programs). The Secretary is proposing to revise 34 CFR Part 682 to implement changes made to the HEA by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (OBRA) (Pub. L. 103&hyph;66) and the Higher Education Technical Amendments of 1993 (the Technical Amendments)(Pub. L. 103&hyph;208). OBRA added section 428(n) to the HEA to require a State to pay a fee to the Secretary based on the State's new FFEL loan volume and the dollars associated with the most recent cohort default rates calculated for schools in that State. This provision is intended to encourage a State to ensure that its educational institutions provide quality services to their students. A State may achieve this objective through licensing and State Postsecondary Review Entities. This provision is also intended to partially offset the cost to the Federal government of paying student loan default claims. These proposed regulations would also amend the FFEL Program regulations to reflect certain other changes made to the HEA by OBRA. The Secretary proposes to amend the regulations to reflect statutory provisions providing for the payment of lender referral fees to guaranty agencies, the reduction of the reinsurance coverage and reinsurance rates for a guaranty agency's losses on default claims and the reduction of insurance coverage a guaranty agency may pay on default claims. These proposed regulations would also amend the FFEL Program regulations to reflect certain changes to the HEA by the Technical Amendments. These changes require a lender to rebate excess interest on certain Federal Stafford loans to either the borrower or the Secretary and require lenders to convert the interest rates on certain Federal Stafford loans to a variable interest rate. These proposed regulations would also amend the FFEL Program regulations to permit a lender to disburse Federal Stafford loan proceeds to a school via a master check. This change is needed to facilitate a lender's ability to disburse Federal Stafford loans. These proposed regulations would also prohibit a subsequent holder of a loan to bill the Secretary for any applicable interest benefits or special allowance on a loan for which origination fees have not been paid. This change is needed to ensure that origination fees are paid on a loan if the loan is sold by considering the loan ineligible for reinsurance if such fees are not paid. These proposed regulations would also limit the collection charges that may be assessed a borrower with a defaulted loan that is paid off through loan consolidation. This change will encourage a borrower to get his or her loan out of default for purposes of Title IV eligibility by having it paid off through consolidation. The proposed regulations would delete current §682.407_Administrative Cost Allowance for Guaranty Agencies. This section is no longer needed because OBRA removed the Secretary's authority for paying an administrative cost allowance to a guaranty agency from the HEA. Proposed Regulatory Changes The following summarizes the major changes in this notice of proposed rulemaking:
