FR940407-0-00100 FR940407-0-00014 (g) Implementation schedule. The program shall contain a schedule for the adoption and implementation of all State commitments and source requirements included in the program design. (h) Administrative procedures. The program shall contain a description of State commitments which are integral to the implementation of the program, and the administrative system to be used to implement the program, addressing the adequacy of the personnel, funding, and legislative authority. (1) States shall furnish adequate documentation of existing legal authority and demonstrated administrative capacity to implement and enforce the provisions of the EIP. (2) For programs which require private and/or public entities to establish emission-related economic incentives (e.g., programs requiring employers to exempt carpoolers/multiple occupancy vehicles from paying for parking), States shall furnish adequate documentation of State authority and administrative capacity to implement and enforce the underlying program. (i) Enforcement mechanisms. The program shall contain a compliance instrument(s) for all program requirements, which is legally binding and State and federally enforceable. This program element shall also include a State enforcement program which defines violations, and specifies auditing and inspections plans and provisions for enforcement actions. The program shall contain effective penalties for noncompliance which preserve the level of deterrence in traditional programs. For all such programs, the manner of collection of penalties must be specified. (1) Emission limit violations. (i) Programs imposing limits on mass emissions or emission rates that provide for extended averaging times and/or compliance on a multisource basis shall include procedures for determining the number of violations, the number of days of violation, and sources in violation, for statutory maximum penalty purposes, when the limits are exceeded. The State shall demonstrate that such procedures shall not lessen the incentive for source compliance as compared to a program applied on a source-by-source, daily basis. (ii) Programs shall require plans for remedying noncompliance at any facility that exceeds a multisource emissions limit for a given averaging period. These plans shall be enforceable both federally and by the State. (2) Violations of MRR requirements. The MRR requirements shall apply on a daily basis, as appropriate, and violations thereof shall be subject to State enforcement sanctions and to the Federal penalty of up to $25,000 for each day a violation occurs or continues. In addition, where the requisite scienter conditions are met, violations of such requirements shall be subject to the Act's criminal penalty sanctions of section 113(c)(2), which provides for fines and imprisonment of up to 2 years. ยง51.494 Use of program revenues. Any revenues generated from statutory EIP's shall be used by the State for any of the following: (a) Providing incentives for achieving emissions reductions. (b) Providing assistance for the development of innovative technologies for the control of O 3 air pollution and for the development of lower-polluting solvents and surface coatings. Such assistance shall not provide for the payment of more than 75 percent of either the costs of any project to develop such a technology or the costs of development of a lower-polluting solvent or surface coating. (c) Funding the administrative costs of State programs under this Act. Not more than 50 percent of such revenues may be used for this purpose. The use of any revenues generated from discretionary EIP's shall not be constrained by the provisions of this part.
