FR940303-0-00015 FR940303-0-00006 The commenter further states that TCM Service Bulletin (SB) No. M73&hyph;13 specifies a minimum edge thickness for the center rocker bosses only. The commenter argues that this requirement for minimum thickness should be redefined to be a minimum thickness anywhere on any boss because many cylinders have bosses with adequate material on the edges of the center bosses, but very little material between the edges. The commenter concludes by stating that outer bosses, also require close scrutiny for thickness, and if an outer boss fails, the center boss will likely be overloaded and also fail. The FAA does not concur. The center bosses are thinner by design and will therefore wear to the limit sooner than the outer bosses. If the center bosses have the correct edge to wall thickness, then the outer bosses will be correct also. The commenter further states that consideration should be given to securing rocker boss repair bushings with a dowel pin to prevent rotation after installation. The commenter argues that any lack of concentricity between bushing ID and OD can severely overload bosses if one or more bushings rotate after installation. The FAA does not concur. If the repair is accomplished correctly, the bushing will be pressed in and this press fit will prevent rotation. The commenter further states that when performing inspections for cracked bosses on cylinders that have been removed from the engine, dye penetrant inspection should be allowed in addition to the fluorescent penetrant inspection. The commenter maintains that dye penetrant inspection is quite effective and reliable when properly performed and is in widespread use by approved cylinder head repair facilities. The FAA concurs. Dye penetrant inspection has been added to the AD as an option for compliance. In addition, the FAA has added industry-accepted procedures to the AD for performing dye penetrant, fluorescent penetrant, and etching inspections in order to standardize the method of inspection. After careful review of the available data, including the comments noted above, the FAA has determined that air safety and the public interest require the adoption of the rule with the changes described previously. The FAA has determined that these changes will neither increase the economic burden on any operator nor increase the scope of the AD. The FAA estimates that 35,600 engines installed on aircraft of U.S. registry would be affected by this AD, approximately 20,000 four-cylinder engines and 15,600 six-cylinder engines. The FAA estimates that it will take approximately one-half work hour per cylinder to inspect or install the bushings, and that the average labor rate is $55 per work hour. Required parts will cost approximately $11 per cylinder. Based on these figures, the cost impact of the AD for four-cylinder engines is estimated to be $154 per engine, the cost impact of the AD for six-cylinder engines is estimated to be $231 per engine, and the total cost impact of the AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $6,683,600. The regulations adopted herein will not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this final rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. For the reasons discussed above, I certify that this action (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979); and (3) will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A final evaluation has been prepared for this action and it is contained in the Rules Docket. A copy of it may be obtained from the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption `` ADDRESSES .'' List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Incorporation by reference, Safety. Adoption of the Amendment Accordingly, pursuant to the authority delegated to me by the Administrator, the Federal Aviation Administration amends 14 CFR part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations as follows: PART 39_AIRWORTHINESS DIRECTIVES 1. The authority citation for part 39 continues to read as follows: Authority: 49 U.S.C. App. 1354(a), 1421 and 1423; 49 U.S.C. 106(g); and 14 CFR 11.89. ยง39.13 [Amended] 2. Section 39.13 is amended by adding the following new airworthiness directive:
