FR940505-1-00479 FR940505-1-00012 (5) Within 30 days of receipt of an adequate owner's submittal, including sufficient payment, EPA shall send a certificate of compliance to the designated mailing address. The certificate shall indicate the serial numbers of the engines to which it applies. Inadequate owners' submittals, including insufficient payment of fees, shall be returned to the designated mailing address, along with an explanation of why the submittal was found inadequate, within 30 days of receipt. Resubmittals by owners shall be responded to by EPA within 30 days of receipt. (6) Certificates of compliance shall be valid only through March 1st of the calendar year following the year in which they are issued. Expiration dates shall be indicated on the certificates. (7) Effective January 1, 2000, no piece of nonroad equipment that is equipped with an engine of model year 1998 or earlier, except equipment and associated engines exempted in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, shall be allowed to be registered unless it was included in the 1999 information submittal specified in paragraph (h)(2) of this section. (8) Effective January 1, 1999, no piece of nonroad equipment that is equipped with an engine of model year 1999 or later, except equipment and associated engines exempted in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, shall be allowed to be registered for use in the FIP areas without proof that it meets the enhanced in-use compliance program engine standards of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. (i) [Reserved] (j) Label specifications. (1) For new 1999 and later model year nonroad engines, the equipment manufacturer shall affix a permanent 12 inch by 14 inch white label to each piece of nonroad equipment. The label shall be applied to the exterior of the equipment at the highest location, and shall be affixed in such a manner that it is readily visible from the ground. The label shall contain the following information lettered in the English language in block letters and numerals which shall be of a color that contrasts with the background of the label: (i) The label heading: Enhanced In-use Compliance Program_Nonroad Engine; (ii) The prominent statement: XXX Model Year; (iii) The serial number of the engine powering the nonroad equipment; (iv) The nonroad equipment class as specified in Table 2975&hyph;1; and
