FR941004-1-00089 FR941004-1-00018 Section 1357.15(l)␣Consultation In §1357.15(l), we are proposing to implement Section 432(b)(1) of the law. As a condition of CFSP approval, Section 432 requires that the plan be developed by the State and the Indian tribe after consultation with a wide range of appropriate public and nonprofit private agencies and community-based organizations with experience in administering services for children and families (including family preservation and family support services). Briefly, we are proposing, in paragraph (l)(1), that States must describe in the CFSP the internal and external consultation process used to obtain broad and active involvement of major actors across the entire spectrum of the child and family service delivery system in the development of the CFSP and to explain how this process was coordinated with or was a part of other planning processes in the State. Paragraph (l)(2) proposes that Indian tribes carry out a consultation process involving representatives of child and family services programs within their areas of jurisdiction and appropriate to their needs and circumstances. In paragraph (l)(3), we propose nine categories of agencies, organizations, and individuals with whom the State and the Indian tribes, as appropriate, must consult. Finally, paragraph (l)(4), proposes that the CFSP must contain a description of how each grantee will ensure that an active consultation process continues over the five-year period. Both those States and Indian tribes with experience in providing family preservation and family support, and those with little experience in providing youth service can benefit from a broad, active consultation process. Overall, the process will strengthen the comprehensive planning and implementation of the CFSP. Specifically, it will provide expert guidance to and assist in the development of the CFSP, including the selection of goals, objectives, and outcomes, and the design and expansion of family preservation, family support, and child welfare services; and support agency efforts to address common problems which diminish child and family well-being. We have not mandated a particular consultation process to carry out this statutory provision. We recognize that there may be existing processes, such as State Children's Cabinets and the State Child and Adolescent Service System Program (CASSP) that can be used in the development of the CFSP. However, we have proposed specific minimum requirements which we believe are necessary to assure an active planning process, reflecting broad experience and expertise, and leading to the development of a plan that is more than a ``paper exercise.'' The consultation process will also be closely linked to service coordination. Collaborative initiatives to improve access to service delivery can develop by consulting with others in the field of child and family services. The information generated during the consultation process may also supplement the collection of baseline information required for the development of goals, objectives and funding decisions in §1357.15 (k). We believe that the nine required categories of participants in the consultation process proposed in paragraph (l)(3) represent a minimal level of programmatic, political/administrative, and experiential involvement in this process. We encourage States and Indian tribes to go beyond this proposed list and include other categories of organizations and individuals based on State and local circumstances. This list of participant categories emphasizes both an internal and external consultation process because we believe it is critical to include the expertise of offices within the child and family service agency as well as the experience of community-based organizations and others. The internal consultation process is particularly important to assure the participation of all major programs in the child and family services continuum. The active involvement of child protective services and the independent living program is critical, given the requirement for information on these program areas in the plan. With regard to consultation with courts, we want to call the States' attention to the collaborative requirements between courts and State agencies in a new program of grants to the highest State Court in each State. Beginning in FY 1995, that court is eligible for a grant from ACF to assess and improve the handling of child welfare judicial proceedings under the new ``Court Improvement Program,'' authorized by Pub. L. 103&hyph;66. Courts are strongly encouraged to collaborate with the State title IV&hyph;B agency in their assessment and improvement activities. A Program Instruction was issued June 27, 1994, to the highest State Courts requesting applications for FY 1995 funds.
