FR941128-0-00015 FR941128-0-00005 The commenters suggested that the FDIC should approve activities which, though not permissible for federal branches, pose no significant risk to the BIF and thus would be permissible for state-licensed insured branches assuming that the Board determines that such activities are consistent with sound banking practice and that state law as well as any other applicable federal law or regulation permits the branch to engage in such activities. In its preamble to the proposed regulation, the Corporation specifically requested commenters to describe such activities. (58 FR 11994, column two). Only one commenter put forth a specific recommendation in this regard. That comment letter urged the FDIC to issue a blanket approval for agency activities and any activity approved as an exception pursuant to ยง362.4(c)(3) of the Corporation's regulations governing the activities of state banks. 12 CFR 362.4(c)(3). With regard to activities approved as exceptions pursuant to ยง362.4(c)(3) of the Corporation's regulations, the Corporation agrees with the position set forth by the commenter that activities approved as exceptions for state-chartered domestic banks on the basis that they pose no significant risk to the deposit insurance funds should also be permissible for state-licensed insured branches of foreign banks, without the necessity of filing an application or notice pursuant to this part, provided the activity in question is also permissible for a state licensed branch of a foreign bank under state law and any other applicable federal law or regulation. See Final ยง346.101(b). Engaging in an Activity as Agent Section 202(a) of the Improvement Act does not distinguish between activities which a foreign branch conducts as principal versus those conducted as agent, nor does it distinguish between activities which a foreign branch conducts directly versus those it conducts indirectly. The FDIC is of the opinion that the absence of such distinctions in section 202 is significant especially in light of the inclusion of such distinctions in other sections of the Improvement Act. For example, section 303 of the Improvement Act, which added section 24 to the FDI Act, provides that an insured state bank may not engage as principal in any type of activity that is not permissible for a national bank. 12 U.S.C. 1831a(a). Similarly, section 24(c) of the FDI Act, which was also added by section 303 of the Improvement Act, provides that an insured state bank may not, directly or indirectly, acquire or retain any equity investment of a type that is not permissible for a national bank. 12 U.S.C. 1831a(c). Part 362 of the Corporation's regulations, 12 CFR part 362, reflects the clear statutory intent of FDI Act section 24. The prohibition on foreign branches contained in section 7(h) of the IBA is broader than the similar prohibitions contained in sections 24(a) and (c) of the FDI Act. Thus, the FDIC interprets section 7(h) of the IBA to apply to any activity in which an insured state branch desires to engage which is not permissible for a federal branch regardless of the capacity or manner in which the branch seeks to conduct the activity. However, the Corporation's determination that agency activities are covered by section 202 of the Improvement Act does not mean that some or all agency activities cannot be found to be permissible, provided the Board determines that the activity is consistent with sound banking practice and the FDIC determines that the activity would pose no significant risk to the BIF. After careful consideration, the FDIC is of the opinion that a state-licensed insured branch may engage in an activity as agent provided that such agency activity is permissible for a state-chartered bank headquartered in the state in which the insured branch of the foreign bank is located and is also a permissible activity for a state-licensed branch of a foreign bank. Thus, state-licensed insured branches which desire to engage in such agency activities will not be required to file an application or notice with the FDIC pursuant to the final regulation. Of course, the activity in question must also be permissible pursuant to any other applicable federal law or regulation. See Final ยง346.101(c). Substantive Limitations on Permissible Activities In the preamble to the proposed regulation, the FDIC noted that it would ``generally expect any conditions or restrictions set out in the OCC's regulations, bulletins, circulars, orders and interpretations to be met if the activity is to be considered permissible when conducted by an insured branch''. (58 FR 11994, column two). The commenters expressed some confusion as to the precise meaning and scope of this standard. They also contrasted the FDIC's position with the Board's apparent position on this issue as briefly discussed in its proposed amendments to Regulation K. (58 FR 513, January 6, 1993). After careful consideration, the FDIC has decided to adopt a position consistent with that of the Board. That is, an application under this section will not normally be required where an activity is permissible for a federal branch, but the OCC imposes a quantitative restriction on the conduct of such an activity. The FDIC is of the opinion that appropriate quantitative restrictions can be addressed on a case-by-case basis as part of the ongoing supervisory process.
