FR941006-0-00009 FR941006-0-00004 Executive Order 12372 The Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) is listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Programs under 10.557 and is subject to Executive Order 12372, which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials (7 CFR Part 3015, Subpart V, and final rule-related notice published June 24, 1983 (48 FR 29114)). Executive Order 12778 This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This rule is intended to have preemptive effect with respect to any state or local laws, regulations or policies which conflict with its provisions or which would otherwise impede its full implementation. This rule is not intended to have retroactive effect unless so specified in the ``Effective Date'' paragraph of this preamble. Prior to any judicial challenge to the provisions of this rule or the application of its provisions, all applicable administrative procedures must be exhausted. In the WIC Program, the administrative procedures are as follows: (1) local agencies and vendors_State agency hearing procedures issued pursuant to 7 CFR §246.18; (2) applicants and participants_State agency hearing procedures issued pursuant to 7 CFR §246.9; (3) sanctions against State agencies (but not claims for repayment assessed against a State agency) pursuant to 7 CFR §246.19_administrative appeal in accordance with 7 CFR §246.22; and (4) procurement by State or local agencies_administrative appeal to the extent required by 7 CFR §3016.36. Background The WIC Program has consistently demonstrated its effectiveness in promoting the health and nutritional well-being of low-income women, infants and children at nutritional or medical risk, and has experienced large increases in its appropriation for the last several years. Due to its success, the WIC Program is likely to soon achieve ``full funding'' whereby it is estimated that all eligible women, infants and children who apply could obtain program benefits. In moving toward the full funding objective, the Department finds that its current food funding formula presents impediments to funding equity and is so complex it is difficult to execute and predict its results. Historically, WIC has never had enough funds to serve all who are in need of, and eligible for, its benefits. Certain State agencies receive levels of funding that allow them to serve more of their eligible populations than others. The concept of full funding for WIC, as set forth by the Administration, does not guarantee unlimited funds nor does it establish the WIC Program as a federal entitlement program. As before, WIC must manage within a finite appropriation level. However, a fully funded WIC Program implies that the appropriation level will more adequately provide for all eligible persons who apply for benefits, and that each State agency should have an equal chance to serve their eligible population. Currently, many State agencies are serving lesser proportions of their WIC-eligible population than other State agencies. Therefore, the formula must support growth among State agencies which are now funded to serve a lesser proportion of their eligible population, as well as allocate funds fairly among all State agencies under a stable, fully funded program. Therefore, to better prepare the WIC Program for full funding, the Department published a proposed rule on June 8, 1994 to revise the food funding formula in order to meet three major objectives: 1) to provide a greater share of funds to State agencies receiving comparatively less than their fair share of funds based on their WIC income eligible population; 2) to simplify the food funding formula and delete obsolete components; and 3) to maintain current services to eligible participants that State agencies are serving to the extent funds are available. The proposed rule provided for a 60-day comment period, which ended on August 8, 1994. Thirty-six comment letters were received from a variety of sources, including State and local agencies, advocacy groups and other public interest groups. The Department has given all comments careful consideration in the development of this final rule and would like to thank all commenters who responded to the proposal.
