FR940711-2-00120 FR940711-2-00049 Attachment 1_Definitions for Performance Standards Those terminees who receive only objective assessment and/or supportive services (or only objective assessment and/or supportive services and entered employment) are to be excluded from the calculation of performance outcomes for Title II&hyph;A, Title II&hyph;C, and section 204(d) older worker programs. Participants in special 5-percent-funded projects may, at the discretion of the Governor, also be excluded from the calculation of performance outcomes for Title II&hyph;A and Title II&hyph;C. The following defines the Title II&hyph;A performance standards: 1. Adult Follow-Up Employment Rate _Total number of adult respondents who were employed (for at least 20 hours per week) during the 13th full calendar week after termination, divided by the total number of adult respondents (i.e., terminees who completed follow-up interviews). 2. Adult Follow-Up Weekly Earnings _Total weekly earnings for all adult respondents who were employed (for at least 20 hours per week) during the 13th full calendar week after termination, divided by the total number of adult respondents employed (for at least 20 hours per week) at the time of follow-up. Welfare 3. Welfare Follow-Up Employment Rate _Total number of adult welfare respondents who were employed (for at least 20 hours per week) during the 13th full calendar week after termination, divided by the total number of adult welfare respondents (i.e., terminees who completed follow-up interviews). 4. Welfare Follow-Up Weekly Earnings _Total weekly earnings for all adult welfare respondents employed (for at least 20 hours per week) during the 13th full calendar week after termination, divided by the total number of adult welfare respondents employed (for at least 20 hours per week) at the time of follow-up. Note: The Title II&hyph;A adult and welfare follow-up employment measures will continue to be based on individuals who terminate during the first three quarters of the program year and the last quarter of the previous program year. If the response rates for those employed at termination and those not employed at termination in an SDA differ by more than 5 percentage points in either the adult or welfare samples, then the calculations of the follow-up outcomes for that group must be modified to adjust for non-response bias. The following defines the Title II&hyph;C performance standards: 5. Youth Entered Employment Rate (YEER) _Total number of youth who entered employment at termination (for at least 20 hours per week), divided by the total number of youth who terminated, excluding those potential dropouts who are reported (on the Standardized Program Information Report [SPIR]) as remained-in-school and dropouts who are reported (on the SPIR) as returned-to-school. Note: As in past practice, youth terminees who remain-in-school or return-to-school and who also enter employment will not be excluded from the termination pool reflected in the denominator of the Youth Entered Employment Rate. However, only employment of at least 20 hours per week satisfies the requirement for ``employment.'' 6. Youth Employability Enhancement Rate (YEEN) _Total number of youth who attained one of the employability enhancements at termination, whether or not they also obtained a job, divided by the total number of youth who terminated. Youth Employability Enhancements include: a. Attained (two or more) PIC-recognized Youth Employment Competencies. b. Completed major level of education following participation of at least 90 calendar days or 200 hours in JTPA activity. c. Entered and retained for at least 90 calendar days or 200 hours in non-Title II training or received a certification of occupational skill attainment. Note: It is expected that the ultimate result of this outcome will be the attainment of a job-specific skill competency on the part of the terminee. d. Returned to and retained in full-time school (dropouts only) for one semester or at least 120 calendar days, attained a basic or job-specific skill competency, and made satisfactory progress. Note: For the purposes of this outcome, and the remained in school outcome described below, ``school'' includes alternative schools, defined as a specialized, structured curriculum offered inside or outside of the public school system which may provide work/study and/or General Educational Development (GED) test preparation. e. Remained in school for one semester or at least 120 calendar days (for youth at risk of dropping out of school), attained a basic or job-specific skill competency, and made satisfactory progress. Note: For youth aged 14 and 15, the acceptable competencies will be basic skills or pre-employment/work maturity. The following defines Section 204(d) Older Worker program performance standards: 1. Entered Employment Rate _Total number of individuals who entered employment of at least 20 hours per week at termination, divided by the number of total terminations. 2. Average Wage at Placement _Total hourly wage rate of all terminees who entered employment of at least 20 hours per week at termination, divided by the number of terminees who entered employment of at least 20 hours per week at termination. The following defines the Title III performance standard:
