FR941116-0-00130 FR941116-0-00022 §1413.4 Administration. (a) The programs are administered under the general supervision of the Administrator, Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS) and shall be carried out in the field by State and county Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation committees (herein called ``State and county committees''). (b) State and county committees, and representatives and employees thereof, do not have authority to modify or waive any of the provisions of the regulations of this part. (c) The State committee shall take any action required by these regulations which has not been taken by the county committee. The State committee shall also: (1) Correct, or require a county committee to correct, any action taken by such county committee which is not in accordance with the regulations of this part, or (2) Require a county committee to withhold taking any action which is not in accordance with the regulation of this part. (d) No provision or delegation herein to a State or county committee shall preclude the Administrator, ASCS, or a designee, from determining any question arising under the program or from reversing or modifying any determination made by a State or county committee. (e) The Deputy Administrator may authorize State and county committees to waive or modify deadlines and other program requirements in cases where lateness or failure to meet such other requirements does not affect adversely the operation of the program. (f) A representative of CCC may execute a CCC&hyph;477, Intention to Participate in the 1995 Price Support and Production Adjustment Programs only under the terms and conditions determined and announced by the Executive Vice President, CCC. Any CCC&hyph;477 which is not executed in accordance with such terms and conditions, including any purported execution prior to the date authorized by the Executive Vice President, CCC, shall be null and void and shall not be considered to be an agreement between CCC and the operator and any other producer on the farm. §1413.5 Performance based upon advice or action of County or State Committee. The provisions of part 791 of this title with respect to performance based upon action or advice of any authorized representative of the Secretary shall be applicable to this part. §1413.6 Appeals. (a) A producer enrolled in the programs conducted in accordance with this part may obtain reconsideration and review of any determination made under this part in accordance with the appeal regulations found at part 780 of this title. (b) With respect to farm program payment yields, determinations made before December 23, 1985, are not appealable. §1413.7 Paperwork Reduction Act assigned numbers. The information collection requirements contained in these regulations have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 35, and assigned OMB Nos. 0560&hyph;0004 and 0560&hyph;0092. Subpart B_Definitions of Terms Used in This Part §1413.8 Definitions. The definitions set forth in this section shall be applicable for all purposes of program administration. The terms defined in part 719 of this title governing the reconstitution of farms shall also be applicable, except where those definitions conflict with the definitions set forth in this section. Acreage conservation reserve (ACR) means the acreage which is required to be taken out of production and maintained according to §1413.67. Acreage for payment means the acreage used to compute deficiency payments for the crop for the farm as determined in accordance with §1413.104 (d) and (e). Acreage reduction program (ARP) means a land retirement system in which participating producers agree not to plant a specified number of acres for cotton, feed grains, rice, and wheat in a program year in return for the right to obtain deficiency payments, price support loans, and other program benefits. Actual ELS cotton yield per acre means the acceptable net production divided by harvested acreage for the year.
