FR941221-2-00024 FR941221-2-00016 Draft Environmental Impact Statement_Atlantic Coast of Long Island, Jones Inlet to East Rockaway Inlet, Long Beach Island, NY, Storm Damage Reduction Project AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, New York District, DOD. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The responsible lead agency is the U.S. Army Engineer District, New York. The entire project shoreline is approximately seven (7) miles long and includes the communities of Point Lookout, Nassau Beach, Lido Beach, and the City of Long Beach, within the Town of Hempstead, in Nassau County. The Department of the Army plan addresses issues of storm induced erosion and inundation by widening the existing beach with the placement of hydraulic fill, the rehabilitation of sixteen (16) of the existing groins at Long Beach, and the construction of six (6) new groins west of Point Lookout at Lido Beach. The plan is designed to maintain a 110-foot berm width along the shoreline between west of Point Lookout to approximately Yates Avenue where it would taper into the eastern portion of the Village of Atlantic Beach. ADDRESSES: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, New York District, Jacob K. Javits Federal Building, New York, New York 10278&hyph;0090. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Peter M. Weppler, DEIS Coordinator, (212) 264&hyph;4663. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Department of the Army has recommended a plan for implementation, called the selected NED plan. This plan includes groin rehabilitation and new construction, beach fill with a proposed berm height of +10-feet NGVD, and a dune system with a height of +15-feet NGVD. The selected plan has an average berm width of 110-feet throughout the placement area and will not extend the beach west of Yates Avenue. An offshore borrow area located approximately 1.5 miles south of the project area will be utilized as a sand source. In order to provide for initial construction and four subsequent renourishments over 50 years the selected NED plan would require 28.24 million cubic yards. For the selected NED, the construction of the six new groins at Lido Beach will need approximately 100,000 tons of armor stone (6 to 9 ton range) and 30,000 tones of bedding stone. The stone volume required to rehabilitate the 16 groins at Long Beach is approximately 68,000, some of it reused from the existing groins. Environmental impacts will occur at the placement site and the borrow area. The fill site will see short-term loss of limited benthic habitat, already severely stressed and disturbed, and minor short-term water quality effects. The borrow area will suffer short-term benthic losses that will be replaced by rapid recolonization, and minimal water quality impacts that will be limited to the immediate vicinity and time of evaluation. Due to the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation's Bureau of Shellfisheries concern regarding impacts to the surf clam (Spisula solidissma). The District is proposing to perform a pre-dredge surf clam survey to confirm the presence of commercially-viable surf clam beds within the project area at time of construction (1998) and develop, in conjunction with the Bureau of Shellfisheries, a contingency plan to harvest all areas before construction activity is initiated. Impacts to potential shipwreck sites in the borrow area will be avoided through the designation of buffer zones. The project will be constructed in sections which will minimize interference with the recreational use of the project area. Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31437 Filed 12&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;06&hyph;M
