FR940920-2-00047 FR940920-2-00025 Pre-Proposal Evaluation The first step in the review and selection process is an administrative review to determine eligibility and appropriateness. For each Center, the following evaluation criteria will be used to evaluate pre-proposals: •Short- and long-term benefits to the Minority Academic Institution; •Benefits to principal investigator professional development; •Benefits to student academic development; •Level of participation by minority individuals; •Compatibility with HSRC interests; •Leverage of resources; •Quality of work proposed; and •Potential impact of proposed activity. Areas of Interest Pre-proposals are encouraged in one or more of the following areas but will be considered in other areas as well. It is recognized that some pre-proposals will incorporate elements from several areas of interest, such as a cooperative research program that includes faculty and/or student enhancement. These pre-proposals are also encouraged and will be evaluated on the strength of the consolidated pre-proposal. Cooperative Research Programs It is expected that most of the funds distributed under this solicitation will support cooperative research projects which pair MAI investigators with HSRC investigators. The goals of a cooperative research project are to enhance the research capabilities of the minority institution, promote significant interaction among the Center and MAIs, and lead to a continuing collaboration among the investigators. Given the time constraints of the program, preference will be given to projects that build on existing Center projects. New projects developed in collaboration with Center investigators, however, can be proposed. A potential investigator is strongly encouraged to review the current projects and activities of the Centers and contact Center personnel prior to submission of a pre-proposal. Examples of project collaboration include periodic exchanges of researcher-in-residence at an MAI or HSRC facility, co-investigation of a research topic, and joint supervision of research students. The specific nature of the collaboration will be defined by the investigators. Necessary travel funds to provide for this collaboration shall be built into the project pre-proposal. Pre-proposals are encouraged in the following broad HSRC research themes: •Thermal treatment/incineration; •Bioremediation; •Contaminated sediment and dredge material; •Mine wastes and contaminated soils; and •Remediation of contaminated groundwater. It is suggested that interested proponents review the Abstracts of HSRC Research Activities (following) and contact the most appropriate HSRC from Table 1 for further information about specific personnel and research opportunities. Faculty Enhancement The goal of the faculty enhancement component is to provide hazardous substance research opportunities to promote professional growth of MAI faculty. A companion goal is to strengthen the hazardous substance research programs at their home institutions. Specifically, the program is intended to: •Enhance research expertise and abilities; •Expand the knowledge-base in hazardous substance management research; •Provide hands-on experience with modern equipment and instrumentation; and •Help faculty develop linkages for future collaborative research. Activities to be supported include: •Academic-year sabbaticals (1&hyph;2 semesters); •Summer research visits (minimum of 10 weeks); and •Short-term faculty interactions (1&hyph;2 weeks). Faculty must be tenured or in a tenure-track position at an MAI to maximize potential benefits to the home institution. For institutions without formal tenure systems, faculty holding a long-term or permanent position shall be eligible. Student Enhancement MAIs are encouraged to develop pre-proposals which will provide internship programs for undergraduate and graduate students. The goal of the student enhancement component is to motivate students toward advanced study and careers in hazardous substance management by providing research and training opportunities at HSRC universities. Proposed projects should provide undergraduates with an experience that fosters interest in pursuing graduate education and research. Projects for graduate students should promote a greater understanding of the role of science and engineering in providing solutions to hazardous substance related problems. The following selection criteria apply: •Undergraduate students should have completed one or more years of an academic program in a discipline with an environmental focus. Graduate students should be pursuing a Masters or Ph.D. in an environmental discipline. •Pre-proposals should demonstrate a plan for guiding students to the timely completion of research projects. •MAIs should describe a student selection process that examines student academic records and recommendations and also includes the potential student impact of selection into the program (e.g., high potential ``underachievers'', etc.). The Center Director will assist in placing students into appropriate projects. Selections will be based on the strengths of the proposed program and its ability to impact participants rather than the merits of individual students. Technology Transfer and Training There are a number of opportunities for MAIs to participate in the technology transfer and training activities of the HSRCs. These opportunities may take a variety of forms, for example: cooperative ventures with existing HSRC programs; development of new programs to assist in the development and commercialization of research technologies to better manage hazardous substances; and training or education to communities, governmental decision makers, industry, faculty, and students. Pre-proposals are solicited in the following areas: •Training to provide working knowledge of new technologies;
