FR940524-2-00085 FR940524-2-00052 II. Description of the Proposal Registered national securities exchanges and registered national securities associations can grant broker-dealers extensions of time for payment on purchases and for delivery on sales of securities pursuant to Regulation T and Rule 15c3&hyph;3(n) under the Act. Such extensions may be granted when the self-regulatory organization (``SRO'') is satisfied that a creditor (broker/dealer/ is acting in good faith in making such a request and when the creditor believes exceptional circumstances warrant such action. The Exchange is proposing the addition of new Rule 434, which would require all member firms for which the NYSE has been appointed the DEA under the Act to submit all requests for Regulation T and Rule 15c3&hyph;3 extensions to the NYSE. The NYSE has developed a computerized extension processing system for reviewing extension requests. The Exchange system contains specific criteria regarding acceptable reasons, number of days permitted per extension, and limits on the number of extensions permitted. These criteria facilitate the prompt collection of monies and securities due and reduce exposure to losses for both customers and member organizations. The Exchange system generates daily and monthly reports which provide member organizations and Exchange staff with a means to monitor the incidence and reasons for the extension, potential abuses, compliance with appropriate regulations, and indications of possible operational problems. The NYSE believes it is appropriate to require submission of extension requests to the DEA for several reasons. First, as the DEA for most of its member, the NYSE is responsible for examining its members for compliance with industry financial responsibility rules and the Exchange believes that complete extension information is needed for it to adequately perform its DEA functions under section 17(d) of the Act. Second, the only standards for extension requests under Regulation T and Rule 15c3&hyph;3 are that the creditor grant the request in good faith and that exceptional circumstances warrant an extension. Under this broad standard, each SRO that processes extension requests 13 has developed its own parameters and procedures for evaluating, granting, and controlling extension requests. 14 The Exchange asserts that, as a result, broker-dealers could forum-shop by applying for extensions from several or all SROs to circumvent the special requirements or the maximum number of extensions allowed by the NYSE. In the NYSE's view, adoption of the rule would ensure uniform application of standards to all customers of NYSE firms for which the NYSE is the DEA. 13 At the time the NYSE filed the proposed rule change, the Boston, Cincinnati, Chicago, Pacific and Philadelphia Stock Exchanges and the National Association of Securities Dealers processed Regulation T extension requests. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 26341 (December 5, 1988), 53 FR 49808 (December 9, 1988). 14 For example, acceptable reasons for the extension, number of extensions permitted, special limitations and restrictions on customers are not necessarily uniformly applied, and in some cases, possibly, not applied at all. Third, the Exchange believes that complete extension information would provide it with a valuable surveillance tool in detecting manipulation and other illegal trading activities. Rule 434 would ensure that credit extensions would be granted on the basis of complete information about a broker-dealer's payment and delivery status. The NYSE states that complete extension information would enable the NYSE to better monitor for compliance with financial and customer related rules, such as sales practice rules. Moreover, the NYSE believes that complete extension information would be useful to a DEA as an early indicator of operational difficulties at member firms. III. Comments on the Proposal The Commission received eighteen comment letters opposing or suggesting substantial modifications to the NYSE proposal and two comment letters expressing support for the proposal. A. Competitive Concerns Most of the commenters opposed to the NYSE proposal noted their competitive concerns, citing either section 11A(a)(1) of the Act, 15 which encourages automation and efficiency in the markets while assuring fair competition, 16 or section 6(b)(8) of the Act, 17 which requires that the rules of an SRO not impose a burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. In particular, commenters argue that competition among SROs has led to technological improvements in extension granting procedures, such as faster turnaround and customized reports generated, and that competition has resulted in lower fees to broker-dealers. These commenters assert that the proposal would be anti-competitive in that the vast majority of all requests for extension of time for payment or delivery of securities would go to the NYSE because the NYSE is the DEA for virtually all of its member firms. 18 15 15 U.S.C. 78k&hyph;1(a)(1) (1988). 16 See e.g., January 1989 CSE Letter and Securities Settlement Corp. Letter, supra note 9. 17 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(8) (1988). 18 See e.g., Securities Settlement Corp. Letter, supra note 9. The Securities Settlement Corp. Letter states that competition in the area of extension processing is consistent with section 11A(a)(1)(C) which states that it is in the public interest and appropriate for the protection of investors to assure fair competition among exchange markets and between exchange markets. The CSE asserts that the proposal would grant the NYSE a monopoly on extension processing, thereby imposing a chilling effect on innovation and stifling any initiative by an SRO to contribute to more efficient and effective market operations. The CSE further asserts that the proposal would remove any incentive for an SRO to offer technical enhancements to improve the ability of brokers-dealers to comply with their legal obligations and manage the risk associated with extensions of credit. 19 19 The PHLX and the Securities Corp. also assert that the NYSE proposal would lessen incentives for further improvements in services. See 1989 PHLX Letter and Securities Settlement Corp. Letter, supra note 9.
