FR940128-1-00035 FR940128-1-00006 D. Corrective Actions FDA is proposing in §123.7 to require that deviations from critical limits trigger a prescribed series of actions by a processor or importer, including determining the significance of the deviation, taking appropriate remedial action, and documenting the actions taken. This proposed provision is consistent with the HACCP principles enunciated by NACMCF (Ref. 34). First, under proposed §123.7(a)(1), any critical limit deviation will require the segregation and holding of the affected product until the significance of the deviation can be determined. This step is necessary to ensure that products that may be injurious to health do not enter commerce until the impact of the deviation on safety has been determined, and the safety of the product assured. Second, under proposed §123.7(a)(2), the processor or importer must actually determine the effect of the deviation on safety, and third, under proposed §123.7(a)(3), it must take whatever corrective actions are necessary with respect to both the affected product and the critical control point at which the deviation occurred, based on that determination. Some deviations, especially if they are caught quickly, will not adversely affect safety. For example, if a refrigeration unit fails, but product being stored there is moved to a functioning unit before any appreciable warming of the product can occur, safety will not have been affected. FDA is proposing to require in §123.7(a)(2) that the safety determination be made by an individual who has successfully completed training in HACCP principles (see proposed §123.9). FDA has tentatively concluded that this requirement is necessary to ensure that the person who is reviewing the significance of the deviation understands the possible consequences of a processing deviation and knows how to take appropriate measures in response to a deviation. FDA does not expect that a processor or importer will be able, without assistance, to determine the public health consequences of every possible deviation. The required training will, however, provide the processor or importer with information about when and how to obtain the assistance of an analytical laboratory, outside expert, State regulatory authority, or FDA district office in determining the proper course of action. FDA is proposing to require in §123.7(a)(4) and (a)(5) that the processor or importer review the process and the HACCP plan to determine whether the deviation reveals the need to modify the process or the plan, or both, and to make such modifications as may be needed. It is critically important that a processor or importer learn as much as possible from the occurrence of a deviation and take steps to ensure that it will not be repeated. The plan should be a living document that the processor or importer should modify and update as circumstances warrant. These proposed requirements will ensure that the processor and importer connect day-to-day processing and other operations to the plan. Each modification is required to be noted, dated, and maintained as part of their HACCP records. FDA is proposing to require in §123.7(b) that when a processor or importer receives a consumer complaint that may be related to the performance of a critical control point or that may reflect a critical limit deviation, it take appropriate steps to determine whether a deviation or other system failure has occurred that warrants remedial action and take such remedial action that appears to be warranted under §123.7(a). The importance of consumer complaints has been discussed above. FDA recognizes that segregation and holding of the affected product will not always be feasible or warranted in response to a consumer complaint. In many cases, there will be no product to hold because all of the product in question will already be in commerce. In other cases, a processor or importer may be able to determine very quickly whether a deviation has actually occurred. FDA is proposing in §123.7(c) to require that processors and importers clearly document all of the steps that they take in response to a critical limit deviation or a consumer complaint and include that documentation as part of their HACCP records. FDA has tentatively concluded that the processor, the importer, and FDA will benefit from this requirement. Documentation helps processors and importers to think the whole process through in a thorough and methodical way and to establish to their own satisfaction that they have taken proper steps. Documentation enables the regulatory agency to determine whether the processor or importer is able to regain control once a deviation occurs and to ensure that potentially unsafe products are being prevented from entering commerce or at least quickly removed from commerce. The documentation that FDA is proposing to require of the processor's or importer's response to the consumer complaints covered by §123.7(b) will enable the processor, the importer, and FDA reviewers to determine whether those consumer complaints are receiving appropriate attention in a timely manner. The documentation should be clear enough to allow a determination of the nature of the complaint and of the time it took from the receipt of the complaint for processor or importer to review it and to take any necessary corrective actions. FDA may choose on occasion to review a limited number of consumer complaints to match against the documentation maintained by the processor or the importer.
