FR941130-1-00048 FR941130-1-00011 Costs MSHA estimates that the costs of testing, evaluation, and approval for any particular product would increase under the proposal. However, these costs would be offset by savings. Charges for testing and evaluating by NRTLs are often greater than the fees charged by the Federal Government. NRTLs' operating costs tend to be higher than the Government's and include a profit component that is not present in the Government's fees. NRTLs also charge manufacturers for providing follow-up services with respect to products they have already tested and evaluated. MSHA expects the costs of testing and evaluating any particular product to approximately double under the proposal. Further, although the NRTL, rather than MSHA, would test and evaluate certain products, time would still be required for MSHA to review approval applications that, under this proposal, would include the testing and evaluation data and results prepared by the NRTL and submitted with the application package. Therefore, MSHA estimates that its application fee would increase from $100 to $400. The proposed rule, however, has the potential to provide substantial cost savings to manufacturers as the program grows to maturity, which MSHA expects would outweigh any cost increases. In particular, manufacturers would realize savings from the ability to design and manufacture a single product to serve multiple markets. Currently, MSHA may not approve products meeting requirements that are different from the Agency's own. Therefore, some companies must alter their products, which currently meet MSHA requirements, to meet the approval requirements of a foreign market area. Under the proposed rule, MSHA could approve a product based upon approval requirements other than its own, provided that the alternative approval requirements have been determined by MSHA to be equivalent, or can be enhanced to provide equivalency, by affording the same or a greater level of safety as MSHA's. Thus, by not having to design equipment to meet two different approval requirements, manufacturers could have a more standardized product line, reduce unit costs, and improve quality control. Most manufacturers, whether large or small, also should experience cost savings by being able to market their products sooner because more entities would be providing the services that MSHA alone currently supplies. The ability to decrease the amount of time for developing and introducing a product into the market can cut overall costs for manufacturers. Due to the absence of information concerning individual manufacturers' product lines, management objectives, and marketing strategies, MSHA was not able to quantify these cost savings. Finally, Executive Order 12866 also requires that regulatory agencies assess the impact on the Government for any regulation determined to be a significant regulatory action. MSHA does not believe that the proposed rule would create any significant cost impacts on the Government. Rather, this proposed regulation would allow MSHA to improve its existing post-approval audit program by reallocating its resources from testing and evaluation to audit responsibilities. The proposed rule can be implemented under existing Government practices without any substantial equipment or facility expenditures by the Government. MSHA solicits comments on the costs and benefits of this proposed rule to all manufacturers who produce products requiring MSHA approval. List of Subjects in 30 CFR Parts 6, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 26, 27, 29, 33, and 35 Laboratory, Mine safety and health, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Safety, Testing. Dated: November 17, 1994. J. Davitt McAteer, Assistant Secretary for Mine Safety and Health.
