FR940318-0-00203 FR940318-0-00023 •Tire patch adhesives. MCF is no longer commonly used in the following adhesive applications where its use was once widespread: •Pressure sensitive adhesives (tapes, labels, etc.); •Flexible packaging adhesives; •Aerosol-propelled adhesives; and •Shoe repair glues and other consumer adhesives. In manufacture of coatings and inks, MCF usage rose steadily throughout the 1980s principally because of the VOC problems with other solvents. It began declining in the early 1990s because of the ozone depletion issue. In 1989, the consumption of MCF used in coatings and inks was 18,480 MT, six percent of the total 310,000 MT of MCF consumed in the U.S. The 1991 consumption in the coatings and inks sector was estimated to be 23,000 MT. This consumption figure has likely declined even more for the same reasons as cited in the adhesives section. MCF is the only ozone-depleting substance currently used in coatings and inks formulations. As with uses in adhesives, MCF has replaced some of the applications in coatings and inks which previously used VOC solvents and now the trend is reversing. The current use of MCF in coatings and inks applications occurs in four use areas: •Flexographic and rotogravure printing inks; •Wood stains; •Metal coatings; and •Aerospace coatings. 2. Substitutes in the Adhesives, Coatings, and Inks Sector Methyl chloroform-based adhesives, coatings, and inks can be replaced by either substitute solvents or alternative application technologies. In most instances, the alternatives are expected to perform as well as products containing MCF. Factors that determine which particular alternative is best in a given situation include physical and chemical properties, replacement chemical costs, capital investment costs, and product performance. The primary substitutes to replace methyl chloroform in adhesives, coatings, and inks include: •Petroleum hydrocarbons; •Oxygenated organic solvents (ketones, esters, ethers, alcohols); •Chlorinated solvents; •Terpenes; •Water-based formulations; •High-solids formulation; and •Alternative process alternatives; _Powder formulations; _Hot melts; _Thermoplastic plasma spray coatings; _Radiation cured; _Moisture cured; _Chemical cured; _Reactive liquids. These substitutes can be grouped into four basic categories: Solvent substitutes, water-based formulations, high-solids formulations, and alternative processes. a. Solvent substitutes. Petroleum hydrocarbons are hydrocarbons fractionated from the distillation of petroleum. These compounds are loosely grouped into paraffins (six carbon chains to ten carbon chains_hexane, heptane, etc.) and light aromatics (toluene and xylene), and come in various levels of purity. These compounds have good solvent properties, cost about half as much as MCF, and are readily available from chemical distributors. Oxygenated organic solvents such as alcohols, ketones, ethers, and esters dissolve a wide range of polar and semi-polar substances. These compounds are relatively inexpensive compared to MCF (about half the cost) and are readily available. They function well as solvents and dissolve most resins and binders used in adhesives, coatings, and inks. Chlorinated solvents such as perchloroethylene and methylene chloride are chlorinated hydrocarbons. These chemicals can be used to replace MCF used in adhesives, coatings and inks. These solvents are commercially available from chemical distributors at prices comparable to those for methyl chloroform. Chlorinated solvent compounds are chemically similar to MCF and thus are able to substitute directly for MCF with minor changes in the formulation of the product; product quality is expected to remain unchanged. Manufacturers can use chlorinated solvents in existing equipment with minor changes, resulting in low capital costs.
