FR941220-1-00068 FR941220-1-00010 §24.710 [Amended] 18. In §24.710, paragraph (a)(3) is amended to remove the words ``the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Single Family Housing'' and add, in their place, the words ``an Assistant Secretary or Deputy Assistant Secretary''. 19. Section 24.711 is revised to read as follows: §24.711 Notice of limited denial of participation. A limited denial of participation shall be made effective by advising the participant or contractor, and any specifically named affiliate, by mail, return receipt requested: (a) That the limited denial of participation is being imposed; (b) Of the cause(s) under §24.705 for the sanction; (c) Of the potential effect of the sanction, including the length of the sanction and the HUD program(s) and geographic area affected by the sanction; (d) Of the right to request, in writing, within 30 days of receipt of the notice, a conference under §24.712; (e) That the failure to request a conference shall cause the limited denial of participation to become final, without any further proceeding pursuant to §24.713 of this part. 20. Section 24.712 would be revised to read as follows: §24.712 Conference. Within 30 days after receiving a notice of limited denial of participation, the respondent may request a conference with the official who issued such notice. If the respondent does not request a conference within such 30-day period, the notice of limited denial of participation shall become final. The conference shall precede any submission in opposition under §24.713 of this part. It shall be held within 15 days after the Department's receipt of the request for a conference, unless the respondent waives this time limit. The official who imposed the sanction, or his or her designee, shall preside. At the conference, the respondent may appear with a representative and may present all relevant information and materials to the official or designee. Within 20 days after the conference, the official shall, in writing, advise the respondent of the decision to terminate, modify, or affirm the limited denial of participation. If the official's decision is to affirm all or a portion of the remaining period of exclusion, the notice of affirmation shall advise the respondent of the opportunity to contest the notice pursuant to §24.713. 21. Section 24.713 would be revised to read as follows: §24.713 Opportunity to contest affirmation of the limited denial of participation. (a) Submission in opposition. Within 30 days after receipt of a notice of affirmation of all or a portion of the remaining period of exclusion under a limited denial of participation, the respondent may submit, personally or through a representative, written information and argument in opposition to the notice of affirmation. The information and argument should be addressed to the Debarment Docket Clerk, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20410. If the respondent does not contest the notice of affirmation within the 30-day period, the notice shall become final. (b) Procedures. The procedures of 24.313 and 24.314 shall govern respondent's contest of the notice of affirmation. (c) Effect of suspension or debarment on limited denial of participation. If a respondent has contested a notice of affirmation pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, and if the respondent has also received, pursuant to subpart C or D of this part, a notice of proposed debarment or suspension that is based on the same transaction(s) or conduct as the limited denial of participation, the following rules shall apply: (1) If the respondent has not contested the proposed debarment pursuant to §24.313(a) or the suspension pursuant to §24.412(a), the final imposition of the debarment or suspension shall also constitute a final decision with respect to the limited denial of participation to the extent that the debarment or suspension is based on the same transaction(s) or conduct as the limited denial of participation. (2) If the respondent has contested the proposed debarment pursuant to §24.313(a) of this part or the suspension pursuant to §24.412(a), the hearing official shall consolidate the hearings on the limited denial of participation and on the proposed debarment or suspension. (3) To the extent that the limited denial of participation is based on additional transaction(s) or conduct that are not described in the notice of proposed debarment or suspension, the hearing official shall, in his or her discretion, either withdraw the limited denial of participation to the extent of such additional bases, or issue a decision on them. 22. A new section 24.714 would be added to read as follows: §24.714 Reporting of limited denial of participation. If the period for requesting a conference pursuant to §24.712 of this part has expired without receipt of such a request, or if a conference has been held and a notice of affirmation of all or part of the remaining period of exclusion has been issued pursuant to §24.712, the official imposing the limited denial of participation shall notify the Director of the Participation and Compliance Division in the Office of Housing of the scope of the limited denial of participation.
