FR940405-2-00142 FR940405-2-00058 [TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,067] Olympic Plating Industries, Inc., Canton, OH; Notice of Negative Determination Regarding Application for Reconsideration By an application dated March 16, 1994, Local # 50063 of the United Paperworkers Union (UPU) requested administrative reconsideration of the subject petition for trade adjustment assistance (TAA). The denial notice was signed on February 24, 1994, and published in the Federal Register on March 10, 1994 (59 FR 11326). Pursuant to 29 CFR 90.18(c) reconsideration may be granted under the following circumstances: (1) If it appears on the basis of facts not previously considered that the determination complained of was erroneous; (2) If it appears that the determination complained of was based on a mistake in the determination of facts not previously considered; or (3) If in the opinion of the Certifying Officer, a misinterpretation of facts or of the law justified reconsideration of the decision. The union states that the workers should be certified since Olympic had reduced business from kitchen appliance manufacturing customers who took their production overseas. Investigation findings show that Olympic Plating is an independent contractor which performs plating services on components (stove tops, etc.) for kitchen appliance manufacturing customers. The findings show that Olympic Plating did not own the components to be plated but only performed plating services on them. Olympic Plating was independent of its customers and there was no corporate relationship between Olympic Plating and its customers. The Department's denial was based on the fact that the workers do not produce an article within the meaning of the Trade Act, as amended. The Department has consistently determined that the performance of services does not constitute the production of an article and this determination has been upheld in the U.S. Court of Appeals. Accordingly, the plating services performed by Olympic Plating cannot be considered the production of an article. The worker adjustment assistance program was not intended to provide TAA to workers who are in some way related to import competition but only for those workers who produce an article and are adversely affected by increased imports of like or directly competitive articles which contributed importantly to sales or production and employment declines at the workers' firm. Conclusion After review of the application and investigative findings, I conclude that there has been no error or misinterpretation of the law or of the facts which would justify reconsideration of the Department of Labor's prior decision. Accordingly, the application is denied. Signed at Washington, DC., this 23rd day of March, 1994. Stephen A. Wandner, Deputy Director, Office of Legislation and Actuarial Service, Unemployment Insurance Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8111 Filed 4&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;30&hyph;M
