FR941028-2-00217 FR941028-2-00109 Kanamycin: An injectable, second-line anti-TB drug used primarily for treatment of drug-resistant TB. Latent TB infection: Infection with M. tuberculosis, usually detected by a positive PPD skin-test result, in a person who has no symptoms of active TB and who is not infectious. Mantoux test: A method of skin testing that is performed by injecting 0.1 mL of PPD-tuberculin containing 5 tuberculin units into the dermis (i.e., the second layer of skin) of the forearm with a needle and syringe. This test is the most reliable and standardized technique for tuberculin testing (see Tuberculin skin test and Purified protein derivative [PPD]-tuberculin test). Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB): Active TB caused by M. tuberculosis organisms that are resistant to more than one anti-TB drug; in practice, often refers to organisms that are resistant to both INH and rifampin with or without resistance to other drugs (see Drug resistance, acquired and Drug resistance, primary). M. tuberculosis complex: A group of closely related mycobacterial species that can cause active TB (e.g., M. tuberculosis, M. bovis, and M. africanum ); most TB in the United States is caused by M. tuberculosis. Negative pressure: The relative air pressure difference between two areas in a healthcare facility. A room that is at negative pressure has a lower pressure than adjacent areas, which keeps air from flowing out of the room and into adjacent rooms or areas. Nosocomial: An occurrence, usually an infection, that is acquired in a hospital or as a result of medical care. Para-aminosalicylic acid: A second-line, oral anti-TB drug used for treating drug-resistant TB. Pathogenesis: The pathologic, physiologic, or biochemical process by which a disease develops. Pathogenicity: The quality of producing or the ability to produce pathologic changes or disease. Some nontuberculous mycobacteria are pathogenic (e.g., Mycobacterium kansasii ), and others are not (.e.g., Mycobacterium phlei ). Portable room-air HEPA recirculation units: Free-standing portable devices that remove airborne contaminants by recirculating air through a HEPA filter. Positive PPD reaction: A reaction to the purified protein derivative (PPD)-tuberculin skin test that suggests the person tested is infected with M. tuberculosis . The person interpreting the skin-test reaction determines whether it is positive on the basis of the size of the induration and the medical history and risk factors of the person being tested. Preventive therapy: Treatment of latent TB infection used to prevent the progression of latent infection to clinically active disease. Purified protein derivative (PPD)-tuberculin: A purified tuberculin preparation that was developed in the 1930s and that was derived from old tuberculin. The standard Mantoux test uses 0.1 mL of PPD standardized to 5 tuberculin units. Purified protein derivative (PPD)-tuberculin test: A method used to evaluate the likelihood that a person is infected with M. tuberculosis. A small dose of tuberculin (PPD) is injected just beneath the surface of the skin, and the area is examined 48&hyph;72 hours after the injection. A reaction is measured according to the size of the induration. The classification of a reaction as positive or negative depends on the patient's medical history and various risk factors (see Mantoux test). Purified protein derivative (PPD)-tuberculin test conversion: A change in PPD test results from negative to positive. A conversion within a 2-year period is usually interpreted as new M. tuberculosis infection, which carries an increased risk for progression to active disease. A booster reaction may be misinterpreted as a new infection (see Booster phenomenon and Two-step testing). Pyrazinamide: A first-line, oral anti-TB drug used in treatment regimens. Radiography: A method of viewing the respiratory system by using radiation to transmit an image of the respiratory system to film. A chest radiograph is taken to view the respiratory system of a person who is being evaluated for pulmonary TB. Abnormalities (e.g., lesions or cavities in the lungs and enlarged lymph nodes) may indicate the presence of TB. Radiometric method: A method for culturing a specimen that allows for rapid detection of bacterial growth by measuring production of CO 2 by viable organisms; also a method of rapidly performing susceptibility testing of M. tuberculosis. Recirculation: Ventilation in which all or most of the air that is exhausted from an area is returned to the same area or other areas of the facility. Regimen: Any particular TB treatment plan that specifies which drugs are used, in what doses, according to what schedule, and for how long. Registry: A record-keeping method for collecting clinical, laboratory, and radiographic data concerning TB patients so that the data can be organized and made available for epidemiologic study. Resistance: The ability of some strains of bacteria, including M. tuberculosis, to grow and multiply in the presence of certain drugs that ordinarily kill them; such strains are referred to as drug-resistant strains. Rifampin: A first-line, oral anti-TB drug that, when used concomitantly with INH and pyrazinamide, provides the basis for short-course therapy. Room-air HEPA recirculation systems and units: Devices (either fixed or portable) that remove airborne contaminants by recirculating air through a HEPA filter. Second-line drugs: Anti-TB drugs used when the first-line drugs cannot be use (e.g., for drug-resistant TB or because of adverse reactions to the first-line drugs). Examples are cycloserine, ethionamide, and capreomycin.
