FR940512-1-00083 FR940512-1-00010 (ii) Older individuals with significant disabilities who are blind; (iii) Individuals who are members of racial or ethnic minority groups; (iv) Women; and (v) Elderly individuals; (6) A comparison, if appropriate, of prior year activities with the activities of the most recent year; and (7) Any new methods and approaches relating to IL services for older individuals who are blind that are developed by projects funded under this part; (e) The DSA will_ (1) Provide services that contribute to the maintenance of, or the increased independence of, older individuals who are blind; and_ (2) Engage in_(i) Capacity-building activities, including collaboration with other agencies and organizations; (ii) Activities to promote community awareness, involvement, and assistance; and (iii) Outreach efforts; (f) The application is consistent with the State plan for providing IL services required by section 704 of the Act and subpart C of 34 CFR part 364; and (g) The applicant has been designated by the State as the sole State agency authorized to provide rehabilitation services to individuals who are blind. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 711(c) and 796k (d), (f), (h), and (i)) Subpart C_How Does the Secretary Award Discretionary Grants on a Competitive Basis? ยง367.20 Under what circumstances does the Secretary award discretionary grants on a competitive basis to States? (a) In the case of a fiscal year for which the amount appropriated under section 753 of the Act is less than $13,000,000, the Secretary awards discretionary grants under this part on a competitive basis to States. (b) Subparts A, B, C, and E of this part govern the award of competitive grants under this part. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 796k (b)(1)) ยง367.21 How does the Secretary evaluate an application for a discretionary grant? (a) The Secretary evaluates an application for a discretionary grant on the basis of the criteria in ยง367.22. (b) The Secretary awards up to 100 points for these criteria. (c) The maximum possible score for each criterion is indicated in parentheses. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 711(c) and 796k(b)(1) and (i)(1)) ยง367.22 What selection criteria does the Secretary use? The Secretary uses the following criteria to evaluate an application for a discretionary grant: (a) Extent of need for the project (20 points). (1) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which the project meets the specific needs of the program, including consideration of_ (i) The needs addressed by the project; (ii) How the applicant identified those needs; (iii) How those needs will be met by the project; and (iv) The benefits to be gained by meeting those needs. (2) The Secretary reviews each application to determine)_ (i) The extent that the need for IL services for older individuals who are blind is justified, in terms of complementing or expanding existing IL and aging programs and facilities; and (ii) The potential of the project to support the overall mission of the IL program, as stated in section 701 of the Act. (b) Plan of operation (25 points). The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the plan of operation for the project, including_ (1) The quality of the design of the project; (2) The extent to which the plan of management ensures proper and efficient administration of the project; (3) How well the objectives of the project relate to the purpose of the program;
