FR940720-1-00035 FR940720-1-00009 Material that either contains any one of the following printed items, or that is referred to in a component of the second-class mailpiece (by the use of one of these items), is ineligible to be mailed at second-class rates: a. A separate price or subscription instructions different from the host publication. b. The word ``Catalog.'' c. A First-, third-, or fourth-class permit imprint. d. An ISBN (International Standard Book Number). e. An ISSN (International Standard Serial Number) different from the ISSN of the host publication. 2.3␣Products Products may not be mailed at second-class rates. Examples include stationery (pads of paper or blank printed forms); cassettes; floppy disks; merchandise; envelopes containing enclosures, other than receipts, orders for subscriptions, and incidental First-Class matter; and wall, desk, and blank calendars. Printed pages, including oversized pages and calendars, are not considered products if they are not separately distributed or offered for sale, bear the name of the host publication and the issue or issue date, and relate to other advertising or nonadvertising content of the host publication. 2.4␣Fourth-Class Mail Fourth-class mail may not be combined with a second-class publication. 2.5␣Nonprinted Sheets Any matter not formed of printed sheets (except as permitted under 1.1b) is not eligible for second-class rates. 3.0␣MAILPIECE CONSTRUCTION 3.1␣Bound/Unbound Publications may be prepared in either a bound or unbound form, with or without wrappers unless required by 3.6. A bound publication is a publication whose pages are securely held together by two or more staples, spiral binding, glue, stitching, or other permanent fastening. All other publications are unbound, including folded multisheet and single-sheet publications and those whose pages are loose and collated or ``nested,'' or whose pages are held together by a single staple. 3.2␣Physical Size Standards for size or weight may apply to publications claimed at certain rates. Requester publications must contain at least 24 pages per issue. 3.3␣Without Wrapper When the mailpiece does not have a mailing wrapper, all the components of an unbound publication must be combined with and inserted inside the publication. Only enclosures mailable at second-class rates under 1.4 may be included loose inside a bound unwrapped publication. An enclosure under 1.3 or 1.4 may be securely attached on the outside of an unwrapped publication along the bound edge if it does not exceed any dimension of the cover of the publication. 3.4␣With Wrapper Except as provided in 4.1, when the mailpiece is completely enclosed in a mailing wrapper, there are no restrictions on where the components may be located within that wrapper. When a sleeve or other partial wrapper is used, the components must be secured so that they do not fall out during handling. Bound publications carrying loose supplements or prepared in physically separate parts or sections either must be totally enclosed in an envelope, plastic wrapper (polybag) or paper wrapper, or they must be inserted within a sleeve so that the component parts do not become separated while in the mail. 3.5␣Protective Cover If the mailpiece is not completely enclosed in a mailing wrapper, any protective cover must cover both the front and back of the host publication and extend to within at least 3/4 inch of the edge opposite the fold or binding. If the host publication is bound, the protective cover must be permanently attached to the publication.
