FR941221-0-00024 FR941221-0-00010 DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Office of Labor-Management Standards 29 CFR Part 417 RIN 1294&hyph;AA10 Procedure for Removal of Local Labor Organization Officers AGENCY: Office of Labor-Management Standards. Office of the American Workplace, Labor. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule amends subpart B of 29 CFR part 417, the regulation pertaining to the procedure for removal of local labor organization officers pursuant to section 401(h) of the Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959, as amended (LMRDA). Section 417.16 presently gives the Secretary of Labor the authority to bring suit against a union after a member has filed a complaint with the Secretary alleging that the local labor organization has failed to follow the officer removal procedures contained in the organization's constitution and bylaws. The amendment deletes that language, which purports to give the Secretary general authority to bring suit against a union for failing to follow its officer removal procedures even if the inadequacy of the procedure has not been established. This change brings the regulation into conformity with a court of appeals decision that held that the Secretary lacks such authority. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 20, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kay H. Oshel, Chief, Division of Interpretations and Standards, Office of Labor-Management Standards, Office of the American Workplace, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Room N&hyph;5605, Washington, DC 20210; (202) 219&hyph;7373. This is not a toll-free number. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background and Overview Title IV of the Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act of 1959, as amended (LMRDA), governs the election and removal of labor organization officers. Section 401(h) of the LMRDA (29 U.S.C. 481(h)) provides that if the Secretary of Labor, upon application of a member of a local labor organization, finds after a hearing in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, that the constitution and bylaws of the labor organization do not provide an adequate procedure for the removal of an elected officer guilty of serious misconduct, such officer may be removed for cause shown and after notice and hearing, by the members in good standing voting in a secret ballot conducted by the officers of such labor organization in accordance with its constitution and bylaws insofar as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of Title IV of the LMRDA. The Department had previously interpreted section 401(h), when read in conjunction with section 402(a), as additionally granting the Secretary of Labor the authority to file suit against a union for failure to follow removal procedures whose adequacy has not been challenged. Section 402(a) states in part that ``(a) a member of a labor organization (1) who has exhausted the remedies available under the constitution and bylaws of such organization and of any parent body, or (2) who has invoked such available remedies without obtaining a final decision within three calendar months after their invocation, may file a complaint with the Secretary within one calendar month thereafter alleging the violation of any provision of section 401 ( including violation of the constitution and bylaws of the labor organization pertaining to the election and removal of officers ) (emphasis added) *␣*␣*.'' Subpart B of 29 CFR part 417 implements this interpretation. In Donovan v. Hotel, Motel & Restaurant Employees Local 19, 700 F.2d 539 (9th Cir. 1983), however, the court held, after examining the legislative history of the Act, that the LMRDA does not authorize the Secretary to bring civil action against a union for failure to follow its concededly adequate officer removal procedure. Local 19 rejected the Secretary's reliance on section 402(a) as a basis for extending his authority under section 401(h) to intervene in officer removal proceedings where an adequate removal procedure exists. The court concluded that those regulations found in subpart B of 29 CFR part 417 which purport to give the Secretary general authority to intervene in union affairs upon a finding that a union has failed to follow its adequate removal procedures are void for lack of statutory authority. Local 19 is the only judicial decision that addresses this issue, and the Department has determined, upon review, that the holding of the court in Local 19 is correct. The Department, therefore, on June 16, 1994, published a proposed rule in the Federal Register , 59 FR 31056, to delete the language in subpart B of 29 CFR part 417 granting the Secretary authority to file suit against a union for failure to follow its adequate officer removal procedures. II. Comments On the Proposal and the Department's Responses and Decision Six comments were received from the public; four from labor organizations and two from other organizations. The following national and international labor organizations commented on the proposed rule: _Fire Fighters _Food and Commercial Workers _Clothing and Textile Workers _Laborers The other organizations which commented on the proposed rule are:
