FR940922-1-00005 FR940922-1-00002 (1) Seeks payment from, or a determination of rights with respect to, the assets of any institution for which the RTC has been appointed receiver (including assets which the RTC may acquire from itself as receiver) or (2) Relates to any act or omission of the institution or the receiver. (b) Institution . For purposes of 12 U.S.C. 1821(d)(3) through (13) and this part, an institution or a depository institution shall include the RTC as conservator of the institution. (c) Post-Receivership Claim . A Post-Receivership Claim means any claim based upon any act or omission of the RTC as receiver. A Post-Receivership Claim includes, but is not limited to, any claim alleging a tortious act or omission by the receiver, any claim based upon an agreement of the receiver, any claim based upon an act or omission of the receiver with respect to an executory agreement or unexpired lease of the institution, any claim based upon a repudiation by the receiver of any agreement or lease, and any claim alleging a violation of law by the receiver; provided, that Post-Receivership Claims shall include only claims that were not in existence as of the date of the receiver's appointment and that rely for their existence upon an act or omission of the RTC as receiver. A Post-Receivership Claim shall not include any claim in existence as of the date of the appointment of the receiver, regardless of whether the claim was then contingent, unliquidated, not matured or not known or discovered. ยง1635.2 Period to file claims. (a) In general. Any Post-Receivership Claim must be filed with the receiver within the time limits set forth in this section or the claim shall be disallowed, the disallowance shall be final, and the claimant shall have no further rights or remedies with respect to the claim. (b) Pre-existing contracts. If a Post-Receivership Claim is based on a contract that is in writing, that was entered into with the RTC as receiver or as conservator prior to [THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE FINAL RULE], and that contains any term or provision requiring that the claim be filed with or presented to the institution or to the RTC as conservator or receiver within a certain period of time or by a certain date, then the claim must be filed by the earliest of the following dates: (1) The date or time set forth in the contract; (2) The 90th day after the RTC first publishes notice of its intention to terminate the receivership; or (3) The date established by any applicable statute of limitations. (c) Notice. If the receiver mails a notice to a claimant requiring that a Post-Receivership Claim with proof be filed by a certain date, then the claim must be filed by the date set forth in the notice or by the date established by any applicable statute of limitations, whichever occurs first (unless the claim is based upon a contract meeting the description set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, in which case the time limits set forth in paragraph (b) apply). The date set forth in the notice shall be not less than 90 days after the notice is mailed (and may be later than the date established pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1821(d)(3)(B)(i)). (d) All other cases. In all cases other than those described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a Post-Receivership Claim must be filed by the 90th day after the RTC first publishes notice of its intention to terminate the receivership or by the date established by any applicable statute of limitations, whichever occurs first. (e) No extension to file claims subject to bar of 12 U.S.C. 1821(d)(3)(B)(i) or 1821(d)(5)(C). This section shall apply only to Post-Receivership Claims and shall not apply to and shall not be construed as extending the period to file claims described in 12 U.S.C. 1821(d)(3)(B)(i) or 1821(d)(5)(C) for any other claim. ยง1635.3 Procedures. (a) Applicability of 12 U.S.C. 1821(d). The applicable portions of 12 U.S.C. 1821(d) shall govern any Post-Receivership Claim that is filed with the receiver. No suit upon any Post-Receivership Claim may be filed or maintained until the claims process has been exhausted. Any suit filed must be filed in the courts and in accordance with the time limits specified in 12 U.S.C. 1821(d)(6) (or 1821(d)(8), when appropriate). 12 U.S.C. 1821(d)(6) requires, inter alia , that suit be filed in the district or territorial court of the United States for the district within which the depository institution's principal place of business is located or the United States District Court for the District of Columbia before the end of the 60-day period beginning on the earlier of the following: (1) The end of the 180-day period (or any mutually agreed upon extension thereof) provided in 12 U.S.C. 1821(d)(5)(A)(i) for the receiver to consider the claim; or (2) The date of any notice of disallowance of such claim pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1821(d)(5)(A)(i). (b) Contractual provisions requiring forbearance from suit. If a claim is based upon a written contract that was entered into the RTC as receiver prior to [THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE FINAL RULE] and that contains any term or provision requiring the claimant to forebear from filing suit for any period of time less than 180 days after first presenting or filing a claim with the RTC or receiver, then the claimant may, but need not, treat the failure of the RTC or receiver to allow or disallow the claim prior to the end of the contractual forbearance period as a disallowance pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1821(d)(5)(A)(i) entitling the claimant to file suit within 60 days after the end of the contractual forbearance period. If the claimant does not elect to treat the failure of the RTC or receiver to allow or disallow the claim prior to the end of the contractual forbearance period as a disallowance, then, in order to preserve its claim, the claimant must file suit in the appropriate federal court during the 60-day period beginning on the earlier of: (1) The end of the 180-day period (or any mutually agreed upon extension thereof) beginning on the date the claim is filed; or (2) The date of any actual notice of disallowance of such claim. By Order of the Deputy and Acting Chief Executive Officer of the Resolution Trust Corporation. Dated at Washington, DC, this 14th day of September 1994. Resolution Trust Corporation. John M. Buckley, Jr., Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23242 Filed 9&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6714&hyph;01&hyph;M
