FR940118-1-00029 FR940118-1-00006 (4) Audio home recording devices and media: From October 29, 1997 to October 28, 1998, and not more than once each year thereafter. (b) Cable rate adjustment proceedings may also be commenced by the filing of a petition, according to 17 U.S.C. 801(b)(2) (B) and (C), if the Federal Communications Commission amends certain of its rules with respect to the carriage by cable systems of broadcast signals, or with respect to syndicated and sports programming exclusivity. (c) In the case of noncommercial educational broadcasting, a petition is not necessary for the commencement of proceedings. Proceedings commence with the publication of a notice of the initiation of arbitration proceedings in the Federal Register on June 30, 1997, and at 5 year intervals thereafter. §251.62 Content of petition. (a) In the case of a petition for rate adjustment proceedings for cable television, phonorecords, and coin-operated phonorecord players (jukeboxes), the petition shall detail the petitioner's interest in the royalty rate sufficiently to permit the Librarian of Congress to determine whether the petitioner has a ``significant interest'' in the matter. The petition must also identify the extent to which the petitioner's interest is shared by other owners or users; owners or users with similar interests may file a petition jointly. (b) In the case of a petition for rate adjustment proceedings as the result of a Federal Communications Commission rule change, the petition shall also set forth the actions of the Federal Communications Commission on which the petition for a rate adjustment is based. §251.63 Period for consideration. To allow time for parties to settle their differences regarding rate adjustments, the Librarian of Congress shall, after the filing of a petition, or prior to a rate adjustment made under 17 U.S.C. 118(b), designate a 90-day period for consideration. The Librarian shall cause notice of the consideration period to be published in the Federal Register , and such notice shall include the effective dates of that period. §251.64 Disposition of petition: Initiation of arbitration proceeding. At the end of the 90-day period, and after the Librarian has resolved all motions filed during that period under §251.45(b), the Librarian shall determine the sufficiency of the petition including, where appropriate, whether one or more of the petitioners' interests are ``significant.'' If the Librarian determines that a petition is sufficient, he/she shall cause to be published in the Federal Register a declaration of a controversy accompanied by a notice of initiation of an arbitration proceeding. The same declaration and notice of initiation shall be made for noncommercial educational broadcasting in accordance with 17 U.S.C. 118 (b) and (c). Such notice shall, to the extent feasible, describe the nature, general structure, and schedule of the proceeding. §251.65 Deduction of costs of rate adjustment proceedings. In accordance with 17 U.S.C. 802(h)(1), the Librarian of Congress and the Register of Copyrights may assess the reasonable costs incurred by the Library of Congress and the Copyright Office as a result of the rate adjustment proceedings directly to the parties participating in the proceedings. Subpart G_Royalty Fee Distribution Proceedings §251.70 Scope. This subpart governs only those proceedings dealing with distribution of royalty payments deposited with the Register of Copyrights for cable television (17 U.S.C. 111), satellite carrier (17 U.S.C. 119), and digital audio recording devices and media (17 U.S.C. chapter 10). Those provisions of subpart E generally regulating the conduct of proceedings shall apply to royalty fee distribution proceedings, unless they are inconsistent with the specific provisions of this subpart. §251.71 Commencement of proceedings. (a) Cable television. In the case of royalty fees collected under the cable compulsory license (17 U.S.C. 111), any person claiming to be entitled to such fees must file a claim with the Copyright Office during the month of July each year in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter. (b) Satellite carriers. In the case of royalty fees collected under the satellite carrier compulsory license (17 U.S.C. 119), any person claiming to be entitled to such fees must file a claim with the Copyright Office during the month of July each year in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter. (c) Digital audio recording devices and media. In the case of royalty payments for the importation and distribution in the United States, or the manufacture and distribution in the United States, of any digital recording device or medium, any person claiming to be entitled to such payments must file a claim with the Copyright Office during the month of January or February each year in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter.
