FR940104-0-00098 FR940104-0-00017 (4) Magnitude of the estimated effects; and (5) Potential effects, if any, on other distribution members of a power supply borrower. (d) REA will consider effects of proposed and existing DSM plans on government loan security, rates, revenue requirements, competitiveness, other distribution borrowers, power supply borrowers or other industry recognized tests as applicable. §1710.358 Requirements for a DSM plan. A DSM plan shall include: (a) A list of the DSM activities to be financed by the loan including details on implementation such as beginning and completion dates and estimated draw downs of loan funds; (b) An analysis of the borrower's existing and proposed DSM activities, including sources of financing and projections of the effects of those activities as set forth in §1710.359; (c) System specific load research and DSM pilot projects as required by §1710.353(f); (d) A benefit/cost and net present value cash flow analysis of each DSM activity included in the plan. Benefits and costs must be expressed in the same units where possible. Short term and long term impacts must be addressed. Who benefits and who pays must be clearly identified. Objectives of a DSM plan shall be stated in terms of load profile adjustments by customer rate class and/or market segment. The benefit/cost analysis shall include the following steps: (1) Identification of objectives, alternatives, and effects; (2) Simulation of impacts on the system and its consumers, and the probable costs and benefits, including sensitivity/probability and scenario analysis; and (3) Selection of DSM activities; (e) An outline of monitoring and reporting procedures to evaluate the performance of the implemented DSM plan; (f) A narrative discussing the following: (1) Scope of the DSM plan; (2) Resources used to develop the DSM plan; (3) Internal and external data collection and analysis; (4) Analysis method used to screen and evaluate the projected programs; (5) Analysis of existing and projected plans; and (6) Coordination activities with power supplier. §1710.359 DSM effects. The IRP and the DSM plan shall consider and discuss the expected effects of the borrower's DSM activities. The expected effects to be considered and discussed includes, but are not limited to, the following: (a) Effects on the utility (supply side effects): (1) Operations; (2) Maintenance; (3) Environmental compliance; (4) Capacity planning, including deferment of capacity and reliability of capacity; (5) DSM equipment including purchase, operation and maintenance considerations; (6) Transmission and distribution effects; (7) Administrative costs, including administrative and general costs, program costs, DSM planning costs, integration of supply and DSM planning, marketing costs, incentive costs, infrastructure support, monitoring and evaluation costs, bidding costs; and (8) Revenues and rates; (b) Effects on consumers (demand side effects): (1) Equipment purchases; (2) Operation costs; (3) Maintenance costs; (4) Supply voltage quality; (5) Availability of service and reliability (outages); (6) Change in benefits received from appliances and housing; (7) Convenience (availability of equipment, appliances and services); (8) Change in comfort and air quality levels of buildings; and (9) Rates, billing level and elasticity; (c) Effects on competitiveness; (d) Effects on other member distribution systems of the power supply borrower; and (e) Effects on power supply borrower. §1710.360 Submittal of alternate documentation.
