FR940217-1-00055 FR940217-1-00013 Issue 2: Several individuals questioned the taxonomic status of the salamander, asserting that it is still an undescribed species and may be part of the central Texas salamander ( Eurycea neotenes ) complex. Response: Formal description of the salamander as a distinct species has withstood peer-review and was published in June, 1993 (see discussion in the Background section). Issue 3: Several commenters stated that water quality data at Barton Springs show no demonstrable deterioration, despite development immediately upstream from the springs, much of which occurred prior to implementation of water quality controls. Response: The Service recognizes that, other than high levels of fecal-group bacteria and turbidity immediately following storm events, water quality at Barton Springs is considered to be very good. However, only about 3 to 4 percent of the recharge and contributing zones is currently developed. As urban development over the recharge and contributing zones increases, the threat of water quality degradation from point-source and non-point-source pollution will increase. The threat of increased urbanization over these areas and impacts on water quality in the aquifer and at Barton Springs are discussed in Factor A. Issue 4: Most commenters opposed to the listing stated that existing State and local rules and regulations are adequate to protect the salamander and its habitat from groundwater degradation and depletion. Response: This issue is presented and discussed in Factor D. The Service recognizes that there are several rules and regulations aimed at protecting water quality and quantity within the aquifer, and that these rules and regulations will provide some benefits to the Barton Springs salamander if adequately enforced. However, no information was presented to show that these existing rules and regulations will ensure long-term protection of water quality and quantity at Barton Springs and will be adequate to protect the salamander and its habitat. Furthermore, there are no assurances that the existing rules and regulations will remain in place and be enforced. Regarding water quantity, the Barton Springs/Edwards Aquifer Conservation District (BS/EACD) has limited enforcement authority and does not regulate 30 to 40 percent of the total volume that is pumped from the Barton Springs segment. Issue 5: Several individuals expressed concern that listing the salamander could impose restrictions on the recreational use of Barton Springs Pool. Response: This issue is discussed under Factor B (``Overutilization for commercial, recreational, scientific, or educational purposes''). There is currently no evidence suggesting that swimming in Barton Springs Pool will adversely impact the Barton Springs salamander. The Service maintains the position that if pool maintenance activities are conducted in such a way as to avoid impacting the salamander and its habitat (such as avoiding the application of chemicals and the use of high pressure fire hoses to clean areas inhabited by salamanders), then activities associated with swimming at Barton Springs Pool should not disturb the salamander. Issue 6: The salamander has persisted despite past droughts, low springflows, and pollution events over the aquifer and its contributing zone and at Barton Springs (elevated fecal coliform bacteria and turbidity). Response: The Service acknowledges that these events have occurred and that the frequency of such events is likely to increase with increasing development over the aquifer and its contributing zone. Although the salamander has survived these past events, the point at which declining water quality and quantity would cause extinction of the salamander is uncertain. Amphibians in general are highly sensitive to changes in water chemistry, and the salamander's restricted range makes it especially vulnerable to water quality deterioration. A major pollution event has the potential of eliminating the entire species and/or its prey base. Amphipods, which comprise most of the salamander's diet, are especially sensitive to water pollution (see discussion in Factor E). Issue 7: A few commenters stated that the threat of declining aquifer levels is not substantial at Barton Springs and, in any event, no demonstrable evidence exists that lowered aquifer levels will cause a threat to the continued existence of the salamander. Response: This issue is addressed in Factor A. Although the Service recognizes that cessation of flows is not likely at Barton Springs in the near future, increased groundwater withdrawal and resulting reduced flows are expected due to increasing urbanization over the aquifer. Reduced aquifer levels may lead to the encroachment of the ``bad water'' line and increased concentrations of pollutants in the aquifer.
