FR940428-1-00025 FR940428-1-00008 Annual adjustments documented in operating instructions would be prepared with the involvement of the permittee. This approach conforms to current practices and helps insure permittee involvement and mutual understanding of rangeland management and operational objectives. The agency believes the elimination of annual operating plans and the adoption of operating instructions will reduce current confusion over how grazing use decisions are made and lead to more uniform understanding of grazing permit administration by both agency employees and external groups who are interested in national forest rangeland resources. Proposed Section 222.5_Term Grazing Permits; Types and Duration This section of the proposed rule describes the types of term grazing permits which may be issued. This includes term permits, term private land permits, term permits with on-and-off provisions, and grazing agreements. These four types of permits are necessary because of the various grazing use and land ownership patterns which occur on National Forest System lands. Proposed §222.5(a) contains descriptions of the various types of term permits authorized. This same information is covered at §223.3(c)(1) in the current rule and in the Forest Service directives system. The types of term permits listed in the proposed rule are the same as those provided in the current rule. This section of the proposed rule contains no change in current practice and, therefore, would have no effect on permittees. Proposed paragraph (a)(1) covers the circumstances where a term permit is appropriate. In addition, a provision for a term grazing association permit, which is presently provided for in Forest Service Manual (FSM) Chapter 2230, would be incorporated into the proposed rule. Proposed paragraph (a)(2) describes a term private land permit which is issued to a qualified applicant who owns or controls land within an allotment. The permit waives exclusive grazing use of the private land to the United States and in return the applicant is authorized to graze livestock on the allotment. The amount of livestock grazing use authorized in a term private land grazing permit is determined by the authorized officer. A term permit with on-and-off provisions described in proposed paragraph (a)(3) is issued when the grazing area includes grazing lands other than the lands under Forest System control. Under this type of permit, the livestock graze concurrently on National Forest Service lands and other lands controlled by the applicant. Proposed paragraph (a)(4) describes the circumstances when a grazing agreement is appropriate. Proposed §222.5(b) establishes the duration of term grazing permits which, normally, is for a 10 year period. Proposed paragraph (b)(1) contains direction presently found in §222.3(c)(1) of the current rule which describes those instances when a term grazing permit on National Forest land in the 16 contiguous Western States may be issued for a period less than the maximum ten year time period as provided for in FLPMA. Under proposed paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the authorized officer may issue permits on all other National Forest System lands or other lands under Forest Service control for up to a ten year period as determined to be in the best interest of sound land management. Propsed Section 222.6_Authorization of Temporary Grazing The proposed rule provides that, when term permits are not appropriate for administration of livestock grazing, a paid or free temporary permit can be issued or free grazing without a permit can be allowed. Issuance of these permits or allowance of free use is dependent upon the availability of forage. Current regulations found in §222.3(c)(2) provide for either a temporary or a livestock use permit depending on the particular situation. Section 222.3(c)(2)(i) provides for temporary grazing permits to be issued for a period of up to one year for a variety of purposes. Section 222.3(c)(2)(ii) provides for the issuance of livestock use permits for periods up to one year for a variety of purposes. Using two types of permits to cover temporary livestock grazing uses is often confusing and requires maintenance and use of two policies and procedures, applications, and permits. Thus, the Department proposes to eliminate livestock use permits, combine them with temporary permits, and extend the term period for temporary permits for up to three years. These changes will streamline and simplify the issuance of temporary permits. The proposed rule eliminates the provision in the current rule at §222.3(c)(2)(ii)(D) for free livestock grazing use for persons who reside on ranch or agricultural lands within or contiguous to National Forest System lands for not to exceed 10 head of owned or kept livestock whose products are consumed or whose services are used directly by the family of the resident who distinctly needs National Forest System lands to support such animals. The proposed rule does not retain this provision since a review of permit administration revealed no use of or need for this authority.
