FR941128-2-00091 FR941128-2-00047 1. Such P&T Committee shall consist of at least nine (9) members, all of whom shall be physicians, pharmacists, pharmacologists, or other healthcare professionals. 2. A majority of the P&T Committee shall consist of persons who are not employees, officers, directors, or agents of, and who have no financial interest in: (a) Lilly, (b) PCS, or (c) any other person who has an ownership interest in Lilly or PCS. Such persons shall be referred to herein as ``independent'' members of the P&T Committee. 3. each independent member of the P&T Committee shall have one vote on all decisions of the P&T Committee. 4. All members of the P&T Committee who are employees, officers, directors, or agents of, or who have a financial interest in, Lilly, PCS, or any other person who has an ownership interest in Lilly or PCS, shall not be entitled to vote on decisions of the P&T Committee. 5. All independent members of the P&T Committee shall be appointed for three-year terms, except that for the initial board, one-third of the independent members shall be appointed for one-year terms, one-third shall be appointed for two-year terms, and the remaining independent members shall be appointed for three-year terms. At the expiration of their terms, or upon the occurrence of a vacancy, members may be reappointed, or new members may be appointed, by a majority of the then-appointed independent members of the P&T Committee. 6. No independent member of the P&T Committee may be removed except for cause by vote of a majority of the independent members of the P&T Committee. 7. In performing its responsibilities in maintaining the Open Formulary, the P&T Committee shall utilize only criteria relating to safety, efficacy, FDA approved indications, side effects, contraindications, pharmacokinetics, patient compliance, physician follow-up requirements, effect on emergency room visits and hospitalizations, laboratory tests, cost, and similar objective factors. Such P&T Committee shall give no preference to the products of Lilly, or of any other person with an ownership interest in PCS, except on the basis of such objective criteria. 8. Lilly shall cause PCS to cover the costs and expenses of the P&T Committee, and Lilly shall cause PCS to indemnify the P&T Committee against any losses or claims of any kind that might arise out of its performance of functions under this Order, except to the extent that such losses or claims result from misfeasance, gross negligence, willful or wanton acts, or bad faith. 9. Such P&T Committee shall maintain written records, for five (5) years from the date thereof, explaining the basis and rationale for all P&T Committee decisions relating to the exclusion of any products from, or the ranking of products on, the Open Formulary required by Paragraph II.A. C. Lilly shall cause PCS to accept all discounts, rebates or other concessions offered by any manufacturer, seller or distributor of pharmaceutical products included by the P&T Committee on the Open Formulary, and Lilly shall cause PCS to ensure that all such discounts, rebates, or concessions are truthfully and accurately reflected in determining relative rankings of products on the Open Formulary. D. Nothing in this Order shall preclude PCS from offering any formulary other than the Open Formulary to any customer. E. Lilly shall cause PCS to provide a copy of this Order to each member of the P&T Committee on or before the date of each such person's appointment to such P&T Committee. III It is further ordered, that: A. Lilly shall not provide, disclose, or otherwise make available to PCS any Lilly Non-Public Information; and B. PCS shall not provide, disclose, or otherwise make available to Lilly any PCS Non-Public Information.
