FR940104-2-00094 FR940104-2-00056 (c) The extent to which non-Federal funds will be used to meet the total cost of the project; (d) The extent to which the applicant has: (1) Assessed specific educational, informational, and cultural needs of the community(-ies) to be served, and the extent to which the proposed service will not duplicate service already available; (2) Evaluated alternative technologies and the bases upon which the technology was selected; (3) Provided significant documentation of its equipment requirements, and the urgency of acquisition or replacement; (4) Provided documentation of an increasing pattern of substantial non-Federal financial support; (5) Provided other evidence of community support, such as letters from elected or appointed policy-making officials, and from agencies for which the applicant produces or will produce programs or other materials; (e) The extent to which the evidence supplied in the application reasonably assures an increase in public telecommunications services and facilities available to, operated by, and owned or controlled by minorities and women; (f) The extent to which various items of eligible apparatus proposed are necessary to, and capable of, achieving the objectives of the project and will permit the most efficient use of the grant funds; (g) The extent to which the eligible equipment requested meets current broadcast industry performance standards; (h) The extent to which the applicant will have available sufficient qualified staff to operate and maintain the facility and provide services of professional quality; (i) The extent to which the applicant has planned and coordinated the proposed services with other telecommunications entities in the service area; (j) The extent to which the project implements local, statewide or regional public telecommunications systems plans, if any; and, (k) The readiness of the FCC to grant any necessary authorization. In determining whether to approve or defer a planning grant application, in whole or in part, and the amount of such grant, the Agency will evaluate all the information in the application file and consider, in no order of priority, the following factors: (a) The extent to which the applicant's interests and purposes are consistent with the purposes of the Act and the priorities of the Agency; (b) The qualifications of the proposed project planner; (c) The extent to which the project's proposed procedural design assures that the applicant would adequately: (1) Obtain financial, human and support resources necessary to conduct the plan; (2) Coordinate with other telecommunications entities at the local, state, regional and national levels; (3) Evaluate alternative technologies and existing services; and (4) Receive participation by the public to be served (and by minorities and women in particular) in the project planning; (d) Any pre-planning studies conducted by the applicant showing the technical feasibility of the proposed planning project (such as the availability of a frequency assignment, if necessary, for the project); and, (e) The feasibility of the proposed procedure and timetable for achieving the expected results. V. Matching Requirements (a) Planning grants. A Federal grant for the planning of a public telecommunications facility shall be in an amount determined by the Agency and set forth in the award document and the attachments thereto. The Agency may provide up to 100 percent of the funds necessary for the planning of a public telecommunications construction project. (b) Construction grants. (1) A Federal grant award for the construction of a public telecommunications facility shall be an amount determined by the Agency and set forth in the award document. Such amount may not exceed 75 percent of the amount determined by the Agency to be the reasonable and necessary cost of such project. Special Note: As originally stated in the August 20, 1987, PTFP Final Rules, and as reaffirmed and clarified in a November 22, 1991, PTFP Policy Statement, NTIA has established a policy which is intended to encourage stations to increase from 25% to 50% the matching percentage in their proposals for equipment replacement, improvement, and augmentation. The Agency has emphasized that applicants proposing to provide first service to a geographic area encounter considerable ineligible costs, including construction or renovation of buildings or other similar expenses. NTIA, therefore, expects to continue funding projects to extend service at up to 75% of the total project cost. Applicants from small community-licensed stations, or those who can show that a station licensed to a large institution cannot obtain direct or in-kind support from the larger institution, also will not be subject to this preference. Otherwise, a showing of extraordinary need or an emergency situation will be taken into consideration as justification for grants of up to 75% of the project cost, but the presumption of 50% funding will be the general rule for applications calling for the replacement, improvement, or augmentation of equipment. (2) No part of the grantee's matching share of the eligible project costs may be met with funds paid by the Federal government, except where the use of such funds to meet a Federal matching requirement is specifically and expressly authorized by Federal statute. (3) Funds supplied to an applicant by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting may not be used for the required non-Federal matching purposes, except upon a clear and compelling showing of need. (4) The expenditure of any local matching funds prior to the Closing Date will be disallowed. (5) The Applicants should note that expenditure of local matching funds prior to the award of a grant is at the applicant's own risk. The exact amount of the match will not be known with certainty until the final award agreement is negotiated. Therefore, should the applicant's expenditure of non-Federal funds exceed the non-Federal share which will be established in the final award agreement, then either the Federal share of the total project cost may be reduced by a corresponding amount, or no Federal award may be offered. VI. Selection Process and Project Period PTFP grants are awarded on the basis of a competitive review process. This includes several grant review panels, which apply the Funding Criteria listed in section V above. The Agency determines the selection of grantees according to the Priorities listed in section III above and the evaluation of the applications by the various review panels. Planning grant award periods customarily do not exceed one year, whereas construction grant award periods commonly range up to two years. Although these time frames are generally applied to the award of all PTFP grants, variances in project periods may be based on specific circumstances of an individual proposal. Authority: The Public Telecommunications Financing Act of 1978, Pub. L. 95&hyph;567, 92 Stat. 2405 (as amended), 47 U.S.C. 390&hyph;394, 397&hyph;399b (1988). Dr. Charles Rush, Acting Associate Administrator, Office of Telecommunications and Information Applications. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27 Filed 1&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;60&hyph;M
