FR941117-0-00095 FR941117-0-00011 (a) Non-directional AM stations. If tower construction or modification is planned within 1 kilometer (0.6 mile) of a non-directional AM broadcast station tower, the Public Mobile Service licensee must notify the licensee of the AM broadcast station in advance of the planned construction or modification. Measurements must be made to determine whether the construction or modification affected the AM station antenna pattern. The Public Mobile Service licensee is responsible for the installation and continued maintenance of any detuning apparatus necessary to restore proper non-directional performance of the AM station tower. (b) Directional AM stations. If tower construction or modification is planned within 3 kilometers (1.9 miles) of a directional AM broadcast station array, the Public Mobile Service licensee must notify the licensee of the AM broadcast station in advance of the planned construction or modification. Measurements must be made to determine whether the construction or modification affected the AM station antenna pattern. The Public Mobile Service licensee is responsible for the installation and continued maintenance of any detuning apparatus necessary to restore proper performance of the AM station array. §22.373 Access to transmitters. Unless otherwise provided in this part, the design and installation of transmitters in the Public Mobile Services must meet the requirements of this section. (a) Transmitters and control points, other than those used with in-building radiation systems, must be installed such that they are readily accessible only to persons authorized by the licensee to operate or service them. (b) Transmitters must be designed and installed such that any adjustments or controls that could cause the transmitter to deviate from its authorized operating parameters are readily accessible only to persons authorized by the licensee to make such adjustments. (c) Transmitters (other than hand-carried or pack-carried mobile transmitters) and control points must be equipped with a means of indicating when the control circuitry has been put in a condition that should cause the transmitter to radiate. (d) Transmitters must be designed such that they can be turned off independently of any remote control circuits. (e) Transmitters used with in-building radiation systems must be installed such that, to the extent possible, they are readily accessible only to persons authorized by the licensee to access them. (f) Transmitters used with in-building radiation systems must be designed such that, in the event an unauthorized person does gain access, that person can not cause the transmitter to deviate from its authorized operating parameters in such a way as to cause interference to other stations. §22.377 Type-acceptance of transmitters. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, transmitters used in the Public Mobile services must be type-accepted for use in the services regulated under this part. Transmitters must be type accepted when the station is ready for service, not necessarily at the time of filing an application. (a) The FCC may list as type-accepted only transmitters that are capable of meeting all technical requirements of the rules governing the service in which they will operate. The procedure for obtaining type-acceptance is set forth in part 2 of this chapter. (b) Transmitters operating under a developmental authorization (see subpart D of this part) do not have to be type-accepted. (c) Type-accepted transmitters are listed in the FCC's ``Radio Equipment List,'' which is available for public inspection at the FCC in Washington, DC, and its field offices. (d) In addition to the technical standards contained in this part, transmitters intended for operation in the Cellular Radiotelephone Service must be designed to comply with the technical requirements contained in the cellular system compatibility specification (see §22.933) and the electronic serial number rule (see §22.919). §22.379 Replacement of equipment. Licensees may replace any equipment in Public Mobile Service stations without applying for authorization or notifying the FCC, provided that: (a) If a transmitter is replaced, the replacement transmitter must be type-accepted for use in the Public Mobile Services; (b) The antenna structure must not become a hazard to air navigation and its height must not be not increased; (c) The interference potential of the station must not be increased; (d) The Effective radiated power, emission type, antenna radiation pattern and center of radiation height above average terrain are not changed. §22.381 Auxiliary test transmitters. Auxiliary test transmitters may be used only for testing the performance of fixed receiving equipment located remotely from the control point. Auxiliary test transmitters may transmit only on channels designated for mobile transmitters.
