FR941213-2-00047 FR941213-2-00035 Fish and Wildlife Service Availability of a Final Supplemental Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement on the Federal Aid in Sport Fish Restoration (SFR) and Federal Aid In Wildlife Restoration (WR) Programs AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Fish and Wildlife Service has reviewed the operation of the SFR and WR Programs into the next century and has completed a Supplemental Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (SPEIS) to the Program Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) published in 1978. The data, analyses, and conclusions of the 1978 EIS, where still valid, are incorporated by reference. ADDRESSES: Copies are available from the US Fish and Wildlife Service, Division of Federal Aid, Arlington Square 140, 4401 North Fairfax Drive, Arlington, Virginia, 22203, during normal working hours. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Columbus H. Brown, Chief, Division of Federal Aid, (703) 358&hyph;2156. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Since the 1978 EIS, continued population growth has resulted in intensified resource use; values, interests, and leisure-time activities have increased demand for non-consumptive uses; and natural resources management priorities, Federal laws and funding patterns have altered the Program. No change to the existing Program direction has been selected as the SPEIS preferred alternative. Overwhelming support of the existing program was indicated by respondents to the draft document issued in November 1993. The majority of comments urged that the Program remain unchanged and cited examples of successful cooperative projects that have been undertaken. Most comments expressed belief that States are the best qualified to assess the needs of their citizens for the management of fish and wildlife resources. The view was also expressed that the Federal government should not become more involved in establishing priorities for State projects. The WR Program will continue to provide positive benefits for game species, non-game wildlife species/biodiversity, threatened endangered species, wetland/floodplain habitat, terrestrial habitat, recreation, local economies, social values, and cultural resources. The SFR Program will continue to provide positive benefits for sport fish, non-game fish species and diversity, threatened and endangered species, recreation, local economies, and social values. Dated: December 5, 1994. Mollie H. Beattie, Director, Fish and Wildlife Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30579 Filed 12&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
