FR940412-1-00004 FR940412-1-00001 Form I&hyph;185 (CBCC) is issued to Canadian citizens or lawful permanent residents of Canada having a common nationality with Canada and is intended to facilitate the entry of those individuals into the United States. Since these groups are automatically waived passport and visa requirements when crossing the border into the United States, Form I&hyph;185 is normally issued in conjunction with an approved waiver of excludability pursuant to section 212(d)(3)(B) of the Act. Form I&hyph;185 therefore serves as evidence of a long-term waiver of inadmissibility for the holder of the document. Currently, no fee is charged for this benefit, although each application requires substantial time to adjudicate and provides a clear benefit to the applicant by eliminating the need for a yearly waiver application. Form I&hyph;586 (BCC), and its former version Form I&hyph;186, offer the same privileges as the B&hyph;1/B&hyph;2 visa. The issuance of BCCs is a benefit which the Service performs voluntarily. No law or regulation requires the Service to issue this document, which is an extremely desirable benefit to many Mexican nationals. Possession of the BCC allows access to the area within 25 miles of the border for periods not to exceed 72 hours without the need for further documentation upon each entry. With the issuance of other documentation, the BCC also allows travel to all parts of the United States without the need to obtain a nonimmigrant visa and passport. The existing Agreement on Passports/Visas (Treaty) between the United States and Mexico currently prohibits charging a fee for the initial issuance of a BCC. However, the treaty does not specifically preclude charging a fee for replacement cards. The application process for replacement is identical to the application for initial issuance, placing a significant demand on personnel resources. Institution of a fee for the application for issuance of a replacement Form I&hyph;586 will help to make the process financially self-supporting and substantially expedite issuance of the card. In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 605(b), the Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service certifies that this rule will not have a significant adverse economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The fees proposed in this rule, calculated to cover only the costs of providing the service, are nominal, and will apply only to individuals, not small entities. This rule is not significant within the meaning of section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866, nor does this rule have Federalism implications warranting the preparation of a Federalism Assessment in accordance with Executive Order 12612. The information collection requirements contained in this rule have been cleared by the Office of Management and Budget under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act. Clearance numbers for these collections are contained in 8 CFR 299.5, Display of Control Numbers. List of Subjects 8 CFR Part 103 Administrative practice and procedure, Aliens, Authority delegation (Government agencies), Fees, Forms. 8 CFR Part 212 Administrative practice and procedure, Aliens, Immigration, Passports and visas. 8 CFR Part 217 Aliens, Passports and visas. 8 CFR Part 235 Administrative practice and procedure, Aliens, Immigration, Passports and visas, Port-of-entry. 8 CFR Part 264 Aliens, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 8 CFR Part 286 Fees, Immigration, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Accordingly, chapter I of title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations is proposed to be amended as follows:
