FR941202-0-00058 FR941202-0-00007 (vi) Actual Offset Value_Dollar value of the offset transaction without multipliers/intangible factors. (vii) Description of Offset Product/Service_Short description of the type of offset (e.g., coproduction, technology transfer, subcontract activity, training, purchase, cash payment, etc.). (viii) Broad Industry Category_Broad classification of the industry in which the offset transaction was fulfilled (e.g., aerospace, electronics, chemicals, industrial machinery, textiles, etc.). Firms may request a list of the Standard Industry Classification (SIC) codes to assist in identifying an appropriate industry category. Forward such requests to the Offsets Program Manager, U.S. Department of Commerce, Office of Strategic Industries and Economic Security, Bureau of Export Administration, Room 3878, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20230 or Fax 202&hyph;482&hyph;5650. (ix) Direct or Indirect Offset_Specify whether the offset transaction was direct or indirect offset. (x) Name of Country in Which Offset was Fulfilled_United States, purchasing country, or third country. (2) Offset transactions of the same type (same fulfilling entity, receiving entity, and offset product/service) completed during the same reporting period may be combined. (3) Any necessary comments or explanations relating to the above information should be footnoted and supplied on separate sheets attached to the report. (e) Reporting on Offset Agreements Entered Into. (1) In addition to the itemized list of offset transactions completed during the year as specified above, U.S. firms should provide information regarding new offset agreements entered into during the year, including the following elements: (i) Name of Country_Country of entity purchasing the weapon system, defense item, or service subject to offset; (ii) Name or Description of Weapon System, Defense Item, or Service Subject to Offset; (iii) Names/Titles of Signatories to the Offset Agreement; (iv) Value of Export Sale Subject to Offset (approximate); (v) Total Value of the Offset Agreement; (vi) Term of Offset Agreement (months); (vii) Description of Performance Measures_(e.g., ``Best Efforts,'' Liquidated Damages, (describe)). (2) [Reserved] ยง701.5 Confidentiality. (a) As provided by ยง309(c) of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, BXA shall not publicly disclose the information it receives pursuant to this Part, unless the firm furnishing the information subsequently specifically authorizes public disclosure. (b) Public disclosure must be authorized in writing by an official of the firm competent to make such an authorization. (c) Nothing in this provision shall prevent the use of data aggregated from information provided pursuant to this part in the summary report to the Congress described in ยง701.1. Dated: November 28, 1994. Sue E. Eckert, Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29645 Filed 12&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DT&hyph;P
