FR940202-1-00042 FR940202-1-00014 Hayes and Jennings (1986, 1988) noted an inverse correlation between the abundance of introduced fish species and red-legged frogs. Aquatic sites where introduced fishes were abundant rarely had native ranids, and when present, ranid populations were small. A similar negative correlation was reported by Hunt ( in litt., 1993) for red-legged frogs in the Salinas River drainage and by Moyle (1973) for the foothill yellow-legged frog ( Rana boylii ). Stocking of warm water game fish is often included as a mitigation measure in proposed reservoir projects. Results of a recent study indicate that, despite their small size, mosquitofish do prey on and incapacitate red-legged frog tadpoles by eating their fins. This mosquitofish predation may be more significant than predation by bluegill ( Lepomis macrochirus ) or bullfrogs (Michael Soulé and Randy Schmieder, University of California, Santa Cruz, pers. comm., 1993). Mosquitofish have become established statewide and are stocked routinely by mosquito abatement districts as a control measure (Moyle 1976). The demonstrated adverse effects and widespread distribution of alien fishes on red-legged frogs indicate that fish introductions are one of the primary threats to the survival of the species. D. The inadequacy of existing regulatory mechanisms. In 1972, the California Fish and Game Commission amended its sport fishing regulations to prohibit take or possession of California red-legged frogs (Bury and Stewart 1973). This law, however, provides no protection for habitat of the California red-legged frog. The California red-legged frog also is classified as a ``Species of Special Concern'' in California (Steinhart 1990). This designation, however, provides no special, legally mandated protection. The Clean Water Act (section 404) is the primary Federal law that could provide some protection for aquatic habitats of the California red-legged frog if the habitats are determined by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) to be jurisdictional areas (i.e., waters of the United States). Under section 404, nationwide permits, which undergo minimal public and agency review, can be issued for projects involving less than 10 acres of wetlands above the headwaters (i.e., streams with less than 5 cubic feet per second (cfs) mean annual flow) or for isolated waters, unless a listed species may be adversely affected. Many aggregations of California red-legged frogs occur in isolated wetlands and coastal streams that may have mean annual flows less than 5 cfs. Individual permits, which are subject to more extensive review, could be required for projects that have more than minimal impacts to waters of the United States. The Clean Water Act does not afford any special protection for candidate species. However, if the California red-legged frog is listed, the Corps would be required by section 7 of the Act to consult and obtain the concurrence of the Service prior to the authorization of any section 404 permit. Federal lands, including those of the Forest Service, National Park Service, Bureau of Land Management, and Department of Defense, encompass approximately 10 percent of the current known range of the California red-legged frog. Multiple land use management, as currently practiced by the Forest Service, Bureau of Land Management, and National Park Service, does not provide long-term protection for the California red-legged frog.
