FR940419-1-00056 FR940419-1-00009 The reader should note that combination terms such as ``tenant and resident'', ``tenant council,'' and ``resident council'', and ``tenant management corporation'' and ``resident management corporation'' are similar terms and may be used interchangeably. Hereafter, for ease of discussion, the proposed rule will use the terms resident, resident council and resident management corporation, as appropriate. IV. Amendments of the Tenant Participation and Tenant Opportunities Program in Public Housing A. Regulatory Actions: 964 Based on recommendations of the Interim Resident Advisory Committee, program experience, and comments from various Housing Interest Groups, the regulations are proposed to be revised to: (1) Expand tenant participation in various programs and involvement in public housing operations, and (2) change the Resident Management Program to the Tenant Opportunities Program (TOP), and (3) add a new subpart D to the 964 regulations which contains policies and procedures for the FIC Program. This section discusses each of the specific regulatory revisions. 1. Subpart A would be amended as follows: a. Section 964.1 Purpose would be streamlined. b. Section 964.3 Applicability and scope would remain unchanged. c. Section 964.7 Definitions would be amended by removing several definitions such as project and tenant participation; by moving terms such as Resident Council and Resident Management Corporation to a more appropriate section under subpart B, and by expanding definitions; and by adding new terms which relate to the FIC program. d. Section 964.11 HUD policy on tenant participation would be amended to strongly support tenant participation in all the functions of a HA's management operations and give rights to residents to freely organize and represent their interests. e. Section 964.12 HUD policy on Tenant Opportunities Program (TOP) would provide HUD's policy on the Tenant Opportunities Program. Subpart C of the current regulation would be changed from ``Resident Management Program'' to ``Tenant Opportunities Program'' (TOP). The name is being changed to TOP because it reflects the evolution of the program over time, to enhance resident capacity in a variety of ways, including job training, economic development, and self-sufficiency activities carried out by resident councils/resident management corporations in public housing. Resident management is a component of TOP and resident councils/resident management corporations may continue to engage in activities relative to public housing management. Tenant opportunities programs are proven to be effective in facilitating economic uplift as well as in improving the overall conditions in public housing. f. Section 964.14 HUD policy on partnerships would be added to provide HUD policy on Partnerships between HAs and residents. Strong partnerships between HAs and resident councils/resident management corporations are key to the success of program objectives, and critical for achieving specific and mutual goals and creating positive change for residents in public housing. g. Section 964.15 HUD policy on resident management would remain unchanged. This section states HUD's support for resident councils/resident management corporations who are interested in becoming resident managed entities in public housing. h. Section 964.16 HUD role in activities under this part_Monitoring would be added to describe HUD's proactive responsibility for promoting tenant participation and tenant opportunities in public housing. It provides that HUD will monitor program progress to ensure efficient and effective operations pursuant to this rule. i. Section 964.18 HA role in activities under subparts B&C would establish a stronger HA role under this subpart. HAs shall, upon request, provide office space to a duly elected resident council and shall negotiate in good faith usage of community space for meetings and other activities for residents. HAs have a responsibility to negotiate such usage of space with the duly elected resident council. j. Section 964.24 HUD policy on FIC program would provide HUD's policy and support for the FIC program. 2. Subpart B would be amended as follows: a. Section 964.100 Role of resident council which establishes the role of a resident council and Section 964.105 Role of the jurisdiction-wide resident council which establishes the role of a jurisdiction-wide resident council would be added to the rule.
