FR941003-1-00079 FR941003-1-00006 §800.8 Identification of historic properties. (a) Determine scope of identification efforts. At the earliest feasible stage in planning any undertaking, coordinated with the preparation of any Environmental Assessment or Environmental Impact Statement under the National Environmental Policy Act, and in consultation with the State Historic Preservation Officer, the Agency Official shall: (1) Define the area of potential effects, using the definition set forth in §800.2(f); (2) Review existing information on historic properties potentially affected by the undertaking, including any data concerning the likelihood that unidentified historic properties exist in the area of potential effects; and (3) Seek information from local governments, Indian tribes, Native Hawaiian organizations, traditional cultural authorities, other organizations, and interested parties likely to have knowledge of, or concerns with, historic properties in the area and should seek to identify the issues that may be involved in dealing with historic properties in the planning process. (b) Locate historic properties. Based on the information gathered under §800.8(a) and the State Historic Preservation Officer's opinion on further actions to identify historic properties that may be affected, the Agency Official shall determine the need for further actions, such as field surveys, modeling, informant interviews and ethnographic studies, to identify historic properties. The Agency Official shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to identify historic properties that may be affected by the undertaking and gather sufficient information to evaluate the eligibility of these properties for the National Register. Efforts to identify historic properties shall follow applicable standards and guidelines established by the Secretary and conform to the agency's program to meet the requirements of Section 110(a)(2) of the Act. (c) Evaluate historic significance. _(1) Apply National Register Criteria. In consultation with the State Historic Preservation Officer and following the Secretary's Standards and Guidelines for Evaluation, the Agency Official shall apply the National Register Criteria to properties that may be affected by the undertaking and that have not been previously evaluated for National Register eligibility. The passage of time, changing perceptions of significance, or incomplete prior evaluations may require reevaluation of properties previously determined eligible or ineligible. (2) Agree that a property is eligible. If the Agency Official and the State Historic Preservation Officer agree that a property is eligible under the criteria, the property shall be considered eligible for the National Register for Section 106 purposes. (3) Agree that a property is not eligible. If the Agency Official and the State Historic Preservation Officer agree that the criteria are not met, the property shall be considered not eligible for the National Register for Section 106 purposes, subject to any appeal or petition under 36 CFR part 60. (4) Resolve questions on eligibility. If the Agency Official and the State Historic Preservation Officer do not agree, or if the Council or the Secretary so request, the Agency Official shall obtain a determination of eligibility from the Secretary pursuant to the applicable National Park Service regulations. (d) Results of identification and evaluation. _(1) No historic properties found. If the Agency Official determines in accordance with §800.8 (a) through (c) that there are no historic properties within the area of potential effects, the Agency Official shall provide documentation of this finding as set forth in §800.14(a) to the State Historic Preservation Officer. The Agency Official shall notify known interested parties and make the documentation available for public inspection. Unless the Council determines otherwise in accordance with §800.12(a), the Agency Official has completed the Section 106 process. (2) Historic properties found. If there are historic properties that the undertaking may affect, the Agency Official shall notify known interested parties and assess effects in accordance with §800.9. (e) Council review of agency findings. If anyone disagrees with the Agency Official's finding regarding the presence of historic properties, including the determination of the area of potential effects, the Agency Official's efforts to locate historic properties, or the evaluation of historic significance, and notifies the Council, the Council shall review the finding in accordance with §800.12(a). The Council shall refer questions relating to National Register eligibility to the Secretary for resolution and the Agency Official shall provide relevant documentation to assist the Secretary's review. §800.9 Assessment of effects. (a) Apply criteria of adverse effect. In consultation with the State Historic Preservation Officer, the Agency Official shall apply the criteria of adverse effect set forth at § 800.9(a)(1) to historic properties within the area of potential effects, giving consideration to the views concerning such effects provided by interested parties and the public, if any. The Agency Official shall also consult with any Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization that attaches religious and cultural significance to historic properties within the area of potential effects.
