FR941222-0-00010 FR941222-0-00003 As a result of the growing use of dry storage technology, the NRC has gained over 35 staff years of experience in the review and licensing of dry spent fuel storage systems. In addition, the NRC draws upon the knowledge and experience of outside scientists and engineers recognized as experts within their respective fields in the performance of the independent safety analysis of the system and component designs submitted by applicants for dry cask licenses or certification. Reviews of numerous applications seeking site- specific licenses, certificates of compliance, or approvals of topical reports, have been conducted over the past eight years. More recently, the NRC published a notice of proposed rulemaking in the Federal Register on June 2, 1994 (59 FR 28496), which proposed to amend 10 CFR 72.214 to include one additional spent fuel storage cask (i.e., the VECTRA Technologies, Inc., Standardized NUHOMS Horizontal Modular Storage System) on the list of approved spent fuel storage casks that power reactor licensees may use under the provisions of a general license issued by NRC in accordance with 10 CFR Part 72, Subpart K. The Standardized NUHOMS consists of two systems: (1) The NUHOMS&hyph;24P holds 24 specified pressurized-water reactor spent fuel assemblies and (2) The NUHOMS&hyph;52B holds 52 specified boiling-water reactor spent fuel assemblies. Subsequent to the expiration of the 75-day public comment period on August 16, 1994, NRC received a request, dated August 11, 1994, for a 6-week extension of the comment period from Connie Kline of the Sierra Club on behalf of 12 citizen groups. The extension request asserted that several proprietary documents related to this rulemaking were not available to the public for approximately 2 weeks at the beginning of the comment period. The NRC granted the request on August 29, 1994 (59 FR 44381) by extending the public comment period to September 30, 1994. VECTRA Technologies, Inc. (formerly Pacific Nuclear Fuel Services, Inc.) submitted to the NRC a Safety Analysis Report (SAR) entitled ``Safety Analysis Report for the Standardized NUHOMS Horizontal Modular Storage System for Irradiated Nuclear Fuel,'' NUH&hyph;003, Revision 2, dated November 1993. Subsequently, VECTRA Technologies, Inc. provided additional information to the NRC related to the SAR. In March 1994, the NRC issued a draft Safety Evaluation Report (SER) entitled ``Safety Evaluation Report of Pacific Nuclear Fuel Services, Inc. Safety Analysis Report for the Standardized NUHOMS Horizontal Storage System for Irradiated Nuclear Fuel'' approving the SAR. The NRC issued a draft Certificate of Compliance by letter to Mr. Robert D. Quinn from Mr. Frederick C. Sturz dated April 28, 1994. These documents are part of the docket and record that support the proposed rule published in the Federal Register on June 2, 1994 (59 FR 28496). The objective of 10 CFR Part 72 is to protect the public health and safety by providing for the safe confinement of the stored fuel and preventing the degradation of the fuel cladding. The review criteria used by the NRC for review and approval of dry cask storage under 10 CFR Part 72 consider the following factors: siting, design, quality assurance, emergency planning, training, and physical protection of the fuel. Phenomena such as earthquakes, high winds, tornados, tornado driven missiles, lightning, and floods are included in the review of a specific system, either for a certificate of compliance or a site-specific license. In addition, applicants must demonstrate to NRC's satisfaction that their proposed dry cask system will resist man-made events such as explosions, fire, and drop or tipover accidents. 1 1 The design bases for these events and accidents are contained within 10 CFR Part 72. Based on further NRC review and analysis of public comments, both the SER and Certificate of Compliance for the Standardized NUHOMS were modified. Section M contains a description of changes to the SER and Certificate of Compliance in response to public comments. The NRC finds that the Standardized NUHOMS, as designed and when fabricated and used in accordance with the conditions specified in its Certificate of Compliance, meets the requirements of 10 CFR Part 72. Thus, use of the Standardized NUHOMS, as approved by the NRC, will provide adequate protection of the public health and safety and the environment. With this final rule, the NRC is approving the use of the Standardized NUHOMS under the general license in 10 CFR Part 72, Subpart K, by holders of power reactor operating licenses under 10 CFR Part 50. Simultaneously, the NRC is issuing a final Certificate of Compliance to be effective on January 23, 1995. A copy of the Certificate of Compliance is available for public inspection and/or copying for a fee at the NRC Public Document Room, 2120 L Street, NW. (Lower Level), Washington, DC. Public Responses In response to the proposed addition of the Standardized NUHOMS, 239 comments in 27 letters with one supplement were received from individuals, public interest groups, an environmental group, an association, industry representatives, a city, states, and one Federal agency. One commenter withdrew his comments. Many of these letters contained similar comments that have been grouped together and addressed as a single issue. All comments have been grouped into 15 broad issues designated A through O. A summary of the comments and an NRC analysis and response to those comments is included for each broad issue. The NRC has identified and responded to 89 separate issues that include the significant points raised by each commenter.
