FR940819-2-00063 FR940819-2-00038 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [ER&hyph;FRL&hyph;4714&hyph;4] Environmental Impact Statements and Regulations; Availability of EPA Comments Availability of EPA comments prepared August 1, 1994 through August 5, 1994 pursuant to the Environmental Review Process (ERP), under Section 309 of the Clean Air Act and Section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act as amended. Requests for copies of EPA comments can be directed to the Office of Federal Activities at (202) 260&hyph;5076. An explanation of the ratings assigned to draft environmental impact statements (EISs) was published in the FR dated April 8, 1994 (59 FR 16807). Draft EISs ERP No. D&hyph;AFS&hyph;L99004&hyph;AK Rating EC2, Exxon Valdez Oil Spill Restoration Plan, Implementation, Prince William Sound, Gulf of Alaska, AK. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns based on the need to ensure that the Trustee Council and individual agencies are cooperating and coordinating each others management actions/objectives. EPA expressed concerns over uncertainties of habitat protection tradeoffs for each alternative. EPA recommended that the final EIS include additional information on incorporating agency management actions into the Restoration Plan and the difference of actual habitat protection afforded by each alternative. ERP No. D&hyph;BLM&hyph;K60027&hyph;CA Rating EC2, Southeast Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant and Geysers Effluent Pipeline Injection Project, Improvements, Funding, COE Section 404 Permit and NPDES Permit, City of Clearlake, Lake County, CA. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns regarding potential project impact to water quality, water supply, wetlands, riparian habitats, and fish and wildlife resources. EPA requested that these issues be addressed in the final EIS. ERP No. D&hyph;DOI&hyph;L39051&hyph;AK Rating LO, Institute of Marine Science Infrastructure Improvement, Long-Term Research and Monitoring of the Ecosystem affected by the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill, Funding, Seward, AK. Summary: EPA had no objections to the proposed action, but made the following suggestion: include a discussion on types of chemicals used in research laboratories and disposal methodology. ERP No. D&hyph;NPS&hyph;K61130&hyph;HI Rating LO, Haleakala National Park General Management Plan and Conceptual Framework, Implementation, Island of Maui, Maui County, HI. Summary: EPA expressed a lack of objections with the proposed action but requested that the final EIS assess potential project impacts to water quality caused by nonpoint source runoff and note the designated uses of water bodies in the project area under Hawaii water quality regulations. ERP No. D&hyph;USN&hyph;F11026&hyph;IN Rating EC2, Great Lakes Naval Training Center Realignment of Naval Training Centers in Orlando, Florida; San Diego, California; Treasure Island and Combat Systems Technical Schools Command, Mare Island, California and Relocation of Commander Navy Recruiting Command, Washington, DC, Implementation, Lake County, IN. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns regarding alternative sites. Final EISs ERP No. FA&hyph;COE&hyph;K32038&hyph;CA Oakland Outer and Inner Harbors, Deep Draft Navigation Improvements, Updated Information, Alcatraz Dredge Material Disposal Site Changed Conditions, Implementation, Alameda County, CA. Summary: Review of the final EIS was not deemed necessary. No formal comment letter was sent to the preparing agency. ERP No. FS&hyph;USN&hyph;L11013&hyph;WA US West Coast Homeporting Program for Fast Combat Support Ships (AOE&hyph;6 Class), Updated Information concerning Dredging and Dredge Disposal at Pier D Naval Shipyard Puget Sound for the Berthing of (AOE&hyph;6 Class) Ships and Temporary Berthing of Deep-Draft Vessels, Sinclair Inlet, Bremerton, WA. Summary: EPA provided no formal written comments. EPA had no objections to the preferred alternative as described in the final EIS. Dated: August 16, 1994. William D. Dickerson, Deputy Director, Office of Federal Activities. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20443 Filed 8&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;U
