FR940114-0-00051 FR940114-0-00020 The Department recognizes the viability of manufactured housing as a source of affordable housing for many people and will continue to work with the industry to ensure a quality product at a reasonable cost. However, the Department will also continue to exercise all of its statutory responsibilities relating to housing and its occupants in a manner that serves the optimal societal interests. This final rule is evidence that the Department agrees with those commenters that said the savings in storm damage repair, loss of personal property, and potential personal injury or loss of life, in addition to other expected benefits, exceeds the cost differential for these new standards. The Department has also reviewed cost impact figures provided by numerous commenters during the development of the final regulatory impact analysis. Comment: The increased cost of manufactured housing that will be the result of the more stringent standards may price many consumers out of the market for unsubsidized housing. A home manufactured to the new standards will require a higher downpayment, and potential consumers will find it more difficult to qualify for financing. The level of regulation proposed would limit consumer choice and would deny consumers the right to match housing to their budgets (1). Response: The Department is concerned about the effect of these standards on the ability of consumers to afford and purchase manufactured housing. However, because the standards are, for the most part, performance standards and do not prescribe methods of construction, the manufactured housing industry can, and the Department expects will, approach this problem by developing innovative designs, components, and construction techniques that meet the standards but maintain the affordability of manufactured homes. The Department has also removed some of the proposed prescriptive requirements. These changes from the proposed rule should help maintain the affordability of manufactured housing while still assuring safety. As stated by one commenter (215 (2) ), sacrificing a minimum reasonable wind standard for manufactured housing so that it can be more affordable makes as much sense as allowing a car to be sold without brakes for the same reason. A similar opinion was expressed by a consumer, who commented (117 (2) ): If tougher standards increase the cost of a mobile home by a fair percentage I believe people will be willing to pay a little more for better protection. Most of these homes are not second homes but the principal residence of retirees. Earlier in the preamble the Department acknowledges the legitimate concern with affordability, but also notes the importance of safe housing that protects other societal interests. Conversely, as noted by commenter 145 (FEMA), ``[t]he disruption of lives and families resulting from the damage to manufactured housing often happens to those least able to fully recover.'' Therefore, the financial impact of insufficient standards also may fall most heavily on those least able to absorb that impact. The Department agrees with commenter 215 (2) that the poor should not have to accept a lower safety factor against catastrophic failure of housing than the rest of society. Finally, a commenter representing a number of insurance carriers (17) noted that builder/developer estimates of cost increases for building code improvements for site-built structures have far exceeded documented incremental cost increases in the past. The commenter observed that cost estimates with respect to manufactured housing and the higher standards proposed by the Department may contain similar exaggerations. This possibility is discussed by the Department in the regulatory impact analysis prepared in connection with this final rule. Comment: In looking at storm damage estimates for purposes of a cost-benefit analysis, the Department should distinguish damage to manufactured homes that complied with existing HUD standards from damage to pre-HUD homes. Response: As previously discussed, both manufactured homes built before the imposition of HUD standards and those built after the standards became effective experienced significant damage during Hurricane Andrew. Therefore, the numerical breakdown between pre- and post-HUD standards is not a determinative factor in the Department's process with respect to the final content of this rule. However, in its comments on this rule, the AARP (commenter # 150) noted that ``[w]hile more than half of the manufactured homes destroyed were built prior to implementation of the HUD standards, many of these older homes were constructed in accordance with American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Standard A119.1, which had the same wind load resistance requirements as the current HUD standards.'' Comment: As a practical matter, manufacturers will build their homes to the most stringent standards that would apply to their sales areas. Therefore, those manufacturers that would build homes for more than one zone will build all their homes to accommodate the highest wind load requirements, and the cost of compliance with the new standards will actually be higher than the estimates that are based on numbers of units per Zone (12). Response: The Department does not discourage voluntary compliance with standards that are higher than those required. However, the Department believes that the decision to comply voluntarily with higher standards will be controlled by the cost of such compliance and the manufacturer's market demands. Accordingly, such compliance is questionable and cannot be considered in the regulatory impact analysis. Comment: The implementation of new standards will adversely affect the marketability of existing homes not built to those standards (87), leading to increased defaults and credit losses (139). Response: The standards implemented by this rule will not affect manufactured homes already occupied by consumers. Thus, the resale market for these existing units generally should not be affected, except to the extent that prospective purchasers have the financial resources, realize the construction limitations of the existing units, and choose to purchase units meeting the new standard or other housing options. Because prospective purchasers of used manufactured housing are likely to be in lower income brackets, however, the Department expects little or no impact on the resale market for manufactured homes already occupied by consumers.
