FR940207-1-00038 FR940207-1-00007 14 CFR Part 71 [Airspace Docket No. 93&hyph;AWA&hyph;10] Proposed Revocation of the Sacramento, Mather AFB, CA, Class C and Class E Airspace Areas and Revision of the Sacramento, McClellan AFB, CA, Class C Airspace Area and the Sacramento Executive Airport, CA, Class D Airspace Area AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This proposed rule would revoke the Class C and Class E airspace areas at Mather Air Force Base (AFB), Sacramento, CA, due to the closure of Mather AFB on May 15, 1993. This proposed rule would also alter the Sacramento, McClellan AFB, CA, Class C airspace area to encompass part of the airspace previously delegated to Mather AFB. This proposal would alter the Sacramento Executive Airport, CA, Class D airspace area designation by removing all references to the Sacramento Mather AFB. DATES: Comments must be received on or before March 28, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments on the proposal in triplicate to: Federal Aviation Administration, Office of the Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket [AGC&hyph;200], Airspace Docket NO. 93&hyph;AWA&hyph;10, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591. The official docket may be examined in the Rules Docket, Office of the Chief Counsel, room 916, weekdays, except Federal holidays, between 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. An informal docket may also be examined during normal business hours at the office of the Regional Air Traffic Division. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Norman W. Thomas, Airspace and Obstruction Evaluation Branch (ATP&hyph;240), Airspace-Rules and Aeronautical Information Division, Air Traffic Rules and Procedures Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591; telephone: (202) 267&hyph;9230. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested parties are invited to participate in this proposed rulemaking by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Comments that provide the factual basis supporting the views and suggestions presented are particularly helpful in developing reasoned regulatory decisions on the proposal. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, aeronautical, economic, environmental, and energy-related aspects of the proposal. Communications should identify the airspace docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address listed above. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments on this notice must submit with those comments a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Airspace Docket No. 93&hyph;AWA&hyph;10.'' The postcard will be date/time stamped and returned to the commenter. All communications received on or before the specified closing date for comments will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposal contained in this notice may be changed in light of comments received. All comments submitted will be available for examination in the Rules Docket both before and after the closing date for comments. A report summarizing each substantive public contact with FAA personnel concerned with this rulemaking will be filed in the docket. Availability of NPRM's Any person may obtain a copy of this notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) by submitting a request to the Federal Aviation Administration, Office of Public Affairs, Attention: Public Inquiry Center, APA&hyph;220, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591, or by calling (202) 267&hyph;3485. Communications must identify the notice number of this NPRM. Persons interested in being placed on a mailing list for future NPRM's should also request a copy of Advisory Circular No. 11&hyph;2A, which describes the application procedure.
