FR940602-2-00066 FR940602-2-00038 (b) Require each potential client to sign such document; and (c) Give each client a copy of such document; and (3) retain in each client file a copy of the signed maintenance notice required by this paragraph; provided, further, that: (i) Compliance with the obligations of this paragraph I.D. in no way relieves respondents of the requirement under paragraph I.A. of this Order to substantiate any representation about the success of participants on any weight loss program in maintaining weight loss; (ii) Respondents must comply with both paragraph I.D. and paragraph I.C. of this Order if respondents include in any such short broadcast advertisement a representation about maintenance success that states a number of percentage, or uses descriptive terms that convey a quantitative measure such as ``most of our customers maintain their weight loss long-term''; provided, however, that the provisions of paragraph I.D. shall not apply to endorsements or testimonials referred to in paragraph I.E. herein. E. Using any advertisement containing an endorsement or testimonial about weight loss success or weight loss maintenance success by a participant or participants of respondents' weight loss programs if the weight loss success or weight loss maintenance success depicted in the advertisement is not representative of what participants of respondents' weight loss programs generally achieve, unless respondents disclose, clearly and prominently, and in close proximity to the endorser's statement of his or her weight loss success or weight loss maintenance success: (1) What the generally expected success would be for QWLC-Tex. customers in losing weight or maintaining achieved weight loss; provided, however, that the generally expected success for QWLC-Tex. customers may exclude those customers who dropped out of the program within two weeks of their entrance, or who were unable to complete the program due to illness, pregnancy, or change of residence; or (2) one of the following statements: (a) ``You should not expect to experience these results.'' (b) ``This result is not typical. You may not do as well.'' (c) ``This result is not typical. You may be less successful.'' (d) `` XXXXX 's success is not typical. You may not do as well.'' (e) `` XXXXX 's experience is not typical. You may achieve less.'' (f) ``Results not typical.'' (g) ``Results not typical of program participants.'' provided, further, that if the endorsements or testimonials covered by this paragraph are made in a broadcast medium, any disclosure required by this paragraph must be communicated in a clear and prominent manner, and in immediate conjunction with the representation that triggers the disclosure; provided, however, that: (i) For endorsements or testimonials about weight loss success, respondents can satisfy the requirements of subparagraph I.E. (1) by accurately disclosing the generally expected success in the following phrase: ``Quick Weight Loss Centers, Inc. participants lose an average of XXXXX pounds over an average XXXXX -week treatment period''; and (ii) If the weight loss success or weight loss maintenance success depicted in the advertisement is representative of what participants of a group or subset clearly defined in the advertisement generally achieve, then, in lieu of the disclosures required in either subparagraphs I.E. (1) or (2) herein, respondents may substitute a clear and prominent disclosure of the percentage of all of respondents' customers that the group or subset defined in the advertisement represents. F. Representing, directly or by implication, that the price at which any weight loss program can be purchased is the only cost associated with losing weight on that program, unless such is the case. G. Representing, directly or by implication, the price at which any weight loss program can be purchased, unless respondents disclose, clearly and prominently, either: (1) In close proximity to such representation, the existence and amount of all mandatory fees associated with the program offered; or
