FR941202-0-00090 FR941202-0-00010 (ii) By engineering calculations included in the compliance report. (3) Determine the monthly rolling average, EA, for the 3-month period ending with the most recent reporting period using equation 4 for cleaning machines with a solvent/air interface or equation 5 for cleaning machines without a solvent/air interface: E:GRAPHICSER02DE94.002 ␣ E:GRAPHICSER02DE94.003 Where: EA i =the average halogenated HAP solvent emissions over the preceding 3 monthly reporting periods, (kilograms of solvent per square meter of solvent/air interface area per month). EA n =the average halogenated HAP solvent emissions over the preceding 3 monthly reporting periods (kilograms of solvent per month). E i =halogenated HAP solvent emissions for each month (j) for the most recent 3 monthly reporting periods (kilograms of solvent per square meter of solvent/air interface area). E n =halogenated HAP solvent emissions for each month (j) for the most recent 3 monthly reporting periods (kilograms of solvent per month). j=1 = the most recent monthly reporting period. j=2 = the monthly reporting period immediately prior to j=1. j=3 = the monthly reporting period immediately prior to j=2. (d) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine using a dwell to comply with §63.463 shall determine the appropriate dwell time for each part or parts basket using the procedure specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section. (1) Determine the amount of time for the part or parts basket to cease dripping once placed in the vapor zone. The part or parts basket used for this determination must be at room temperature before being placed in the vapor zone. (2) The proper dwell time for parts to remain in the freeboard area above the vapor zone is no less than 35 percent of the time determined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. (e) An owner or operator of a source shall determine their potential to emit from all solvent cleaning operations, using the procedures described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section. A facility's total potential to emit is the sum of the HAP emissions from all solvent cleaning operations, plus all HAP emissions from other sources within the facility. (1) Determine the potential to emit for each individual solvent cleaning using equation 6. PTE i =H i ×W i ×SAI i (6) Where: PTE i =the potential to emit for solvent cleaning machine i (kilograms of solvent per year). H i =hours of operation for solvent cleaning machine i (hours per year). =8760 hours per year, unless otherwise restricted by a Federally enforceable requirement. W i =the working mode uncontrolled emission rate (kilograms per square meter per hour). =1.95 kilograms per square meter per hour for batch vapor and cold cleaning machines. =1.12 kilograms per square meter per hour for in-line cleaning machines.
