FR940516-1-00116 FR940516-1-00006 W. Duration of Certificates of Conformity, Definition of Model Year, Annual Production Period EPA is considering adopting one of the following three options for defining model year, annual production period, and duration of the certificate of conformity. Regardless of the option selected, EPA is also proposing in this notice that it would be a prohibited act to introduce an uncertified small SI engine into commerce after August 1, 1996. Furthermore, it would be a prohibited act to introduce a specific model year engine into commerce prior to or after the model year for which the certificate of conformity was issued and in effect. EPA requests comment on each of these three alternatives. Option 1: EPA would incorporate the on-highway definition of model year, annual production period, and duration of a certificate of conformity. The model year would include January 1 of the calendar year for which it is designated and would not include a January 1 of any other calendar year. Thus, the maximum duration of a model year would be one calendar year plus 364 days. The ``annual production period'' for any specific model within an engine family would begin either: (1) When such an engine was first produced, or (2) on January 2 of the calendar year preceding the year for which the model year was designated, whichever date was later. The annual production period would end either: (1) When the last engine was produced, or (2) on December 31 of the calendar year for which the model year was named, whichever date was sooner. A certificate of conformity would be issued to cover engines introduced into commerce for a single model year. Under option 1, the 1997 model year certificate could cover production between January 2, 1996 and December 31, 1997, although engines regulated under this proposal would be manufactured after August 1, 1996. Interested parties may wish to consult OMS Advisory Circular A/C No. 6B, issued December 31, 1987, which summarizes the on-highway treatment of model year, annual production period, and duration of the certificate of conformity. A copy of the circular has been placed in the docket for this rulemaking. Option 2: This option represents a variation of Option 1. EPA believes that the dates selected for the commencement of model year and the annual production period more closely parallel the experience of the small engine industry. Under option 2, the model year would include August 1 of the preceding calendar year for which it was designated and would not include an August 1 of any other calendar year. The maximum duration of a model year would remain one calendar year plus 364 days. The ``annual production period'' for a specific model within an engine family would begin either: (1) When such an engine was first produced, or (2) on August 2 of two calendar years preceding the year for which the model year was designated, whichever date was later. The annual production period would end either: (1) When the last engine was produced, or (2) on July 31 of the calendar year for which the model year was named, whichever date was sooner. The certificate of conformity would be issued to cover production for a single model year. For example, the 1997 model year could cover production between August 2, 1995 through July 31, 1997. The proposed extended coverage period described in options 1 and 2 for a certificate of conformity (that is, up to one year plus 364 days) is primarily intended to allow flexibility in the production of new models. Under no circumstances should it be interpreted that existing models could ``skip'' yearly certification by pulling ahead the production of every other model year. While this situation, to our knowledge, has not occurred in the on-highway program in the past, a practice of producing small SI engines for a two year period would violate Congress' intent of annual certification based upon an annual production period. EPA is not currently proposing rules for how to determine when abuse has occurred since this has not been a problem to date. However, manufacturers should note EPA's concern in this area and should use normal yearly production periods for existing models. Option 3: Under this option, the certificate of conformity would be issued to cover production from August 1 of a given calendar year through July 31 of the subsequent calendar year for which it was issued. EPA would retain the model year concept found in on-highway programs but would define it as follows: `` Model year means the manufacturer's annual production period which includes August 1 of a given calendar year through July 31 of the subsequent calendar year.'' Thus the maximum duration of a model year would be 365 days. VI. Environmental Benefit Assessment National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) have been set for criteria pollutants which adversely affect human health, vegetation, materials, and visibility. Concentrations of ozone (O 3 ) are impacted by HC emissions and, to a lesser extent, emissions of CO. Ambient concentrations of CO are, of course, impacted by CO emissions. EPA has determined that the standards set in this rule would reduce emissions of HC and CO and, despite also increasing emissions of NO X , help most areas come into compliance with the NAAQS for ozone and, to a lesser extent, CO. The following provides a summary of the emission reductions expected and the health effects of HC components, CO, and ozone. A discussion of the roles of HC and NO X in ozone formation is also presented. The underlying analysis is described in greater detail in the draft RSD, a copy of which is in the public docket for this rulemaking.
