FR940323-0-00043 FR940323-0-00020 ``Other Costs'' are comprised of all costs attributable to the program exclusive of the participant support costs detailed above. Corporation funds may be used to pay for no more than 75% of the total of these other costs. In order to avoid confusion, readers should note that the requirement that Corporation funds not exceed 75% of the total other costs of a program is not synonymous with a 25% matching requirement on a grant. The 75% restriction applies to the total other costs of a program (including non-Corporation funds). Thus, if a program's total other costs were $100,000, then the Corporation would provide a grant of no more than $75,000 for those costs, and the program would have to provide for the remaining $25,000. Changes: §2521.30 has been revised. (25) Ineligibility. One commenter suggested that the Corporation further clarify that a person who committed a crime prior to a term of service is not automatically ineligible for service. Individuals with criminal records are not, in fact, automatically ineligible to participate in programs. Programs are responsible for determining who shall participate. In selecting participants, programs providing service in particularly sensitive areas, such as working with young children, should consider whether the participation of individuals with certain criminal backgrounds would have a significant negative impact on the physical or psychological health of either other participants or individuals served. (26) Federal Agency matching requirements. One commenter requested clarification of how Federal agencies are treated in terms of the matching requirements. The regulations have been revised to clarify that Federal agencies do not have to meet matching requirements if they operate programs directly, but that if they subgrant, the subgrantees do have to meet the matching requirements. Change: §2523.90 has been revised. (27) Education and Training. One commenter asked how much of a term of service could be spent on education and training. The proposed rule did not address this issue. Therefore, the terms of service section of the regulations has been revised to indicate that the Corporation may set a minimum or maximum number of hours in a given term of service that may be spent on training, education, or similar approved activities. Thus, the Corporation reserves the right to establish such guidelines in the application materials. Parts 2530&hyph;2533_Investment for Quality and Innovation Clearinghouse eligibility. One commenter suggested that the regulations go too far in §2532.20(n) by requiring that to be eligible to apply as a clearinghouse, an organization must have extensive experience in training, technical assistance, service and/or volunteer development, management, and evaluation. The commenter argued that the law only lists these as activities a clearinghouse could do, not as requirements for eligibility. The regulations have been amended to conform to the statute. Change: §2532.20(n) has been revised. Part 2540_Administrative Provisions (1) Nondisplacement (§2540.100(f)(4)(i)). Once commenter suggested that we include examples of what constitutes displacement as described in this section. Several commenters urged that the proposed restriction not be interpreted too strictly. One commenter pointed out that it seems to contradict §2522.110(3), which states that professional corps programs that recruit and place qualified participants in positions as teachers and nurses qualify as AmeriCorps programs. The commenter suggested that the regulations be revised to clarify that those programs qualify because the participants don't replace qualified and certified people. The Corporation declines to put examples or further clarifications of this issue in the regulations. However, it will disseminate information clarifying these issues to all grantees. (2) Supplantation rule. One commenter raised several concerns regarding the supplantation requirement in the AmeriCorps regulations. The commenter pointed out that the preamble specifically included private sector funds in the requirement and that the proposed regulations were unclear. The commenter suggested not extending the rule to the private sector. Not allowing the supplantation of private funds could create a disincentive for programs to raise private funds because, if they lose those funds in a subsequent year, they may not be able to maintain the same level of non-federal funds and would thus be ineligible for AmeriCorps assistance. The commenter was also concerned that a program could have difficulty meeting the requirement for maintaining aggregate non-federal funding if the size of the program is reduced. The commenter recommended that the regulations be revised to add a sentence stating that the supplantation rule is satisfied if funding from private sources continues to exceed the matching requirements. The commenter also recommended that the required non-federal expenditures be measured per capita instead of on a lump-sum basis. The statutory supplantation provision states that the level of State and local public funding for a given program cannot drop below the level of the previous year. The regulations stated this incorrectly and have been revised to indicate that the restriction applies only to public State and local funds. The Corporation does not have the regulatory authority to measure the level of State and local support on a per participant basis. Change: §2540.100 has been revised. Part 2550_State Commission Regulations One commenter suggested that the State Commission regulations (published in the November 17, 1993 Federal Register as an interim final rule) be amended to add individuals with expertise in the field of mental retardation/cognitive disabilities to the list of possible members of the State Commissions. This addition will be incorporated into the final State Commission regulations when they are published. Miscellaneous Requirements Interested parties should be advised that because the assistance provided under the authority of this rule constitutes Federal financial assistance for the purposes of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (which bars discrimination based on race, color, or national origin), title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (which bars discrimination on the basis of gender), the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (which bars discrimination on the basis of disability), and the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (which bars discrimination on the basis of age), grantees will be required to comply with the aforementioned provisions of Federal law. Grant recipients will be expected to expend Corporation grants in a judicious and reasonable manner, consistent with pertinent provisions of Federal law and regulations. Grantees must keep records according to Corporation guidelines, including records that fully disclose the amount and disposition of the proceeds of a Corporation grant. The Inspector General of the Corporation (or other authorized official) shall have access, for the purpose of audit and examination, to the books and records of grantees that may be related or pertinent to the Corporation grant. Grantees should further be advised that Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments, and Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to other than State and Local Governments, as well as regulations for the Privacy Act, Freedom of Information Act, Sunshine Act, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension, and Government-wide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace will also be published. As required by the Regulatory Flexibility Act, it is hereby certified that this rule will not have a significant impact on small business entities. As required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, the Corporation will submit the information collection requirements contained in this rule to the Office of Management and Budget for its review (44 U.S.C. 3504(h)). The information collection requirements are needed in order to provide assistance to parties affected by these regulations, in accordance with statutory mandates. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Numbers: 94.003 for State Commissions, Alternative Administrative Entities, and Transitional Entities; 94.004 for K&hyph;12 Service-Learning Programs; 94.005 for Higher Education Service-Learning Programs; 94.006 for AmeriCorps Programs; 94.007 for Investment for Quality and Innovation Programs.)
