FR941216-1-00160 FR941216-1-00012 Misfire. Failure of a component to fire or explode as intended. Navigable streams. Those parts of streams, channels, or canals capable of being used as highways of commerce over which trade and travel are or may be conducted, excluding streams that are not navigable by barges, tugboats, and other large vessels, unless they are used extensively and regularly for the operation of pleasure boats. NEW. Net Explosive Weight, expressed in pounds. Nitrogen padding (or blanket). Filling the void or ullage of a closed container with nitrogen gas to prevent oxidation of the chemical therein and to avoid formation of a flammable atmosphere above the liquid. Nitrogen padding (or blanket) also means maintaining a nitrogen atmosphere in or around an operation, piece of equipment, etc. Noncombustible. Not burnable. Operting building. Any structure, except a magazine, in which operations pertaining to manufacturing, processing, handling, loading, or assembly of ammunition and explosives are performed. Operating line. A group of buildings, facilities, or related work stations so arranged as to permit performance of the consecutive steps in the manufacture of an explosive or in the loading, assembly, modification, and maintenance of ammunition. Operational shield. A barrier constructed at a particular location or around a particular machine or operating station to protect personnel, material, or equipment from the effects of a possible localized fire or explosion. Operational shields, when designed in accordance with MIL&hyph;STD&hyph;398 should protect personnel and assets from thermal, pressure, and fragmentation hazards resulting from an accidental or intentional detonation and deflagration of ammunition or explosives. Existing reinforced concrete walls built to resist the effects of accidental explosions and designed and built in accordance with requirements applicable at the time of construction may be used as operational shields, with the following guidance as a minimum requirement: (1) A 12-inch reinforced concrete wall (see definition ``substantial dividing wall'' of this subpart) provides adequate protection for operations involving an item containing 15 pounds TNT equivalent or less of high explosives when the nearest part of the item is at least 3 feet from the wall and the item is 2 feet from the floor. Care shall be taken to use appropriate equivalence data for close-in effects. Explosives characterized by greater brisance than that of TNT may have very high equivalencies at small distances from the explosives. When equivalence data is not available, existing 12-inch reinforced concrete walls may be used for operational shields for protection from items containing not more than 6 pounds of high explosives. (2) A 30-inch reinforced concrete wall provides adequate protection against the effects of an item containing not more than 50 pounds TNT equivalent of high explosives. The same separation distance as stated in paragraph (1) of this definition applies. When equivalence data is not available, a 30-inch wall may be used for an operational shield for protection from items containing not more than 20 pounds of high explosives. (3) A 36-inch reinforced concrete wall provides adequate protection against the effects of an item containing not more than 70 pounds TNT-equivalency of high explosives. The separation distance as stated in definition ``operational shield,'' paragraph (1) of this definition applies. When equivalence data is not available, a 36-inch wall may be used for an operational shield for protection from items containing not more than 28 pounds of high explosives. Potential explosive site (PES). The location of a quantity of explosives that will create a blast, fragment, thermal, or debris hazard in the event of an accidental explosion of its contents. Quantity limits for ammunition and explosives at a PES are determined by the distance to an ES. Prohibited area. A specifically designated area at airfields, seadromes, or heliports in which all ammunition and explosives facilities are prohibited. Propellant. Explosives compositions used for propelling projectiles and rockets and to generate gases for powering auxiliary devices. Public highway. Any street, road, or highway used by the general public for any type of vehicular travel. Public traffic route. Any public street, road (including any on an establishment or military reservation), highway, navigable stream, or passenger railroad that is routinely used for through traffic by the general public. Pyrotechnic material. The explosive or chemical ingredients, including powdered metals, used in the manufacture of military pyrotechnics. Quantity/distance (Q/D) . The quantity of explosives material and distance separation relationships providing defined types of protection. These relationships are based on levels of risk considered acceptable for the stipulated exposures and are tabulated in the appropriate Q/D tables. Separation distances afford less than absolute safety. Renovation . That work performed on ammunition, missiles, or rockets to restore them to a completely serviceable condition; usually involves the replacement of unserviceable or outmoded plants. Restricted area . Any area, normally fenced, from which personnel, aircraft, or vehicles, other than those required for operations, are excluded for reasons of safety. Runway . Any surface on land designated for aircraft takeoff and landing operations, or a lane of water designated for takeoff and landing operations of seaplanes. Service magazine . A building in an operating line used for the intermediate storage of explosives materials. The amount of explosives normally is limited to a minimum consistent with safe, efficient production. Standard earth-covered magazine (igloo) . An earth-covered, arch-type magazine, with or without a separate door barricade, constructed according to an approved standard drawing. Standard earth-covered magazines . These magazines are approved for all quantities of explosives up to 500,000 lbs (226,798 kg) net explosive weight.
