FR941221-1-00026 FR941221-1-00009 (c) Cost of books, not to exceed $500.00 per year; (d) Average room and board costs budgeted by the institution for the type of housing occupied by the scholar; (e) Estimated cost of additional expenses such as transportation, laundry and other miscellaneous expenses. These costs are not eligible for funding by the Foundation, but must be listed. §2600.32 Number of Payments Per Year. A Scholar will receive a single payment each term as follows: (a) Two payments per year if the institution operates on a semester basis; (b) Three payments if the institution operates on a trimester or quarterly basis; (c) Scholars nominated as sophomores may apply for funding for summer classes required for graduation only between the junior and senior year subject to the limitations of §2600.31. §2600.33 Deferment of Scholarship. (a) A scholar may request that the Foundation defer payment of the scholarship due to illness, or other extenuating circumstances by notifying the Foundation in writing of such circumstances. (b) If the Foundation determines a deferral is warranted, funding will be held in abeyance until such time as the scholar is able to resume his or her studies. (c) If the Foundation grants a deferment, it may impose such conditions as are deemed necessary. Subpart E_Duration of Scholarship §2600.40 Renewal of Scholarship. (a) Scholars nominated as sophomores will be eligible to receive a maximum of two academic years of support. (b) Scholars nominated as juniors will be eligible to a maximum of only one year of support. (c) Scholars who desire to pursue an additional year of studies prior to graduation must be renominated by their institution for the annual scholarship competition. §2600.41 Suspension of Scholarship. (a) A Scholar who fails to maintain good academic standing in accordance with §2600.30 for any term will be suspended from further funding until such time as the situation is remedied as attested to by an institution academic officer. §2600.42 Termination of Scholarship. (a) The Foundation may terminate a scholarship if the Scholar fails to maintain good academic standing for two consecutive terms. (b) Before the Foundation terminates a scholarship under these conditions, the Scholar will be given appropriate notice and an opportunity to be heard with respect to the grounds for termination. (c) Final determination regarding termination will be made by the Foundation in consultation with the appropriate officials of the institution. §2600.43 Recovery of Scholarship Funds. (a) If a scholarship is terminated or a student resigns a scholarship, all funds which have not been spent or which the scholar may recover must be returned to the Foundation. (b) Payments received by a scholar, who then fails to maintain good academic standing during any term must be returned to the Foundation if the cause of the failure was within the Scholar's ability to control. (c) In any case, extenuating circumstances will be considered and the requirement to refund any payments will be made by the Foundation. Gerald J. Smith, Executive Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31260 Filed 12&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4738&hyph;91&hyph;P
