FR940826-1-00069 FR940826-1-00009 G. Upfront Payments 36. As previously indicated in the Third Report and Order , the upfront payment requirement was designed to ensure that bidders are qualified and serious and to provide the Commission with a source of funds in the event that it becomes necessary to assess default or bid withdrawal penalties. 38 The upfront payment ensures that bids during the course of the auction are bona fide and convey information about the value of the underlying licenses. Our standard upfront payment for narrowband PCS is $0.02 per MHz per pop. As an additional means of enhancing the opportunity of designated entities to participate in competitive bidding we propose to reduce the required upfront payment for those applicants. As we concluded in the Fifth Report and Order , we are concerned that the $0.02 per MHz per pop upfront payment requirement might impose a barrier for smaller entities wishing to participate in the auctions. Moreover, we note that most bidders in the proposed entrepreneurs' blocks would be entitled to pay for their licenses in installments, which would require a down payment of only five percent of the winning bid. We are concerned that requiring an upfront payment that may be larger than the down payment that the winning bidder is required to tender could discourage auction participation. 38 Third Report and Order, §§41&hyph;45. 37. For these reasons, we propose to reduce the upfront payment requirement to $0.015 per MHz per pop for bidders in the entrepreneurs' blocks. This 25 percent discount should facilitate auction participation by capital-constrained companies and would permit them to conserve resources for infrastructure development after winning a license. Moreover, since the upfront payment is still substantial, we believe that insincere bidding would be discouraged and the Commission would have access to funds if it must collect default or bid withdrawal penalty payments. H. Definitions and Eligibility 1. Eligibility to Bid in the Proposed Entrepreneurs' Blocks 38. As noted previously, eligibility to bid in the proposed entrepreneurs' blocks would be limited to companies that, together with their affiliates and investors, had gross revenues of less than $125 million in each of the last two years and have total assets of less than $500 million at the time their short form applications are filed. In addition, we propose to prohibit an applicant from bidding in these blocks if any one attributable individual investor or principal in the applicant has $100 million or greater in personal net worth at the short form application filing date. 2. Attribution Rules for the Proposed Entrepreneurs' Blocks 39. For purposes of determining whether an entity qualifies to bid in the entrepreneurs' blocks, we propose to follow the control group and attribution rules set forth with regard to eligibility to bid as a small business. In particular, winning bidders would be required to identify on their long-form applications a control group that controls the applicant, owns at least 25 percent of the equity, and in the case of a corporation, holds at least 50.1 percent of the voting stock. For partnership applicants, we propose that every general partner be considered part of the group. The gross revenues and total assets of each member of the control group and each member's affiliates would be counted toward the $125 million/$500 million thresholds, regardless of the size of the member's total interest in the applicant. The $100 million personal net worth limitation would also apply to each member of the control group. We would not consider the gross revenues or personal net worth of any other investor unless the investor holds 25 percent or more of the outstanding passive equity in the applicant, which, as defined above, includes as much as fifteen percent of the voting stock in a corporate applicant. 40. We also propose more relaxed attribution standard with regard to investors in small businesses owned by minorities and women. Specifically, we would not consider the gross revenues or personal net worth of a single passive investor in a minority or female-owned small business unless the investor holds in excess of a 49.9 percent passive interest (which includes as much as fifteen percent of a corporate applicant's voting stock), provided the women or minority control group maintains at least 50.1 percent of the equity and, in the case of a corporate applicant, at least 50.1 percent of the voting stock. We believe that such revenue attribution would ensure that only bona fide small businesses are able to take advantage of the special provisions we have proposed, but would allow those businesses to attract sufficient equity capital to be truly viable contenders in the PCS industry. 41. In addition, we propose to allow a consortium of small businesses to qualify for any of the measures adopted in this order applicable to individual small businesses including the ability to bid in the entrepreneurs' block. As used here, the term ``consortium'' means a conglomerate organization formed as a joint venture among mutually-independent business firms, each of which individually satisfies the definition of a small business.
