FR941006-2-00196 FR941006-2-00113 Package grant applications must discuss these issues with regard to the products that would result from each of the projects included in the package. The type of products to be prepared depend on the nature of the project. For example, in most instances, the products of a research, evaluation, or demonstration project should include an article summarizing the project findings that is publishable in a journal serving the courts community nationally, an executive summary that will be disseminated to the project's primary audience, or both. Applicants proposing to conduct empirical research or evaluation projects with national import should describe how they will make their data available for secondary analysis after the grant period. (See section X.W.) The curricula and other products developed by education and training projects should be designed for use outside the classroom so that they may be used again by original participants and others in the course of their duties. Applicants must provide for submitting a final draft of the final grant product(s) to the Institute for review and approval at least 30 days before the product(s) are submitted for publication or reproduction. No grant funds may be obligated for publication or reproduction of a final grant product without the written approval of the Institute. Applicants must also provide for including in all project products a prominent acknowledgment that support was received from the Institute and a disclaimer paragraph based on the example provided in section X.Q. of the Guideline. The ``SJI'' logo must appear on the front cover of a written product, or in the opening frames of a video product, unless the Institute approves another placement. Twenty copies of all project products, including videotapes, must be submitted to the Institute. In addition, a copy of each product must be sent to the library established in each State to collect the materials developed with Institute support. (A list of these libraries is contained in Appendix II.) To facilitate their use, all videotaped products should be distributed in VHS format. 7. Applicant Status An applicant that is not a State or local court and has not received a grant from the Institute within the past two years should include a statement indicating whether it is either a national non-profit organization controlled by, operating in conjunction with, and serving the judicial branches of State governments; or a national non-profit organization for the education and training of State court judges and support personnel. See section IV. If the applicant is a non-judicial unit of Federal, State, or local government, it must explain whether the proposed services could be adequately provided by non-governmental entities. 8. Staff Capability A summary of the training and experience of the key staff members and consultants that qualify them for conducting and managing the proposed project. Resumes of identified staff should be attached to the application. If one or more key staff members and consultants are not known at the time of the application, a description of the criteria that will be used to select persons for these positions should be included. 9. Organizational Capacity
