FR941028-1-00031 FR941028-1-00005 The second major area of public comment concerned the proposed definition of product accumulator vessel and its overlap with the definitions for process vents and storage vessels. Major concerns expressed included: (1) The proposed definition did not distinguish between product accumulator vessels and process vents, storage vessels or other in-process vessels; (2) multiple standards (process vents under subpart G and equipment leaks under subpart H) would apply to the same vent; and (3) product accumulator vessels, which are point sources, would be regulated under provisions that were intended for fugitive emissions (i.e., equipment leaks). These commenters suggested eliminating the inconsistencies by: (1) Deleting the subpart H requirements for product accumulator vessels and regulating them as process vents or storage vessels under subpart G; or (2) allowing sources to select whether to comply with the requirements of subpart G or subpart H. Several commenters representing the non-SOCMI processes subject to subpart H also suggested deleting requirements for product accumulator vessels for those processes from subpart H. A few of these commenters thought that the EPA had added these provisions to the negotiated rule after the conclusion of the negotiations. The commenters preferred regulating such vessels under future MACT standards for the appropriate source category. As described in the April 22, 1994 Federal Register (59 FR 19440), the EPA concluded that, of the equipment included in the definition of ``product accumulator vessels,'' only surge control vessels and bottoms receivers were outside the scope of process vents, storage vessels, and wastewater. Therefore, the term ``product accumulator vessel'' was removed from subpart H, and replaced with ``surge control vessels and bottoms receivers.'' This change was intended to clarify the applicability of the rules and was not a change in the substance or effect of the negotiated rule. Since the final rule was issued, it has become apparent that compliance with the provisions of §63.164 and §63.170 involves more equipment modifications and changes than originally believed. Additionally, the EPA has determined that an administrative process needs to be added to subparts F and I to establish these case-by-case compliance extensions. A petition for reconsideration has been submitted to the EPA requesting reconsideration of the compliance dates for compressors, §63.164, and for surge control vessels and bottoms receivers, §63.170. II. Summary of and Rationale for Proposed Revisions The purpose of this proposal is to revise the compliance dates for compressors and for surge control vessels and bottoms receivers to provide sufficient time to make the equipment changes necessary for compliance with the provisions of §63.164 and §63.170. It is proposed to add new paragraphs §63.100 (k)(4) through (k)(7) and §63.103(g) to subpart F to revise the compliance dates for existing sources and to document the use of the compliance extensions. Similar changes are also being proposed for subpart I, as new paragraphs §63.190 (e)(3) through (e)(5). This action also proposes a revised §63.170 to address issues that have arisen over technical feasibility of these control provisions and confusion over the distinction between surge control vessels, on the one hand, and process vents or storage vessels, on the other hand. This action also proposes to add paragraph (k)(8) to §63.100 and paragraph (h) to §63.103 providing a compliance extension for processes that plan to eliminate the use of or production of HAP. A. Surge Control Vessels and Bottoms Receivers 1. Compliance Schedule Compliance with the provisions of §63.170 requires that the surge control vessel or bottoms receiver be routed to the process or to a control device. Since the rule was issued, the EPA has received numerous inquiries regarding the feasibility of complying in the specified compliance period given the nature of the process changes required for either of the compliance options. Based on this information and review of the rulemaking record, the EPA has concluded that the nature of the equipment changes required is similar to the changes required for compliance with the provisions for process vents, storage vessels, etc. subject to subpart G. The scope of the equipment changes is, thus, more complex than was originally envisioned when the 6-month compliance date was selected. The new information that the EPA has received demonstrates that at many facilities major equipment modifications or replacements are necessary in order to comply with the standard. The process changes involved include rerouting of a vent stream to a control device or to the process; replacement of a surge control vessel operated at atmospheric pressure with another that can be operated at a pressure greater than atmospheric; replacement, removal or addition of other equipment; and process redesign. Such process changes take more than a few months to effect, especially considering planning, approval of permits, and in some cases approval by the Food and Drug Administration or other government entities. All these changes require the same degree of engineering design and evaluation that the controls required for process vents and storage vessels require. Furthermore, from the range of situations reported, it appears that the need for additional time to implement the required equipment changes is not limited to specific processes or kinds of equipment.
