FR940318-0-00140 FR940318-0-00023 Recently, the Agency has become aware of substitute mixtures that are being marketed as replacements for both class I and II chemicals. In situations where these mixtures are a combination of class I and II chemicals, they may serve as transitional chemicals because they offer environmental advantages in that they have a lower combined ODP than use of a class I compound by itself. However, where EPA has identified a non-ozone depleting alternative that reduces overall risk to human health and the environment, mixtures of class I and II substances shall be unacceptable or subject to use limits. There have been a few instances in which mixtures of class I and II chemicals have been marketed as replacements for class II chemicals. Because the ODP of such alternatives is clearly higher than the class II substances, the Agency is prohibiting the use of any class I and class II mixture as a replacement for a class II chemical. Where the Agency is aware of specific mixtures falling into this category, they are listed by individual use sector below. The remainder of this section presents the initial listing decisions for each of the following end use sectors: D. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning E. Foam Blowing F. Solvents Cleaning G. Fire Suppression and Explosion Protection H. Sterilants I. Aerosols J. Tobacco Expansion K. Adhesives, Coatings and Inks D. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning 1. Overview The refrigeration and air conditioning sector includes all uses of Class I and Class II substances to transfer heat. Most end-uses in this sector involve mechanically moving heat from a cool region to a warmer one. For example, a car's air conditioner moves heat from the cooled interior to the hot ambient air. This sector also includes heat transfer end-uses, i.e. those uses of Class I and Class II substances to move heat from a warm region to a cool one. For example, CFC&hyph;114 is currently used to remove excess heat from a very hot uranium enrichment process to cooler ambient air. Hence, the process requires no additional energy, and does not create refrigeration by mechanical means. Mechanical systems generally use a vapor compression cycle. However, several alternative cycles have been used for decades; these and other alternatives are being re-examined in light of the phaseout of commonly used CFC-based refrigerants in 1996. Substitutes reviewed under SNAP may use alternative cycles; review is not restricted solely to applications based on replacing the working fluid in vapor compression equipment. Similarly, simple heat transfer end-uses will also be included. The refrigeration and air conditioning sector is divided into the following end-uses: •Commercial comfort air conditioning; •Industrial process refrigeration systems; •Industrial process air conditioning; •Ice skating rinks; •Uranium isotope separation processing; •Cold storage warehouses; •Refrigerated transport; •Retail food refrigeration; •Vending machines; •Water coolers; •Commercial ice machines; •Household refrigerators; •Household freezers; •Residential dehumidifiers; •Motor vehicle air conditioning; •Residential air conditioning and heat pumps; and •Heat transfer. EPA has not necessarily reviewed substitutes in every end-use. The following discussion provides some distinctions among the various end-uses in the refrigeration and air conditioning sector. a. Chillers. CFCs are used in several different types of mechanical commercial comfort air conditioning systems, known as chillers. These chillers cool water, which is then circulated through a building. They can be classified by compressor type, including centrifugal, reciprocating, scroll, screw, and rotary. The selection of a particular compressor type generally depends on the cooling capacity required. Reciprocating and scroll compressors are used in small capacity applications (less than 200 tons), screw compressors are used in medium capacity applications (50 to 400 tons), and centrifugal compressors are used in large capacity applications (greater than 300 tons). The majority of the chillers used in the United States are centrifugal chillers. Chillers have a lifetime of 23 to 40 years. EPA anticipates that over time, existing cooling capacity will be either retrofitted or replaced by systems using non-CFC refrigerants in a vapor compression cycle or by alternative technologies. b. Industrial process refrigeration systems. Many industrial applications require cooling of process streams. These applications include systems designed to operate in a wide temperature range. Included within this category are industrial ice machines and ice rinks. The choice of substitute for specific applications depends on ambient and required operating temperatures and pressures. c. Ice skating rinks. Skating rinks frequently use secondary refrigeration loops. They are used by the general public for recreational purposes. d. Industrial process air conditioning. Ambient temperatures near 200 degrees Fahrenheit and corrosive conditions make this application distinct from commercial and residential air conditioning. Units in this end-use provide comfort cooling for operators and protect process equipment. e. Uranium isotope separation processing. This end-use includes operation of a heat transfer cycle to cool uranium isotope separation processing. Substitutes must meet an extremely rigorous set of criteria to be applicable in this end-use.
