FR941121-2-00090 FR941121-2-00077 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34971; File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;42] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the American Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to Short Sales of Nasdaq/NM Securities of Companies Involved in Mergers or Acquisitions November 14, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on October 14, 1994, the American Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Amex'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the Amex. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1982). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Amex proposes to amend Rule 957 regarding the designation of certain Nasdaq National Market securities (``NM securities'') by specialists and registered options traders as exempt from the bid test imposed under the NASD Rules of Fair Practice. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B) and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change On September 6, 1994, the NASD put into effect a rule prohibiting the execution of a short sale in NM securities at or below the current inside bid when that inside bid is below the previous inside bid. 2 In part, the NASD's rule provides an exemption for qualified Amex options specialists and Registered Options Traders (``Traders'') for which the Exchange has also established rules to provide for this exemption for those members. 3 The Exchange now seeks to extend the exemption to certain short sales of a company that is involved in a publicly announced merger or acquisition with the issuer of a stock underlying an option that is eligible for the exemption pursuant to Amex Rule 957 and the NASD's short sale rule. 2 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34277 (June 29, 1994), 59 FR 34885. 3 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34632 (September 2, 1994), 59 FR 46999. The Exchange's proposal recognizes that when an NM security becomes involved in a merger or acquisition, specialists and traders may need to hedge positions in options on the NM security by buying or selling shares of stock of the other company involved in the merger or acquisition, whether or not the other company's stock has listed overlying options. Indeed, where there are no options on that stock, buying or selling the stock itself may at times be the only feasible way for a specialist or trader to hedge a position in options on the NM security, given the risk arbitrage relationship that is likely to exist between the two stocks. The proposed rule change will facilitate hedging by options specialists and traders by allowing them to sell short shares of the ``other'' company involved in the merger for hedging purposes and designate those short sales as exempt from the NASD's short sale rule. The Exchange believes that its proposed rule change will enhance the ability of specialists and traders to perform their market-making functions, which will contribute to the liquidity of the market for options, as well as the market for stocks of both companies. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act. Specifically, the Exchange believes that its proposal is consistent with the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in facilitating transactions in securities, and to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Amex believes that the proposed rule change will not impose any burden on competition.
