FR940805-1-00136 FR940805-1-00014 (c) Public housing. The jurisdiction shall consult with the local public housing agency participating in an approved Comprehensive Grant program concerning consideration of public housing needs and planned Comprehensive Grant program activities. This consultation will help provide a better basis for the certification by the local Chief Executive Officer that the Comprehensive Grant Plan/annual statement is consistent with the local government's assessment of low-income housing needs (as evidenced in the housing and community development plan) and that the local government will cooperate in providing resident programs and services (as required by ยง968.320(d) of the regulations for the Comprehensive Grant program). It will also help ensure that activities with regard to local drug elimination, neighborhood improvement programs, and resident programs and services, funded under the public housing program and those funded under a program covered by the consolidated plan are fully coordinated to achieve comprehensive community development goals. ยง91.105 Citizen participation plan. (a) Applicability. (1) The jurisdiction is required to adopt a citizen participation plan. (Where a jurisdiction, before the effectiveness of this rule, adopted a plan that complies with section 104(a)(3) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 but will need to amend the plan to comply with provisions of this section, the plan shall be amended by the first day of the jurisdiction's program year that begins on or after 180 days following the effective date of this rule.) (2) Although these requirements are designed especially to encourage participation by very low- and low-income persons, particularly those living in slum and blighted areas and in areas where CDBG funds are proposed to be used, jurisdictions are expected to take whatever actions are appropriate to encourage the participation of all its citizens, including minorities and non-English speaking persons, as well as persons with mobility, visual or hearing impairments. (3) The jurisdiction shall encourage, in conjunction with consultation with public housing authorities, the participation of residents of public and assisted housing developments, in the process of developing and implementing the consolidated plan, along with other low-income residents of targeted revitalization areas in which the developments are located. The jurisdiction shall make an effort to provide information to the housing agency about housing and community development plan activities related to its developments and surrounding communities so that the housing agency can make this information available at the annual public hearing required under the Comprehensive Grant program. (b) Required elements of citizen participation (CP) plan. _(1) Encouragement of citizen participation. The CP plan must encourage citizens to participate in the development of the consolidated plan, any amendments to the plan, and the performance report. (2) Information to be provided. The CP plan must assure that citizens or, as appropriate, units of general local government, be furnished appropriate information. (i) The CP plan must require that, before the jurisdiction adopts a consolidated plan, the jurisdiction will make available to citizens, public agencies, and other interested parties information that includes the amount of assistance the jurisdiction expects to receive and the range of activities that may be undertaken, including the amount that will benefit persons of very low- and low-income and the plans to minimize displacement of persons and to assist any persons displaced. (ii) The CP plan must require the jurisdiction to publish the proposed consolidated plan for comment. The requirement for publishing may be met by publishing a summary of the proposed consolidated plan in one or more newspapers of general circulation, and by making copies of the proposed plan available at libraries, government offices, and public places. The summary must describe the contents and purpose of the consolidated plan, and must include a list of the locations where copies of the entire plan may be examined. (iii) The CP plan must require the jurisdiction to notify citizens, or units of general local government, as appropriate, of the availability of the consolidated plan as adopted, any amendments, and its performance report, as these documents are developed, to afford citizens a reasonable opportunity to examine their contents. (iv) The CP plan also must provide a period, not less than 30 days, to receive comments from citizens, or units of general local government, on the plan, amendments, or report that is to be submitted to HUD before its submission. (3) Access to records. The CP plan must require the jurisdiction to provide citizens, public agencies, and other interested parties with reasonable and timely access to information and records relating to the jurisdiction's consolidated plan and the jurisdiction's use of assistance under the programs covered by this part during the preceding five years. (4) Technical assistance. The CP plan also must provide for technical assistance to groups representative of persons of very low- and low-income that request such assistance in developing proposals for funding assistance under any of the programs covered by the consolidated plan, with the level and type of assistance determined by the jurisdiction. (5) Public hearings. (i) The CP plan must provide for at least two public hearings per year to obtain citizens' views, to be conducted at a minimum of two different stages of the program year. Together, the hearings must address housing and community development needs, development of proposed activities, and review of program performance. To obtain the views of citizens on housing and community development needs, including priority nonhousing community development needs, the CP plan must provide that at least one of these hearings are held before the proposed consolidated plan is published for comment. (ii) The CP plan must provide that adequate advance notice be given to citizens or, as appropriate, units of general local government of each hearing, with sufficient information published about the subject of the hearing to permit informed comment. (iii) The CP plan must provide that hearings be held at times and locations convenient to potential and actual beneficiaries, and with accommodation for persons with disabilities. (iv) The CP plan must identify how the needs of non-English speaking residents will be met in the case of public hearings where a significant number of non-English speaking residents can be reasonably expected to participate. (6) Comments and complaints. (i) The CP plan shall require the jurisdiction to consider any comments or views of citizens (or units of general local government) received in writing, or orally at the public hearings, in preparing the final consolidated plan, amendment of the plan, or performance report. A summary of these comments or views, and a summary of any comments or views not accepted and the reasons therefor, shall be attached to the final consolidated plan, amendment of the plan, or performance report.
