FR940512-2-00161 FR940512-2-00078 Thursday May 12, 1994 Part II Department of Health and Human Services Administration for Children and Families Runaway and Homeless Youth Program; FY 1994 Final Program Priorities, Availability of Financial Assistance for FY 1994, and Request for Applications; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 91␣/␣Thursday, May 12, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Administration for Children and Families [Program Announcement No. ACF/ACYF/RHYP 94&hyph;1] Runaway and Homeless Youth Program (RHYP): Fiscal Year (FY) 1994 Final Program Priorities, Availability of Financial Assistance for Fiscal Year 1994, and Request for Applications AGENCY: Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB), Administration on Children, Youth and Families (ACYF), Administration for Children and Families (ACF), Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). ACTION: Notice of Fiscal Year 1994 Final Runaway and Homeless Youth (RHY) Program Priorities, announcement of availability of financial assistance, and request for applications for the following programs and activities: Basic Center Program for Runaway and Homeless Youth (BCP), Drug Abuse Education and Prevention Program for Runaway and Homeless Youth (DAPP), Transitional Living Program for Homeless Youth (TLP), and Training and Technical Assistance (T&TA) Grants. SUMMARY: The Family and Youth Services Bureau of the Administration on Children, Youth and Families is publishing final program priorities and announcing the availability of funds for the following: 1. Basic Center Program for Runaway and Homeless Youth (BCP): The purpose of the BCP is to provide financial assistance to establish or strengthen locally-controlled centers that address the immediate needs (e.g., outreach, temporary shelter, food, clothing, counseling, and aftercare services) of runaway and homeless youth and their families. 2. Drug Abuse Education and Prevention Program for Runaway and Homeless Youth (DAPP): The purpose of the DAPP is to improve and expand drug abuse prevention, education and information services to runaway and homeless youth and their families. 3. Transitional Living Program for Homeless Youth (TLP): The purpose of the TLP is to support projects in local communities that provide long term shelter, skill training and support services to homeless youth; to assist homeless youth in making smooth transitions to self-sufficiency; and to prevent long-term dependency on social services. 4. Training and Technical Assistance (T&TA) Grants: The purpose of this T&TA is to improve the programmatic and administrative capacities of public and private agencies serving runaway and homeless youth.
