FR940222-0-00041 FR940222-0-00011 (C) Mental health counselor. For the purposes of CHAMPUS, a mental health counselor is an individual who meets the following requirements: ( 1 ) Minimum of a master's degree in mental health counseling or allied mental health field from a regionally accredited institution; and ( 2 ) Two years of post-masters experience which includes 3000 hours of clinical work and 100 hours of face-to-face supervision; and ( 3 ) Is licensed or certified to practice as a mental health counselor by the jurisdiction where practicing (see paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(D) of this section for more specific information); and ( 4 ) May only be reimbursed when: ( i ) The CHAMPUS beneficiary is referred for therapy by a physician; and ( ii ) A physician is providing ongoing oversight and supervision of the therapy being provided; and ( iii ) The mental health counselor certifies on each claim for reimbursement that a written communication has been made or will be made to the referring physician of the results of the treatment. Such communication will be made at the end of the treatment, or more frequently, as required by the referring physician (refer to §199.7). (D) The following additional information applies to each of the above categories of extramedical individual providers: ( 1 ) These providers must also be licensed or certified to practice as a certified marriage and family therapist, pastoral counselor or mental health counselor by the jurisdiction where practicing. In jurisdictions that do not provide for licensure or certification, the provider must be certified by or eligible for full clinical membership in the appropriate national professional association that sets standards for the specific profession. ( 2 ) Grace period for therapists or counselors in states where licensure/certification is optional. CHAMPUS is providing a grace period for those therapists or counselors who did not obtain optional licensure/certification in their jurisdiction, not realizing it was a CHAMPUS requirement for authorization. The exemption by state law for pastoral counselors may have misled this group into thinking licensure was not required. The same situation may have occurred with the other therapist or counselor categories where licensure was either not mandated by the state or was provided under a more general category such as ``professional counselors.'' This grace period pertains only to the licensure/certification requirement, applies only to therapists or counselors who are already approved as of October 29, 1990, and only in those areas where the licensure/certification is optional. Any therapist or counselor who is not licensed/certified in the state in which he/she is practicing by August 1, 1991, will be terminated under the provisions of §199.9. This grace period does not change any of the other existing requirements which remain in effect. During this grace period, membership or proof of eligibility for full clinical membership in a recognized professional association is required for those therapists or counselors who are not licensed or certified by the state. The following organizations are recognized for therapists or counselors at the level indicated: Full clinical member of the American Association of Marriage and Family Therapy; membership at the fellow or diplomate level of the American Association of Pastoral Counselors; and membership in the National Academy of Certified Clinical Mental Health Counselors. Acceptable proof of eligibility for membership is a letter from the appropriate certifying organization. This opportunity for delayed certification/licensure is limited to the counselor or therapist category only as the language in all of the other provider categories has been consistent and unmodified from the time each of the other provider categories were added. The grace period does not apply in those states where licensure is mandatory. (E) Christian Science practitioners and Christian Science nurses. CHAMPUS cost-shares the services of Christian Science practitioners and nurses. In order to bill as such, practitioners or nurses must be listed or be eligible for listing in the Christian Science Journal 1 at the time the service is provided. 1 Copies of this journal can be obtained through the Christian Science Publishing Company, 1 Norway Street, Boston, MA 02115&hyph;3122 or the Christian Science Publishing Society, P.O. Box 11369, Des Moines, IA 50340. * * * * * (d) *␣*␣* (6) Mammography suppliers. Mammography services may be cost-shared only if the supplier is certified by Medicare for participation as a mammography supplier, or is certified by the American College of Radiology as having met its mammography supplier standards. * * * * * Dated: February 4, 1994. L.M. Bynum, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2921 Filed 2&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;M
