FR940902-2-00114 FR940902-2-00053 BMJ Financial Corp. Deferred Savings Plan (the Plan), Located in Bordentown, New Jersey [Application No. D&hyph;9732] Proposed Exemption The Department is considering granting an exemption under the authority of section 408(a) of the Act and section 4975(c)(2) of the Code and in accordance with the procedures set forth in 29 C.F.R. Part 2570, Subpart B (55 F.R. 32836, 32847, August 10, 1990). If the exemption is granted the restrictions of sections 406(a), 406 (b)(1) and (b)(2) of the Act and the sanctions resulting from the application of section 4975 of the Code, by reason of section 4975(c)(1) (A) through (E) of the Code, shall not apply to (1) the past acquisition of certain stock rights (the Rights) by the Plan pursuant to a stock rights offering (the Offering) by BMJ Financial Corporation (BMJ) to shareholders of record as of February 9, 1993 of BMJ common stock (the Common Stock); (2) the holding of the Rights by the Plan during the subscription period of the Offering; and (3) the past exercise of the Rights by the Plan; provided that the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The Plan's acquisition and holding of the Rights occurred in connection with the Offering made available to all shareholders of the Common Stock; (2) The Plan's acquisition and holding of the Rights resulted from an independent act of BMJ as a corporate entity, and all holders of Common Stock, including the Plan, were treated in the same manner with respect to the Offering; and (3) The authority for all decisions regarding the acquisition, holding and control of the Rights by the Plan was exercised by an independent fiduciary which made determinations as to whether and how the Plan should exercise or sell the Rights acquired through the Offering. EFFECTIVE DATE: This exemption, if granted, will be effective as of February 9, 1993, the Record Date of the Offering. Summary of Facts and Representations 1. BMJ Financial Corporation (BMJ) is a bank holding corporation chartered in New Jersey, with its headquarters in Bordentown, New Jersey. BMJ and its affiliates sponsor the Plan on behalf of their employees. In order to obtain additional capital to comply with certain federal regulatory requirements governing minimum capitalization, BMJ determined to issue stock rights (the Rights) in 1993. The Rights were issued to all holders of BMJ common stock (the Common Stock), enabling recipients to acquire additional shares of Common Stock. Since the Plan was among the holders of Common Stock when the Rights were issued by BMJ, the Plan received such Rights. BMJ requests an exemption to permit the Plan's past acquisition and holding of the Rights under the circumstances and conditions described herein. 2. The Plan is a profit-sharing plan that receives elective employee contributions pursuant to arrangements subject to section 401(k) of the Code, and employer matching contributions subject to section 401(m) of the Code. Employer matching contributions are paid in the form of Common Stock. As of December 31, 1992, the Plan had approximately 304 participants and total assets of $4,075,795.52. The Plan is administered by a committee consisting of six employees and an outside director, each appointed by BMJ's board of directors (the Committee). The Committee directs the administration of the Plan and possesses all powers necessary to carry out the terms of the Plan. The Bank of Mid-Jersey serves as the current trustee (the Trustee) for the Plan, as directed by the Committee. In order to enable the Plan's active participation in the Offering and to provide for independent representation of the Plan's interests with respect to the Offering, certain amendments were made to the Plan's trust document (the Trust Agreement) prior to the Offering. The amendments are described as follows: (a) The Trust Agreement was amended to authorize BMJ to appoint one or more investment managers to manage the investment of all or a portion of the Plan assets; (b) The Trust Agreement was amended to require BMJ to furnish to the Trustee the name of any Plan investment manager appointed by BMJ and to allow the Trustee to assume that any such manager remains authorized to direct the Trustee until notified otherwise; and (c) The Trust Agreement was amended to permit the Trustee to take any actions necessary to carry out the instructions of an appointed investment manager properly authorized under the Trust Agreement. Pursuant to the amendments to the Plan, BMJ entered into an agreement (the Appointment) with the Swathmore Group, Inc. (the Fiduciary) providing for independent representation of the Plan with respect to the Offering. The terms of the Appointment provide that the Fiduciary serves as an ``investment manager'' on behalf of the Plan, as that term is defined in section 3(38) of Title I of the Act, with respect to the Offering. Under the Appointment, the Fiduciary is granted, for the entire period of the Offering, the exclusive authority to direct the Committee with respect to (a) All Rights issued to the Plan, (b) all Common Stock held by the Plan, and (c) the employer matching contributions paid to the Plan in cash by BMJ and its affiliates on January 12, January 29, February 12, February 26, and March 12, 1993. BMJ represents that the Fiduciary was selected to serve in this capacity because of its extensive investment experience, its familiarity with securities distributions like the Offering, its prior experience as an investment manager on behalf of plans subject to the Act, and its independence from all other parties to the transaction. The Fiduciary represents that it is a registered investment advisor incorporated under the laws of Delaware, that it has substantial fiduciary experience under the Act, and that it is independent of and unrelated to BMJ and its affiliates. 3. On February 9, 1993, BMJ had issued and outstanding approximately 4,365,295 shares of Common Stock, $1.00 par value, of which 122,042.02 shares, or 2.80 percent, were owned by the Plan. 1 Executive officers of BMJ directly or indirectly owned, in the aggregate, 33,910 shares of the outstanding common stock, excluding (1) Shares held by the Plan, (2) shares subject to stock options, and (3) shares held in certain trusts established for the benefit of nonemployee members of the BMJ board of directors. Accordingly, as of February 9, 1993 the combined holdings of the Plan and BMJ's executive officers were approximately 155,952 shares, or 3.57 percent of the issued and outstanding Common Stock, while unrelated persons held approximately 4,209,343 shares, or 96.43 percent, of the issued and outstanding Common Stock. Pursuant to a registration statement filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission effective February 12, 1993, BMJ announced that it intended to distribute certain stock subscription rights (the Rights) to BMJ's Common Stock holders, as part of a plan of recapitalization of BMJ and two of its subsidiaries, the Bank of Mid-Jersey and Mt. Holly State Bank. 1 The applicant represents that the Common Stock owned by the Plan as of the Record Date constituted qualifying employer securities as defined in section 407(d)(5) of Title I of the Act and, therefore, satisfied the requirements of section 407(a) of Title I of the Act.
