FR941007-1-00156 FR941007-1-00009 (a) Assessment tests and standards. In connection with an examination of a savings association, the OTS shall assess the CRA performance of the savings association as follows: (1) Lending, investment, and service tests. The OTS shall apply these three tests, as described in §§563e.22 through 563e.24 of this part, in evaluating the performance of savings associations, except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2), (3) and (4) of this section. (2) Community development test for wholesale or limited purpose savings associations. In evaluating the performance of wholesale or limited purpose savings associations (as defined in §563e.12 of this part), the OTS shall apply the community development test, as provided in §563e.25 of this part, except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. (3) Assessment standards for small savings associations. In evaluating the performance of small savings associations (as defined in §563e.12 of this part), the OTS shall apply the assessment standards for small savings associations as provided in §563e.26 of this part. However, a small savings association may elect instead to be assessed as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) and (4) of this section, or it may elect to be evaluated under paragraph (a)(1) of this section if it has collected and reported the data required for other savings associations under §563e.42(a)(1) of this part. (4) Strategic plan. Any savings association may elect not to be assessed by any tests described in paragraphs (a)(1), (2) and (3) of this section by submitting to the OTS and receiving approval of a strategic plan as described in §563e.27 of this part. (b) Assessment context. The OTS shall apply the tests and standards in paragraph (a) of this section in the context of the following information: (1) Demographic data on median income levels, distribution of household income, nature of housing stock, housing costs, and other relevant data pertaining to a savings association's service area(s); (2) Examiner-developed information regarding the credit needs of the savings association's service area(s) obtained from community-based organizations, state and local governments, economic development agencies, and from any information the savings association may choose to provide; (3) The savings association's product offerings and business strategy as determined from data provided by the savings association; (4) Institutional capacity and constraints, including the size and financial condition of the institution, the economic climate (national, regional and local), safety and soundness limitations, and any other factors that significantly affect the savings association's ability to lend to the different parts of its service area(s); (5) The savings association's past performance and the performance of similarly-situated lenders; (6) The savings association's public file, as described in §563e.43 of this part, and any signed, written comments about the savings association's CRA performance submitted to the savings association or the OTS; and (7) Any other information deemed relevant by the OTS. (c) Assigned ratings. The OTS shall assign to each savings association one of the following four ratings as set out in §563e.28 of this part and Appendix A of this part: ``outstanding''; ``satisfactory''; ``needs to improve''; or ``substantial noncompliance'' based on: (1) The results of the applicable assessment test(s) or standards or performance under an approved strategic plan; and (2) Any evidence of discriminatory or other illegal credit practices. (d) Safe and sound operations. This part and the CRA do not require any savings association to make loans or investments, or to provide services that are inconsistent with safe and sound banking operations. Savings associations are permitted and encouraged to develop and apply flexible underwriting standards, consistent with safe and sound banking operations, for loans that benefit low- or moderate-income geographies or individuals. (e) Compliance with community reinvestment obligation. The assigned ratings reflect the extent of compliance or noncompliance with the community reinvestment obligation described in §563e.11(b) of this part. A savings association that receives an assigned rating of ``substantial noncompliance'' shall be subject to enforcement actions pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1818. §563e.22 Lending test. (a) Scope of test. (1) The lending test evaluates a savings association's performance in helping to meet the credit needs of its service area(s) through its lending activities, as measured by home mortgage originations and purchases, small business and small farm loans outstanding, and community development loans outstanding. At the savings association's option, the lending test will also evaluate the savings association's consumer loans outstanding and any other loan distribution data the savings association may choose to provide, such as data on extensions of lines of credit, commitments, and letters of credit.
