FR940318-0-00221 FR940318-0-00023 Fire Suppression and Explosion Protection Total Flooding Agents Substitutes Acceptable Subject To Narrowed Use Limits 1End use 1Substitute 1Decision 1Conditions 1Comments Halon 1301 Total Flooding Agents C 4 F 10 lAcceptable where other alternatives are not technically feasible due to performance or safety requirements: a. Due to their physical or chemical properties, or lb. Where human exposure to the extinguishing agents may approach cardiosensitization levels or result in other unacceptable health effects under normal operating conditions. lUntil OSHA establishes applicable workplace requirements: lFor occupied areas from which personnel cannot be evacuated in one minute, use is permitted only up to concentrations not exceeding the cardiotoxicity NOAEL of 40%. lAlthough no LOAEL has been established for this product, standard OSHA requirements apply, i.e. for occupied areas from which personnel can be evacuated or egress can occur between 30 and 60 seconds, use is permitted up to a concentration not exceeding the LOAEL. lAll personnel must be evacuated before concentration of C 4 F 10 exceeds 40%. lDesign concentration must result in oxygen levels of at least 16%. The comparative design concentration based on cup burner values is approximately 6.6%. Users must observe the limitations on PFC approval by undertaking the following measures: (i) Conduct an evaluation of foreseeable conditions of end use; (ii) Determine that human exposure to the other alternative extinguishing agents may approach or result in cardiosensitization or other unacceptable toxicity effects under normal operating conditions; and (iii) Determine that the physical or chemical properties or other technical constraints of the other available agents preclude their use; Documentation of such measures must be available for review upon request. The principal environmental characteristic of concern for PFCs is that they have high GWPs and long atmospheric lifetimes. Actual contributions to global warming depend upon the quantities of PFCs emitted. For additional guidance regarding applications in which PFCs may be appropriate, users should consult the description of potential uses which is included in the preamble to this rulemaking. See additional comments 1, 2, 3, 4. Additional Comments 1_Must conform with OSHA 29 CFR 1910 Subpart L Section 1910.160 of the U.S. Code. 2_Per OSHA requirements, protective gear (SCBA) must be available in the event personnel must reenter the area. 3_Discharge testing should be strictly limited only to that which is essential to meet safety or performance requirements. 4_The agent should be recovered from the fire protection system in conjunction with testing or servicing, and recycled for later use or destroyed. Fire Suppression and Explosion Protection Total Flooding Agents Pending Substitutes 1End-use 1Substitute 1Comments Halon 1301 Total Flooding HBFC&hyph;22B1/HFC&hyph;227ea Blend Cardiotoxicity and decomposition product data required. Because the HBFC&hyph;22B1 has an ODP of .74, production will be phased out (except for essential uses) on January 1, 1996. ␣ HCFC/HFC Blend Pending submission. ␣ [Inert Gas Blend] B Pending development of peer review on health effects. ␣ [Powdered Aerosol] A For use in occupied areas, additional decomposition product and health effect data is required. ␣ [Powdered Aerosol] B For use in occupied areas, EPA review of submission incomplete. ␣ [Water Mist System] A EPA is continuing to evaluate this new technology. ␣ [Water Mist System] B EPA is continuing to evaluate this new technology. ␣ SF6 This agent has been proposed as an alternative for discharge testing.
