FR940204-2-00038 FR940204-2-00025 All applicants will be notified in writing of the action taken on their applications in approximately 90 days after the closing date for this solicitation, provided no follow-up clarifications are needed. Status of any application during the evaluation and selection process will not be discussed with the applicants. Unsuccessful applications will not be returned. 2. Instructions for Preparation of Applications Each application in response to this solicitation should be prepared in one volume. One original and seven copies of each application are required. The application facesheet is the Standard Form 424. The application is to be prepared for the complete project including a detailed statement of objectives and cost estimate by task for the entire project. The statement of objectives and cost estimate by task should be presented in yearly increments. Applications shall be as short as possible consistent with completeness, clearly and concisely written, and neatly and logically assembled; applications shall exclude material not essential to evaluation of the proposal. The importance of supplying full and completely responsive information for each of the evaluation criteria cannot be overemphasized. If the offer is submitted under a joint venture arrangement, this fact must be clearly set forth. The cost principles that shall apply will depend on the type of awardee; FAR 31.2 and DEAR 931.2 shall apply to commercial organizations; OMB Circular A&hyph;21 shall apply to institutions of higher education; OMB Circular A&hyph;87 shall apply to state and local governments; and OMB Circular A&hyph;722 shall apply to nonprofit organizations. The awardee must have an accounting system capable of accumulating costs by project. All applicants are required to provide in the application the nine digit Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) assigned by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. a. Proprietary Proposal Information: Applications submitted in response to this solicitation may contain trade secrets and/or privileged or confidential commercial or financial information which the applicant does not want used or disclosed for any purpose other than evaluation of the application. The use and disclosure of such data may be restricted provided the applicant marks the cover sheet of the application with the following legend, specifying the pages of the application which are to be restricted in accordance with the conditions of the legend: The data contained in pages XXX of this application have been submitted in confidence and contain trade secrets or proprietary information, and such data shall be used or disclosed only for evaluation purposes, provided that if this applicant receives an award as a result of or in connection with the submission of this application, DOE shall have the right to use or disclose the data herein to the extent provided in the award. This restriction does not limit the government's right to use or disclose data obtained without restriction from any source, including the applicant. Further, to protect such data, each page containing such data shall be specifically identified and marked, including each line or paragraph containing the data to be protected with a legend similar to the following:
