FR941028-0-00096 FR941028-0-00009 §773.5 Definitions. * * * * * Applicant/Violator System or AVS means the computer system maintained by OSM to identify ownership or control links involving permit applicants, permittees, and persons cited in violation notices. Federal violation notice means a violation notice issued by OSM or by another agency or instrumentality of the United States. * * * * * Ownership or control link means any relationship included in the definition of ``owned or controlled'' or ``owns or controls'' in this section or in the violations review provisions of §773.15(b) of this part. It includes any relationship presumed to constitute ownership or control under the definition of ``owned or controlled'' or ``owns or controls'' in this section, unless such presumption has been successfully rebutted under the provisions of §§773.24 and 773.25 of this part or under the provisions of part 775 of this chapter and §773.25. State violation notice means a violation notice issued by a State regulatory authority or by another agency or instrumentality of State government. Violation notice means any written notification from a governmental entity, whether by letter, memorandum, judicial or administrative pleading, or other written communication, of a violation of the Act; any Federal rule or regulation promulgated pursuant thereto; a State program; or any Federal or State law, rule, or regulation pertaining to air or water environmental protection in connection with a surface coal mining operation. It includes, but is not limited to, a notice of violation; an imminent harm cessation order; a failure-to-abate cessation order; a final order, bill, or demand letter pertaining to a delinquent civil penalty; a bill or demand letter pertaining to delinquent abandoned mine reclamation fees; and a notice of bond forfeiture, where one or more violations upon which the forfeiture was based have not been corrected. 6. Section 773.10 is revised to read as follows: §773.10 Information collection. (a) The collections of information contained in 30 CFR part 773 have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. and assigned clearance number 1029&hyph;0041. The information will be used by the regulatory authorities in processing applications. Response is required to obtain a benefit in accordance with 30 U.S.C. 1201 et seq. (b) Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average four and one-half hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate to OSM Information Collection Clearance Officer, Room 640 NC, 1951 Constitution Ave., Washington, DC 20240; and the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (1029&hyph;0041), Washington, DC 20503. 7. Section 773.15 is amended by revising paragraphs (b)(1) introductory text and (b)(2) as follows: §773.15 Review of permit applications. * * * * * (b) Review of violations. (1) Based on a review of all reasonably available information concerning violation notices and ownership or control links involving the applicant, including information obtained pursuant to §§773.22, 773.23, 778.13, and 778.14 of this chapter, the regulatory authority shall not issue the permit if any surface coal mining and reclamation operation owned or controlled by either the applicant or by any person who owns or controls the applicant is currently in violation of the Act, any Federal rule or regulation promulgated pursuant thereto, a State program, or any Federal or State law, rule, or regulation pertaining to air or water environmental protection. In the absence of a failure-to-abate cessation order, the regulatory authority may presume that a notice of violation issued pursuant to §843.12 of this chapter or under a Federal or State program is being corrected to the satisfaction of the agency with jurisdiction over the violation where the abatement period for such notice of violation has not yet expired and where, as part of the violation information provided pursuant to §778.14 of this chapter, the applicant has provided certification that such violation is in the process of being so corrected. Such presumption shall not apply where evidence to the contrary is set forth in the permit application, or where the notice of violation is issued for nonpayment of abandoned mine land reclamation fees or civil penalties. If a current violation exists, the regulatory authority shall require the applicant or person who owns or controls the applicant, before the issuance of the permit, to either_ * * * * *
