FR940318-2-00263 FR940318-2-00131 Petition for a Waiver of Compliance In accordance with 49 CFR 211.41, notice is hereby given that the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) has received a request for a waiver of compliance with certain requirements of Federal railroad safety regulations. The individual petitions are described below, including the party seeking relief, the regulatory provisions involved, the nature of the relief being requested and the petitioner's arguments in favor of relief. Interested parties are invited to participate in these proceedings by submitting written views, data, or comments. FRA does not anticipate scheduling a public hearing in connection with these proceedings since the facts do not appear to warrant a hearing. If any interested party desires an opportunity for comment, they should notify FRA, in writing, before the end of the comment period and specify the basis for their request. All communications concerning these proceedings should identify the appropriate docket number (e.g., Waiver Petition Docket No. RSEQ&hyph;92&hyph;1) and must be submitted in triplicate to the Docket Clerk, Office of Chief Counsel, Federal Railroad Administration, Nassif Building, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. Communications received before April 18, 1994 will be considered by FRA before final action is taken. Comments received after that date will be considered as far as practicable. All written communications concerning these proceedings are available for examination during regular business hours (9 a.m.&hyph;5 p.m.) in room 8201, Nassif Building, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. The waiver petitions are as follows: Bellefonte Historical Railroad Society (BHRX) (Waiver Petition Docket No. RSAD&hyph;93&hyph;2) The BHRX seeks a permanent waiver of compliance from the provisions of Control of Alcohol and Drug Use (49 CFR part 219, subparts E, F and G). The BHRX is an all-volunteer, non-profit railroad that operates two rail diesel cars in excursion service at slow speeds under a trackage rights agreement on Nittany and Bald Eagle Railroad on a regular weekend schedule in the spring, summer, and fall. BHRX believes that the threat to safety from drug or alcohol abuse is very limited because BHRX supervisory personnel contact their few operating employees regularly during train operations and would recognize any unusual behavior. The petitioner indicates that granting the exemption is in the public interest and will not adversely affect safety. Fillmore and Western Railroad FMWX FRA Waiver Petition Docket No. HS&hyph;93&hyph;23 The FMWX seeks an exemption from the Hours of Service Act to permit certain employees to remain on duty not more than 16 hours in any 24-hour period. The FMWX provides service for the movie industry in the Los Angles, California, area. The FWR conducts no interchange services. Texas Gonzales and Northern Railway Company (TXGN) FRA Waiver Petition Docket No. HS&hyph;93&hyph;24 The TXGN seeks an exemption from the Hours of Service Act to permit certain employees to remain on duty not more than 16 hours in any 24-hour period. The TXGN provides service over 12 miles of track in Gonzales County, Texas. The TXGN conducts interchange services with Southern Pacific Transportation Company at Hardwood, Texas. The petitioner indicates that granting the exemption is in the public interest and will not adversely affect safety. Carolina Rail Services Company (CRIJ) FRA Waiver Petition Docket No. HS&hyph;93&hyph;25 The CRIJ seeks an exemption from the Hours of Service Act. The CRIJ is a Class III intra-port switching railroad serving approximately seven to eight customers at the Port of Morehead City, North Carolina. The CRIJ operates only two switching locomotives which pull its cars over three to four miles of line at extremely low speeds without traversing a public crossing. The CRIJ has four full-time employees and several part-time employees. Occasionally, CRIJ's crews are required to wait for a specific ship to be unloaded and the 12 hour limitation imposed by the Hours of Service Act unduly restricts CRIJ's operations. In no case will CRIJ exceed 16 hours should the exemption be provided. The petitioner indicates that granting the exemption is in the public interest and will not adversely affect safety. Additionally, the petitioner asserts it has demonstrated good cause for granting this exemption.
