FR940429-2-00075 FR940429-2-00062 Date: February 10, 1994 Case No. 82&hyph;OFC&hyph;6 In the matter of: Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, United States Department of Labor, Plaintiff, v. Commonwealth Aluminum, Formerly Martin-Marietta Aluminum of Kentucky, Inc., Defendant. Before: The Acting Assistant Secretary for Employment Standards. Final Decision and Order This case arises under Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 793 (1988), and its implementing regulations at 41 CFR part 60&hyph;741 (1992). The Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) filed exceptions to several aspects of the Administrative Law Judge's (ALJ) Recommended Decision and Order (R.D. and O.) which concluded that the complaint filed by OFCCP should be dismissed in its entirety. Background On September 7, 1982, OFCCP filed a complaint alleging that Commonwealth Aluminum 1 failed to employ or advance in employment eight qualified handicapped individuals. Administrative Exhibit (A) 1. At the hearing, the complaint relating to William J. Shelton was dismissed for ``failure of proof.'' R.D. and O. at 2. 1 Although at the time the complaint was filed Defendant was known as Martin-Marietta Aluminum of Kentucky, Inc., for ease of reference it will be referred to throughout as Commonwealth. Commonwealth owns and operates an aluminum processing facility near Lewisport, Kentucky. All applicants for employment are required to have a pre-employment physical examination, which includes back x-rays. Id. at 3. If the x-rays reveal evidence of spondylolisthesis, severe scoliosis, discogenic disease or severe arthritis, the applicant is subject to rejection. Plaintiff's Exhibit (P)&hyph;26. If the physical examination discloses conditions which are surgically correctable, it is Commonwealth's policy to suspend the individual's employment application pending treatment. R.D. and O. at 3. See P&hyph;3, 5. Job applicants Gregory Gray and David Worthington filed complaints with OFCCP alleging that Commonwealth did not employ them because they were handicapped. P&hyph;37, 38. OFCCP investigators examined Commonwealth's hiring policies and asked if there were other job applicants who were rejected during the same general time period for failure to pass the pre-employment physical examination. Commonwealth provided a list which included Robert Etnire, Thomas Marshall, Wilda Matthis, William Shelton, Kenneth Sherrard, and William Zellers. R.D. and O. at 3. Commonwealth suspended Gray's application pending surgical correction of a hearing loss. P&hyph;3, 5. Complainant Worthington was blind in the left eye, had sixty percent hearing loss in the left ear and an eighteen percent permanent back disability. P&hyph;7. Commonwealth rejected his application 2 because he was too much of a safety risk in view of his multiple impairments. Transcript (T.) 296, 918. The applications of Matthis and Sherrard were rejected because of scoliosis. P&hyph;3; T. at 539. Commonwealth rejected Etnire's application 3 because of degenerative changes in the lumbar spine, P&hyph;18, and Zeller's application because of spondylolisthesis. T. 637. Marshall's application was suspended until he had a hernia surgically corrected. T. 613, 814. 2 Worthington was thereafter hired but later resigned his position. R.D. and O. at 4 3 Etnire passed a physical examination the following year, was hired, and was working for Commonwealth at the time of the hearing. T. at 363, 373, 377, 890. The ALJ concluded that OFCCP could not seek individual relief on behalf of Complainants Etnire, Marshall, Matthis, Sherrard and Zellers because none of them filed a complaint. R.D. and O. at 5&hyph;11. Assuming that OFCCP had met its burden of establishing that Complainant Worthington was a handicapped individual, the ALJ noted that he had accepted employment with Commonwealth following his initial rejection and thereafter voluntarily terminated his employment. The ALJ concluded that an order to reemploy Worthington would be inappropriate and there was, therefore, no need to consider if Worthington would be entitled to retroactive seniority. Since OFCCP was not seeking back pay for Worthington, the ALJ decided that OFCCP had failed to state a claim upon which individual relief could be granted in his behalf. Id. at 12.
