FR940902-2-00123 FR940902-2-00053 N. Control means the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of a person other than an individual. O. A person will be ``independent'' of another person only if: (1) such person is not an affiliate of that other person; and (2) the other person, or an affiliate thereof, is not a fiduciary who has investment management authority or renders investment advice with respect to any assets of such person. P. ``Sale'' includes the entrance into a forward delivery commitment (as defined in section Q below), provided: (1) The terms of the forward delivery commitment (including any fee paid to the investing plan) are no less favorable to the plan than they would be in an arm's length transaction with an unrelated party; (2) The prospectus or private placement memorandum is provided to an investing plan prior to the time the plan enters into the forward delivery commitment; and (3) At the time of the delivery, all conditions of this exemption applicable to sales are met. Q. Forward delivery commitment means a contract for the purchase or sale of one or more certificates to be delivered at an agreed future settlement date. The term includes both mandatory contracts (which contemplate obligatory delivery and acceptance of the certificates) and optional contracts (which give one party the right but not the obligation to deliver certificates to, or demand delivery of certificates from, the other party). R. ``Reasonable compensation'' has the same meaning as that term is defined in 29 CFR 2550.408c&hyph;2. S. Qualified Administrative Fee means a fee which meets the following criteria: (1) the fee is triggered by an act or failure to act by the obligor other than the normal timely payment of amounts owing in respect of the obligations; (2) the servicer may not charge the fee absent the act or failure to act referred to in (1); (3) the ability to charge the fee, the circumstances in which the fee may be charged, and an explanation of how the fee is calculated are set forth in the pooling and servicing agreement; and (4) the amount paid to investors in the trust will not be reduced by the amount of any such fee waived by the servicer. T. Qualified Equipment Note Secured By A Lease means an equipment note: (a) which is secured by equipment which is leased; (b) which is secured by the obligation of the lessee to pay rent under the equipment lease; and (c) with respect to which the trust's security interest in the equipment is at least as protective of the rights of the trust as the trust would have if the equipment note were secured only by the equipment and not the lease. U. Qualified Motor Vehicle Lease means a lease of a motor vehicle where: (a) the trust holds a security interest in the lease; (b) the trust holds a security interest in the leased motor vehicle; and (c) the trust's security interest in the leased motor vehicle is at least as protective of the trust's rights as the trust would receive under a motor vehicle installment loan contract. V. Pooling and Servicing Agreement means the agreement or agreements among a sponsor, a servicer and the trustee establishing a trust. In the case of certificates which are denominated as debt instruments, ``Pooling and Servicing Agreement'' also includes the indenture entered into by the trustee of the trust issuing such certificates and the indenture trustee. Effective Date: This exemption, if granted, will be effective for transactions occurring on or after June 28, 1994. Summary of Facts and Representations 1. GECMSI is incorporated in the State of New Jersey, and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of GE Capital Mortgage Corporation, a holding company, which in turn is a wholly-owned subsidiary of General Electric Capital Corporation. GECMSI is engaged in the business of acquiring and servicing residential mortgage loans secured by one- to four-family homes. GECMSI's servicing business is derived from one of two sources: a) it will acquire or originate a mortgage loan which it will service; or b) it will service a mortgage loan which it has neither acquired nor originated. GECMSI is also involved in the home equity business through its Home Equity Services unit. Capital Markets is incorporated in the State of Delaware, and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of General Electric Capital Corporation. Capital Markets engages in certain limited securities-related transactions on behalf of General Electric Capital Corporation and its subsidiaries. Capital Markets is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a broker-dealer under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
