FR940722-1-00049 FR940722-1-00012 7. Any functions that cannot be readily shed following the loss of generator power. 8. Engine inlet heat or deicing protection required for normal operation of the airplane. Although power for the listed functions may provide for the safe operation and landing of most airplanes, individual airplane designs may require the consideration of additional functions. In applying these rules it may be assumed that airframe and engine icing protection equipment would not be operating at the time of the generator system failure. Power for icing protection would not be required if the icing protection equipment is not required for the normal operation of the airplane. This proposal would require additional battery capacity and would not alter or supersede any other requirements in this part for separate or dedicated emergency power supplies. When requirements such as those in current §23.1331(a) or in proposed §23.1311(a)(5) are applicable to the airplane design, these power supplies are required to provide a needed level of safety for that function; therefore, that power source must be supplied. Section 23.1359␣Electrical System Fire Protection Proposed new §23.1359 would require smoke and fire protection for electrical system installations. The provisions of §23.1359(a) of this proposal state that electrical systems must meet the applicable requirements of §§23.863 and 23.1182. Proposed §23.1359(b) would require that the electrical systems components installed in designated fire zones and used during emergency procedures be fire resistant. This provision is needed to clarify the requirements for electrical system components that may be installed in the designated fire zones identified in §23.1181. Finally, §23.1359(c) provides burn criteria for electrical wire and cables. A proposed revision to appendix F of part 23 that would add appropriate wire testing criteria is included in this notice. This proposed burn criteria for wire is necessary because of the increased use of electrical systems in the design of part 23 airplanes and the resulting increase in the amount of electrical wire being installed. This increased use results in the need to ensure that wire insulating material does not become the source of an in-flight fire and/or that it does not propagate a fire from another source. The electrical wire burn requirements in this proposal, along with the testing identified in revised appendix F, would ensure that installed electrical wire has insulating material that reduces the possibility of hazardous in-flight fires. Section 23.1361␣Master Switch Arrangement To harmonize with the JAR this proposal would revise §23.1361(c) by making an editorial change to remove the last two words of the paragraph that read ``in flight.'' Section 23.1365␣Electrical Cables and Equipment This proposal would revise §23.1365(b) and would add three new paragraphs. Section 23.1365(b) would be revised in relation to proposed new §23.1359(c), which would require self-extinguishing insulated electrical wires and cables. Current §23.1365(b) requires that cable and associated equipment that would overheat in the event of circuit overload or fault must be flame resistant and may not emit dangerous quantities of toxic fumes. The proposed revisions to §23.1365(b) would remove the reference to electrical cables from the flame resistance requirement since the cables would be required to have self-extinguishing insulation under §23.1359(c). The requirement for electrical cables and the associated equipment that would overheat to not emit dangerous quantities of toxic fumes has been retained. The text of §23.1365(b) that includes the words ``at least flame resistant '' would also be revised by removing the words ``at least''. The removed words implied that there were burn requirements, other than the ones in this section, that must be met. The three paragraphs that would be added by this proposal would require: (1) The identification of electrical cables, terminals, and connectors; (2) the protection of electrical cables from damage by external sources; and (3) installation criteria for cables that cannot be protected by a circuit protection device. As identified in the discussion of proposed §23.1359, there is an increasing use of electrical systems in part 23 airplanes. The resulting increase in the number of electrical wires used in part 23 airplanes makes proper installation difficult. The proposal for electrical cable identification would provide better assurance that the cables will be correctly installed initially and correctly reinstalled when airplane maintenance or modifications are accomplished. The other proposed new requirements would provide installation criteria that will ensure the protection of cables under circumstances that can be expected from the increased use of electrical systems. Section 23.1383␣Taxi and Landing Lights The landing light requirements of §23.1383 would be revised by adding taxi lights to this section. When the landing light requirements were included in the normal, utility, acrobatic, and commuter category requirements, the same lights were used for both night landing and taxiing of the airplane. Due to availability of different types of lights, separate lights are now frequently installed for landing and for taxiing. Including the word ``taxi'' in the heading would clarify that the requirements cover both kinds of lights. Current §23.1383(a), which requires the lights to be acceptable, would be deleted because it is unnecessary to state this. All lights that are found to meet the requirements of this section and other directly related airworthiness requirements are acceptable. The paragraphs would be redesignated accordingly. Current §23.1383(b)(3) requires that a landing light must be installed to provide enough light for a night landing. Proposed §23.1383(c) would revise ``night landing'' to ``night operation'' since the requirements would also cover taxiing and parking. Proposed new paragraph (d) would require the lights to be installed so that they do not cause a fire hazard. This clarifies the need for such an evaluation.
