FR940617-0-00108 FR940617-0-00024 (3) Any such regulations or conditions will be issued only if, after notice and opportunity for public comment, the Assistant Administrator determines such action is necessary to further the purposes of section 114 of the MMPA. ยง229.9 Penalties. (a) Except as otherwise provided, all violations of these regulations are subject to NOAA's civil procedures contained in 15 CFR part 904. (b) Notwithstanding any other provision in these or other NOAA regulations, a person or vessel will not be subject to penalties for unknowing violations based on failure to register occurring before January 1, 1990. An unknowing violation is one where the violator can establish that he or she has not received actual prior notice of the registration requirements and has not had the opportunity to receive actual notice. Actual notice is presumed where a person has received a MMPA Exemption Registration form or any other publication published by National Marine Fisheries Service for the purpose of informing the public of the registration requirements contained in these regulations. ยง229.10 Confidential fisheries data. (a) Proprietary or confidential information includes information, the unauthorized disclosure of which could be prejudicial or harmful, such as information or data that are identifiable with an individual fisherman. Proprietary or confidential information obtained under this part 229 must not be disclosed except: (1) To Federal employees whose duties require access to such information; (2) To state employees under an agreement with the Assistant Administrator that prevents public disclosure of the identity or business of any person; (3) When required by court order; or (4) In the case of scientific information involving fisheries, to employees of Regional Fishery Management Councils who are responsible for fishery management plan development and monitoring. (b) Information will be made public in aggregate, summary, or other such form that does not disclose the identity or business of any person in accordance with NOAA Directive 88&hyph;30. Aggregate or summary form means data or information submitted by three or more persons that have been summed or assembled in such a way that the summation or assembly does not reveal the identity or business of any person. Subpart B_Emergency and Special Regulations [Reserved] [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14248 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;P
