FR940613-0-00054 FR940613-0-00015 OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: VEHICLE: The CRASH pointed out two vehicle requirements missing from the SNPRM, one concerning emergency equipment and the other concerning passing requirements. Both provisions have been added to appendix C. PERMIT: The CRASH commented that the SNPRM did not include the requirement to have insurance coverage of certain amounts. Appendix C has been changed to reflect the requirement to have insurance coverage, however, the amounts are not included in appendix C. The amount of insurance coverage is not an item that is directly related to the size and weight of LCV's. MICHIGAN COMBINATION: The State commented that the vehicle in question is a truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer where one of the cargo units exceeds 28.5 feet in length. Michigan statutes allow an overall length for the two trailers, as measured from the front of the first trailer to the rear of the second trailer, of 58 feet, including the load. This vehicle configuration was excluded from the original listing of LCV's in the NPRM. The exclusion was based on a definition of excepted combination used in the NPRM (57 FR 9901, March 20, 1992) as follows: Truck tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer and truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer configurations with a maximum length of cargo-carrying units of 62 feet or less are subject to the provisions of 23 CFR part 658. These are the twin 28-foot units authorized by the STAA, and the 28-foot B-train doubles authorized as specialized equipment by the FHWA. Michigan contends that the vehicle was correctly excepted in the NPRM since the Michigan vehicle clearly fell within the length parameters of non-LCV vehicles. The exclusion by the FHWA in the NPRM was erroneous. The vehicle was included in the SNPRM and is now in the final rule since it can consist of a truck tractor and two trailing units and can carry more than 80,000 pounds on the Interstate System. The State also commented that the ``Rocky Mountain Double_LCV'' description in the SNPRM was inappropriate for the vehicle in operation in Michigan. The revised combination categories now used in appendix C has alleviated this concern. MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: The State commented that the table listing vehicle combinations subject to the ISTEA, illustrating a Michigan vehicle listed under ``Rocky Mountain Doubles'' with a 128,000-pound maximum gross weight, was inappropriate. Michigan, the State argued, is an axle weight State with a grandfather provision and maximum gross weights are determined based on axle and axle group weight limits. Therefore, it would be inappropriate to specify a single maximum gross weight for Michigan. The FHWA does not agree. The table and text have been revised to show a maximum allowable gross weight of 154,000 pounds. The 154,000-pound figure was determined from the maximum axle weight limits for an 11-axle vehicle (the maximum number of axles allowed under State law) with optimum axle spacing and with a combined cargo-carrying box length of 58 feet. Vehicles with fewer axles or less than optimum axle spacing will have a lower allowable gross weight based on State requirements. OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: VEHICLE: Michigan commented that certain statements included in the SNPRM did not apply to the vehicle in question. These statements concerned (1) the overall length of a truck and trailer or semitrailer combination and (2) operational hours for certain vehicles hauling hazardous materials. The appropriate sentences have been removed from the text. ACCESS: The State commented that ``Access'' should read ``all designated State highways.'' This change has been made. ROUTES: In response to a comment by the State, the ``ROUTES'' description has been changed to indicate that all Interstate and designated State highways are open to these vehicles.
