FR941117-0-00067 FR941117-0-00011 §22.7 General eligibility. Except as otherwise provided in this part, existing and proposed common carriers are eligible to hold authorizations in the Public Mobile Services. Applications are granted only if the applicant is legally, financially, technically and otherwise qualified to render the proposed service. §22.99 Definitions. Terms used in this part have the following meanings: Air-Ground Radiotelephone Service. A radio service in which common carriers are authorized to offer and provide radio telecommunications service for hire to subscribers in aircraft. Airborne station. A mobile station in the Air-Ground Radiotelephone Service authorized for use on aircraft while in flight or on the ground. Antenna structure. A structure comprising an antenna, the tower or other structure that exists solely to support antennas, and any surmounting appurtenances (attachments such as beacons or lightning rods). Antenna. A device that converts radio frequency electrical energy to radiated electromagnetic energy and vice versa; in a transmitting station, the device from which radio waves are emitted. Archival quality microfiche. A silver halide master microfiche or a copy made on silver halide film. Assignment of authorization. A transfer of a Public Mobile Services authorization from one party to another, voluntarily or involuntarily, directly or indirectly, or by transfer of control of the licensee. Authorization. A written instrument or oral statement issued by the FCC conveying authority to operate, for a specified term, a station in the Public Mobile Services. Authorized bandwidth. The necessary or occupied bandwidth of an emission, whichever is more. Authorized spectrum. The spectral width of that portion of the electromagnetic spectrum within which the emission power of the authorized transmitter(s) must be contained, in accordance with the rules in this part. The authorized spectrum comprises one channel bandwidth or the bandwidths of two or more contiguous channels. Auxiliary test transmitter. A fixed transmitter used to test Public Mobile systems. Base transmitter. A stationary transmitter that provides radio telecommunications service to mobile and/or fixed receivers, including those associated with mobile stations. Blanketing interference. Disturbance in consumer receivers located in the immediate vicinity of a transmitter, caused by currents directly induced into the consumer receiver's circuitry by the relatively high field strength of the transmitter. Build-out transmitters. In the Cellular Radiotelephone Service, transmitters added to the first cellular system authorized on a channel block in a cellular market during the five year build-out period in order to expand the coverage of the system within the market. Cardinal radials. Eight imaginary straight lines extending radially on the ground from an antenna location in the following azimuths with respect to true North: 0 ○, 45 ○, 90 ○, 135 ○, 180 ○, 225 ○, 270 ○, 315 ○. Carrier frequency. The frequency of the unmodulated electrical wave at the output of an amplitude modulated (AM), frequency modulated (FM) or phase modulated (PM) transmitter. Cell . The service area of an individual transmitter location in a cellular system. Cellular Geographic Service Area. The geographic area served by a cellular system, within which that system is entitled to protection and adverse effects are recognized, for the purpose of determining whether a petitioner has standing. See §22.911. Cellular markets. Standard geographic areas used by the FCC for administrative convenience in the licensing of cellular systems. See §22.909. Cellular Radiotelephone Service. A radio service in which common carriers are authorized to offer and provide cellular service for hire to the general public. This service was formerly titled Domestic Public Cellular Radio Telecommunications Service. Cellular repeater. In the Cellular Radiotelephone Service, a stationary transmitter or device that automatically re-radiates the transmissions of base transmitters at a particular cell site and mobile stations communicating with those base transmitters, with or without channel translation. Cellular service. Radio telecommunication services provided using a cellular system. Cellular system. An automated high-capacity system of one or more multichannel base stations designed to provide radio telecommunication services to mobile stations over a wide area in a spectrally efficient manner. Cellular systems employ techniques such as low transmitting power and automatic hand-off between base stations of communications in progress to enable channels to be reused at relatively short distances. Cellular systems may also employ digital techniques such as voice encoding and decoding, data compression, error correction, and time or code division multiple access in order to increase system capacity. Center frequency. The frequency of the middle of the bandwidth of a channel. Central office transmitter. A fixed transmitter in the Rural Radiotelephone Service that provides service to rural subscriber stations. CGSA. See Cellular Geographic Service Area. Channel. The portion of the electromagnetic spectrum assigned by the FCC for one emission. In certain circumstances, however, more than one emission may be transmitted on a channel. See, for example, §22.161. Channel bandwidth. The spectral width of a channel, as specified in this part, within which 99% of the emission power must be contained. Channel block. A group of channels that are assigned together, not individually. Channel pair. Two channels that are assigned together, not individually. In this part, channel pairs are indicated by an ellipsis between the center frequencies. Communications channel. In the Cellular Radiotelephone and Air-ground Radiotelephone Services, a channel used to carry subscriber communications. Construction period. The period between the date of grant of an authorization and the date of required commencement of service.
