FR940707-2-00137 FR940707-2-00064 Managing Migratory Bird Subsistence Hunting in Alaska; Strategy for Regulating the Spring and Summer Taking of Migratory Birds in Alaska for Subsistence Purposes AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of availability of final environmental assessment and finding of no significant impact. SUMMARY: This Notice is to inform the public of the availability of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's (Service) final environmental assessment (EA) evaluating alternatives for resolving the problem of ongoing spring and summer migratory bird subsistence hunting. This notice also makes available to the public the substance of the Service's proposed Finding of No Significant Impact which results from the EA. The Service has finalized the selection of the preferred alternative set out in the EA, i.e., to amend the 1916 Convention Between the United States and Great Britain for the Protection of Migratory Birds (Convention) to allow a regulated migratory bird subsistence harvest during what is now the closed period of March 10 to September 1. The final EA is available from the Service upon request at either of the addresses provided below (See ADDRESSES: and/or FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: ). DATES: The decision stated in the Finding of No Significant Impact will be effective no earlier than August 8, 1994. ADDRESSES: The contact point for this matter is: Director (FWS/MBMO), U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 634 ARLSQ, 1849 C St., NW., Washington, DC 20240; or Regional Director (MBC), Region 7, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 1011 E. Tudor Road, Anchorage, AK 99503. Any comments received on previous drafts are available for public inspection during normal business hours in Room 634 Arlington Square Building, 4401 No. Fairfax Drive, Arlington, VA 22203; or, for those comments originating within Alaska, 3rd Floor, Room 3387, 1011 E. Tudor Road, Anchorage, Alaska 99503. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Keith A. Morehouse, Staff Specialist, Office of Migratory Bird Management, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 634 ARLSQ, 1849 C St., NW., Washington, DC 20240 (703/358&hyph;1714); or Mr. Robin West, Migratory Bird Coordinator, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 1011 E. Tudor Road, Anchorage, AK 99503 (907/786&hyph;3423). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Subsistence hunting of migratory birds for cultural and nutritional purposes occurs in Alaska and in the far northern areas of Canada as a customary and traditional activity during the closed period (between March 10 and September 1) required by the Convention and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (16 U.S.C. 703 et seq. ), which implements the terms of the Convention. Apparently, the framers of the Convention were aware of migratory bird subsistence hunting activity but unaware of the extent to which it was needed and practiced by far northern rural peoples. Thus, the Convention provides inadequately for this particular subsistence use, with the result that much of the current subsistence hunting activity is illegal. However, restricting subsistence hunting to a time period outside of that in which birds are available neither provides equitable access to the resource nor accommodates customary and traditional uses. Because the Service recognizes the legitimate need for equitable access to the migratory bird resource for subsistence purposes, regulatory strategies have been under evaluation which would bring about successful resolution of the problem. The Service has recently completed the environmental assessment process regarding this issue and the results are contained in the final EA titled ``Regulation of Migratory Bird Subsistence Hunting in Alaska,'' dated May 1994. All comments received during the review of the draft EA have been considered in the preparation of the final EA. The Service has also completed a proposed Finding of No Significant Impact for the EA process, which is as follows: Finding of No-Significant Impact Finding of no significant impact for managing migratory bird subsistence hunting in Alaska On the basis of the final environmental assessment analysis contained in the document titled ``Managing Migratory Bird Subsistence Hunting in Alaska'' and dated May 1994, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service finds that no significant impacts will result from the action to be taken to amend the 1916 Convention Between the U.S. and Great Britain [For Canada] For the Protection of Migratory Birds (Convention). The Service examined five alternatives for dealing with the subsistence hunting of migratory bird issue, which are: (1) maintaining the status quo; (2) expanding the universe of cooperative agreements; (3) enforcing the terms of the current Convention; (4) amending the Convention; and (5) amending the Migratory Bird Treaty Act to allow subsistence hunting outside of the Convention. Action modifiers which specify how subsistence harvest of migratory birds would be managed were considered in conjunction with the five alternatives. Amendment of the Convention is the Service's preferred strategy for resolving problems associated with the illegal subsistence hunting of migratory birds by far northern peoples in Alaska and Canada.
