FR940803-1-00020 FR940803-1-00004 1. Frequency of rate changes. Credit unions that reserve the right to change rates at any time must state that fact. (b)(1)(ii)(D) 1. Limitations. A floor or ceiling on rates or on the amount the rate may decrease or increase during any time period must be disclosed. Credit unions need not disclose the absence of limitations on rate changes. (b)(2) Compounding and crediting (b)(2)(i) Frequency 1. General. Descriptions such as ``quarterly'' or ``monthly'' are sufficient. Irregular crediting and compounding periods, such as if a cycle is cut short at year end for tax reporting purposes, need not be disclosed. 2. Dividend period. For dividend-bearing share accounts, the dividend period must be disclosed. A specific example of frequency must be given. (See Appendix B, ยงB&hyph;1(c).) (b)(2)(ii) Effect of closing an account 1. Deeming an account closed. If permissible under federal and state law, credit unions may provide in account contracts that certain actions by members will be treated as the member voluntarily closing the account which will result in the forfeiture of accrued but uncredited dividends, such as when a member withdraws all funds from the account prior to the date dividends are credited. Credit unions are cautioned that bylaw requirements may prevent a credit union from deeming a member's account closed until certain time periods are extinguished if funds remain in a member's account. NCUA Standard FCU Bylaws, Art. III, ยง3 (members have at least 6 months to replenish membership share before membership terminates and account is deemed closed). Such bylaw requirements may not be overridden without proper agency approval. (b)(3) Balance information (b)(3)(i) Minimum balance requirements 1. Par value. Credit unions must disclose any minimum balance required to open the account, to avoid the imposition of a fee, or to obtain the annual percentage yield. Since members cannot generally maintain any accounts until the par value of the membership share is paid in full, this section requires that credit unions disclose the par value of a share necessary to become a member and maintain accounts at the credit union. The par value of a share and the minimum balance requirement do not have to be the same amount (e.g., a credit union may have a $5 par value for a membership share, in order for accounts to be opened and maintained, and a $100 minimum balance requirement, in order for the account to earn dividends). 2. Disclosures. The explanation of minimum balance computation methods may be combined with the balance computation method disclosures (ยง707.4(b)(3)(ii)) if they are the same. If a credit union uses different cycles for determining minimum balance requirements for purposes of assessing fees and for paying dividends, the credit union must disclose the specific cycle or time period used for each purpose (e.g., use of a midmonth statement cycle for determining dividends, and use of a calendar month cycle for determining fees). Credit unions may assess fees by using any method. If fees on one account are tied to the balance in another account, such provision must be explained (e.g., if share draft fees are tied to a minimum balance in the regular share account (or a combination of the share draft and regular share accounts), the share draft account must explain that fact and how the balance in the regular share account (or both accounts) is determined). The fee need not be disclosed in the account disclosures if the fee is not imposed on that account. (b)(3)(ii) Balance computation method 1. Methods and periods. Credit unions may use different methods or periods to calculate minimum balances for purposes of imposing a fee (daily balance for a calendar month, for example) and accruing dividends (average daily balance for a statement period, for example). Each method and period must be disclosed (b)(3)(iii) When dividends begin to accrue 1. Additional information. Credit unions may disclose additional information such as the time of day after which share deposits are treated as having been received the following business day, and may use additional descriptive terms such as ``ledger'' or ``collected'' balances to disclose when dividends or interest begin to accrue. Under the ledger balance method, dividends begin to accrue on the day of deposit. Under the collected balance method, dividends begin to accrue when provisional credit is received for the item deposited. Credit unions must include a statement as to when dividends begin to accrue for noncash deposits. (b)(4) Fees. 1. Types of fees. The following are types of fees that must be disclosed in connection with an account: Maintenance fees, such as monthly service fees Fees related to share deposits or withdrawals, such as fees for use of the credit union's ATMs or nonproprietary ATMs Fees for special services, such as stop payment fees, fees for balance inquiries or verification of share and deposits, and fees associated with checks returned unpaid Fees to open or to close accounts Credit unions need not disclose fees such as the following: Fees assessed for services offered to members and nonmembers alike, such as fees for certain travelers checks, to process credit card cash advances, or to handle U.S. Savings Bond redemption
