FR940725-1-00053 FR940725-1-00010 (c) Engine reliability is a significant factor in the accident study. (For example, airplanes of similar or the same aerodynamic configuration, but with different engines, have significantly different accident records.) After reviewing the accident statistics, and recognizing the performance capabilities of the accident airplanes, the FAA concludes the following: (a) Engine reliability would not be of major concern if the airplane had adequate performance on the remaining operative engine. (b) The loss of flying speed and subsequent loss of airplane control would not be a significant problem if the airplane exhibited adequate climb performance capabilities to fly out of an engine loss situation at low speeds. Based on these statistics and conclusions from the FAA 1991 study and on comments, the FAA has determined that WAT limits are necessary for safe operation of multiengine airplanes of the type that will be involved in transporting passengers for hire. Operating rules (part 135) are already in place that specify some performance limitations. The cutoff weight for reciprocating engine-powered airplanes of 6,000 pounds would encompass most airplanes of concern. All turbine engine-powered airplanes are included because of the adverse effect of increasing temperatures on turbine engine performance. This proposal would change §23.45 to require weight, altitude, and temperature (WAT) performance accountability for normal, utility, and acrobatic airplanes with a maximum takeoff weight over 6,000 pounds and all turbine-powered airplanes. Including WAT accountability necessitates reorganization and revisions to all paragraphs of this section. The inclusion of WAT accountability in part 23 also requires changes to several other sections in part 23. Paragraph (a)(1) would be revised to require that performance requirements be met for still air and ``standard atmosphere.'' Current (a)(1) uses the term ``standard atmospheric conditions.'' The applicability of paragraph (a) (1) and (2) would be revised to require that all airplanes meet the performance requirements in still air and standard atmosphere, and that ambient atmospheric conditions, which currently must be met by commuter category airplanes, would have to be met by (1) commuter category airplanes, (2) reciprocating engine-powered airplanes of more than 6,000 pounds maximum weight, and (3) turbine engine-powered airplanes. Proposed paragraph (b) would replace current requirements of paragraph (b), pertaining to power or thrust available, with the altitude and temperature requirements for performance data. Proposed §23.45(c) is modified §23.51. It would require that performance data be determined with the cowl flaps in the position used in cooling tests required by §23.1041 to §23.1047 and permits the cowl flap position to be addressed uniformly. Proposed paragraph (d) is the same as current paragraph (c) pertaining to the determination of available propulsion thrust. Proposed changes to §23.45 (b), (c), (d), and (e) would delete references to ``thrust'' and retain just ``power,'' for standardization with the JAR. This is considered appropriate since power covers engine output, despite how the absorbed power is transmitted to the atmosphere. The FAA proposes this change in subsequent sections where the term ``power or thrust'' is used. Proposed paragraph (e) is the same as requirements of current paragraph (d) with a minor editorial revision. Proposed new paragraph (f) is based on current paragraphs (e)(3) and (e)(5)(i), which apply only to commuter category airplanes. Proposed changes to §23.45(f) would extend to all airplane categories the requirement for all takeoff and landing procedures to be consistently executable by pilots of average skill. This is considered appropriate since takeoffs and landings must be made routinely by operational pilots. It is also appropriate that takeoff and landing performance data published in the Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) can be consistently achieved by operational pilots.
