FR940111-2-00035 FR940111-2-00017 The DENR clarified in an addendum to the MOA regarding the NPDES program that individual members of the general public and nonprofit organizations shall not be required to be represented by attorneys in NPDES program contested case hearings to the extent allowed by the State Bar Association and the State Supreme Court. EPA believes that a state bar association does not have the authority to direct the policies and procedures of a state agency which derives its authority from the state legislature. EPA does recognize that a state bar association can constrain the activities of individual attorneys employed by a state agency. In its oversight role, EPA will monitor future rulings of the South Dakota Bar Association and the State Supreme Court regarding citizen intervention and whether environmental organizations are being required to be represented by attorneys. If either of these occur, EPA will consider the impact these rulings and requirements have on the viability of the State's NPDES enforcement program. Conclusion EPA has determined that DENR intervention authority and procedures adequately meets the requirement of 40 CFR 123.27(d). IV. Jurisdiction Over Indian Country As outlined in EPA's September 1, 1993 Federal Register and August 27, 1993 newspaper notices, EPA withheld from NPDES program authorization consideration those lands which were in Indian Country or for which there was significant controversy over whether or not the land was Indian Country. As noted earlier, EPA provided copies of South Dakota's public notices to tribal councils and tribal environmental agencies. Tribal governments and affected permittees were also provided with copies of the list of permitted facilities which EPA would continue to administer. In withholding authorization for these areas, EPA was not making a determination as to whether or not South Dakota had adequate jurisdiction. This issue was considered deferred. Nevertheless, a number of comments were received regarding jurisdiction. No comments were received from tribal councils or tribal environmental organizations. A. Comments Regarding EPA's Continued Administration of the NPDES Program in Indian Country One commenter, a member of the regulated community, stated that EPA's retaining authority within the identified Indian Reservations should lighten the load for SDDENR. A number of commenters however, disagreed with EPA's administering the program in Indian Country or land in controversy. Some of the comments were the following: ``*␣*␣* EPA is asserting a jurisdictional authority which it cannot for regulatory and resource reasons, carry out; the result is inconsistent environmental protection, and some geographical areas left without environmental protection *␣*␣* If EPA insists that it carve out geographical areas of the state which should not have equal environmental protection, then I want to make it very clear that the State of South Dakota will further pursue the issue of jurisdiction on non-Indian lands within reservation boundaries.'' ``To the extent that EPA retains authority over facilities located on lands other than retained Indian allotments, we believe EPA violates the holding *␣*␣* [that] exclusive tribal and federal jurisdiction is limited to the retained allotments *␣*␣* We believe the better policy, at least as it applies to former reservation areas, is to grant the State authority unless the Tribe can show authority for the dischargers being within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Tribe or federal government.'' ``We feel South Dakota has demonstrated its intent and ability to administer programs fairly in the entire state. Therefore, the SDDENR should administer the NPDES program throughout the State. The department will need to work closely with tribal governments. Splitting the non-Federal responsibilities could result in ineffective protection of the waters of the state.'' A state agency expressed concern that the split in administering the program would cause confusion. B. EPA's Response to Comments Regarding Jurisdiction Over Indian Country
