FR940419-2-00179 FR940419-2-00087 f. Conditions establishing requirements for maximizing the treatment of wet weather flows at the POTW treatment plant, as appropriate, consistent with Section II.C.7. of this Policy; g. A reopener clause authorizing the NPDES authority to reopen and modify the permit upon determination that the CSO controls fail to meet WQS or protect designated uses. Upon such determination, the NPDES authority should promptly notify the permittee and proceed to modify or reissue the permit. The permittee should be required to develop, submit and implement, as soon as practicable, a revised CSO control plan which contains additional controls to meet WQS and designated uses. If the initial CSO control plan was approved under the demonstration provision of Section II.C.4.b., the revised plan, at a minimum, should provide for controls that satisfy one of the criteria in Section II.C.4.a. unless the permittee demonstrates that the revised plan is clearly adequate to meet WQS at a lower cost and it is shown that the additional controls resulting from the criteria in Section II.C.4.a. will not result in a greater overall improvement in water quality. Unless the permittee can comply with all of the requirements of the Phase II permit, the NPDES authority should include, in an enforceable mechanism, compliance dates on the fastest practicable schedule for those activities directly related to meeting the requirements of the CWA. For major permittees, the compliance schedule should be placed in a judicial order. Proper compliance with the schedule for implementing the controls recommended in the long-term CSO control plan constitutes compliance with the elements of this Policy concerning planning and implementation of a long term CSO remedy. 3. Phasing Considerations Implementation of CSO controls may be phased based on the relative importance of and adverse impacts upon WQS and designated uses, as well as the permittee's financial capability and its previous efforts to control CSOs. The NPDES authority should evaluate the proposed implementation schedule and construction phasing discussed in Section II.C.8. of this Policy. The permit should require compliance with the controls proposed in the long-term CSO control plan no later than the applicable deadline(s) under the CWA or State law. If compliance with the Phase II permit is not possible, an enforceable schedule, consistent with the Enforcement and Compliance Section of this Policy, should be issued in conjunction with the Phase II permit which specifies the schedule and milestones for implementation of the long-term CSO control plan.
