FR940825-0-00048 FR940825-0-00012 These regulations differentiate between the transportation of hazardous materials on U.S. Highway 191 and commercial vehicle use. The special use permit form will be used to manage either or both activities. Specific terms and conditions of the permit may vary depending upon the use(s) requested. In most cases, one permitting document will be utilized to authorize and manage the specific use. Vehicles regularly or frequently requiring a special use permit will generally be issued a permit which is valid for a period of one year. Vehicles that have a one-time, limited duration, or emergency need for a permit will be issued short term permits with a limited period of validity. Permit fees will be established in accordance with NPS guidelines (as amended or supplemented). A permit fee schedule will be reviewed, adjusted if appropriate, and published in the superintendent's compendium annually. General conditions of a special use permit are stated on the permit form (10&hyph;114). These conditions include that the permittee is expected to comply with applicable State and Federal regulations, which in the case of commercial vehicles includes motor vehicle codes and may include hazardous materials regulations depending upon the situation. Another standard condition of the permit is that the permittee is financially responsible for any damage resulting from the authorized use that would not reasonably be inherent in the use, such as a hazardous material spill. In accordance with applicable NPS guidelines, special park conditions may be appended to the form. Depending upon the circumstances, these may include time-of-travel restrictions, safety requirements, damage mitigation requirements, and provisions for revoking or terminating a permit. As with all other NPS permits, violations of terms or conditions of a special use permit will be administratively reviewed on a case by case basis to determine if suspension or revocation is appropriate. In general, permits will not be suspended or revoked unless violations occur that threaten or damage park resources, that create or sustain an imminent hazard to public health or safety, or that indicate recurring non-compliance with applicable regulations. Effective Date This final regulation is effective 30 days after publication in the Federal Register . Paperwork Reduction Act The collections of information contained in this rule have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. and assigned clearance number 1024&hyph;0026. The information will be used to document and authorize special uses of public lands that are otherwise restricted. Permits are necessary to determine whether a proposed activity is authorized by law and to evaluate the potential effects on park resources. Response is required to obtain a benefit in accordance with 36 CFR 7.13. Public reporting burden for this information is estimated to average one-half hour per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to Information Collection Officer, National Park Service, 800 North Capitol, P.O. Box 37127, Washington, DC. 20013&hyph;7127; and the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (1024&hyph;0026) Washington, DC. 20503. Compliance With Other Laws The National Park Service prepared two environmental assessments for regulation of commercial traffic on U.S. Highway 191. The first was released for public review in 1990. Since that assessment did not fully analyze alternative routes, impacts to commodity distribution, and other economic factors, a revised environmental assessment was prepared. The latter assessment was made available for public review October 16, 1991 through December 1, 1991. On July 31, 1992, the National Park Service signed a Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI) for the proposal, which would allow commercial traffic on U.S. Highway 191, but prohibit the transportation of hazardous materials requiring placarding through Yellowstone National Park. Copies of these Environmental Assessments are available from the Chief Ranger's Office at the above address.
