FR940711-2-00013 FR940711-2-00006 Proposed Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 119&hyph;1 DRAFT␣1994 June 7␣DRAFT Announcing the Standard for Ada Federal Information Processing Standards Publications (FIPS PUBS) are issued by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) after approval by the Secretary of Commerce pursuant to Section 111(d) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended by the Computer Security Act of 1987, Public Law 100&hyph;235. 1. Name of Standard. Ada (FIPS PUB 119&hyph;1). 2. Category of Standard. Software Standard, Programming Language. 3. Explanation. This publication is a revision of FIPS PUB 119 and supersedes that document in its entirety. This publication announces the adoption of American National Standard and the International Organization for Standardization Reference Manual for the Ada Programming Language, ANSI/ISO/IEC 8652:1994, as a Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS). American National Standard and the International Organization for Standardization Reference Manual for the Ada Programming Language, ANSI/ISO/IEC 8652:1994, specifies the form and meaning of programs written in Ada. The purpose of the standard is to promote portability of Ada programs for use on a variety of data processing systems. The standard is for use by implementors as the reference authority in developing compilers, interpreters, or other forms of high level language processors; and by other computer professionals who need to know the precise syntactic and semantic rules of the standard. 4. Approving Authority. Secretary of Commerce. 5. Maintenance Agency. U.S. Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Computer Systems Laboratory (CSL). 6. Cross Index. American National Standard and the International Organization for Standardization Reference Manual for the Ada Programming Language, ANSI/ISO/IEC 8652:1994. 7. Related Documents. a. Federal ADP and Telecommunications Standards Index, U.S. General Services Administration, Information Resources Management Service, April 1994 (updated periodically). b. Federal Information Resources Management Regulations (FIRMR) subpart 201.20.303, Standards, and subpart 201.39.1002, Federal Standards. c. FIPS PUB 29&hyph;3, Interpretation Procedures for FIPS Software, 29 October 1992. d. NBS Special Publication 500&hyph;117, Selection and Use of General-Purpose Programming Languages. e. NIST, Validated Products List, (republished quarterly). Available by subscription from the National Technical Information Service (NTIS). f. ISO 6429: 1992(E)_Information Technology_Control Functions for Coded Character Sets. g. ISO 646 Information Processing_7-bit Single-Byte Coded Character Set. h. ISO 8859&hyph;1:1987(E)_Information Processing_8 bit Single-Byte Coded Character Sets_Part 1: Latin Alphabet No. 1. i. ISO 10646&hyph;1:1993 Information Technology_Universal Multiple-Octet Coded Character Set (UCS)_Part 1: Architecture and Balic Multilingual Plane. 8. Objectives. Federal standards for high level programming languages permit Federal departments and agencies to exercise more effective control over the production, management, and use of the Government's information resources. The primary objectives of Federal programming language standards are: _To encourage more effective utilization and management of programmers by insuring that programming skills acquired on one job are transportable to other jobs, thereby reducing the cost of programmer re-training; _To reduce the cost of program development by achieving the increased programmer productivity that is inherent in the use of high level programming languages; _To reduce the overall software costs by making it easier and less expensive to maintain programs and to transfer programs among different computer systems, including replacement systems; _To protect the existing software assets of the Federal Government by insuring to the maximal feasible extent that Federal programming language standards are technically sound and that subsequent revisions are compatible with the installed base. Government-wide attainment of the above objectives depends upon the widespread availability and use of comprehensive and precise standard language specifications. 9. Applicability. a. Federal standards for high level programming languages should be used for computer applications that are either developed or acquired for government use. FIPS Ada is one of the high level programming language standards provided for use by all Federal departments and agencies. FIPS Ada is suitable for use in programming and any applications for which there is no specific language available specifically targeted to that application. b. The use of FIPS Ada is recommended for the following applications and situations: _Those involving control of real-time or parallel processes. _Very large systems. _Systems with requirements for very high reliability. _Systems which are to be developed with reusable software packages. _When it is anticipated that the life of an application will be longer than the life of the presently utilized equipment. _The application or program is under constant review for updating of the specifications, and changes may result frequently. _The application is being designed and programmed centrally for a decentralized system that employs computers of different makes, models and configurations. _The program will or might be run on equipment other than that for which the program is initially written. _The program is to be understood and maintained by programmers other than the original ones.
