FR941107-1-00018 FR941107-1-00007 I. Executive Summary The Commission's current regulations require disclosure of legal proceedings 21 involving executive officers, directors, persons nominated to become directors, promoters, significant shareholders, participants in proxy contests, and other specified persons (``designated persons''). 22 The principal provisions are found in Items 401 (f) and (g) of Regulation S-K and Item 401(d) of Regulation S-B, 23 but a number of forms and schedules require similar disclosure, as discussed below. 24 A review of current requirements has raised questions about the adequacy of the five-year period for reporting such proceedings. In light of these questions, as well as the enactment of the Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 (``Remedies Act''), 25 the Commission proposes to expand the disclosure provisions and the time frame of the current requirements and to eliminate the differences in requirements among various forms. 21 The term ``legal proceeding,'' as used in this release and in current Item 401, includes criminal convictions, as well as findings, orders or sanctions in civil and administrative actions, that have not been reversed, suspended or vacated. It also includes criminal actions pending at the time a disclosure document is filed, and the initiation of bankruptcy or similar proceedings. With respect to proposed Item 401, the term also encompasses sanctions issued by securities and commodities self-regulatory organizations that have not been reversed or otherwise rendered of no effect. 22 As used in this release, ``designated person'' includes the persons identified in the following disclosure provisions, forms and schedules: S-K Item 401 (f) and (g) and S-B Item 401(d) _executive officers, directors, persons nominated to become directors, as well as promoters and control persons of newly public companies; Schedules 13D, 13E&hyph;3, and 14D&hyph;1 _the person filing the schedule. In addition, if the filer is a general or limited partnership, syndicate or other group_the individual general partners of general or limited partnerships, each member of such syndicate or group and each person controlling such partner or member; if such general partner, member or person controlling such partner or member is a corporation, or if the filer is a corporation_the corporation's directors and executive officers, persons controlling such corporation, and directors and executive officers of any corporation ultimately in control of such corporation; Proxy statements relating to election contests _any participant in an election contest, as defined by Instruction 3 to Item 4 of Schedule 14A (in addition to the Item 401 disclosure generally required in a proxy statement involving an election of directors, contested or otherwise); Regulation A Offering Circular (Model B) _executive officers, directors and persons nominated to become directors; Prospectuses Relating to Oil and Gas Programs (Securities Act Industry Guide 4) _management and operating companies (in addition to the disclosure required by the appropriate registration form); Registration Statements Relating to Interests in Real Estate Limited Partnerships (Securities Act Industry Guide 5) _the persons making investment decisions (in addition to the disclosure required by the appropriate registration form). 23 In order to simplify references to the legal proceedings disclosure requirements, references to Item 401(f) or 401(g) hereafter should be read to include the comparable provisions in Regulation S-B Item 401(d). 24 In addition to provisions requiring disclosure of legal proceedings involving designated persons, Regulation S-K Item 103 [17 CFR 229.103] requires disclosure of material pending legal proceedings involving the registrant. 25 Pub. L. 101&hyph;429, 104 Stat. 931 (1990). The Remedies Act amended the federal securities laws to provide for: civil money penalties in civil actions for violations of the federal securities laws; Commission authority to issue cease-and-desist orders; court enforcement of cease-and-desist orders and imposition of civil money penalties for failure to comply; affirmation of power of federal courts to order officer and director bars and suspensions; and civil money penalties, disgorgement, and orders of accounting in Commission administrative proceedings. Congress granted these new judicial and administrative remedies to increase both the Commission's ability to deter those who violate the securities laws and its flexibility to adapt remedies to the varying circumstances of particular conduct and violators. The amendments proposed today would consolidate and clarify existing legal proceedings disclosure provisions, as well as add requirements to disclose the following: •Federal and state agency receivership appointments involving a designated person, any partnership in which such person was a general partner, and any corporation in which such person served as an executive officer; 26 26 Current requirements limit disclosure to court-appointed receiverships. •All judicial and administrative findings, orders and sanctions based on alleged violations of federal or state securities, commodities, banking and insurance laws and regulations; 27 27 Existing provisions require disclosure of court orders restricting certain business activities subject to federal or state securities, commodities, banking and insurance laws, administrative restrictions on such activities that exceed 60 days, and court limitations on any business practice. Disclosure also is required of judicial and administrative findings of violations of federal or state securities or commodities laws.
