FR940317-1-00158 FR940317-1-00013 Combat Activities Activities resulting directly or indirectly from action by the enemy, or by the U.S. Armed Forces engaged in, or in immediate preparation for, impending armed conflict. Disaster A sudden and extraordinary calamity occasioned by activities of the Army, other than combat, resulting in extensive civilian property damage or personal injuries and creating a large number of potential claims. Federal Agency A Federal agency includes executive departments and independent establishments of the United States and corporations acting as instrumentalities or agencies of the United States but does not include any contractor with the United States. Final Offer An offer of payment by a settlement authority in full and final settlement of a claim which, if not accepted, constitutes a final action for purposes of filing suit under chapter 4 or filing an appeal under chapter 3 or 6, provided such offer is made in writing and meets the other requirements of a final action as set forth in this regulation. Government Vehicle A vehicle owned or on loan to any agency of the U.S. Government, or privately owned and operated by a member or civilian employee of the Army in the scope of his or her office or employment with the U.S. Government, including vehicles being operated on joint operations of the U.S. Armed Forces. Medical Claims Judge Advocate A judge advocate assigned to an Army Medical Center, under an agreement between The Judge Advocate General and The Surgeon General, to perform the primary duty of investigating and processing medical malpractice claims. Medical Claims Investigator A senior legal specialist or qualified civilian assigned to assist a medical claims judge advocate on a full-time basis. A medical claims investigator is authorized to administer oaths under the provisions of Article 136(b)(7), Uniform Code of Military Justice, when performing his or her investigative duties. Medical Malpractice Claim A claim arising out of substandard or inadequate care of an Army patient. Military Personnel Members of the Army on active duty for training or inactive duty training as defined in AR 310&hyph;25 and 10 U.S.C. 101(22), 101(23), and 101(30). This includes members of the District of Columbia Army National Guard while performing active duty or training under 32 U.S.C. 316, 502, 503, 504, or 505. Noncombat Activities Authorized activities essentially military in nature, having little parallel in civilian pursuits, and which historically have been considered as furnishing a proper basis for payment of claims. Examples are practice firing of missiles and weapons, training and field exercises, and maneuvers which include the operation of aircraft and vehicles, use and occupancy of real estate, and movement of combat or other vehicles designed especially for military use. Activities excluded are those incident to combat, whether in time of war or not, and use of military personnel and civilian employees in connection with civil disturbances. Personal Property Property consisting solely of corporeal personal property, that is, tangible things. Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6019 Filed 3&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;08&hyph;P
