FR940721-2-00157 FR940721-2-00086 Additionally, provided they are not current ANA SEDS grantees, the following organizations are eligible to apply under this competitive area: •Federally recognized Indian Tribes in Alaska (as listed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs in an October 21, 1993 Federal Register notice, 58 Fed. Reg. 54. 364(1993)); •Alaska Native villages as defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA) and/or nonprofit village consortia; •Incorporated nonprofit Alaska Native multi-purpose community-based organizations; •Nonprofit Alaska Native Regional Corporations/Associations in Alaska with village specific projects; and •Nonprofit Native organizations in Alaska with village specific projects. Proof of an applicant's nonprofit status, such as an IRS determination of nonprofit status under IRS Code 501(c)(3), must be included in the application. Although for-profit regional corporations established under ANCSA are not eligible applicants, individual villages and Indian communities are encouraged to use the for-profit corporations as subcontractors and to collaborate with them in joint-venture projects for promoting social and economic self-sufficiency. ANA encourages the for-profit corporations to assist the villages in developing applications and to participate as subcontractors in a project. Under each competitive area, ANA will only accept one application which serves or impacts a reservation. If a Tribe chooses not to submit an application under a specific competitive area, it may support another applicant's project (e.g., a tribal organization) which serves or impacts the reservation. In this case, the applicant must include a Tribal resolution which clearly demonstrates the Tribe's support of the project and the Tribe's understanding that the other applicant's project supplants the Tribe's authority to submit an application under that specific competitive area for the duration of the approved grant period. E. Grantee Share of the Project Grantees must provide at least 20 percent of the total approved cost of the project. The total approved cost of the project is the sum of the ACF share and the non-Federal share. The non-Federal share may be met by cash or in-kind contributions, although applicants are encouraged to meet their match requirements through cash contributions. Therefore, a project requesting $300,000 in Federal funds must include a match of at least $75,000 (20% total project cost). While we encourage applicants to secure non-Federal funds for their match, the non-Federal share may be satisfied through other Federal funding sources, provided the source relates to the ANA project, as follows: •Indian Child Welfare funds, through the Department of Interior; •Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance funds, through the Department of Interior and the Department of Health and Human Services; and •Community Development Block Grant funds, through the Department of Housing and Urban Development. An itemized budget detailing the applicant's non-Federal share, and its source, must be included in an application. A request for a waiver of the non-Federal share requirement may be submitted in accordance with 45 CFR 1336.50(b)(3) of the Native American Program Regulations. F. Review Criteria A proposed project should reflect the purposes of ANA's SEDS policy and goals (described in the Background section of this competitive area and in the Background section of Competitive Area (1), include a social and economic development strategy which reflects the needs and specific circumstances of the local community, and address the specific developmental steps that the tribe or Native American community is undertaking toward self-sufficiency. The evaluation criteria are closely related to each other and are considered as a whole in judging the overall quality of an application. Points are awarded only to applications which are responsive to this competitive area and these criteria. Proposed projects will be reviewed on a competitive basis using the following evaluation criteria: (1) Long-range goals and available resources. (15 points). (a) The application explains how specific social, governance and economic long-range community goals relate to the proposed project and strategy. It explains how the community intends to achieve these goals. It documents the type of involvement and support of the community in the planning process and implementation of the proposed project. The goals are described within the context of the applicant's comprehensive community social and economic development plan. (Inclusion of the community's entire development plan is not necessary). The application has a clearly delineated social and economic development strategy (SEDS). Note: Applications from National Indian and Native organizations must demonstrate a need for the project, explain how the project was originated, state who the intended beneficiaries will be, and describe how the recipients will actually benefit from the project.
