FR940505-1-00394 FR940505-1-00012 Unmanned facility means a remote facility which has no permanent sited personnel and is greater than five miles from the nearest manned facility. Unsafe-to-monitor component means a component installed at a location that would prevent its safe inspection or repair as defined by Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards or in provisions for worker safety found in 29 CFR 1910. Vacuum service or In vacuum service means that the equipment in VOC service is operating at an internal pressure that is at least 5 kPa (0.73 in. Hg) below ambient pressure. Valve means a device that regulates or isolates the fluid flow in a pipe, tube, or conduit by means of an external actuator. Vapor control system means any system that is not open to the atmosphere and is composed of piping, connections and, if necessary, flow-inducing devices that transport gas or vapor from a piece or pieces of equipment to a vapor recovery or disposal system. Visual inspection means performing a survey to indentify signs of leaking liquid, visible mist, or audible leaks. (3) Specific provisions. Each owner or operator of a gas processing plant, bulk plant, bulk terminal, refinery, or chemical plant shall be in compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (i)(3)(i) and (i)(3)(ii) of this section by January 1, 1996. (i) Identification requirements. Components in VOC service shall meet the following identification requirements: (A) All major and critical components shall be physically identified clearly and visibly for inspection, repair, replacement, and recordkeeping purposes. (B) All major, critical, inaccessible, and unsafe-to-monitor components shall be clearly identified in Piping and Instrumentation (P&I) flow diagrams for inspection, repair, replacement, and recordkeeping purposes. (C) All minor components shall be individually identified and/or grouped together functionally for identification in P&I flow diagrams for inspection, repair, replacement, and recordkeeping purposes. (D) The EPA shall be notified of any changes in the identification of a major component within thirty days. (ii) Inspection and maintenance (I&M) program. Any owner or operator of a facility subject to this section shall implement an I&M program that meets the requirements of paragraphs (i)(3)(ii)(A) through (i)(3)(ii)(C) of this section. (A) Inspection requirements. The I&M program will be conducted with the following inspection requirements. ( 1 ) All pump seals, compressor seals, and pressure relief valves (PRVs) shall be visually inspected for leaks once during every operating shift. Any vapor leak which is identified during the visual inspection of components under paragraphs (i)(3)(ii)(A)(1) of this section shall be measured to quantify emission concentrations according to the test method specified in paragraph (i)(7)(i) of this section. ( 2 ) All components, except as provided in paragraphs (i)(3)(ii)(A)( 3 ), ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) of this section, shall be inspected quarterly according to the method prescribed in paragraph (i)(7)(i) of this section. The time between inspections shall not exceed 110 consecutive days. ( 3 ) The components specified in paragraphs (i)(3)(ii)(A)( 3 )( i ) and (i)(3)(ii)(A)( 3 )( ii ) of this section shall be subject to other than quarterly inspection requirements. ( i ) All inaccessible components shall be inspected annually according to the method prescribed in paragraph (i)(7)(i) of this section. The time between inspections shall not exceed 13 consecutive months. ( ii ) All fittings, including threaded connections and flanges, shall be inspected for leaks according to the method prescribed in paragraph (i)(7)(i) of this section immediately after being placed into service and semi-annually, not to exceed 195 consecutive days between inspections, thereafter. ( 4 ) Unsafe-to-monitor components shall be inspected in accordance with an inspection plan approved by the EPA. ( 5 ) PRVs shall be inspected according to the method prescribed in paragraph (i)(7)(i) of this section within three calendar days after every pressure relief event. ( 6 ) The inspection frequency for all components except pump seals, compressor seals, and PRVs may be changed to annually, not to exceed 13 consecutive months between inspections, provided that all of the following conditions are met: ( i ) All components at the facility have been successfully operated and maintained for a period of twelve consecutive months with no leaks exceeding the thresholds listed in the table of leak thresholds in this section. ( ii ) The requirements specified in paragraph (i)(3)(ii)(A)( 6 )( i ) of this section are substantiated by documentation and written approval obtained from the EPA. (7) Any annual inspection frequency approved in paragraph (i)(3)(ii)(A)(6)( ii ) of this section, shall revert to the inspection frequencies specified in paragraphs (i)(3)(ii)(A)( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of this section, should liquid leaks or major gas leaks exceed 0.5 percent of the total components inspected per inspection period. ( 8 ) A brightly colored, weather-proof tag shall be affixed to all leaking components showing the date of leak detection and the hydrocarbon concentration determined according to the method prescribed in paragraph (i)(7)(i) of this section. (B) Repair and maintenance requirements. The I&M program shall be conducted in accordance with the following repair and maintenance requirements: ( 1 ) All component leaks shall be immediately minimized following detection. ( 2 ) All leaks from noncritical components shall be successfully repaired or replaced within the time period following detection of the leak, as specified in the table of repair periods in this section. ( 3 ) For leaks from critical and unsafe-to-monitor components, the leaking component shall be replaced with Best Available Control Technology (BACT) equipment as determined by EPA within one year or during the next process turnaround, whichever occurs first.
