FR941212-1-00013 FR941212-1-00009 33 CFR Part 117 [CGD01&hyph;94&hyph;094] RIN 2115&hyph;AE47 Drawbridge Operation Regulations; Merrimack River, MA AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is considering a change to the regulations governing the Newburyport US1 Bridge over the Merrimack River, mile 3.4, in Newburyport, Massachusetts, by requiring a one hour advance notice for openings during the winter months. This is being proposed because the waterway is often frozen during the winter and there have been few requests for bridge openings. This will relieve the bridge owner of the burden of posting personnel at the bridge during the winter months. DATES: Comments must be received on or before February 10, 1995. ADDRESSES: Comments should be mailed to Commander (obr), First Coast Guard District, Captain John Foster Williams Federal Building, 408 Atlantic Ave., Boston, Massachusetts 02110&hyph;3350. Comments may also be hand-delivered to this address. The comments and other materials referenced in this notice will be available for inspection and copying by appointment at the Captain John Foster Williams Federal Building, Room 628, 408 Atlantic Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts. Normal office hours are between 6:30 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William C. Heming, Bridge Administrator, First Coast Guard District, (212) 668&hyph;7170. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments Interested persons are invited to participate in this rulemaking by submitting written views, comments, data, or arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their names and addresses, identify this rulemaking (CGD01&hyph;94&hyph;094), the specific section of this proposal to which each comment applies, and gives reasons for each comment. The Coast Guard requests that all comments and attachments be submitted in an unbound format suitable for copying and electronic filing. If not practical, a second copy of any bounded material is requested. Persons desiring acknowledgment that their comments have been received should enclose a stamped self-addressed post card or envelope. The Coast Guard will consider all comments received during the comment period and it may change this proposal in light of comments received. The Coast Guard plans no public hearing. Persons may request a public hearing by writing to Commander (obr), First Coast Guard District at the address listed under ADDRESSES . The request should include reasons why a hearing would be beneficial. If the Coast Guard determines that the opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will hold a public hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register . Drafting Information The drafters of this notice are Mr. John McDonald, First Coast Guard District Bridge Branch, Project Manager and Lieutenant Commander S.R. Watkins, First Coast Guard District Legal Office, Project Counsel. Background and Purpose The Newburyport US1 Bridge over the Merrimack River in Newburyport, Massachusetts has a vertical clearance of 35 ’ above mean high water (MHW) and 42 ’ above mean low water (MLW). The Merrimack River is frozen during most of the winter and there have been few requests for bridge openings during this period. The existing regulations require the bridge to open on signal from May 1 to October 31, 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. The proposed regulations will extend the period during which the bridge will open on signal: from May 1 to November 15, from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. The proposed regulation also will require at least a one hour advance notice for openings at all other times. Discussion of Proposed Amendments The Massachusetts Highway Department (MHD) has requested a change to the existing operating regulations in 33 CFR §117.605 which allow the Newburyport US1 Bridge to open on signal from May 1 through October 31 from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. and from November 1 to April 30 from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. At all other times the draw shall open if at least a one hour advance notice is given. The proposed regulations will permit the draw to open on signal from May 1 to November 15, from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. At all other times the draw will open on signal if at least one hour advance notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge. This change to the regulations is being proposed due to frequent waterway freezing during the winter months coupled with infrequent requests for openings. The proposed change to the regulation will relieve the bridge owner of the burden of posting personnel at the bridge during the winter months. The drawtenders will be on call to open the draw when the advance notice is given to the highway department by calling the number that will be posted at the bridge. Regulatory Evaluation This proposal is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866, and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation, under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT, is unnecessary. This conclusion is based on the fact that the regulation will not prevent mariners from transiting the US1 Bridge. It will require only that mariners plan their transits around the new operating hours.
