FR940722-0-00131 FR940722-0-00019 183. We emphasized in the Second Report and Order that we did not intend to restrict the use of various equity financing mechanisms and incentives to attract financing, provided that the minority and women principals continued to own 50.1 percent of the equity, calculated on a fully-diluted basis, and that their equity interest entitled them to a substantial stake in the profits and liquidation value of the venture relative to the non-controlling principals. We noted, however, that different standards that meet the same objectives may be appropriate in other contexts. Second Report and Order at ¶278. In view of the evidence of discriminatory lending experiences faced by minority and women entrepreneurs and the exceptional great financial resources believed to be required by broadband PCS applicants, we conclude that it is appropriate to allow more flexibility with regard to the 50.1 percent equity requirements for this service in order to open doors to more sources of equity financing for women and minority-owned firms. 184. We shall therefore allow women and minority-owned firms the following options. First, they may satisfy the general definition set forth in the Second Report and Order, which requires the minority and/or female principles to control the applicant, own at least 50.1 percent of its equity and, in the case of corporate applicants, hold at least 50.1 percent of the voting stock. Under this option, other investors may own as much as a 49.9 percent passive equity interest. As noted above regarding eligibility to bid in the entrepreneurs' blocks, passive equity in the corporate context means only non-voting stock may be held, or stock that includes no more than five percent of the voting interests. 158 For partnerships, the term means limited partnership interests that do not have the power to exercise control of the equity. In addition, as required in the Second Report and Order, all investor interests will be calculated on a fully-diluted basis, meaning that agreements such as stock options, warrants and convertible debentures generally will be considered to have a present effect and will be treated as if the rights thereunder have been fully exercised. 159 We recognize that the requirement that other investors own only passive interests is a departure from the definition of a minority or women-owned business adopted in the Second Report and Order, but because of the very significant financial contribution that may be made by such other investors in designated entities, we believe that the passive equity requirement is appropriate as an additional safeguard to ensure that minorities and/or women retain control of the applicant. 158 For example, under this option, a corporate applicant with two classes of issued and outstanding stock, 100 shares of voting stock and 100 shares of non-voting stock, could sell to a single non-eligible entity 49.9 percent of the applicant's equity, consisting of 5 shares of the corporate's voting stock and 94 shares of its non-voting stock. Under this scenario, eligible minorities or women, in order to retain at least 50.1 percent of the value of all outstanding shares of the corporation's stock, must own all of the corporation's remaining shares of stock; that is, 95 shares of voting stock and six shares of non-voting stock. 159 As also noted in the Second Report and Order, we will consider departing from the requirement that the equity of investors in minority and women-owned businesses must be calculated on a fully-diluted basis only upon a demonstration, in individual cases, that options or conversion rights held by non-controlling principals will not deprive the minority and women principals of a substantial financial stake in the venture or impair their rights to control the designated equity. See Second Report and Order at ¶277. 185. As a second option, women and minority-owned firms may sell up to 75 percent of the company's equity, provided that no single investor may hold 25 percent or more of the firm's passive equity, which is defined in the same manner as above. For example, a corporation with 100 shares of voting stock and 100 shares of non-voting stock, with the 200 shares representing the total outstanding shares of the company, could qualify as a minority or women-owned business under the following circumstances. The minority or women principals would have to own at least 51 shares of voting stock, which satisfies the requirement that they have voting control and, in this case, also meets the requirements that they hold at least 25 percent of the equity. Two other investors could each own 44 shares of non-voting stock and five shares of voting stock, which represents 24.5 percent of the company's equity for each of the shareholders. A third investor could own the remaining 12 shares of non-voting stock and five shares of the voting stock, or 8.5 percent of the equity. The remaining 34 shares of voting stock may be sold to other investors provided that no single investor owns more than five shares. 186. Whichever option is chosen, we will require establishment of a ``control group'' in much the same way we did for purposes of eligibility to bid in the entrepreneurs' blocks. Specifically, winning bidders, transferees or assignees must identify on their long-form applications a control group (consisting entirely of minorities and/or women or entities 100 percent owned and controlled by minorities and women) that has de jure and de facto control of the applicant and holds either at least 50.1 or 25 percent of the applicant's equity, depending upon which option is elected.
