FR940325-1-00031 FR940325-1-00007 (l) No stores may be accepted aboard the vessel unless accompanied by a clearly itemized manifest that accurately sets forth the kinds and amounts of stores delivered. §120.370 Communications. (a) The operator of each vessel subject to this part shall ensure that security personnel have a means of continuous communications, such as radio, telephone, or intercom, that enables them to communicate with the ship security officer, the navigational bridge, the communications center, or security personnel shoreside from their duty stations. (b) Roving patrols shall be equipped with radios, cellular telephones, or other portable means of communications. (c) Communications shall be established with each passenger terminal at which the vessel docks, immediately after mooring. (d) A distress signal peculiar to security, indicating a security alert, must be established that is_ (1) Part of the SSOP for communications; (2) Known by each member of the crew; and (3) Changed from time to time, but not less often than once every three months. (e) The SSOP for communications must specify the kind of communications to use for responding to a breach of security, an unlawful act, or other emergency. §120.380 Prohibition against carriage of weapons. (a) Except as provided below, no person may, while aboard a vessel subject to this part in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States as defined in §2.05&hyph;30 of this chapter, carry on or about his or her person a deadly weapon, an incendiary containing more than one half kilogram (1.1 lb) of flammable material, or an explosive, whether concealed or unconcealed. This paragraph does not apply to weapons carried by_ (1) Government officials on official business who are authorized by their government to carry those weapons; or (2) Members of the crew or other persons who are authorized by the operator of the vessel to carry those weapons. (b) No person may introduce, onto any vessel subject to this part or into any baggage, cargo, or stores destined for a vessel subject to this part, a deadly weapon, an incendiary containing more than one half kilogram (1.1 lb) of flammable material, or an explosive, unless_ (1) The baggage, cargo, or stores are deposited with the operator of the vessel; (2) Before depositing the baggage, cargo, or stores, the passenger, shipper, or vendor has notified the operator that the weapon, incendiary, or explosive is in the baggage, cargo, or stores; and (3) The baggage, cargo, or stores are carried in a restricted area aboard the vessel inaccessible to passengers. Subpart D_Equipment §120.410 Lighting. (a) While it is under way, anchored, or moored, each vessel subject to this part must have its deck and hull illuminated during darkness and restricted visibility. While the vessel is moored, the illumination must consist of a 360 degree zone of glare projected light extending beyond the hull for at least 60 meters (200 ft). (b) All external lighting must be located or shielded so that it will not interfere with safe navigation and complies with the rules of the road in Subchapters D and E of this chapter. (c) On deck, controlled lighting must be operable from both the navigational bridge and the engine room, independently, and be connected to a separate electrical circuit from the glare projected exterior lighting. §120.420 Alarms. (a) Each intrusion detection system required by §120.210(e) must activate an alarm when it detects an intrusion. The alarm must sound where the detector is and on the navigational bridge. (b) Alarms may also be used for other security purposes, such as alerting security personnel or other members of the crew to breaches of security or other unlawful acts. §120.430 Screening. The screening systems for persons, personal articles, baggage, cargo, and stores must be capable of detecting prohibited weapons, incendiaries, and explosives in accordance with the ship security plan. X-ray systems must be designed and used in accordance with ASTM F&hyph;792&hyph;82. §120.440 Maintenance. (a) The operator of each vessel subject to this part shall ensure that security equipment is checked and maintained in good working condition, as required by this section. (b) Communications equipment must be checked on each watch.
