FR940805-1-00093 FR940805-1-00013 (2) Volunteer plan. The volunteer coordinator shall develop and implement a written plan for volunteer services. The volunteer coordinator and administrator shall update the plan as necessary and review it at least annually. The plan shall include: (i) lines of authority; (ii) responsibility and accountability for volunteer services; (iii) procedures for the screening and selection of volunteers; (iv) a volunteer orientation or training program, which is appropriate to the nature of the assignments; (v) a requirement that volunteers shall agree in writing to abide by all facility rules, policies, procedures and practices, particularly those related to security and confidentiality of information; and (vi) a statement that the administrator may discontinue a volunteer activity at any time by written notice. ยง10.32 Physical plant. (a) Code compliance _(1) Building and safety code compliance. If owned by the Bureau, the facility shall comply with 29 CFR Part 1910, Subparts D, E, G and L. If owned by a tribe, the facility shall comply with the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Life Safety Code 101 Chapters 2, 4 through 7, and 16 (if new community residential occupancy) or 17 (if existing community residential occupancy), or comparable tribal regulations. (2) Zoning. The facility shall comply with applicable zoning and land use requirements. (3) Accessibility. The facility shall comply with 25 U.S.C. 794 (the Rehabilitation Act of 1973) as amended, 41 CFR 101&hyph;19.6 (Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards), and 43 CFR Part 17. (4) OSHA compliance. The facility shall comply with 29 CFR Part 1910, Subparts C through E, G, K, L and S (Occupational Health and Safety Standards) or comparable tribal regulations. If other activities governed by sections of 29 CFR Part 1910 not identified in this standard are carried out in the facility, the section(s) of 29 CFR Part 1910 governing that activity or comparable tribal regulations apply. (5) Health and safety inspection. In compliance with 29 CFR Part 1960 Subparts B through D, the facility shall receive at least one inspection each year by a qualified safety and health inspector and Environmental Health Specialist and/or Sanitarian. Any request for inspection shall be directed to the Area Safety Manager or Officer through the Agency Superintendent. (6) Furnishings and equipment code compliance. The administrator shall maintain documentation by an independent, qualified source that the interior furnishing materials in inmate living areas, exit areas and places of public assembly shall be in accordance with NFPA Life Safety Code Section 6&hyph;5 or comparable tribal regulations. (b) Facility organization _(1) Separation from detention. When the facility is part of or attached to a detention facility, residents shall be housed separately from detained inmates. Community residential facility residents and detained inmates shall not use program and activity spaces at the same time. (2) Separation of males and females. The facility shall provide for sight and sound separation of male and female residents in their sleeping, shower and toilet areas. (3) Rated capacity. The number of residents shall not exceed the facility's rated capacity. (4) Location. The facility shall be located conveniently for criminal justice agencies, the health authority, community agencies and residents' legal representatives, families and friends. (c) Environmental conditions_ (1) Artificial light levels. Lighting levels in resident cells or rooms shall be at least twenty footcandles at the desk and in the personal grooming areas. Lighting levels throughout the facility shall be appropriate to the tasks and activities carried out in its spaces. An independent, qualified source shall document lighting levels. (2) Noise levels. Noise levels shall not exceed seventy decibels in the daytime and forty five decibels at night. An independent, qualified source shall document noise levels. (3) Indoor air quality. Air circulation shall be at least ten cubic feet of outside or recirculated filtered air per minute per occupant. An independent, qualified source shall document air circulation. (4) Use of tobacco. The administrator shall regulate the use of tobacco in the facility by staff, residents and the public. (5) Heating and cooling. Temperatures shall be appropriate to the summer and winter comfort zones. (d) Security and control_ (1) Emergency exits. In compliance with 29 CFR 1910.37, designated exits in the facility shall permit prompt evacuation of residents and staff members in an emergency. Facility exits shall be properly positioned, clear and distinctly and permanently marked. (2) Emergency equipment. The facility shall have the equipment necessary to maintain essential lights in an emergency. (e) New facility planning process _(1) New facility planning requirement. All new construction, renovation and expansion projects shall follow the Planning of New Institutions (PONI) process as required by 25 CFR Part 296. (2) Safety management review. The design and specifications for all new construction, renovation and expansion projects shall be reviewed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs in compliance with 29 CFR 1960, Suparts B through D. (f) New construction, renovation and expansion _(1) Single occupancy requirements. Only one resident shall occupy each room designed for single occupancy. All single rooms shall have at least sixty square feet of floor space of which no more than four square feet is closet or wardrobe space. Each room shall have, at a minimum: (i) natural light; (ii) bed, mattress, pillow and bedding; (iii) access to toilets, wash basins and showers with some degree of privacy; and closet or locker space for the storage of personal items.
