FR940318-0-00052 FR940318-0-00010 e. Toxic gas monitoring systems and dedicated detectors: e.1. Capable of: e.1.a. Detecting chemical warfare agents controlled on the U.S. Munitions List or chemical weapons precursors controlled by ECCN 1C60, or detecting phosphorus, sulphur, fluorine, or chlorine, and their compounds, at a concentration less than 0.3 mg/m 3 ; and e.1.b. Continuous operation; or e.2. Capable of detecting chemical compounds having a cholinesterase-inhibiting activity. 7. In Supplement No. 1 to §799.1, Category 1, ECCN 1C60C is amended by revising the ``Requirements'' section to read as follows: 1C60C␣Precursor and Intermediate Chemicals Used in the Production of Chemical Warfare Agents Requirements Validated License Required: QSTVWYZ, except Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Finland, France, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, and the United Kingdom. Unit: Liters or kilograms, as appropriate Reason for Control: CB GLV: $0 GCT: No GFW: No Notes: 1. Sample Shipments: General License G-DEST is available for one sample shipment of a 55-gallon container (209 liters) or less of each chemical to any one consignee per calendar year (not applicable to Iran, Iraq, Syria, Country Groups S and Z, the South African military and police, or countries subject to an embargo administered by the Department of the Treasury). 2. Compounds: General License G-DEST is available, except to Country Groups S and Z and the South African military and police, for compounds that are created from chemicals controlled under this ECCN 1C60C provided that the compound itself is not controlled under this ECCN or another ECCN on the CCL. (Mixtures that contain chemicals controlled under this ECCN are controlled as precursors, except when the precursor chemical is merely an impurity that was not intentionally added or is a normal ingredient in consumer goods intended for retail sales.) * * * * * 8. In Supplement No. 1 to §799.1, Category 1, ECCN 1C61B is revised to read as follows: 1C61B␣Microorganisms and Toxins Requirements Validated License Required: QSTVWYZ Unit: $ value Reason for Control: CB GLV: $0 GCT: No GFW: No
