FR940728-2-00085 FR940728-2-00061 [Announcement Number 101B] Addendum to Announcement 101; Program Announcement and Availability of Funds for FY 1994 Demonstration Projects for the Development of State Immunization Information Systems Introduction The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), through the National Immunization Program (NIP) and the CDC Information Network for Public Health Officials (CDC INPHO), announces the availability of fiscal year (FY) 1994 supplemental grant funds to implement pilot demonstrations of statewide immunization information systems. Funds provided by this announcement will be divided into two parts or components. This is an addendum to Program Announcement Number 101. Component One will provide funds for the development of the core or central operating system for the State Immunization Information System (SIIS). While grantees should plan for the eventual implementation of a total statewide system, this announcement provides funding only for the acquisition and installation of hardware and software for centralized data storage, linkages, and interfaces to other systems from the State office. If a grantee already has an immunization information system, they may apply for funds to expand or enhance their system. The level of funding, however, will be predetermined and based upon the hardware and software needed to manage a specific number of new patient records as indicated by the number of live births occurring in a State each year. Component Two will provide funds for developing, acquiring, installing, and maintaining statewide information systems and communications networks that support the goals of the SIIS and of the CDC Information Network for Public Health Officials (CDC INPHO). When implemented, these statewide networks will enable public health personnel to communicate with each other and with CDC by exchanging electronic mail, accessing CDC information databases, and exchanging public health data. The networks will be fully integrated into and supportive of statewide immunization information systems. These integrated networks and systems will serve to ensure the highest possible vaccination levels of children by recording individual immunization events, prompting follow-up of those children who missed their scheduled vaccinations, and allowing for the confidential exchange of immunization information between States to ensure continuity of care. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of ``Healthy People 2000,'' a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to the priority area of Immunization and Infectious Diseases. (To order a copy of ``Healthy People 2000,'' see the section entitled WHERE TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL INFORMATION .) Authority This program is authorized under Section 317 of the Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C. 247b, as amended. Applicable program regulations are found in 42 CFR Part 51b, Subparts A and B. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Eligible Applicants Assistance will be provided only to departments of public health in each State; New York, New York; District of Columbia; Puerto Rico; Virgin Islands and U.S. territories located in the Pacific Basin; hereafter referred to as grantees. This eligibility limitation is based on the governmental entity responsible for legislation on disseminating birth certificate data. Grantees with no immunization information system in place are encouraged to apply. Grantees with immunization information systems in place are encouraged to apply with the intent of upgrading, enhancing, or expanding their current system to the conditions set forth in this announcement. Availability of Funds Approximately $7,000,000 is available in FY 1994 to fund two separate components of this Announcement. Of the $7 million, approximately $5 million (Component One) will be available for grantees to implement the central or core portion of a statewide immunization information system (SIIS) database. This will include hardware and software that will eventually be required for interstate and intrastate transfer of immunization data. The average award is expected to be $200,000, ranging from $100,000 to $400,000. The awards will be provided to approximately 20 grantees. The supplemental awards will be made on or about September 15, 1994. Based on availability of funds, it is anticipated that additional projects, if their applications are approved, will be awarded grants early in FY 1995 to install the core or centralized portion of the SIIS. The remaining $2 million (Component Two) will be available for funding two to four grantees to develop wide-area telecommunication networks. The average award is expected to be between $500,000 and $1,000,000 per year for up to three years and will be made for a 12-month activity period within a three year period of performance, beginning in FY 1994. These awards will be made on or about September 30, 1994. Note: Funding estimates may vary and are subject to change. Additional awards for Component Two only, will be made based on satisfactory progress of developing and maintaining statewide informational systems and communication networks that support the goals of State immunization information systems and of the CDC INPHO, and the availability of funds. Purpose The purpose of this grant program is to ensure that the following automated systems are in place for each State by October 1, 1996: •A system that ensures the adequate immunization of at least 90 percent of all children born on or after October 1, 1994. •A system that ensures the follow-up of children who miss scheduled vaccinations. •A secure and confidential system that enables appropriate health care providers within States to access a child's vaccination record to determine their status. •A system that monitors adverse reactions to immunizing agents.
