FR940603-1-00076 FR940603-1-00009 Section 2. Purchase of Materials. The Bidder shall purchase all materials, supplies, and equipment outright and not subject to any conditional sales agreements, bailment lease or other agreement reserving unto the seller any right, title or interest therein. All materials, supplies and equipment shall be new and shall become the property of the Owner when erected in place, or when the Owner shall have made any payment to the Bidder in respect of such materials; whichever shall occur first. Section 3. Materials and Supplies. In the performance of this contract there shall be furnished only such unmanufactured articles, materials, and supplies as have been mined or produced in the United States, Mexico, or Canada, and only such manufactured articles, materials, and supplies as have been manufactured in the United States substantially all from articles, materials, or supplies mined, produced or manufactured, as the case may be, in the United States, Mexico, or Canada; provided that other articles, materials, or supplies may be used in the event and to the extent that the Administrator shall expressly in writing authorize such use pursuant to the provisions of the Rural Electrification Act of 1938, being Title IV of Public Resolution No. 122, 75th Congress, approved June 21, 1938. The Bidder agrees to submit to the Purchaser such certificates with respect to compliance with the foregoing provision as the Administrator from time to time may require. Section 4. Patent Infringement. The Bidder shall save harmless and indemnify the Owner from any and all claims, suits and proceedings for the infringement of any patent or patents covering any materials or equipment used in construction of the Project. Section 5. Compliance with Statutes and Regulations. The Bidder shall comply with all applicable statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations pertaining to the work. The Bidder acknowledges that it is familiar with the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended, the so-called ``Kick-Back'' Statute (48 Stat. 948), and regulations issued pursuant thereto, and 18 USC Section 287 and 1001, as amended. The Bidder understands that the obligations of the parties hereunder are subject to the applicable regulations and orders of Governmental Agencies having jurisdiction in the premises. Section 6. Equal Opportunity Provisions. (a) Bidder's Representations. The Bidder represents that: It has XX , does not have XX , 100 or more employees, and if it has, that it has XX , has not XX furnished the Equal Employment Opportunity-Employers Information Report EEO&hyph;1, Standard Form 100, required of employers with 100 or more employees pursuant to Executive Order 11246 and title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The Bidder agrees that it will obtain, prior to the award of any subcontract for more than $10,000 hereunder to a subcontractor with 100 or more employees, a statement, signed by the proposed subcontractor, that the proposed subcontractor has filed a current report on Standard Form 100.
