FR940902-2-00101 FR940902-2-00049 Directive: Unemployment Insurance Program Letter No. 41&hyph;94 To: All State Employment Security Agencies From: Mary Ann Wyrsch, Director, Unemployment Insurance Service Subject: Unemployment Insurance Program Requirements for the Worker Profiling and Reemployment Services System 1. Purpose. To provide guidance on Unemployment Insurance (UI) program requirements for the Worker Profiling and Reemployment Services system. 2. References. a. Laws. Title III of the Social Security Act (SSA); Section 4 of Public Law (P.L.) 103&hyph;152; the Federal-State Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970 (EUCA); 5 U.S.C. 8501 et seq. ; and Title III of the Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA), ``Employment and Training Assistance for Dislocated Workers.'' b. Issuances. Unemployment Insurance Program Letter (UIPL) No. 13&hyph;94, dated January 28, 1994; UIPL 13&hyph;94, Change 1, dated April 15, 1994; and the Secretary's Standard for Claim Determinations, Part V, Employment Security Manual, Section 6010 et seq. 3. Background. On November 24, 1993, the President signed into law the Unemployment Compensation Amendments of 1993 (P.L. 103&hyph;152) which added Sections 303(a)(10) and 303(j) to the SSA. Both of these new sections contain requirements States must meet as a condition of States receiving UI grants. (The text of both sections is contained in the Attachment.) Under Section 303(j)(1), SSA, the State must: •Identify which claimants will be likely to exhaust regular UI and will need job search assistance services to make a successful transition to new employment. (Subparagraph (A) of section 303(j)(1), SSA.) •Refer the claimants so identified to reemployment services, such as job search assistance services, available under any State or Federal law. (Subparagraph (B) of Section 303(j)(1), SSA.) •Collect follow-up information relating to the services received by such claimants and their employment outcomes and use the information for future profiling. (Subparagraph (C) of Section 303(j)(1), SSA.) •Meet ``such other requirements as the Secretary of Labor determines are appropriate.'' (Subparagraph (D) of Section 303(j)(1), SSA.) In addition, Section 303(a)(10), SSA, requires claimants to participate in reemployment services to which they have been referred as a condition of UI eligibility. P.L. 103&hyph;152 requires the Secretary of Labor to provide technical assistance and advice to the States in implementing the worker profiling systems. One of the principal aims of the profiling system is to provide reemployment services to certain claimants through an ``early intervention'' processes. That is, claimants who are unlikely to return to their previous jobs or occupations will be identified and given assistance early in their claims series. This approach is expected to facilitate an early return to employment and savings to each state's unemployment fund. In response to this legislation, the U.S. Department of Labor (Department) has launched a major initiative to establish an integrated, comprehensive worker profiling and reemployment services system involving various programs, including the UI, Employment Service, and Title III, JTPA programs. To this end, information describing how a recommended integrated system might operate was issued to the States through the Department's Regional Offices. (This recommended system followed the overall approach embodied in the proposed Reemployment Act of 1994.) However, since the SSA amendments create specific requirements as a condition of receiving UI administrative grants, it is necessary to provide guidance to States concerning what actions must be taken concerning the UI program. This issuance provides definitive guidance concerning these actions. Among other things, this UIPL describes the minimum required profiling system for identifying and referring claimants. That the States must use this required profiling system does not, however, abridge the States' authority to use other methods, not related to the minimum system, for identifying claimants for referral. For example, assuming a service provider has twenty-five slots, a State may refer only fifteen claimants identified under the minimum required profiling system to the provider if the State also refers ten claimants using whatever methods it deems appropriate. 4. Overview of Profiling and Reemployment Services System. Federal law does not specify a detailed structure for the profiling and reemployment services system. That is left to the States. However, in order to meet the statutory requirements and coordinate between the various employment and training programs, the Department anticipates that the following general structure will be used by all States: •The UI agency will profile all claimants to identify those likely to exhaust regular UI and in need of reemployment services. •To the extent that reemployment services are available, the ``identified'' claimants will either be immediately referred to these services or placed in a selection pool from which a referral may later be made. •Services will begin with an orientation session advising claimants of the availablility and benefit of reemployment services, and, if appropriate, an individual assessment of each claimant's needs. Based on an individual service plan, the claimant may be referred to reemployment services tailored to the individual's needs. •The entity providing the reemployment services will promptly provide the UI agency with any necessary information relating to the claimants' continuing eligibility for UI. 5. Arrangements with Service Provider(s). Under the authority granted by Section 303(j)(1)(D), SSA, which allows the Secretary to establish other requirements as are determined appropriate, the Department has determined that State UI agencies are to establish certain arrangements with the entities providing reemployment services. When the UI agency is not part of the same overall State agency as the service provider (for example, an employment security agency or executive department), the Department recommends that these arrangements be in a written agreement. Arrangements must be made in two areas: The number of claimants to be referred to the provider and the information the provider must forward to the UI agency.
