FR941116-2-00138 FR941116-2-00096 In providing information on linkages, proposers should keep in mind that Job Corps is an open-entry, open-exit, individualized, self-paced instructional program that operates on a year-round basis. This type of learning environment may have implications for the types of linkages being offered. In preparing the linkage/contribution part of their proposals, eligible applicants should provide full information on each proposed linkage/contribution. Each item listed above should be addressed for each linkage/contribution, providing as much information as is needed to ensure that each proposed linkage receives a fair assessment. Other Information Proposals should include any other information the applicant believes pertinent to the proposed site for consideration by the Department. This information may include: letters of community support from elected officials, government agencies, community leaders and neighborhood associations; access to cultural/recreation activities in the community; and unique features in the surrounding area which would enhance the location of a Job Corps center at that site. Also, proposals should indicate whether or not the proposed site is located in either a designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community. The Department will verify any designation referenced in the proposal. The Job Corps legislation provides the Governor with the opportunity to veto the establishment of a center within a State. It is important that, before proposing the use of any particular location, appropriate clearances are obtained from local and State political leadership. With regard to timeframes for choosing sites for the establishment of Job Corps centers, the site selection process normally take 8 months to complete. This allows sufficient time for eligible applicants to prepare and submit proposals and for the Department to conduct a preliminary site assessment of all proposed facilities, as well as a comprehensive site utilization study for those sites having high potential for the establishment of a Job Corps center, based on the preliminary assessment results. Governors of States in which high-potential sites are identified will be provided written notification by the Department, in accordance with section 435(c) of the Job Training Partnership Act, that these sites are in a final phase of consideration. Each Governor will be provided a 30-day time period to approve or reject further consideration of establishment of a Job Corps center at the identified site(s). The Department hereby requests eligible proposers to submit proposals to be received no later than March 13, 1995, using the guidance provided above. Signed in Washington, DC, this 9th day of November, 1994. Doug Ross, Assistant Secretary of Labor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28281 Filed 11&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;30&hyph;M
