FR940930-0-00152 FR940930-0-00028 To meet these objectives, EPA is promulgating a combined NMHC+NO x clean-fuel engine emission standard of 3.8 g/Bhp-hr for heavy-duty engines certified on federal diesel certification fuel. Manufacturers may also certify heavy-duty engines to a standard of 3.5 g/Bhp-hr on California diesel certification fuel, which for a given engine is approximately equal in stringency to the 3.8 g/Bhp-hr standard using federal diesel certification fuel, as described below. The level of stringency represented by these standards should be achievable for at least several diesel engines with fairly straightforward technological improvements and without a serious fuel economy penalty. EPA intends for this approach to assure that the same engines that are developed and produced for the California LEV program will also be acceptable to fulfill the requirements of the Clean Fuel Fleet Program. These vehicles and engines would, as specified by section 242(b) of the Act, also be required to meet all other applicable emission standards and requirements of 40 CFR Part 86 (such as standards for CO, particulates, smoke and evaporative emissions, as applicable). As discussed in the NPRM, EPA recognizes that differences between California and federal certification and in-use diesel fuels may cause a difference in emission rates. CARB limits the aromatics content of the test fuel to a maximum of ten percent, while federal test fuel may contain as much as 35 percent aromatics. There is evidence to suggest that the use of federal test fuel can result in higher NMHC+NO X emissions than the use of CARB fuel in the same engine. Apparently, this occurs because the higher aromatic content of the fuel reduces its cetane rating and thus combustion is slightly less enhanced. Data reported in the NPRM for a 1991 prototype DDC Series 60 heavy heavy-duty engine showed this difference to be in the range of 0.3 g/Bhp-hr offset. 25 25 ``Effects of Fuel Aromatics, Cetane Number, and Cetane Improver on Emissions from a 1991 Prototype Heavy-Duty Diesel Engine,'' T. Ullman, R. Mason, and D. Montalvo, Southwest Research Institute, SAE Paper 902171., U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Mobile Sources, ``Effect of Test Fuel Differences on NMHC+NO X Emissions,'' Memorandum from Michael Samulski to the docket of this rulemaking, February 23, 1993.
