FR940112-2-00147 FR940112-2-00100 Past Performance Unsatisfactory performance under prior Federal awards may result in an application not being considered for funding. Preaward Activities If applicants incur any cost prior to an award being made, they do so solely at their own risk of not being reimbursed by the Government. Notwithstanding any verbal assurance that may have been received, there is no obligation on the part of DOC to cover pre-award costs. Delinquent Federal Debts No award of Federal funds shall be made to an applicant who has an outstanding delinquent Federal debt until either: 1. The delinquent account is paid in full; 2. A negotiated repayment schedule is established and at least one payment is received; or 3. Other arrangements satisfactory to DOC are made. Name Check Review All non-profit and for-profit applicants are subject to a name check review process. Name checks are intended to reveal if any key individuals associated with the applicant have been convicted of or are presently facing criminal charges such as fraud, theft, perjury, or other matters which significantly reflect on the applicant's management honesty or financial integrity. Primary Applicant Certification All primary applicants must submit a completed Form CD&hyph;511, ``Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters; Drug-Free Workplace Requirements and Lobbying,'' and the following explanations are hereby provided. 1. Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension Prospective participants (as defined at 15 CFR part 26, section 105) are subject to 15 CFR part 26, ``Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension'' and the related section of the certification form prescribed above applies; 2. Drug Free Workplace Grantees (as defined at 15 CFR part 26, section 605) are subject to 15 CFR part 26, subpart F, ``Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants)'' and the related section of the certification form prescribed above applies; 3. Anti-Lobbying Persons (as defined at 15 CFR part 28, section 105) are subject to the lobbying provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1352, ``Limitation on use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracting and financial transactions,'' and the lobbying section of the certification form prescribed above applies to applications/bids for grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts for more than $100,000, and loans and loan guarantees for more than $150,000, or the single family maximum mortgage limit for affected programs, whichever is greater; and 4. Anti-Lobbying Disclosures Any applicant that has paid or will pay for lobbying using any funds must submit an SF&hyph;LLL, ``Disclosure of Lobbying Activities,'' as required under 15 CFR part 28, appendix B. Lower Tier Certifications Recipients shall require applicants/bidders for subgrants, contracts, subcontracts, or other lower tier covered transaction at any tier under the award to submit, if applicable, a complete Form CD&hyph;512, ``Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion_Lower Tier Covered Transactions and Lobbying'' and disclosure form, SF&hyph;LLL, ``Disclosure of Lobbying Activities;'' Form CD&hyph;512 is intended for the use of recipients and should not be transmitted to DOC. SF&hyph;LLL submitted by any tier recipient or subrecipient should be submitted to DOC in accordance with the instructions contained in the award document. False Statements A false statement on an application is grounds for denial or termination of funds and grounds for possible punishment by a fine or imprisonment as provided in 18 U.S.C. 1001. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance The catalog number for the award of State Technology Extension Program funds in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance is 11613. Executive Order 12372 ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs.'' Is applicable to the extent permitted by law. Classification The Manufacturing Extension Partnership is being carried out under the authority of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988, as amended 15 U.S.C. 2781. This notice relating to public property, loans, grants, benefits, or contracts is exempt from all requirements of section 553 of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553(a)(2)) including notice and opportunity for comment. Therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required and was not prepared for this notice for purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5) U.S.C. 603 and 604). The program is not a major Federal action requiring an environmental assessment under the National Environmental Policy Act. This notice does not contain policies with Federalism implications sufficient to warrant preparation of a Federalism assessment under Executive Order 12612. This notice contains collection of information requirements subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act which have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB Control Number 0693&hyph;0010). Dated: January 6, 1994. Samuel Kramer, Associate Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;647 Filed 1&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;13&hyph;M
