FR940907-1-00027 FR940907-1-00012 (5) The Contractor fails to maintain an efficient and reliable accounting system and controls adequate for the proper administration of progress payments. (j) Limitations on undefinitized contract actions. Notwithstanding any other progress payment provisions in this contract, progress payments may not exceed 90 percent of costs incurred on work accomplished under undefinitized contract actions. A ``contract action'' is any action resulting in a contract, as defined in subpart 2.1, including contract modifications for additional supplies or services, but not including contract modifications that are within the scope and under the terms of the contract, such as contract modifications issued pursuant to the ``CHANGES'' clause, or funding and other administrative changes. This limitation shall apply to the costs incurred, as computed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this clause, and shall remain in effect until the contract action is definitized. Costs incurred which are subject to this limitation shall be segregated on Contractor progress payment requests and invoices from those costs eligible for higher progress payment rates. For purposes of progress payment liquidation, progress payments for undefinitized contract actions shall be liquidated at 90 percent of the amount invoiced for work performed under the undefinitized contract action as long as the contract action remains undefinitized. The amount of unliquidated progress payments for undefinitized contract actions shall not exceed 90 percent of the maximum liability of the Government under the undefinitized contract action or such lower limit specified elsewhere in the contract. Separate limits may be specified for separate actions. (k) Special terms regarding default. If this contract is terminated under the ``DEFAULT'' clause, (i) the Contractor shall, on demand, repay to the Government the amount of unliquidated progress payments and (ii) title shall vest in the Contractor, on full liquidation of progress payments, for all property for which the Government elects not to require delivery under the ``DEFAULT'' clause. The Government shall be liable for no payment except as provided by the ``DEFAULT'' clause. (End of Clause) §5252.232&hyph;9105 Payments (FI). As prescribed in §5232.500, insert the following clause in fixed price incentive solicitations and contracts for shipbuilding or ship conversion, alteration, or repair, when progress payments are based on a percentage or stage of completion: (Beginning of Clause) 5252.232&hyph;9105␣PAYMENTS (FI) (DEC 1992) (a) Definitions. For purposes of this contract requirement, the following definitions apply: (1) Total contract price_ the sum of the contract prices including, adjustments as set forth in paragraphs (a)(4) (i) or (ii) of this clause and paragraph (c) of this clause, for each item in this contract subject to the requirement entitled, ``INCENTIVE PRICE REVISION_FIRM TARGET''. (2) Original unit target price _the target price of each item in this contract subject to the requirement entitled, ``INCENTIVE PRICE REVISION_FIRM TARGET'', that was established at the time of contract award. (3) Original total target price _the sum of the target prices of each item in this contract subject to the requirement entitled, ``INCENTIVE PRICE REVISION_FIRM TARGET'', that were established at the time of contract award. (4) Allocated total contract price _that portion of the total contract price which is assigned to an item in the contract subject to the requirement entitled, ``INCENTIVE PRICE REVISION_ FIRM TARGET''. The allocated total contract price of each item shall be established by multiplying the total contract price by a percentage, expressed as a decimal carried to four decimal places, equal to that fraction whose numerator is the original unit target price of the vessel and whose denominator is the original total target price. The resulting dollar amount shall be rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand dollar ($100,000), upward or downward; provided that in no event shall the sum of the allocated total contract price of the items exceed the total contract price. The aforesaid percentages of each item shall be revised, by contract modification, in the event that either: (i) Equitable adjustments to the unit target prices of the items result in unit target prices of a substantially different proportion to the total target prices than previously provided for under this subparagraph (a)(4); or
