FR940817-2-00154 FR940817-2-00080 1. Marshall & Ilsley Trust Company (M&I Trust) is a Wisconsin corporation with its principal offices located at 770 North Water Street, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and is a subsidiary of Marshall & Ilsley Corporation (M&I Corp.), a bank holding company. M&I Corp. and various affiliates (referred to herein as ``M&I''), serve as trustee, directed trustee, investment manager, or custodian for approximately 1,163 employee benefit plans. As of September 30, 1992, M&I had total assets of approximately $25.3 million and total assets under management of approximately $4.86 billion. M&I represents that its status as a fiduciary with investment discretion for a Client Plan arises out of its relationship as a trustee or investment manager for such Plan, but does not result from the rendering of any investment advice to a Plan fiduciary that has investment discretion for the Client Plan. As a custodian or directed trustee of a Client Plan, M&I has custody of Plan assets, collects all income, performs bookkeeping and accounting services, generates periodic statements of account activity and other reports, and makes payments or distributions from the account as directed. However, M&I has no duty as custodian or directed trustee to review investments or make recommendations, acting only as directed by an authorized Second Fiduciary. The Client Plans include various pension, profit sharing, and stock bonus plans as well as voluntary employees' beneficiary associations, supplemental unemployment benefit plans, simplified employee benefit plans, retirement plans for self-employed individuals (i.e., Keogh plans), and individual retirement accounts (IRAs). 13 M&I, in its capacity as a fiduciary of the Client Plans, may exercise investment discretion for all or a portion of he assets of such Client Plans. 13 M&I states that only pension, profit sharing and Keogh plans were invested in the CIFs at the time of the transfers of assets from the CIFs to the Funds. 2. M&I requests an exemption for investments in a Fund which occur through an in-kind transfer of a Client Plan's pro rata share of assets from a terminating CIF to a corresponding Fund in exchange for shares of such Fund. 14 M&I also requests an exemption for the receipt of fees from the Funds in connection with the investment of assets of a Client Plan (including any assets of a Client Plan which were held in a terminating CIF) for which it acts as a trustee, directed trustee, investment manager, or custodian, in shares of the Funds in instances where M&I is an investment adviser, custodian, and shareholder servicing agent for the Funds. The exemption would include Client Plans for which M&I exercises investment discretion as well as Client Plans where investment decisions are directed by a Second Fiduciary. 14 M&I is not requesting an exemption for any investment in the Funds by the M&I Plans. M&I represents that the M&I Plans may acquire or sell shares of the Funds pursuant to Prohibited Transaction Exemption 77&hyph;3 (PTE 77&hyph;3, 42 FR 18734, April 8, 1977). PTE 77&hyph;3 permits the acquisition or sale of shares of a registered, open-end investment company by an employee benefit plan covering only employees of such investment company, employees of the investment adviser or principal underwriter for such investment company, or employees of any affiliated person (as defined therein) of such investment adviser or principal underwriter, provided certain conditions are met. The Department is expressing no opinion in this proposed exemption regarding whether any transactions with the Funds by the M&I Plans would be covered by PTE 77&hyph;3. The Client Plans' pro rata share of fees paid by the Funds to M&I for investment advisory services are credited to the Client Plans, in accordance with the conditions of the proposed exemption (as discussed in Item 7 below), with respect to the assets of the Client Plans involved in Fund investments. Any amounts received by M&I for serving as a custodian and shareholder servicing agent of the Funds are also currently credited to the Client Plans to the extent that such amounts exceed M&I's direct expenses for providing the service to the Funds. However, M&I proposes to retain such fees in the future. All investments in the Funds are made by M&I pursuant to an initial written authorization and an annual reauthorization of the investment by the Second Fiduciary. M&I invests assets of a Client Plan in any of the Funds for which it has received prior written authorization for such investment from the Second Fiduciary during the period that the authorization is effective. 3. The Funds are a Wisconsin corporation organized as an open-end investment company registered under the 1940 Act. The Funds currently consist of five Funds or ``portfolios'', each having a separate prospectus and representing a distinct investment vehicle. The shares of each Fund represent a proportionate interest in the assets of that Fund. The existing Funds include the Marshall Money Market Fund, the Marshall Government Income Fund, the Marshall Intermediate Bond Fund, the Marshall Short-Term Income Fund, and the Marshall Stock Fund. M&I states that additional Funds may be established in the future. Shares of the Funds are offered and sold to eligible investors. Certain shares, identified by each prospectus as Trust Shares, are offered to trust accounts of M&I as a means of acquiring an interest in a diversified porfolio of investments. M&I states that the Trust Shares are offered to M&I's trust customers, including the Client Plans, under terms and conditions which are at least as favorable to such customers as the terms and conditions involved in any other class of Fund shares. If the proposed exemption is granted, the exemption would cover only investments by Client Plans in Trust Shares. Thus, all references herein to the transactions involving the Client Plans refer only to the Trust Shares described by the prospectus for each Fund. Investments of Client Plan assets in the Funds occur either through a transfer of assets from a terminating CIF, the direct purchase of shares of the Funds for a Client Plan by M&I, the transfer by M&I of Client Plan assets from one Fund to another Fund, or a daily automated sweep of uninvested cash of a Client Plan by M&I into one or more Funds previously designated by the Client Plan for sweeping such cash. 15 All such investments for the Client Plans are made pursuant to the Second Fiduciary's prior written authorization and annual reauthorization to M&I (as described in Item 8 below). 15 M&I states that an automated sweep of uninvested cash is currently available as a means of investment by the Client Plans into either the Marshall Money Market Fund, the Marshall Government Income Fund, and the Marshall Short-Term Income Fund.
