FR940812-0-00033 FR940812-0-00008 ( b ) Property owned by the Federal Government must be marked to indicate Federal ownership. ( c ) A physical inventory of property shall be taken and the results reconciled with the property records at least once every 2 years. Any differences between quantities determined by the physical inspection and those shown in the accounting records shall be investigated to determine the causes of the difference. The grantee shall, in connection with the inventory, verify the existence, current utilization, and continued need for the property. ( d ) A control system shall be in effect to ensure adequate safeguards to prevent loss, damage, or theft of the property. Any loss, damage, or the theft of nonexpendable property shall be investigated and fully documented; if the property was owned by the Federal Government, the grantee shall promptly notify RDA. ( e ) Adequate maintenance procedures shall be implemented to keep the property in good condition. ( f ) Where the grantee is authorized or required to sell the property, proper sales procedures shall be established which would provide for competition to the extent practicable and result in the highest possible return. ( g ) Expendable personal property shall vest in the grantee upon acquisition. If there is a residual inventory of such property exceeding $1,000 in total aggregate fair market value upon termination or completion of the grant and if the property is not needed for any other federally sponsored project or program, the grantee shall retain the property for use on nonfederally sponsored activities or sell it, but must in either case compensate the Federal Government for its share. The amount of compensation shall be computed in the same manner as nonexpendable personal property. This exhibit covers the following described personal property and any additional property acquired wholly or in part with grant funds (use continuation sheets as necessary): 19. To the following termination provisions: (a) Termination for cause: The grantor agency may terminate any grant in whole, or in part, at any time before the date of completion, whenever it is determined that the grantee has failed to comply with the conditions of the grant. The grantor agency shall promptly notify the grantee in writing of the determination and the reasons for the termination, together with the effective date. (b) Termination for convenience: The grantor agency or grantee may terminate grants in whole, or in part, when both parties agree that the continuation of the program would not produce beneficial results commensurate with the further expenditure of funds. The two parties shall agree upon the termination conditions, including the effective date and, in the case of partial terminations, the portion to be terminated. The grantee shall not incur new obligations for the terminated portion after the effective date, and shall cancel as many outstanding obligations as possible. The grantor agency shall allow full credit to the grantee for the Federal share of the noncancelable obligations properly incurred by the grantee prior to termination. RDA agrees that it will: 1. Assist grantee, within available appropriations, with such technical assistance as grantor deems appropriate in planning the program and coordinating the plan with local official comprehensive plans and with any State or area plans for the area in which the program is located. 2. At its sole discretion, RDA may at any time give any consent, deferment, subordination, release, satisfaction, or termination of any or all of grantee's grant obligations, with or without valuable consideration, upon such terms and conditions as RDA may determine to be: (a) Advisable to further the purposes of the grant or to protect the Government's financial interest therein; and (b) Consistent with both the statutory purposes of the grant and the limitations of the statutory authority under which it is made. Name of Grantee Title Date RDA Approval Official Title Date Dated: August 4, 1994. Bob J. Nash, Under Secretary, Small Community and Rural Development. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19686 Filed 8&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;07&hyph;P
