FR940822-1-00007 FR940822-1-00002 c. 1996 Tier 1 NO x Standard for LDT3 EPA recognizes that the new NO X standard of 0.98 g/mi at full useful life represents an increase in stringency over the prior standard of 1.7 g/mi at full useful life for LDT3s, satisfying the first eligibility criterion. Based on discussions with current manufacturers of vehicles which, if not modified, would exceed the new NO X standard at full useful life, EPA believes those manufacturers possess the desirable technology to meet the new standard, and EPA does not believe that a technological laggard is likely to develop among manufacturers of that group. The half useful-life standard for non-diesel vehicles of 0.70 g/mi is considered by EPA and manufacturers to be less difficult to meet compared with the full useful life standard. For the case of diesel-fueled LDT3s, however, EPA believes the increased stringency is likely to require substantial work to comply with the PM standard because most conventional means of reducing NO X emissions from diesel-fueled engines result in increased PM emissions from such engines. Since EPA believes that NO X emissions of diesel-fueled vehicles will be lowered by adjusting engine operating and design parameters, not requiring significant work, EPA is not proposing to offer NCPs for the new NO X standards for either gasoline fueled LDT3s or diesel-fueled LDT3s. However, significant work may be required to reduce any resulting increase in PM emissions or reduced decrease in PM emissions for diesel-fueled vehicles. The interrelationship between NO X emissions and PM emissions for diesel-fueled vehicles will be taken into account when considering NCPs for the new PM standard, as discussed below. d. 1996 Tier 1 PM Standard for LDT3 There is no previous PM standard for non-diesel-fueled LDT3s. Since it is well-recognized in the industry that non- diesel fueled vehicles emit very low levels of particulate matter, no work should be required by manufacturers to meet this new standard and no technological laggard should develop. Therefore, EPA is not proposing to offer NCPs for those vehicles. EPA recognizes that the new PM standard of 0.10 g/mi at full useful life represents an increase in stringency over the prior standard of 0.13 g/mi at full useful life for diesel-fueled LDT3s, satisfying the first eligibility criterion. Based on discussions with current manufacturers, at least one manufacturer is adapting technology from similar engines, but having different service requirements. Significant work will probably be required for the technology adaptation specified by that manufacturer, especially when considering the interrelationship of the NO X and PM emissions of diesel-fueled engines, as stated above. EPA also believes that a technological laggard may develop because of the amount of work involved. For these reasons, EPA is proposing to offer NCPs for diesel-fueled LDT3s at the full useful life. The proposed penalty rates are discussed below.
