FR940627-2-00069 FR940627-2-00027 Program Requirements Applications that do not meet the following requirements will be considered non-responsive and will not be reviewed. Applicants must: 1. Demonstrate that women in the target community (adolescents 12+ years of age and adult women) are victims of violence and are at risk for injury and death from persons known to them rather than by strangers. 2. Demonstrate their or a full working partner's access to the target population. 3. Demonstrate their or a full working partner's experience in the area of VAW prevention and in planning, delivering, and managing complex interventions. 4. Demonstrate their or a full working partner's capacity to: a. Design comprehensive program evaluations. b. Collect and analyze both quantitative and qualitative data. c. Synthesize, summarize, and report evaluation results which are usable and decision-oriented. 5. Develop culturally relevant and linguistically appropriate designs. In conducting activities to achieve the purpose of this program, the recipient will be responsible for the activities under A. (Recipient Activities), and CDC will be responsible for the activities listed under B. (CDC Activities). A. Recipient Activities Within the chronology of the following recipient activities, applicants may be at varying stages in program development and implementation and may have already accomplished certain activities. Recipient activities should include but not necessarily be limited to the following: 1. Develop written protocols to be used in carrying out and evaluating the selected interventions which comprise the program. (See letter G, Evaluation Plan, numbers 1 through 7, in ``Application Content'' section of the Program Announcement included in the application kit.) 2. Develop and pilot test data collection instruments. 3. Select study sample(s) based on the target population initially identified. 4. Provide necessary training materials, protocols, and assurance of competence for personnel who will be conducting various interventions, if appropriate. Describe details of integration between program interventions. 5. Collect and compile process, program monitoring and management, cost, and outcome data in an ongoing fashion. 6. Produce replication guidelines which can serve as a template for other organizations to reproduce program successes.
