FR940207-1-00021 FR940207-1-00002 1. Deeming an account closed. Institutions may provide in their deposit contract the actions by consumers that the institution will treat as closing the account and that will result in the forfeiture of accrued but uncredited interest, such as when a consumer withdraws all funds from the account prior to the date interest is credited. (b)(3) Balance Information (b)(3)(ii) Balance Computation Method 1. Methods and periods. Institutions may use different methods or periods to calculate minimum balances for purposes of imposing a fee (daily balance for a calendar month, for example) and accruing interest (average daily balance for a statement period, for example). Each method and period must be disclosed. (b)(3)(iii) When Interest Begins to Accrue 1. Additional information. Institutions may disclose additional information such as the time of day after which deposits are treated as having been received the following business day, and may use additional descriptive terms such as ``ledger'' or ``collected'' balances to disclose when interest begins to accrue. (b)(4) Fees 1. Types of fees. The following are types of fees that must be disclosed in connection with an account: •Maintenance fees, such as monthly service fees •Fees related to deposits or withdrawals, such as fees for use of the institution's ATMs •Fees for special services, such as stop payment fees, fees for balance inquiries or verification of deposits, and fees associated with checks returned unpaid •Fees to open or to close accounts Institutions need not disclose fees such as the following: •Fees assessed for services offered to account and nonaccount holders alike, such as fees for travelers checks and wire transfers (even if different for nonaccount holders) •Incidental fees, such as fees associated with state escheat laws, garnishment or attorneys fees, and fees for photocopying forms 2. Amount of fees. Institutions must state the amount and conditions under which a fee may be imposed. Naming and describing the fee typically satisfies this requirement. Some examples are: •``$4.00 monthly service fee'' •``$7.00 and up'' or ``fee depend on style of checks ordered'' for check printing fees 3. Tied-accounts. Institutions must state if fees that may be assessed against an account are tied to other accounts at the institution. For example, if an institution ties the fees payable on a NOW account to balances held in the NOW account and in a savings account, the NOW account disclosures must state that fact and explain how the fee is determined. (b)(5) Transaction Limitations 1. General rule. Examples of limitations on the number or dollar amount of deposits or withdrawals that institutions must disclose are: •Limits on the number of checks that may be written on an account for a given time period •Limits on withdrawals or deposits during the term of a time account •Limitations required by Regulation D, such as the number of withdrawals permitted from money market deposit accounts by check to third parties each month (but they need not disclose that the institution reserves the right to require a seven-day notice for a withdrawal from an account). (b)(6) Features of Time Accounts (b)(6)(i) Time Requirements 1. ``Callable'' time accounts. In addition to the maturity date, institutions must state the date or the circumstances under which the institution may redeem a time account at the institution's option (a ``callable'' time account). (b)(6)(ii) Early Withdrawal Penalties 1. General. The term ``penalty'' need not be used to describe the loss that may be incurred by consumers for early withdrawal of funds from time accounts. 2. Examples. Examples of early withdrawal penalties are: •Monetary penalties, such as ``$10.00'' or ``seven days' interest plus accrued but uncredited interest''
