FR940512-1-00084 FR940512-1-00010 (4) The quality and adequacy of the applicant's plan to use its resources (including funding, facilities, equipment, and supplies) and personnel to achieve each objective; (5) How the applicant will ensure that project participants who are otherwise eligible to participate are selected without regard to race, color, national origin, gender, age, or disability; (6) A clear description of how the applicant will provide equal access to services for eligible project participants who are members of groups that have been traditionally under-represented, including members of racial or ethnic minority groups; and (7) The extent to which the plan of operation and management includes involvement by older individuals who are blind in planning and conducting program activities. (c) Quality of key personnel (10 points). (1) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the qualifications of the key personnel the applicant plans to use on the project, including_ (i) The qualifications of the project director; (ii) The qualifications of each of the other management and decision-making personnel to be used in the project; (iii) The time that each person referred to in paragraphs (c)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section will commit to the project; (iv) How the applicant, as part of its nondiscriminatory employment practices, will ensure that its personnel are selected for employment without regard to race, color, national origin, gender, age, or disability; and (v) The extent to which the applicant, as part of its nondiscriminatory employment practices, encourages applications for employment from persons who are members of groups that have been traditionally under-represented, including_ (A) Members of racial or ethnic minority groups; (B) Women; (C) Persons with disabilities; and (D) Elderly individuals. (2) To determine personnel qualifications under paragraphs (c)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section, the Secretary considers_ (i) Experience and training in fields related to the scope of the project; and (ii) Any other qualifications that pertain to the objectives of the project. (d) Budget and cost effectiveness (5 points). The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which_ (1) The budget is adequate to support the project; (2) Costs are reasonable in relation to the objectives of the project; and (3) The applicant demonstrates the cost-effectiveness of project services in comparison with alternative services and programs available to older individuals who are blind. (e) Evaluation plan (5 points). The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the evaluation plan for the project, including the extent to which the applicant's methods of evaluation_ (1) Accurately evaluate the success and cost-effectiveness of the project; (2) Are objective and produce data that are quantifiable; and (3) Will determine how successful the project is in meeting its goals and objectives. ( Cross-reference: See 34 CFR 75.590) (f) Adequacy of resources (5 points). The Secretary reviews each application to determine the adequacy of the resources that the applicant plans to devote to the project, including accessibility of facilities, equipment, and supplies. (g) Service comprehensiveness (20 points). (1) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which the proposed outreach activities promote maximum participation of the target population within the geographic area served by the project. (2) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which the availability of the following services that will meet the IL needs of older individuals with varying degrees of significant visual impairment are included:
