FR941222-0-00031 FR941222-0-00003 I.3. Comment. One commenter wanted to know the relationship between the Standardized NUHOMS and the NUHOMS MP187 now applying for a Certificate of Compliance. Is the MP187 transportable? Will the canister of all models fit into the transport overpack? Wouldn't a utility be better off waiting for the transportable cask rather than choosing a storage only cask that may have compatibility problems with an MPC system? Response. The MP&hyph;187 transportation overpack uses a canister similar to the Standardized NUHOMS. However, it is the subject of a separate NRC review as part of a site-specific licensing application. Both the Standardized NUHOMS and the MP&hyph;187 share many common design features. However, they are separate applications, and the NRC has not been asked by the cask vendor to review whether the Standardized NUHOMS can be transported in the NUHOMS MP187 transportation overpack. The issue of whether a utility should consider the transportability of dry storage casks is beyond the scope of this rulemaking. I.4. Comment. One commenter cited a report given at the HLW Conference at Las Vegas, in 1990, ``Integrated Spent Fuel Storage and Transportation Systems using NUHOMS,'' by PNFSI (page 671): ``While subsequent transfer of an intact DSC from a NUHOMS on-site transfer cask directly to an OCRWM rail/barge is feasible, this method of transfer is not preferred since the assemblies would be oriented top down and the DSC bottom shield plug and grapple ring assembly would be orientated top up, thus complicating the canister opening and fuel handling process at the MRS or geologic repository following shipment.'' Has NRC evaluated this situation? Has it been rectified? Response. Because the cask vendor applied for certification of the Standardized NUHOMS only as a storage cask under 10 CFR Part 72, transportation of this cask is not a subject of this rulemaking. Therefore, the NRC review of the standardized NUHOMS did not consider the particular transportation problem described in the comment. J. Several commenters supported the rule stating that it is beneficial to the NRC and licensees, and it is consistent with NRC's direction to avoid unnecessary site-specific licensing reviews. Others disagreed and asked specific questions about NRC's approval and oversight process. J.1. Comment. One commenter stated that the NRC statement, ``The proposed rule will not have adverse effect on public health and safety,'' cannot be guaranteed and, therefore, even though it may be convenient for the nuclear industry and the NRC to avoid site-specific approvals, in this case these are essential for maintaining public safety. Another commenter following the same theme questioned how the following determination was made: ``this cask, when used in accordance with the conditions specified in the Certificate of Compliance and NRC regulations, will meet the requirements of 10 CFR Part 72; thus, adequate protection of the public health and safety would be ensured.'' Response. Dry storage casks approved by the NRC for use under the general license are of a robust design that relies on generic cask features to ensure protection of the public health and safety. Additional NRC site-specific approvals are unnecessary. NRC oversight and inspections are sufficient to ensure that general licensees implement NRC conditions on cask use. If specific concerns are raised, the NRC also has the authority to look into them and respond as necessary to protect public health and safety. The NRC has established specific requirements in 10 CFR Part 72 that must be met in order to obtain a Certificate of Compliance for a cask. The details of the review and the bases for the NRC concluding that the cask meets the requirements of 10 CFR Part 72 are provided in the SER. The goal of dry cask storage technology is to store spent fuel safely. That goal, and the effectiveness of the technology, have been demonstrated empirically and experimentally. Different cask designs may require different types of analysis to demonstrate their safety. Therefore, different review methods may be appropriate to reach that conclusion. In each case, the level of review performed is that needed to provide assurance of adequate protection of the public health and safety. J.2. Comment. Several commenters expressed concern over the exemption to 10 CFR 72.234(c) granted to VECTRA to begin transfer cask fabrication (but not use) ``to have the necessary equipment available for use by Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station (DBNPS) in mid-1995, and thus enable DBNPS to maintain complete full-core off-load capability in its spent fuel pool following the refueling outage scheduled for early 1996.'' One commenter said that seeking public comment and providing comments is an exercise in futility because cask approval seems to be a fait accompli. Another commenter wants no exemptions for fabrication before certification to be allowed, stating that problems have developed when all these exemptions are allowed.
