FR940906-2-00092 FR940906-2-00071 The Ten-day Application Period The draft amendment would have required dealers to apply to a depository at least ten days prior to the closing date of a new issue to establish depository eligibility. This provision was intended to support the routine practice recommended by depositories even though depositories can and do make new issues eligible on shorter notice when it is necessary. A majority of commenters, however, believe that the ten day application period is inappropriate for an MSRB rule in light of the need of underwriters occasionally to settle a new issue with an issuer on short notice. Three commenters proposed a different approach that would tie the application requirement to the date of sale rather than the date of closing. These commenters suggested that the provision be changed to require the application to be made within twenty-four hours of the award of the issue. MSRB notes that this suggestion will avoid potential problems that might occur in the occasional cases in which there is less than ten days between the date of award of a competitively sold issue and the settlement of the issue. At the same time, the requirement for underwriters to apply to a depository on the day after the date of sale gives depositories the maximum amount of time available to establish eligibility and prepare for a book-entry distribution. Therefore, MSRB has included in the proposed rule change a provision requiring that the application to a depository must be made within one business day of the date of sale of the issue. The proposed rule change also includes a requirement that if the full documentation and information required to establish depository eligibility is not available from the underwriter at the time the initial application is submitted to the depository, the underwriter shall forward such documentation to the depository as soon as it is available. Exemption Until July 1, 1996, for Issues Under $1 Million in Par Value The draft amendment included exemptive language for issues under $1 million in par value. This exemption was included because of concerns that had been expressed by some dealers relating to their desire to continue to use physical settlements for small issues with limited distribution. Eight commenters urged MSRB to include issues under $1 million in par value within the rule with most citing the need for increased settlement efficiencies offered by book-entry when T+3 becomes effective. Two commenters suggested a temporary exemption for small issues and noted that ultimately all issues should be included within the scope of the rule but that some underwriters of small issues may need time to adjust their procedures associated with clearance and settlement of small issues. MSRB believes that this is a reasonable approach and has adopted a provision in the proposed rule change that will exempt issues under $1 million in par value until July 1, 1996. Four commenters suggested that a reduction in depository application fees would reduce the need for an exemption for small issues. MSRB, however, has no authority to change the fees charged by depositories. Exemption for Issues Maturing in Sixty Days or Less Three commenters suggested an exemption for issues maturing in sixty days or less and noted that these issues typically do not trade in the secondary market. MSRB is not aware of any substantial trading in such short-term securities and agrees that an exemption for issues maturing in sixty days or less would be appropriate. The exemption accordingly has been included within the proposed rule change. Other Suggested Exemptions One commenter suggested exempting leases, notes, and bonds sold to nondepository participants. MSRB is not aware of any reason that these types of securities should be treated differently than other municipal securities. It accordingly has not provided exemptions for these types of issues in the proposed rule change. Depository Eligibility Criteria MSRB understands that of the three depositories accepting municipal securities for deposit, the eligibility criteria is essentially the same and that nearly all municipal securities meet the criteria for depository eligibility. If, however, an issue could not be made eligible at any of these depositories, the proposed rule change will not require the underwriter to make an application. 6 One commenter urged that depositories reach agreement on uniform minimum guidelines to minimize the burden on underwriters and inefficiencies that might be caused by any differing eligibility criteria among the depositories., While MSRB agrees with this goal, MSRB does not have regulatory authority over depositories. MSRB will continue to monitor any problems created by differing eligibility criteria and may suggest remedial actions to the Commission in the future if differing eligibility criteria create problems under the proposed rule change. 6 The exception in the proposed rule change for new issues that do not meet a depository's eligibility criteria is necessary because the terms of a new issue ultimately are controlled by the issuer of the securities, which is not subject to MSRB rules. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within thirty-five days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to ninety days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so filing or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) by order approve such proposed rule change or (B) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. MSRB requests that the Commission delay effectiveness of the proposed rule change until sixty days after Commission approval to allow dealers to adjust their underwriting procedures to obtain compliance. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested people are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. People making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submissions, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC. 20549. Copies of the filing will also be available for inspection and copying at MSRB's principal offices. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;MSRB&hyph;94&hyph;13 and should be submitted by September 27, 1994. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 7 7 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21812 Filed 9&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
