FR940826-2-00071 FR940826-2-00055 AC. Unaffiliated Wireless Infrastructure Equipment Customer means a Wireless Carrier that is not an Affiliate of AT&T or McCaw nor a McCaw Minority Owned Cellular System but that purchases or contracts to purchase AT&T Wireless Infrastructure Equipment for use in providing Wireless Service. AD. United States means plaintiff the United States of America. Unless otherwise delegated by the Attorney General, the authority under this Final Judgment to act on behalf of the United States is delegated to the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division or to such personnel of the Antitrust Division as the Assistant Attorney General may designate. AE. Wireless Infrastructure Equipment means the cell sites, mobile switching equipment and other Telecommunications Equipment which is purchased by Wireless Carriers for the provision of Wireless Services. It does not include transmission media or other equipment not specifically developed for use in a Wireless System ( e.g., cable or fiber) unless such equipment is not compatible with other manufacturers' Wireless Infrastructure Equipment. It does include both the equipment used to terminate those media ( e.g., D4 channel banks) and the radio equipment used to transmit telecommunications within a Wireless System. AF. Wireless Services, Wireless Systems and Wireless Carriers, respectively, mean those telecommunications services, systems, or carriers that use radio transmission between the customer and the network, and includes cellular, land mobile radio, commercial mobile radio (as defined in 47 U.S.C. 332(d)(1), as amended), specialized mobile radio (``SMR''), personal communications services (``PCS''), and any other mobile radio services, systems, or carriers that has been or might be authorized by the Commission or offered using radio transmission between the customer and the network. III Separation of McCaw and AT&T McCaw and McCaw affiliates that are involved in the operations of Wireless Systems and the provision of Local Wireless Services shall be maintained as corporations or partnerships engaged in such business activities separate from AT&T so long as any provision of this Final Judgment remains in effect. Separation for purposes of this Final Judgment requires the following: A. McCaw and McCaw affiliates shall be maintained as corporations or partnerships with separate officers and personnel, and separate books, financial, and operating records. B. McCaw and McCaw affiliates shall retain all Wireless Service licenses and title and control of the Wireless Infrastructure Equipment used by its Wireless Systems to provide Wireless Services. C. McCaw and McCaw affiliates shall retain responsibility for the operation of their Wireless Systems and the marketing of their wireless services, and may not by contract or otherwise delegate substantial responsibility for the performance of such business activities to AT&T, provided that AT&T may act as McCaw's agent to the extent authorized in Section IV(F) of this Final Judgment. Nothing in this Final Judgment shall prohibit AT&T from providing general corporate overhead and administrative services to McCaw and McCaw affiliates. D. AT&T may provide Interexchanges Services, Wireless Infrastructure Equipment and related engineering services, and services related to the marketing of Wireless Services to McCaw and McCaw affiliates subject to the provisions of this Final Judgment, provided that such products and services may be provided only pursuant to filed tariffs or written contracts identifying the products and services to be provided, the principal terms and conditions of their provision, and the prices therefor. E. A McCaw Cellular System or McCaw Minority Owned Cellular System may use the name ``AT&T'' or any trademark or trade name of AT&T in its corporate or service names only after such date as it has completed conversion to equal access and balloted existing customers pursuant to Section IV.B and IV.C of this Final Judgment. McCaw, AT&T and McCaw Minority Owned Systems may not use the name ``AT&T'' or any registered trademark or trade name of AT&T in the national marketing or advertising of any Cellular Service until 60% of the McCaw Cellular Systems (measured by subscribers, and without including McCaw Minority Owned Cellular Systems that provide equal access pursuant to the MFJ) have completed conversion to equal access. IV Equal Access A. Prior to its conversion to equal access under Section IV.B through IV.D, McCaw Cellular Systems may continue existing arrangements for provision of Interexchange Services. No McCaw Cellular System shall alter these arrangements in ways that discriminate in favor of AT&T in the provision of Exchange Access. B. Each McCaw Cellular System shall, on a phased-in basis and no later than 21 months following the commencement of this action, cease providing Interexchange Services and shall provide customers of each McCaw Cellular System equal access to any Interexchange Carrier that offers service to the system by 1. Providing each customer with Local Cellular Service under prices and terms that do not depend upon the customer obtaining Interexchange Service from AT&T or from any affiliate of McCaw. Except to the extent specifically authorized by Section IV.F.1 of this Final Judgment, McCaw, McCaw Cellular Systems, their employees, and their agents shall not recommend, sell otherwise market the Interexchange Services of any Interexchange Carriers, and shall administer Interexchange Carrier selection procedures on a carrier-neutral and nondiscriminatory basis; 2. Permitting each customer automatically to route, without the use of access codes, all of the customer's originating interexchange communications to the Interexchange Carrier of the customer's designation and to reach other Interexchange Carriers by dialing the appropriate carrier identification code, with each McCaw Cellular System prohibited from imposing any charges on its customers for originating Interexchange calls unless the charges are nondiscriminatory and imposed regardless of the identity of a customer's Interexchange Carrier; and
