FR940414-1-00049 FR940414-1-00010 Pollution prevention, recycle and reuse practices fall into three groups: actual production practices, housekeeping practices, and practices that involve equipment designed for pollution prevention. Some of these practices/equipment listed below conserve water, others reduce the amount of active ingredient or pesticide product in the wastewater, while others may prevent the creation of a wastewater altogether. Production practices include: •Using the appropriate solvent (water or organic) to rinse and placing the rinsate from triple-rinsing raw material shipping containers directly into the formulation; •Scheduling production to minimize cleanouts; •Segregating formulating/packaging equipment by individual product, organic solvent- versus water-based formulations, and grouping production by product ``families'' (products that contain similar PAIs in different concentrations); •Storing interior equipment rinsewaters for use in future formulation of the same product; •Packaging products directly out of formulation vessels; •Using inert raw material drums for packaging final products containing same inert; and •Dedicating equipment (possibly only mix tank or agitator) for hard to clean formulations. Housekeeping practices include: •Performing preventative maintenance on all valves, fittings and pumps; •Placing drip pans under leaky valves and fittings; and •Cleaning up spills or leaks in outdoor bulk containment areas to prevent contamination of stormwater. Equipment that promotes pollution prevention by reducing or eliminating wastewater generation includes: •Low volume_high pressure hoses; •Spray nozzle attachments for hoses; •Squeegees and mops; •Low volume/recirculating floor scrubbing machines; •Portable steam cleaners; •Drum triple rinsing stations (described later); and •Roofs over outdoor tank farms. The following discussion describes how pollution prevention, recycle, reuse and water conservation practices are applied by formulating, packaging and repackaging facilities included in EPA's survey. 1. Shipping Container/Drum Cleaning Facilities frequently receive pesticide raw materials in containers such as 55-gallon steel or 30-gallon fiber drums. In some cases, the empty drums are returned to the supplier for reconditioning and reuse, but usually the PFPR facility is responsible for disposal of the drums. Many PFPR facilities reported rinsing raw material containers after emptying. This practice was also common at the facilities visited. The simplest, and generally the best method for handling the rinsate is to add the rinsate to the product being formulated. This practice not only eliminates a potential highly concentrated wastewater source, but also recovers the product value of the raw material. Some facilities employ a high-pressure, low-volume wash system equipped with a hose and a spray nozzle to triple rinse drums. Such wash systems are reported to use 5 to 15 gallons of water to rinse a drum. EPA identified many facilities that reuse the rinsates from shipping containers directly into product formulations. 2. Bulk Tank Rinsate Pesticide formulating, packaging and repackaging facilities sometimes store large quantities of formulated pesticide products and raw materials in bulk tanks. These tanks are typically rinsed only when it becomes necessary to use the tank for storage of a different material. These tanks are most commonly found at refilling establishments for agricultural pesticides, where they are used to hold formulated pesticides (rather than raw materials) and where it is also more likely that they will need to be cleaned due to product changeover. For example, a refilling establishment may store bulk quantities of a pesticide product used for corn crops during the spring and then switch in the summer to storing a pesticide product used for soybeans. Each time the facility switches the product stored in a bulk tank, the tank is rinsed. Bulk tanks are sometimes also rinsed at the end of a season as part of general maintenance procedures. The recovery of product value from bulk tank rinsates is a common pollution prevention practice in the industry. Bulk tank rinsates have been reused by some PFPR facilities into product formulations and by some refilling establishments in application mixtures of pesticides mixtures (using the rinsate as make-up water). EPA has observed that facilities can usually store this rinsate on site until the opportunity arises to add it to a formulation or use it for application. Facilities can also minimize the amount of rinsate generated during bulk tank cleaning by using high-pressure, low-volume washers. Some PFPR facilities have also demonstrated that the use of squeegees reduces wastewater generation during the cleaning of bulk tanks. The smaller the volume of water needed to clean the bulk tank, the more readily the entire volume can be recovered by addition to the product or application mixture. 3. Equipment Interior Cleaning Formulated and packaged products may be either liquid or solid. A liquid formulating and packaging line often consists of mix tanks, melt kettles (if necessary), transfer piping or hoses and pumps, filters prior to packaging, and a packaging hopper and fillers operating over a conveyor belt. A dry formulating and packaging line often consists of crushing, pulverizing, grinding, and/or milling equipment; blenders; screening equipment; and the packaging equipment. Repackaging is often a simple process of transferring material manually from one container into another of different size. For both liquid and dry operations, the packaging equipment is often portable. Facilities often do not dedicate line equipment to a specific product because most facilities produce many products and the production schedules for any one product are usually seasonal and can be very infrequent. Often the equipment is used for short-term production campaigns, and can be used for both pesticide and non-pesticide products. To ensure product quality, the production line equipment is normally cleaned between product changeovers. Many facilities perform routine periodic cleaning of production lines for maintenance and, on occasion, also perform special or non-routine cleaning due to equipment failures or the use of materials that require additional cleaning time or cleaning solvents. Different types of lines (i.e., dry, liquid, emulsifiable concentrates, etc.) require different cleaning methods, such as water or solvent rinsing, flushing with solid material, mechanical abrasion, or a combination of these techniques.
