FR940425-2-00063 FR940425-2-00047 2. Variations in current practice; 3. The economic burden posed by the prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and clinical management of the health condition, including the impact on publicly-funded programs; 4. Aggregate cost of the use of the technology; 5. The morbidity and mortality associated with the health condition; and 6. The potential of an assessment to improve health outcomes or affect costs associated with the prevention, diagnosis, or treatment of the condition. Subsequent to the enactment of Public Law 102&hyph;410, OHTA presented to AHCPR's Advisory Council a plan for determining priorities, based on the IOM report and the statutory criteria, which called for the following steps: 1. Proposal of criteria for setting priorities and assignment of weights to each criterion; 2. Solicitation of potential technologies for assessment or reassessment, dependent upon AHCPR resources (This solicitation would be published as a separate notice); 3. Compilation of criterion scores for each technology under consideration; that is, quantitative data are gathered for each criterion, based on information in the published literature or elsewhere in the public record (for example, data compiled by health specialties organizations); 4. Calculation of a priority score for each potential technology, by adding the products of each criterion weight and the natural logarithm of the associated criterion score; and 5. Ranking of all technologies based on the priority scores. The Council agreed with this plan, and established a Technology Assessment Task Force to aid the process. In August, 1993, AHCPR announced in the Federal Register that there was to be a public meeting for the Task Force to solicit comments and recommendations on criteria for setting priorities for technology assessments. The meeting was held on September 22, 1993, and was attended by representatives of professional societies, private payors and managed care associations, medical device and pharmaceutical manufacturers, and other interested parties. Oral and written statements were received, representing a broad range of views and interests. There was extensive discussion about ranking the statutory criteria in order of importance and assigning a numerical weight to each criterion. This approach followed the ``Model Process'' in the IOM study. The AHCPR was also encouraged to provide uniform definitions or explanations for the criteria. Additional criteria suggested were: social, ethical, and legal considerations and the availability of sufficient data on which to base an assessment. The Task Force took into consideration the comments and recommendations received at the public meeting and presented recommendations to the Council, which in turn accepted the numerical weights and ranking of the criteria. The AHCPR is, therefore, proposing the following rank order and numerical weighting of criteria to be used in determining priorities for the conduct of assessments. 1. ``The potential of an assessment to improve health outcomes or affect costs *␣*␣*§'' is defined as the expected effects of an assessment upon the outcomes of a patient with the clinical condition in question, or on the cost of that clinical condition. For example, the assessment of autologous bone marrow transplantation indicated that procedure improved survival in patients with relapsed lymphoma. The mean weight proposed for this criterion is 4.8 on a scale of 1.0&hyph;5.0, where 1.0 is the least important and 5.0 is the most important. 2. ``The morbidity and mortality associated with the health condition *␣*␣*'' is defined by equating morbidity to severity of illness, and mortality to death. For example, breast cancer would be assigned a greater criterion score than would low back pain. The proposed mean weight assigned to this criterion is 3.5.
