FR940419-2-00043 FR940419-2-00033 The following components may be included in crisis nursery programs: •24-hour services; •Referral to counseling/therapy services, including out-of-home placement (when appropriate); •Access to primary medical services; •Staff training, including child abuse/neglect reporting responsibilities; •Public awareness programs; and •Linkages to other family support and/or family preservation services. Minimum Requirements for Project Design: 1.01A_Temporary Child Care for Children With Disabilities and Chronically Ill Children, and 1.01B - Crisis Nurseries In order to successfully compete under one or both of these priority areas, the applicant should: •Provide a letter addressed to the Commissioner, Administration on Children, Youth and Families, and signed by the Governor which certifies that the State agency applying for funding is the State agency designated to carry out programs funded under 42 U.S.C. Sections 5117a and 5117b of the Temporary Child Care for Children With Disabilities and Crisis Nurseries Act. •Provide documentation of the State's commitment to develop a State plan for coordination among agencies carrying out programs and activities provided by the State pursuant to a temporary child care grant under 42 U.S.C. Section 5117a. (Section 5117c(a)(1)(A)(v)) •Describe collaborative efforts with programs funded through the Child Care and Development Block Grant. •Describe collaborative efforts with other family preservation and/or support programs including how the project(s) funded under this program will be family-centered and incorporated into an integrated service system being planned under the Family Preservation and Family Support program authorized in Title IV-B, Subpart 2 of the Social Security Act. •Describe the proposed State program to assist private and public agencies or organizations in providing in-home or out-of-home temporary, non-medical care to children with disabilities and children with chronic or terminal illnesses, including drug-related conditions and children with AIDS or AIDS-related conditions, or crisis nurseries for abused and neglected children. (1) If the State has previously received an award under this statute, describe the types of services being provided and the geographical sites served utilizing these funds. (2) If the funds being requested would be used to enhance services previously or currently supported under this statute, substantial detailed documentation must be provided on the increased need for services such as the existence of waiting lists or an increase in the population of the geographical area. (3) If the funds being requested would be used to expand services to geographical sites not previously or currently supported under this statute, describe the process that was used or will be used to select the sites. Particularly encouraged are sites which would serve homeless families, families living in public housing projects or American Indian communities and/or other minority families. •Describe the services to be provided, the agencies and organizations that would provide the services and the criteria that would be employed in the selection of children and families for participation in the project. (42 U.S.C. Section 5117c(a)(1)(A)(i)) •Describe State plans for the submission of an annual report to the Secretary evaluating the programs that are funded, including information on costs, number of participants, impact on family stability, incidence of child abuse and neglect and such other information as the Secretary may require. Describe fully how this requirement would be met and specifically describe how the data required to conduct this evaluation and to generate the information would be collected. (42 U.S.C. 5117c(C)) •Describe a plan for dissemination of the results of the programs and projects funded under the Act. (42 U.S.C. 5117c(a)(1)(A)(iii))
