FR940831-2-00159 FR940831-2-00106 Runzheimer did not include a fee for the Washington, D.C., area because dealers in those areas do not typically charge a documentation fee. The three vehicles selected for analysis were: Domestic Vehicle_Ford Taurus GL 4-door sedan 3.0L 6 cyl Utility Vehicle_Chevrolet S10 Blazer 4X4 2 door 4.3L 6 cyl Import Vehicle_Honda Civic DX 4-door sedan 1.5L 4 cyl Runzheimer priced 1994 models. All vehicles were equipped with standard options, such as automatic transmission, AM/FM stereo radio and air conditioning. As done in the 1992/1993 survey, at OPM's request, Runzheimer also priced snow tires, engine-block heaters, and heavy-duty batteries in all of the Alaskan locations. Car dealers in the Washington, D.C., area did not recommend vehicle rustproofing. However, it was suggested or recommended in allowance areas. Therefore, we included rustproofing as an add-on in all allowance areas, but not in the Washington, D.C., area. 5.2.2␣Vehicle Trade Cycle Calculating the cost to own and operate a vehicle requires that two important factors be determined: miles driven and time period of ownership. In the automobile industry, these two factors are known collectively as a vehicle's ``trade cycle.'' The trade cycle is stated as a length of time either in months or years, and the total number of miles driven in that time period (e.g., four-year, 60,000-mile trade cycle). This information is required to compute annual costs related to fuel, oil, tires, maintenance and depreciation. Conforming with previous living-cost reports, Runzheimer used a four-year 60,000-mile trade cycle in all areas based upon the following information: •The Internal Revenue Service has used this trade cycle for many years to compute the allowable cents-per-mile reimbursement rate for persons who drive their personal vehicle for business purposes. •The four-year time period coincides with the typical length of a vehicle loan. •U.S. Department of Energy statistics for 1988 show that the U.S. average for number of vehicle miles driven was: 18,595 per household and 10,246 miles per vehicle. Runzheimer has been unable to find conclusive statistics on average annual miles driven per vehicle in any allowance area. In 1991, Runzheimer contacted car dealers to obtain their observations on average odometer mileage on trade-in vehicles and informally asked other residents of each area for their opinions. From the opinions gathered, we concluded that, in most cases, the average annual miles driven in allowance locations appeared to be less than or equal to 15,000. In the Washington, D.C., area, the opinions of those contacted indicated an average annual mileage of 15,000 or more. Therefore, without definitive statistics to prove otherwise, Runzheimer set a standard used in all reports to date of 15,000 miles per year, which results in a four-year, 60,000-mile trade cycle. 5.2.3␣Fuel Performance and Type To establish average fuel-performance ratings, Runzheimer selected the ``city driving'' figures published by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Runzheimer chose the ``city'' instead of ``highway'' figures because all locations contained considerable stop-and-go driving conditions. All vehicles included in this study used regular unleaded fuel. Except in Alaska, Runzheimer obtained self-service cash prices and substituted full-service when self-service was not available. At OPM's request, Runzheimer priced gasoline at the full-service pump in Alaska. As in its second report to OPM, Runzheimer has included in its analysis a number of fuel-performance factors; specifically, temperature, road surface, and gradient. Based on our research of these three factors, Runzheimer analysts developed fuel-performance adjustment percentages in each allowance area. 5.2.3.1␣Impact of Temperature Upon Fuel Performance Runzheimer consulted two published sources to develop its adjustment percentages for this fuel-efficiency factor: Passenger Car Fuel Economy: EPA and Road and The Weather Almanac (Ruffner & Blair). Miles-per-gallon performance varies by ambient temperature. The lower the temperature, the fewer miles-per-gallon achieved and vice versa. In the EPA study, the temperature at which no adjustments to fuel performance occur is 77 ○F. Below that temperature, miles-per-gallon achieved drops; above 77 ○, miles-per-gallon achieved improves. To measure the effect temperature has on miles-per-gallon for each allowance area, Runzheimer researched average monthly temperatures as reported in The Weather Almanac. In each location and for each month, Runzheimer assigned the appropriate shortfall factor from the EPA study based on the average monthly temperature for each given location. For example, if the average monthly temperature was 35 ○, the shortfall factor in miles-per-gallon would be 0.876. After assigning factors to each month, Runzheimer averaged the twelve factors for each location. The results of these calculations are shown in section 5.2.3.4.
