FR940429-2-00022 FR940429-2-00018 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The proposed Project that is the subject of the EIS consists of several components, including central and auxiliary salmon incubation and rearing facilities, satellite rearing facilities, and monitoring and evaluation facilities located in the Clearwater and Salmon River Basins in central Idaho. The proposed NPTH would be consistent with the Northwest Power Planning Council's (Council) Fish and Wildlife Program Measure 703 (g)(2), calling for construction of low-capital salmon and steelhead propagation facilities adaptable to Columbia River Basin locales. The Council envisioned that the NPTH Production Project would help rebuild or re-establish anadromous salmon runs in the Clearwater and Salmon River sub-basins. The Nez Perce Tribal Government envisioned the NPTH production project as a way of helping to rebuild a fishery resource that is important to the Tribal culture and allowing rights reserved in the 1855 Treaty with the United States to be exercised. Further, this action would provide an opportunity for the Federal government to fulfill its trust responsibility to the NPT. BPA proposes this Project as a means to protect, mitigate, and enhance Columbia River Basin fish and wildlife resources under the authority of the Pacific Northwest Electric Power Planning and Conservation Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96&hyph;501). If developed, the NPTH will employ state-of-the-art, technologically advanced salmon supplementation techniques in an attempt to rebuild naturally reproducing salmon runs in the watersheds of the Clearwater and Salmon River sub-basins. As requested by the Council, BPA and NPT completed a master plan for the proposed Project. The Council approved the NPTH Master Plan, requesting final design and construction of the NPTH, on May 27, 1992. A. Proposed Action The following need statement has been identified for the NPTH EIS: The need is for naturally reproducing salmon at harvestable populations in the upriver Clearwater and Salmon River sub-basins. The established purpose(s) for the proposed NPTH project are manyfold: 1. Protect, mitigate, and enhance Columbia River Basin anadromous fish resources. 2. Develop, increase, and reintroduce natural spawning populations of salmon within the Clearwater and Salmon River sub-basins. 3. Provide long-term harvest opportunities for Tribal and non-Tribal anglers within Nez Perce Treaty lands. 4. Sustain long-term fitness and genetic integrity of target fish populations. 5. Keep ecological and genetic impacts to nontarget fish populations within acceptable limits. 6. Provide harvest opportunities for Tribal and non-Tribal anglers within four salmon generations (20 years) following completion of the Project. 7. Promote NPT management of NPTH production facilities and production areas. To meet the underlying need and purpose statements, the proposed action is for BPA and BIA to fund: (1) Construction, (2) operation and maintenance, and (3) monitoring and evaluation of a NPTH supplementation project within the Clearwater and Salmon River sub-basins. The NPTH supplementation facilities would consist of a central incubation and rearing facility on the Clearwater River at Cherry Lane, Idaho; an auxiliary salmon incubation and rearing facility on Sweetwater Creek near Lewiston, Idaho; 13 satellite juvenile rearing and adult holding facilities located in various tributary watersheds; and monitoring facilities for juvenile and adult salmon in each watershed where satellites are proposed. Species targeted for supplementation are spring, summer, and fall chinook salmon ( Oncorhynchus tshawytscha ). The central facility would incubate eggs and alevins and rear fry to approximately 50&hyph;80 millimeters (2&hyph;3 inches) in size to prepare them for final rearing and release at the satellite facilities or in natural stream systems. The Sweetwater Creek holding facility would be constructed to backup the central facility and rear subyearling or yearling smolts and, when needed, to hold adult broodstock. Satellite facilities used for rearing, acclimation, release, adult holding, monitoring, and evaluation would also be constructed. They would be located in key tributary watersheds of the Clearwater and Salmon River sub-basins. Facility locations in the Clearwater sub-basin would be: Lolo Creek (Mainstem Lolo Creek, Yoosa Creek, and Eldorado Creek); South Fork Clearwater River (Meadow Creek, Mill Creek, Newsome Creek); and the Selway River (Meadow Creek). Facility locations in the Salmon River sub-basin would be: Slate Creek (Mainstem Slate Creek and Little Slate Creek). Floodplains and wetlands may be involved at the following central and satellite facility sites: 1Site name 1County 1Township 1Range 1Section Cherry Lane; 21 miles East of Lewiston, Darrell Kerby Ranch Nez Perce 37N 3W 35 Sweetwater Sp., Origin W.F. Sweetwater Crk Nez Perce 33N 4W 4 Mann Lake Headgate, Lewiston Orchards Irr. District, Sweetwater Crk Nez Perce 34N 47E 21 No. Lapwai Valley, Tribal Allotment 606, Lapwai Crk., Clearwater R Nez Perce 36N 4W 22, 27 Mouth Lolo Crk., Clearwater R Clearwater, Idaho 35N 2E 14 Yoosa/Camp Crk. Confluence, Lolo Crk Idaho 35N 6E 1,12 Crk. at Six-Bit Crk. Confluence, Lolo Crk Idaho 34N 6E 1 Newsom Crk/Beaver Crk Confluence, S.F. Clearwater River Idaho 30N 7E 31 Mill Crk, S.F. Clearwater River Idaho 29N 4E 27 Meadow Crk, S.F. Clearwater River Idaho 30N 4E 35 Cedar Flats, Selway R Idaho 32N 7E 23 Meadow Crk, Selway R Idaho 31N 9E 11 Slate Crk, Hurley Crk Confl., Salmon R Idaho 27N 2E 34 Slate Crk, Dead Horse Crk Confl., Salmon R Idaho 26N 3E 3,10
