FR940314-0-00051 FR940314-0-00012 Monday March 14, 1994 Part V Postal Service 39 CFR Part 111 Preparation Requirements for Letter-Size ZIP+4 and Barcodes Rate Mailings; Final Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 49␣/␣Monday, March 14, 1994␣/␣Rules and Regulations POSTAL SERVICE 39 CFR Part 111 Preparation Requirements for Letter-Size ZIP+4 and Barcoded Rate Mailings AGENCY: Postal Service. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule amends the Domestic Mail Manual (DMM) requirements governing the preparation of the residual portion of second- and third-class letter-size automation rate mailings. This rule also includes an optional procedure for preparing the residual portion of First-Class ZIP+4 and barcoded letter-size mail and changes to Line 2 of AADC tray labels for letter-size mail. EFFECTIVE DATE: May 8, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Joe Alexandrovich, (202) 268&hyph;2260. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On September 22, 1993, the Postal Service published a proposed rule in the Federal Register (58 FR 49402&hyph;49415) to require that the residual portion of second- and third-class letter-size automation rate mailings be sorted to the automated area distribution center (AADC) level. As explained in the proposed rule, this change was needed to correct the processing problem that resulted when the requirement for a states and mixed-states presort of second- and third-class residual mail was eliminated as part of a larger change in preparation requirements that took effect March 21, 1993. At the time, the Postal Service did not anticipate the magnitude of the resulting increase in residual mail that must be processed at origin. This increase in non-presorted residual mail has exceeded the Postal Service's processing capabilities at many facilities, leading to considerable problems. The proposed rule also introduced an additional preparation option for the residual portion of First-Class letter-size automation rate mailings and changed the tray labeling requirement for Line 2 of AADC trays of letter-size mail. This final rule is intended to address the specific processing problem discussed in the proposed rule. As part of the ongoing process of re-examining the mailing standards in the DMM, the Postal Service plans to take a more comprehensive look at the standards for automation rate mail later this year, with a view to simplifying those standards. Evaluation of Comments Received The Postal Service received eight comments on the proposed rule, including five from mailing-related businesses, two from companies or corporations, and one from an individual. These comments are discussed below. Package Size Four commenters raised concerns relative to the preparation and processing of small packages. The original proposal did not contain a minimum package size for presortation of the residual portion of the mailing. Instead, it stated that residual packages must be prepared if two or more pieces in a mailing destinate to an AADC area. The commenters claimed that the creation of such small packages was burdensome to mailers and inefficient for the Postal Service. One mailer also stated that banding small packages results in damage to the mailpieces that may render them unsuitable for automated processing.
