FR941222-1-00023 FR941222-1-00008 Hazardous waste is defined at Section 1004(5) of RCRA, 42 U.S.C. 6903(5). There are two types of hazardous waste. First, hazardous wastes are those solid wastes which may cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality, serious irreversible illness, or incapacitating reversible illness. In addition, hazardous wastes are those solid wastes which may pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment when improperly managed. EPA's regulations establishing criteria for listing hazardous wastes are codified at Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) ยง261.11 (40 CFR 261.11). Section 261.11 states three criteria for identifying characteristics and for listing wastes as hazardous. First, wastes may be classified as ``characteristic'' wastes if they have the properties described at 40 CFR 261.21&hyph;24 which would cause them to be classified as having the characteristics of ignitability, corrosivity, reactivity or toxicity. Second, wastes may be classified as acutely hazardous if they are fatal to humans at low doses, lethal in animal studies at particular doses designated in the regulation, or otherwise capable of causing or significantly contributing to an increase in serious illness. Third, wastes may be listed as hazardous if they contain hazardous constituents identified in Appendix VIII of 40 CFR part 261 and the Agency concludes, after considering eleven factors enumerated in 40 CFR 261.11(a)(3), that the waste is capable of posing a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment when improperly managed. Such wastes are designated as toxic wastes. A substance is listed in Appendix VIII if it has been shown in scientific studies to have toxic, carcinogenic, mutagenic, or teratogenic effects on humans or other life forms. Wastes listed as hazardous are subject to federal requirements under RCRA for persons who generate, transport, treat, store or dispose of such waste. Facilities that must meet the hazardous waste management requirements, including the need to obtain permits to operate, commonly are referred to as Subtitle C facilities. Subtitle C is Congress' original statutory designation for that part of RCRA that directs EPA to issue those regulations for hazardous wastes as may be necessary to protect human health or the environment. Thus, facilities like incinerators or landfills that are required to comply with RCRA requirements for hazardous waste are referred to as Subtitle C incinerators or landfills. Subtitle C is codified as Subchapter III of Chapter 82 (Solid Waste Disposal) of Volume 42 of the United States Code (42 U.S.C. 6921 through 6939(e)). EPA standards and procedural regulations implementing Subtitle C are found generally at 40 CFR parts 260 through 272. Solid wastes that are not hazardous wastes may be disposed of at facilities that are overseen by state and local governments. These are the so-called Subtitle D facilities. Subtitle D is Congress' original statutory designation for that part of RCRA that deals with federal assistance to state and regional planning efforts for disposal of solid waste. Subtitle D is codified as Subchapter IV of Chapter 82 (Solid Waste Disposal) of Volume 42 of the United States Code (42 U.S.C. 6941 through 6949(a)). EPA regulations affecting Subtitle D facilities are found generally at 40 CFR parts 240 thru 247, and 255 thru 258. Section 3001(e)(2) of RCRA (42 U.S.C. 6921(e)(2)) requires EPA to determine whether to list as hazardous wastes generated by various chemical production processes, including the production of dyes and pigments. In June of 1991, EPA entered into a proposed consent decree in a lawsuit filed by the Environmental Defense Fund, et al. ( EDF v. Reilly, Civ. No. 89&hyph;0598 (D.D.C.), hereinafter referred to as the settlement agreement), in which the Agency agreed to publish a proposed determination as to whether or not to list as hazardous certain wastes from the production of dyes and pigments by November 30, 1994 and to promulgate a final decision by November 30, 1995. There are three major classes of dyes and pigments: Azo/benzidine, anthraquinone, and triarylmethane. The settlement agreement specifies that the listing is to address the azo, monoazo, diazo, triazo, polyazo, azoic, and benzidine categories of the azo/benzidine dye and pigment class; the anthraquinone and perylene categories of the anthraquinone dye and pigment class; and the triarylmethane, triphenylmethane, and pyrazolone categories of the triarylmethane dye and pigment class. The settlement agreement also specifies that the listing is to address the following types of wastes where they are found: spent catalysts, reactor still overheads, vacuum system condensate, process waters, spent adsorbent, equipment cleaning sludge, product mother liquor, product standardization filter cake, dust collector filter fines, recovery still bottoms, treated wastewater effluent, and wastewater treatment sludge. As part of its regulations implementing Section 3001(e) of RCRA, EPA published a list of hazardous wastes that includes hazardous wastes generated from non-specific sources and a list of hazardous wastes from specific sources. These lists have been amended several times, and are published in 40 CFR 261.31 and 40 CFR 261.32, respectively. In this action, EPA is proposing to amend 40 CFR 261.32 to add five wastes from specific sources generated during the production of dyes and pigments. Those hazardous constituents that are proposed to be included in Appendix VII to part 261, Basis for Listing Hazardous Waste, also are proposed to be added to Appendix VIII of Part 261, the list of Hazardous Constituents, if not already included in this list. All hazardous wastes listed under RCRA and codified in 40 CFR 261.31 through 261.33, as well as any solid waste that exhibits one or more of the characteristics of a RCRA hazardous waste (as defined in 40 CFR 261.21 through 261.24), are also hazardous substances under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), as amended. See CERCLA Section 101(14)(C). CERCLA hazardous substances are listed in Table 302.4 at 40 CFR 302.4 along with their reportable quantities (RQs). Accordingly, the Agency is proposing to list the proposed wastes in this action as CERCLA hazardous substances in Table 302.4 of 40 CFR 302.4. EPA is not taking action at this time to adjust the one-pound statutory RQs for these substances. B. EPA's Hazardous Waste Listing Determination Policy EPA believes that it should provide the public with a better understanding of the basis for EPA's listing decisions. Accordingly, EPA presents here the general approach the Agency uses for determining whether to list a waste as hazardous pursuant to 40 CFR 261.11(a)(3). This presentation focuses on selection of waste management scenarios used in assessing risk and the use of information on risk levels in making listing determinations. These elements are an important part of EPA's general listing policy and critical aspects to the dyes and pigments listing determination. It is important to note that this discussion presents EPA's general listing policy and is not a rulemaking. The Agency may take action at variance with this general policy. The Agency is seeking comment on its policy in order to get input from the public, not in order to promulgate binding rules for listing determinations. The Agency will review any comments received and may revise its policy based on such comments. However, the Agency does not intend to respond to comments submitted. The listing criteria described here focus on several aspects of the Agency's listing determination process. The discussion is not intended to cover all potential aspects of these determinations. For example, analyzing population risk is not included in this presentation. The Agency solicits comment on how population risks could be included as a factor in listing determinations. The Agency's approach to calculating distributions of individual risk values when determining ``high end'' risk and the Agency's position on how far into the future it will consider risk are not covered in today's notice. The Agency solicits comment on these factors and their use in listing determinations.
