FR941117-0-00157 FR941117-0-00011 (3) On any frequency removed from the carrier frequency by more than 90 kHz, up to the first multiple of the carrier frequency: at least 60 dB or 43+10 log P dB, whichever is the lesser attenuation. (e) Out of band emissions. The mean power of emissions must be attenuated below the mean power of the unmodulated carrier (P) on any frequency twice or more than twice the fundamental frequency by: at least 43+10 log P dB. (f) Mobile emissions in base frequency range . The mean power of any emissions appearing in the base station frequency range from cellular mobile transmitters operated must be attenuated to a level not to exceed ^80 dBm at the transmit antenna connector. (g) Interference from spurious emissions . If any emission from a transmitter operating in this service results in interference to users of another radio service, the FCC may require a greater attenuation of that emission than specified in this section. (h) Measurement procedure . The following spectrum analyzer bandwidth settings should be used for measurement of spurious emissions: (1) When operating in the radiotelephony mode or the supervisory audio tone mode: (i) For any emission not more than 45 kHz removed from the carrier frequency: 300 Hz; (ii) For any emission more than 45 kHz removed from the carrier frequency: 30 kHz. (2) When operating in the wideband data mode or the signaling tone mode: (i) For any emission not more than 60 kHz removed from the carrier frequency: 300 Hz; (ii) For any emission more than 60 kHz removed from the carrier frequency: 30 kHz. ยง22.919 Electronic serial numbers. The Electronic Serial Number (ESN) is a 32 bit binary number that uniquely identifies a cellular mobile transmitter to any cellular system. (a) Each mobile transmitter in service must have a unique ESN. (b) The ESN host component must be permanently attached to a main circuit board of the mobile transmitter and the integrity of the unit's operating software must not be alterable. The ESN must be isolated from fraudulent contact and tampering. If the ESN host component does not contain other information, that component must not be removable, and its electrical connections must not be accessible. If the ESN host component contains other information, the ESN must be encoded using one or more of the following techniques: (1) Multiplication or division by a polynomial; (2) Cyclic coding; (3) The spreading of ESN bits over various non-sequential memory locations. (c) The ESN must be factory set and must not be alterable, transferable, removable or otherwise able to be manipulated. Cellular mobile equipment must be designed such that any attempt to remove, tamper with, or change the ESN chip, its logic system, or firmware originally programmed by the manufacturer will render the mobile transmitter inoperative. ยง22.923 Cellular system configuration. Mobile stations communicate with and through base transmitters only. Base transmitters communicate with mobile stations directly or through cellular repeaters. Auxiliary test stations may communicate with base or mobile stations for the purpose of testing equipment. ยง22.925 Prohibition on airborne operation of cellular telephones. Cellular telephones installed in or carried aboard airplanes, balloons or any other type of aircraft must not be operated while such aircraft are airborne (not touching the ground). When any aircraft leaves the ground, all cellular telephones on board that aircraft must be turned off. The following notice must be posted on or near each cellular telephone installed in any aircraft: ``The use of cellular telephones while this aircraft is airborne is prohibited by FCC rules, and the violation of this rule could result in suspension of service and/or a fine. The use of cellular telephones while this aircraft is on the ground is subject to FAA regulations.'' ยง22.927 Responsibility for mobile stations. Mobile stations that are subscribers in good standing to a cellular system, when receiving service from that cellular system, are considered to be operating under the authorization of that cellular system. Cellular system licensees are responsible for exercising effective operational control over mobile stations receiving service through their cellular systems. Mobile stations that are subscribers in good standing to a cellular system, while receiving service from a different cellular system, are considered to be operating under the authorization of such different system. The licensee of such different system is responsible, during such temporary period, for exercising effective operational control over such mobile stations as if they were subscribers to it.
