FR940405-1-00131 FR940405-1-00013 (10) Establish a written record of building system inspections and maintenance required to be performed under this section; (11) Assure that employees performing work on building systems are provided with and use appropriate personal protective equipment as prescribed in 29 CFR part 1926, subpart E, Personal Protective and Life Saving Equipment; 29 CFR part 1926.52, Occupational Noise Exposure; 29 CFR part 1910, subpart I, Personal Protective Equipment; and 29 CFR part 1910.95, Occupational Noise Exposure; (12) Evaluate the need to perform alterations of the building systems to meet the minimum requirements specified in paragraph (d) of this section in response to employee complaints of building-related illnesses; and (13) Take such remedial measures as the evaluation shows to be necessary. (e) Controls for specific contaminant sources. (1) Tobacco smoke . (i) In workplaces where the smoking of tobacco products is not prohibited, the employer shall establish designated smoking areas and permit smoking only in such areas; (ii) The employer shall assure that designated smoking areas are enclosed and exhausted directly to the outside, and are maintained under negative pressure (with respect to surrounding spaces) sufficient to contain tobacco smoke within the designated area; (iii) The employer shall assure that cleaning and maintenance work in designated smoking areas is conducted only when no smoking is taking place; (iv) The employer shall assure that employees are not required to enter designated smoking areas in the performance of normal work activities; (v) The employer shall post signs clearly indicating areas that are designated smoking areas; (vi) The employer shall post signs that will clearly inform anyone entering the workplace that smoking is restricted to designated areas; and (vii) The employer shall prohibit smoking within designated smoking areas during any period that the exhaust ventilation system servicing that area is not properly operating. (2) Other indoor air contaminants . (i) The employer shall implement measures such as the relocation of air intakes and other pathways of building entry, where necessary, to restrict the entry of outdoor air contaminants such as vehicle exhaust fumes, into the building; (ii) When general ventilation is inadequate to control air contaminants emitted from point sources within workspaces the employer shall implement other control measures such as local source capture exhaust ventilation or substitution. (3) Microbial contamination . (i) The employer shall control microbial contamination in the building by routinely inspecting for, and promptly repairing, water leaks that can promote growth of biologic agents; (ii) The employer shall control microbial contamination in the building by promptly drying, replacing, removing, or cleaning damp or wet materials; and (iii) The employer shall take measures to remove visible microbial contamination in ductwork, humidifiers, other HVAC and building system components, or on building surfaces when found during regular or emergency maintenance activities or during visual inspection. (4) Use of cleaning and maintenance chemicals, pesticides, and other hazardous chemicals in the workplace . (i) The employer shall assure that these chemicals are used and applied according to manufacturers' recommendations; and (ii) The employer shall inform employees working in areas to be treated with potentially hazardous chemicals, at least within 24 hours prior to application, of the type of chemicals intended to be applied. (f) Air quality during renovation and remodeling . (1) General . During renovation or remodeling, the employer shall assure that work procedures and appropriate controls are utilized to minimize degradation of the indoor air quality of employees performing such activities and employees in other areas of the building. (2) Work plan development . (i) Before remodeling, renovation, or similar activities are begun the employer shall meet with the contractor or individual(s) performing the work and shall develop and implement a work plan designed to minimize entry of air contaminants to other areas of the building during and after performance of the work; and (ii) The work plan shall consider all of the following where appropriate: (A) Requirements of this standard.
