FR940816-1-00009 FR940816-1-00004 19 CFR Part 191 Eliminate Notice of Exportation, Customs Form 7511, as Proof of Exportation for Drawback; Withdrawal AGENCY: U.S. Customs Service, Department of the Treasury. ACTION: Proposed rule; withdrawal. SUMMARY: This document withdraws the proposed amendment to the Customs Regulations, which would have eliminated the requirement that the notice of exportation, Customs Form 7511, be submitted as proof of exportation for the purpose of obtaining drawback, and instead permitted the use of other documents generated internally in the course of trade to prove exportation. Customs has concluded that the retention of the notice of exportation is essential, especially in those circumstances where the drawback claimant is not the direct exporter, and the exporter refuses to provide its own documentary evidence to the claimant because of business confidentiality or the administrative cost of providing such supporting documents. EFFECTIVE DATE: This withdrawal is effective on August 16, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Bruce Friedman, Office of Trade Operations, (202&hyph;927&hyph;0916). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Drawback is a refund or remission, in whole or in part, of a Customs duty, internal revenue tax or fee. There are a number of different kinds of drawback authorized under law, including, for example, manufacturing drawback and unused merchandise drawback. In order to qualify for drawback, there must be an exportation or a destruction under Customs supervision. The statute providing for specific types of drawback is 19 U.S.C. 1313. Part 191, Customs Regulations (19 CFR part 191), contains the general regulations for drawback claims and specialized provisions for specific types of drawback claims. The requirements for establishing the exportation of merchandise as part of a drawback claim are set forth in subpart E of part 191. This subpart authorizes the use of several alternative procedures to establish exportation. Two such alternatives, contained in §§191.51(a) and 191.52 (19 CFR 191.51(a), 191.52), require a claimant, in order to receive drawback, to file a notice of exportation on Customs Form (CF) 7511, either uncertified, or certified by a Customs officer at the time of exportation, for each shipment of merchandise exported. The information required on a CF 7511 consists of the name of the exporting vessel or carrier, the number and kinds of packages and their marks and numbers, a description of the merchandise, the name of the exporter, and the country of ultimate destination. This information, however, is also available from other paperwork, particularly documents usually generated by the exporter internally in the process of trade. Accordingly, Customs published a notice of proposed rulemaking in the Federal Register on October 7, 1992 (57 FR 46113), which would have eliminated the notice of exportation, CF 7511, and instead permitted the use of such other documents generated internally in the course of trade to prove exportation for purposes of obtaining drawback. It was believed that this would result in a saving of paperwork to the benefit of both Customs as well as the drawback claimant. Discussion of Comments Thirty comments were received in response to the notice of proposed rulemaking. Of the thirty comments only four generally were in favor of eliminating or replacing the CF 7511. The remaining twenty-six comments strongly opposed the elimination of the CF 7511. Almost all of the commenters opposing the elimination of the CF 7511 stated that they would be forced to relinquish their right to claim drawback whenever they were not the direct exporter. A separate exporter might not be willing to provide documentation that would reveal information such as the name and address of the foreign purchaser and prices charged by the exporter. Also, many of these commenters believed that the CF 7511 was necessary for shipments to Mexico and Canada, citing the unavailability of other documents as a continuing problem for drawback claimants. Another reason against the proposed change mentioned by several commenters was the fact that the reverse side of the CF 7511 is used for the endorsement of drawback rights from one party to another. This endorsement also satisfies the requirement of §191.73(a), which requires satisfactory evidence that the reservation was made with the knowledge and consent of the exporter. If this form were to be abolished, Customs would probably have to develop another form to take its place. It was further asserted that the CF 7511 in fact also provided information that might not be readily available on other documents, such as the name of the carrier, the date of exportation, the destination, and the shipper. Conclusion Though the concerns about proof of exportation to Mexico and Canada have been resolved by §181.47(c), Customs Regulations (19 CFR 181.47(c)), which also allows a copy of the Canadian or Mexican customs entry to be used as proof of exportation, Customs is, nevertheless, constrained to conclude that the comments submitted point out persuasive, and controlling, reasons militating against adoption of the proposal, and that, on balance, the retention of the notice of exportation satisfies the concerns of the trade, while occasioning relatively minimum and reasonably justified time and effort in its preparation and/or certification. In particular, the retention of the notice is essential, especially in those circumstances where the drawback claimant is not the direct exporter, and the exporter refuses to provide its own documentary evidence to the claimant because of business confidentiality or the administrative cost of providing such supporting documents. Withdrawal of Proposal In view of the foregoing, and after consideration of the comments received and further review of the matter, Customs has determined to withdraw the notice of proposed rulemaking published in the Federal Register on October 7, 1992 (57 FR 46113). Drafting Information The principal author of this document was Russell Berger, Regulations Branch, U.S. Customs Service. However, personnel from other offices participated in its development. Michael H. Lane, Acting Commissioner of Customs. Approved: July 22, 1994. John P. Simpson, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Treasury. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20028 Filed 8&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4820&hyph;02&hyph;P
