FR940616-2-00144 FR940616-2-00095 Freedom Support Act_Youth With Disabilities ACTION: Request for proposals. SUMMARY: The United States Information Agency (USIA) invites applications from U.S. educational, cultural and other not-for-profit institutions to provide materials, training and facilitative support on programming for youth with disabilities for USIA grantee organizations administering international exchanges. This program is sponsored under the Secondary School Exchange Initiative as originally authorized under the Freedom Support Act of 1992. Funding for this program is subject to the availability of a Congressional authorization and appropriation. DATES: Deadlines for proposals: All copies of proposals for grants under this request must be received at the U.S. Information Agency in Washington, DC, by 5 PM EST, on September 30, 1994. Faxed documents will not be accepted, nor will documents postmarked by 30 September but received at a later date. It is the responsibility of each grant applicant to ensure that its proposal is received by the above deadline. Grant funding should be available after 1 February, 1995 for a grant program beginning in May, 1995. ANNOUNCEMENT NUMBER: This announcement number is E/P&hyph;95&hyph;04. Please refer to this number in all correspondence or telephone calls to USIA. ADDRESSES: The original, 3 fully tabbed copies and 10 copies (Tabs A&hyph;D) of the completed application, including required forms, should be submitted in the format described in the Bureau's application package and mailed to: U.S. Information Agency, Ref: E/P&hyph;95&hyph;04, Grants Management, E/XE, 301 4th Street rm. 336, Washington, DC 20547. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Interested organizations/institutions should contact Robert Persiko, Secondary School Initiative, E/PY, rm. 314 (202) 619&hyph;6299; Fax (202) 619&hyph;5311, to request detailed application packets, which include award criteria additional to this announcement, all necessary forms, and guidelines for preparing proposals, including specific preparation information. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to the Bureau's authorizing legislation, programs must maintain a non-political character and should be balanced and representative of the diversity of American political, social and cultural life. Overall authority for NIS Secondary School exchanges is contained in the Freedom Support Act (Pub. L. 102&hyph;391). Overview Grant funding is intended to assist one organization over a one-year period to provide training, materials and facilitative support about programming of people with disabilities for organizations funded by the NIS Secondary School Initiative. The purpose of the training is to promote access to Initiative programs for youth with disabilities. Materials should support the training and supplement this goal where training is unfeasible. Facilitative support should foster connections between secondary school exchange organizations in the US with organizations serving persons with disabilities; also promote links with similar organizations in the following countries with organizations recruiting students for NIS&hyph;US exchange programs: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kryrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan. This grant is not intended to sponsor the actual exchange of students. Students selected for exchanges under the NIS Secondary School Initiative are aged 14 to 17 years old. Proposals should focus on increasing access to exchange opportunities by participants within this age range.
