FR941222-0-00055 FR941222-0-00006 II. Public Reporting Burden The Policy Statement and Interim Rule would clarify how existing filing requirements apply to utilities filing amendments to coordination rate schedules to provide for the recovery of emissions allowance costs and to recover them in a timely fashion. Because this Policy Statement and Interim Rule only clarify how existing requirements are to be implemented, the public reporting burden for these information collections (including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information) is not estimated to increase the number of hours per response for each utility currently involved in the filing of rate schedule amendments. Send comments regarding these burden estimates or any other aspect of these collections of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, by contacting the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 941 North Capitol Street, NE, Washington, DC 20426 [Attention: Michael Miller, Information Services Division, (202) 208&hyph;1415], and to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Washington D.C. 20503 (Attention: Desk Officer for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission), FAX: (202) 395&hyph;5167. III. Background The CAAA and Allowance Trading The acid rain control title of the CAAA sets forth a comprehensive regulatory mechanism designed to control acid rain by limiting sulfur dioxide emissions by electric utilities. The CAAA require reductions in sulfur dioxide emissions in two phases. Phase I begins on January 1, 1995, and applies to 110 mostly coal-fired utility plants containing about 260 generating units specifically listed in the statute. These plants are owned by about 40 jurisdictional utility systems that are expected to reduce annual sulfur dioxide emissions by as much as 4.5 million tons. Phase II begins on January 1, 2000, and applies to virtually all existing steam-electric generating utility units with capacity exceeding 25 megawatts and to new generating utility units (generally those commencing operation after November 15, 1990) of any size. Phase II permanently caps sulfur dioxide emissions at 9 million tons annually. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issues to the owners of generating units allowances (defined as an authorization to emit, during or after a specified calendar year, one ton of sulfur dioxide) 5 equal to the number of tons of sulfur dioxide emissions authorized by the CAAA. EPA does not assess a charge for the allowances it awards. 5 42 U.S.C. §7651a(3). The allowances are not unit-specific and can be sold or traded. Utilities have incentives to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions so that they can use allowances to cover load growth, to make additional off-system sales or to sell or trade allowances on the open market, offsetting the costs of compliance. Utilities that reduce the amount of sulfur dioxide emitted below their authorized level ( e.g. , by switching to a lower sulfur coal, switching to a new fuel, installing scrubbers, repowering a unit, or using demand side management (DSM)) may bank their allowances ( i.e. , hold and use them in another year) or sell or trade them to other utilities that expect to exceed their authorized emission level or other allowance market participants such as marketers. Congress created the allowance trading system in Title IV of the CAAA to enable sulfur dioxide emissions reductions to occur at the lowest cost, by creating a national market for emissions allowances. Basically, the emissions allowance trading system works in the following manner. Title IV of the CAAA established guidelines for the EPA to implement a system for issuing, recording and tracking allowances. 6 Allowance usage at each affected unit is recorded by EPA quarterly. There is a national cap on the total number of allowances issued by EPA each year. 7 After the end of each year, EPA determines whether companies have the right number of emissions allowances of appropriate vintage on hand for each ton of sulfur dioxide emitted during the year. The penalty for not having the requisite number of allowances on hand is $2,000 per ton plus surrender of an emissions allowance equivalent in the following year, plus other possible punishments depending on the degree of violation. 8 The CAAA also require EPA to withhold for direct sale and auction 2.8 percent of the annual allowance allocations. 9 The allowances are not property rights, 10 and are not unit-specific. 11 6 42 U.S.C. §§7651b(b) and (d). 7 The CAAA require EPA to allocate annual allowances to electric utilities based upon an average 1985&hyph;1987 plant-specific energy use and other factors. 42 U.S.C. §7651b(a). Various CAAA provisions require EPA to give additional allowances to utilities which used certain specified compliance options, some of which may require some investment or expenditure by the utility. E.g. , 42 U.S.C. §7651c(d) (installation of technological reduction system to achieve a 90 percent emissions reduction); 42 U.S.C. §7651h (repowering with a clean coal technology); 42 U.S.C. §7651c(f) (energy conservation and renewable energy). 8 42 U.S.C. §7651j. 9 42 U.S.C. §7651o(b). 10 42 U.S.C. §7651b(f). 11 The CAAA do not require a change of any kind in state law regarding electric utility rates. 42 U.S.C. §7651b(f). The CAAA also do not modify the Federal Power Act (FPA) or affect the Commission's authority under the FPA. Id. Additionally, the CAAA exempt the acquisition or disposition of allowances from the provisions of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA). 42 U.S.C. §7651b(j).
