FR940516-1-00122 FR940516-1-00006 C. Impact on Equipment EPA estimates that the proposed emission standards can be met with the identified engine emission control technologies with minimal impact on equipment design. However, EPA also believes that to propose more stringent emission standards in today's rule than those already proposed would necessitate equipment redesign to accommodate more sophisticated technologies, such as high efficiency catalysts. It has been EPA's past experience that, given the latitude to change either the engine or equipment, most manufacturers will choose to modify the engine. EPA estimates that most engine models will require only internal modifications (such as tighter tolerances and fuel mixture enleanment strategies) to meet the proposed standards. These modifications will have little, if any, effect on equipment design. EPA estimates that few engine models will be discontinued as a result of the proposed standards. Models that may be discontinued represent older engine designs and low volume sales. Since this market generally has a large number of engine models, substitutions should be readily available for these few incidents of model discontinuation. Catalytic converter use is not predicted for the Phase 1 rule. However, if catalysts should be used on a small percentage of equipment, EPA has estimated the equipment impact of catalyst use in terms of additional shielding as a result of higher exhaust skin temperatures. The draft RSD summarizes EPA's estimates of equipment impacts as a result of this rulemaking. EPA requests comment or additional information with respect to the estimations concerning impact of the proposed standards on equipment. D. Energy, Noise, and Safety Section 213(a)(3) of the Act requires that EPA also give appropriate consideration to energy, noise, and safety factors associated with the application of technologies. Energy factors include engine fuel consumption and power. Noise factors are self explanatory, and safety factors include safety for the user as well as compliance with other existing regulations in this country and abroad. In Chapter 1 of the draft RSD, EPA has analyzed the likely average fuel consumption change considering all factors that would impact the final figure in actual use. EPA estimates that a reduction in fuel consumption is likely to be seen in actual use and will average approximately 13 percent for handheld engines and 26 percent for nonhandheld engines. Since this is a desirable impact, little additional design effort will be expended to optimize fuel consumption effects. Manufacturers will also optimize final designs such that the expected power loss on resulting production engines will be minimized. Based on analyses in Chapter 1 of the draft RSD, EPA estimates that the resulting average power change in actual use will be a gain of approximately five percent for Class I and II engines and a three percent reduction for Class III&hyph;V engines. The major contributors to this gain for Class I and II are changes in technology for Class I side valve engines which make up a large majority of engines in this rulemaking. Although overall power may increase, some engines may experience a decrease in power availability. However, real time data collected on equipment in actual use demonstrate that many engines do not need their full power capability in actual use. This is especially true in the case of nonhandheld engines. The operators of these engines will likely experience no performance impact as a result of this rule. Engine noise level is expected to stay at current levels. Further discussion of this issue can be found in ``V.O. Cap on Noise.'' Many safety regulations and recommendations have been established for small engines and their related use in equipment. These regulations will affect the feasibility of using some technologies on handheld engines. One example is a regulation requiring spark arresters on equipment used on certain federal lands. See 36 CFR part 261. The regulation results in a temperature limit on exhaust and exhaust surfaces which, to date, has resulted in a limitation on the feasibility of the use of catalysts for handheld engines due to the high heat levels emitted during conversion of pollutants as seen when applied to these engines. Safety recommendations and regulations also have an impact on the end use of the engines. Some small SI equipment have operating restrictions of certain speeds and loads. One example is ANSI standard B71.1 which contains information for measuring mower blade tip speed and a description of the use of safety brake systems. A summary of safety regulations and recommendations is presented in the draft RSD. EPA requests further information on additional safety regulations or requirements which may impact engines covered by this rulemaking. E. Per Engine Cost Estimates Due to Proposed Standards The technical solutions required to meet the emission standards proposed in this notice will be cost-effective. Further discussion is presented in ``IX. Cost-Effectiveness.'' While this summary presents only aggregate costs for nonhandheld and handheld engines, the draft RSD gives cost estimates by technology and by engine displacement class. The retail price of equipment which uses nonhandheld engines ranges from $90 to $9,000. On average, the cost to the engine manufacturer to install the necessary emission control technology on these engines will be approximately $0.80 to $1.13 per engine. The retail price of equipment which uses handheld engines ranges from $60 to $1,000. On average, the cost to install the necessary control technology on all handheld equipment engines, hardware variable costs, and production costs will be approximately $2.05 to $2.20 per engine to the engine manufacturer. Tables in the draft RSD list the Agency's estimated variable hardware and production cost broken out by engine technology for each engine class.
