FR940803-2-00030 FR940803-2-00020 2. What are the benefits or detriments of issuing preliminary determinations on certain aspects of a certificate application (such as environmental issues and rates)? Are preliminary determinations useful in dealing with economic aspects of a certificate proposal? What level of contractual or market support should be required to justify the issuance of a preliminary determination? What time limitations, if any, should the Commission impose on submission of supplemental evidence demonstrating contractual or market support? 3. Should the Commission make a distinction in granting preliminary determinations depending on whether: (a) Market-based rates are proposed; (b) the applicant is a new company; or (c) little or no new construction of facilities is involved? What other distinctions, if any, should be made? 4. What are the benefits and detriments of making pricing decisions in or coincident with certificate proceedings? a. Should the Commission use the preliminary determination or declaratory order approach as in Northwest ? If so, what should be the burden of proof, what procedures should be used, and how binding should the determination be on subsequent §4 proceedings? In particular, commenters should address whether to use abbreviated procedures to make the preliminary determination. For example, the more abbreviated the procedures used during the certificate proceeding, the more quickly the determination will be made. On the other hand, the use of abbreviated procedures may increase the risk that the full §4 proceeding may reveal problems or difficulties that were not apparent during the certificate examination. In other words, should the Commission provide certificate applicants with the choice of: (1) A fast-track procedure for applicants which wish to charge incremental rates, or which otherwise have no need for an up-front determination of the rolled-in rate treatment issue; or (2) a separate procedure for applicants which desire an up-front determination on rolled-in rate treatment and are willing to accept the likely evidentiary burdens as well as the additional time likely to process such an application? If so, how should these different tracks be designed? b. Should the Commission exercise its §5 authority in the certificate proceeding to establish rates for all customers? c. Should the Commission require pipelines seeking rolled-in rate treatment to file a §4 proceeding along with the certificate application? Commenters should address whether the filing should be a limited §4 filing examining only the expansion costs and the pricing methodology for these costs or whether it should be a full §4 proceeding in which all the pipeline's costs are examined. Would a limited §4 proceeding be appropriate when the pipelines agrees to file a full §4 proceeding within a stipulated time frame? d. Should the Commission be able to change the initial rate methodology adopted for facilities at a later point in time? Does changing methodologies upset the goal of providing rate certainty? What criteria should the Commission use in making such changes? D. Implementation Issues Related To Use Of Incremental Rates The Commission is interested in exploring a number of questions relating to the implementation of incremental rates. 1. How should the maximum rate for interruptible transportation be determined under incremental rates? 2. The Commission has a policy that all shippers have a right to use all receipt and delivery points within the firm transportation path to which the shipper is entitled or for which it is willing to pay. a. How does the charging of different rates (in terms of an expansion shipper paying incremental rates and a non-expansion shipper paying pre-expansion rates) affect the flexible receipt and delivery point policy? Should non-expansion shippers have access to points on the expansion facilities? And, at what rate? b. Should expansion shippers have access to points on the existing facilities? Is it equitable for existing non-expansion shippers, who pay a pre-expansion rate, to have access to receipt and/or delivery points in competition with expansion shippers paying a higher incremental rate at the same points? 3. Are there other administrative burdens on the industry or the Commission that would be occasioned by incremental rates? For example, pipelines now administer complex zone rate schedules. How much additional burden is created by incremental rates? E. Questions Relating To Other Inquiries The Commission anticipates that it will initiate two other inquiries in the near future to address: (1) The performance of the current Order No. 636 capacity release program and whether that program can be improved to make the present secondary market in pipeline capacity more efficient; and (2) the relationship between the Commission's open access transportation policies and the use of natural gas as a fuel for electric generation. 1. How do incremental rates, with different customers paying different rates, affect the current capacity release program and how should any problems or issues be handled? For example, what maximum rate should apply to shippers paying different rates? 2. If the Commission were to modify the current capacity release program ( e.g., by eliminating the price cap or by allowing releases outside of the pipeline's Electronic Bulletin Boards), would there be any effect that should be considered in deciding whether to apply rolled-in or incremental rates? Conversely, would the Commission's decision to use either rolled-in or incremental rates require modification of the Commission's regulations governing capacity release transactions? Or, will the secondary market, with or without modification, work equally well under either rate approach? 3. Would either rolled-in or incremental treatment of new facilities be most consistent with a policy designed to facilitate the use of natural gas for the electric generation and cogeneration market? Please provide specific examples to the extent available. III. Comment and Conference Procedures An original and 14 copies of comments on these issues should be filed with the Commission within 60 days after the date of this notice. Comments should be submitted to the Office of the Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 825 North Capitol Street, NE, Washington, DC 20426, and should refer to Docket No. PL94&hyph;4&hyph;000. All written comments will be placed in the Commission's public files and will be available for inspection in the Commission's Public Reference Room at 941 North Capitol Street, NE, Washington, DC 20426, during regular business hours. The Commission will issue a subsequent notice of the date for the public conference and the procedures regarding presentations by the public at the conference. By direction of the Commission. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18870 Filed 8&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;P
