FR940304-2-00202 FR940304-2-00114 How does the applicant intend to deal with rapidly changing technology and issues of obsolescence? What role will available commercial services play in the proposed project? (3) End-user support. A large barrier to more successful utilization of information infrastructure is the end-user's inability to employ it. Therefore, applicants should consider how end-users will be trained to use the equipment and network. Some questions that the applicant might address are: Are there specialized training requirements for the system? Who is best qualified to provide the training? Can end-users use the system to produce and disseminate information, as well as gain access to information? Is the system or network user friendly, so that it does not discourage new users, or those who are not ``computer literate?'' c. Financial information. Grant funds may be spent on purchase of telecommunications infrastructure equipment, long-term lease of services, end-user support, and other expenses reasonably related to the project. 2. Category Two_Planning Grants Statewide, Regional, and National Planning Grants a. Eligibility For purposes of this section_Statewide, Regional, and National Planning Grants_eligible applicants are any of the fifty states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, America Samoa, and the Marianas Islands, as well as multi-state consortia, coalitions of organizations, or national entities. b. Evaluative Criteria In addition to the general evaluative criteria set forth above, applicants for planning projects should address the following criteria in their applications: (1) Objectives. Proposals should be consistent with the long range NII objective of fostering seamless, multi-functional networks. Accordingly, applicants should consider the concept of ``interoperability,'' the view that every system, no matter its level of sophistication or geographic extent, is part, ultimately, of a global communication system that allows one end-user to communicate ``transparently'' with another end-user, irrespective of distance or time. (2) End-users. In their proposals, applicants should identify the end-users of the information infrastructure. Considerations of numbers of users, the diversity of anticipated end-users, and what social good the applicant expects from implementation of its plan may help determine what strategies states will adopt. Under this section, applicants could address questions such as: How will the widespread availability of telecommunications and information infrastructure capabilities be promoted within the proposal? How should the costs of ensuring adequate access be allocated? Will the plan stimulate demand for new telecommunications services? How will the plan address the needs of previously disenfranchised potential users? What steps are necessary to ensure end-user ease of access? What are the respective roles of the state and private sector in taking these steps? (3) Incorporation of broad input. There are many individuals and sectors of society with a stake in the information infrastructure. How an applicant intends to incorporate their opinions and concerns into the final plan is crucial to the eventual successful implementation of the plan. Applicants should address how they intend to incorporate comments from the public into the planning process. The breadth and depth of representation, including a balanced representation of rural and urban, professional, socioeconomic, ethnic, cultural and other relevant interests, is important. Some questions for an applicant to address under this section are: To what extent will the applicant work to promote public/private partnerships? What procedures will ensure that individuals and entities can provide input? What state and national agencies and private sector entities will be involved, and at what levels? What monitoring or evaluation plan will be utilized? c. Financial information. Grant funds may be spent on information collection, salaries, travel, lodging, and other expenses reasonably related to planning activities.
