FR940805-1-00125 FR940805-1-00013 ยง10.54 Inmate programs and services. (a) Counseling, library and religious programming _(1) Counseling. The administrator or designee shall provide for inmate counseling and crisis intervention services. (2) Library. The administrator or designee shall develop a written plan to provide reading materials to inmates. The plan shall include the location where reading materials are kept and the process by which inmates obtain and return these materials. The administrator shall update the plan as needed and review it at least annually. (3) Religious programs. Inmates shall have the right to practice their religion, subject only to the limitations necessary to maintain institutional order and security. (b) Correspondence and telephone. (1) Inmate correspondence. The administrator shall regulate inmate correspondence and shall make this policy available to all staff and inmates. The administrator shall review this policy annually and update it as needed. (2) Limitations on inmate correspondence. The administrator shall not limit the volume of lawful correspondence (e.g., letters, packages and publications) an inmate may send or receive and shall not restrict the length, language, content or source of the correspondence, except where there is clear and convincing evidence to justify the limitations for reasons of public safety, facility order or security. (3) Indigents' correspondence. The administrator or designee shall provide indigent inmates with a system that enables them to send a minimum of two letters. (4) Inspection of letters and packages. The administrator or designee may open inmate letters, both in-coming and out-going to inspect them for contraband. Letters shall not be read or rejected except where there is reliable information that there is a threat to order and security or that they are being used to further illegal activities. The administrator or designee shall notify inmates when in-coming or out-going letters are rejected. The administrator or designee shall deposit any cash, checks, or money orders in the inmate's account and shall issue a receipt to both the inmate and the sender. The administrator or designee shall forward any contraband found to the appropriate law enforcement authority. The supervisor shall forward all mail within twenty-four hours of receipt except for Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. Inmates shall be prohibited from carrying money. (5) Privileged correspondence. The administrator shall permit inmates to send sealed letters to specified groups of persons and organizations including, but not limited to, courts, including probation staff, counsel, officials of the confining authority, administrators of grievance systems and the media. Mail to inmates from this specified class of persons and organizations shall be opened only to inspect for contraband and only in the presence of the inmate. (6) Holding and forwarding mail. The administrator or designee shall forward or return first-class letters and packages for inmates after transfer or release. (7) Telephone. The administrator shall provide for inmate access to telephones. (c) Visiting. (1) Visiting rules. The administrator shall establish rules for inmate visiting. (2) Number of visitors. The administrator or designee shall limit the number of visitors an inmate may receive and the length of the visits only to the degree necessary in terms of facility schedules, space and personnel constraints except where there are substantial reasons to justify such limitations. (3) Sobriety statement. Facility visitors shall sign a sobriety statement. The statement shall stipulate that: (i) they are not under the influence of alcohol or illegal mood-altering substances; (ii) they are not carrying such substances on their person or in their belongings; and (iii) they consent to a breath test or non-invasive search as a condition of entry, if there is probable cause. (4) Searches (visiting). The administrator or designee shall provide clear instructions to staff and inmates concerning inmate and visitor search procedures and the approval required for visual observations of unclothed inmates. (5) Special Visits. The administrator or designee shall provide for special visits from persons who have travelled long distances, to hospitalized inmates and to inmates in immediate segregation. (6) Visitor Personal Property. Visitors shall not bring personal property into the secure area of the facility. (7) Visitor Registration. The administrator or designee shall provide for visitor registration and identification on entry into the facility. Dated: May 19, 1994. Ada E. Deer, Assistant Secretary_Indian Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18796 Filed 8&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;02&hyph;P
